DRN-3624587
The complaint
Mr H complains about advice he was given in 2009 to transfer the benefits of a defined-
benefit (DB) occupational pension scheme (OPS) to a personal pension plan. Mr H was a 
deferred member of this scheme, having been employed from 1987 until 2008. He says the 
advice was unsuitable for him and believes this has caused him a financial loss.
Concerva Limited is responsible for answering this complaint. To keep things simple Ill refer 
mainly to Concerva. 
What happened
At the time, the OPS was offering deferred members, like Mr H, the opportunity to consider 
transferring out of the scheme. This was accompanied by a time limited offer of an enhanced 
transfer value to a pension, and a cash offer on which tax would be applied. My 
understanding is there was a degree of flexibility in what Mr H could choose to do.
Ive used figures supplied to Mr H at the time by Concerva to set out the overall 
enhancement offer Mr H was presented with:
The cash equivalent transfer value (CETV) of Mr Hs OPS was £81,030. However, if 
he took up the offer to transfer out, an enhancement of around £18,875 was being 
made available to him, making the total enhanced CETV £99,905. 
Of this, there was an option of up to £10,000 (net) which could be paid to Mr H as 
cash if he wanted, if he transferred out, representing a gross sum of £14,493. In such 
a case, a remaining £4,382 could then be paid to his pension final transfer value. 
Put another way, if he agreed to transfer out of the OPS, Mr H could have had an enhanced 
CETV plus a lump sum of up to £10,000. 
Ive also noted that alongside the OPS, Mr H had been contributing additional voluntary 
contributions (AVCs) which in his case amounted to around £6,400. As well see later, the 
enhanced offer came with a condition that the AVCs would also have to be transferred if the 
OPS transfer went ahead.
The OPS allowed deferred members like Mr H to source their own financial advice and it 
contributed to the cost of this. Mr H first approached an independent financial adviser (IFA) 
he apparently knew at the time, but that IFA didnt have the necessary regulatory 
permissions to deal with these types of pension transfer matters. The IFA therefore asked 
Concerva, which did have the necessary permissions, to provide regulated advice to Mr H to 
discuss his pension and retirement needs. 
Information gathered by Concerva about Mr H at the time was broadly as follows:
He was 42 years old and working full time. He was married and had two dependent 
children. He hoped to retire at the age of 60.
He and his wife, Mrs H, owned a home valued at approximately £195,000 and had an 
outstanding mortgage of around £7,000. They had no other liabilities. 
They had savings amounting to around £16,000.
A recommendation letter was issued by Concerva to Mr H on 17 September 2009. It 
recommended that he transfer out to a type of money market fund. It also explained some of 
the differences between the OPS Mr H was in and the type of personal pension hed be 
transferring out to. However, Ive noted this recommendation was made before Concerva 
had established Mr Hs attitude to risk (ATR); it sent Mr H an ATR form which it asked him to 
fill out. Ultimately, Concerva categorised his ATR as balanced broadly meaning, it said, that 
Mr H was prepared to tolerate his transferred funds fluctuating with the stock market in the 
years ahead.
Mr H now says he was given unsuitable advice by Concerva and has complained. Concerva 
investigated his complaint but didnt uphold it. The complaint was then referred to our 
Service. One of our investigators looked into it and said we should uphold it as Concervas 
advice was unsuitable for Mr H. Concerva maintained its position that Mr H was in an 
informed position and so disagreed with the investigators view
As the complaint couldnt be resolved informally, its come to me for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive taken into account relevant law and regulations, regulators rules, guidance and 
standards and codes of practice, and what I consider to have been good industry practice at 
the time. This includes the Principles for Business (PRIN) and the Conduct of Business 
Sourcebook (COBS). And where the evidence is incomplete, inconclusive or contradictory, I 
reach my conclusions on the balance of probabilities  that is, what I think is more likely than 
not to have happened based on the available evidence and the wider surrounding 
circumstances.
The applicable rules, regulations and requirements
The below is not a comprehensive list of the rules and regulations which applied at the time 
of the advice, but provides useful context for my assessment of Concerva's actions here.
PRIN 6: A firm must pay due regard to the interests of its customers and treat them fairly.
PRIN 7: A firm must pay due regard to the information needs of its clients, and communicate 
information to them in a way which is clear, fair and not misleading.
COBS 2.1.1R: A firm must act honestly, fairly and professionally in accordance with the best 
interests of its client (the client's best interests rule).
The provisions in COBS 9 which deal with the obligations when giving a personal 
recommendation and assessing suitability. And the provisions in COBS 19 which specifically 
relate to a DB pension transfer.
Having done so, Ive decided to uphold the complaint. 
Introduction and points of complaintIm going to start by reiterating, as our investigator did, that Concerva is responsible for 
answering this complaint. I say this because I can see Concerva has mentioned several 
times that Mr H had an established IFA in place and that he was referred by the IFA to 
Concerva only for the pension advice. The arrangement was, that after that advice had been 
provided, Mr H was to be handed back to the IFA for any further services he needed. 
However, this does not abrogate Concerva from its responsibility. In providing regulated 
financial advice about this pension, Concerva received a commission. And at the time, there 
were a number of important rules in the Conduct of Business Sourcebook (COBS) part of 
the regulators Handbook. These included but were not limited to a requirement upon 
Concerva to act honestly, fairly and professionally in accordance with the best interests of 
its client. In addition to this, COBS required it to provide information that was clear, fair and 
not misleading. 
The regulator, the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA), also states in COBS that the starting 
assumption for a transfer from a DB scheme is that it is unsuitable. So, Concerva should 
have only considered a transfer if it could clearly demonstrate that the transfer was in Mr Hs 
best interests (COBS 19.1.6). 
Concerva therefore had a number of important responsibilities when providing this advice. 
Financial viability 
The advice was given during the period when the Financial Ombudsman Service was 
publishing 'discount rates' on our website for use in loss assessments where a complaint 
about a past pension transfer was being upheld. Whilst businesses weren't required to refer 
to these rates when giving advice on pension transfers, I consider they provide a useful 
indication of what growth rates would have been considered reasonably achievable when 
the advice was given in this case. 
A critical yield figure is essentially the average annual investment return that would be 
required on the transfer value - from the time of advice until retirement - to provide the same 
annuity income as the DB scheme. In this case, Concerva said the critical yield required to 
match Mr Hs benefits without the enhancement, at the age of 65, was 8.1%. It said the 
required yield if including the enhanced offer was 7.2% at the age of 65. If he retired earlier, 
at 60 as Mr H had implied hed like to, the critical yield figures were higher. For instance, if 
comparing the enhancement with taking a full pension at 60, the critical yield was 7.4%.
The relevant discount rate at the time was 7.2% per year for 22 years to retirement. If Mr H 
went into drawdown at some point, the discount rate would be below 7%. For further 
comparison, the regulator's upper projection rate at the time was 9%, the middle projection 
rate 7%, and the lower projection rate 5% per year.
I've taken all these things into account, along with the composition of assets in the discount 
rate, Mr Hs balanced ATR (as assessed by Concerva) and also the term to retirement. 
However, Ive also noted that Concervas recommendation of 17 September 2009 was 
provided to Mr H before his ATR was even established. In my view, this was poor and it 
demonstrates the overall weakness in Concervas approach. This is because the 
recommendation was substantially based on Mr Hs transferred funds growing outside the 
OPS, in a way that made the transfer worthwhile. However, without assessing his ATR first, I 
think Concervas recommendation of transferring out to a money market fund was no more 
than guesswork. Although I accept Concerva wrote to Mr H again after the ATR form had 
been completed, I think all the documents Ive seen demonstrate that Concerva was pre-
disposed from the outset to simply transacting the transfer for him.
I think this was a significant failure by Concerva because theres no evidence Mr H was an 
experienced investor or that he had a capacity for much loss. And, in my view, the whole categorisation of his ATR was not comprehensive. In the event though, I dont think this 
really matters to the overall outcome of the complaint, so I dont need to go into great detail 
about it. For example, there would be little point in Mr H giving up the substantial guarantees 
available to him through his OPS only to achieve, at best, the same level of benefits outside 
the scheme. But here, given the critical yield for taking the enhanced CETV was 7.2%, I 
think its clear enough that Mr H was unlikely to receive benefits of an equal value to, let 
alone better than, his OPS.
I say this because the discount rate and regulators projections were at, or below, the critical 
yields Ive referred to above. Given what Ive said above, its fair to use 7% as a reasonable 
growth assumption. So I can see no obvious scenario where it could be reasonably said that 
hed be better off by transferring, particularly given the other benefits and guarantees he had 
with this pension. In some cases, depending on the retirement scenario considered against, 
for example retiring at the age of 60, the maximum assumed growth rate was below the 
critical yield meaning it was unrealistic to say it was in Mr Hs best interest to transfer out. 
For the lower critical yield examples Concerva provided at the time, such as him retiring at 
65 with the enhancement value factored in, I accept the margin with the discount rate was 
somewhat tighter. However, its important to say that even parts of a percentage point, 
considered year-on-year (and over many years), can still make a big difference to the overall 
growth in transferred funds. The regulators middle projection of 7% was also below the 
critical yields Ive referred to. So, this too indicates that matching what Mr H already had in 
his OPS was unlikely, even before considering the weaknesses in Concervas approach to 
his ATR.
Our investigator also rightly pointed out that the effect of fees and charges would 
substantially reduce further, the chances of Mr Hs funds growing to an extent that made 
transferring worthwhile. I too think that Concerva underplayed the effects of all the different 
fees and charges on the recommended personal pension and money market funds. They 
included fund management charges, investor charges and an on-going advisor charge 
payable to his IFA. In my view, Concervas own wording in its recommendation letter 
reflected the growth uncertainties. Nevertheless, Concerva still recommended he transfer 
out to a specific fund.
Ive considered carefully what Concerva says about potential growth assumptions. It says, 
for example, that the rules allowed projections to 9% at the time. But this needs context; to 
achieve this level of projected growth, Mr H would have had to have accepted an ATR much 
higher than his circumstances merited. So, this simply isnt right. In my view, Concerva 
exaggerates the potential growth Mr H could have achieved by transferring out. Conversely, 
it underestimates the effect of the fees and charges.
Concerva also provided some cashflow models showing how Mr Hs funds might grow in 
different scenarios over time, and Ive considered whether these affect what Ive said above 
in any way. But I think most of these models are irrelevant to his situation and none of them 
provide a meaningful like-for-like comparison with the scheme Mr H was advised to leave. 
Also, past performance is no guarantee for future performance and I consider the discount 
rates and the regulators standard projections to be much more realistic in the long term 
rather than projecting historic returns forward, particularly over such a long period of time. To 
be clear, these show Concervas growth assumptions to be unrealistic.
Of course financial viability isnt the only consideration when giving transfer advice, as 
Concerva has argued in this case. There might be other considerations which mean a 
transfer is suitable, despite providing overall lower benefits. 
Ive considered these below.
Mr Hs needs at the timeConcerva said Mr Hs other reasons to transfer included him being offered the enhancement, 
and also his desire to pay off his mortgage.
Ive considered these issues with care, but Mr Hs mortgage was already very small and it 
represented less than 4% of the estimated value of his home. Mr H also had more than 
enough in savings to pay off this mortgage, so he certainly didnt need to resort to his 
pension retirement savings to do this. Ive also seen nothing that showed that his mortgage 
repayments were other than standard payments that would see his loan paid off over time in 
a controlled manner. Paying off his mortgage was therefore no reason to transfer out of his 
pension scheme.
For the enhancement offer, I can certainly understand that the figures involved would have 
seemed very relevant to Mr H. As a working man with two children, I can see how having up 
to a £10,000 payment and some more paid into his pension would have sounded like a good 
idea at the time. However, Concervas role here wasnt simply to transact what Mr H thought 
he wanted; its role was to really understand his needs and to provide advice that was in his 
best interests.
Mr H was also only 42 years old at the time. It seems, unsurprisingly, that he didnt have any 
concrete retirement plans. As he had up to 22 years or so before he could think about 
accessing his full pension from this OPS, I think it was far too soon to make any kind of 
decision about transferring out of the DB scheme. I think the Concerva should have been 
making it clear to Mr H that transferring out was therefore a risk to his future income in 
retirement. And even when considering the enhancement on offer here, there were no 
specific reasons for him to transfer just to secure this.
The issue of death benefits did not feature prominently in the advice. Nonetheless, I think the 
existing death benefits attached to the OPS were underplayed in this case. Mr H was 
married and had children and so the spouse and dependents pension provided by the OPS 
would have been useful if he predeceased them. I think these types of benefits in his OPS 
were good, and I dont think Concerva made the value of them clear enough to Mr H.
I therefore dont think it was a suitable recommendation for Mr H to give up his guaranteed 
benefits at that time especially when he didnt yet know what his needs in retirement would 
be. If Mr H later had reason to transfer out of his OPS he could have done so closer to 
retirement.
Transfer of Mr Hs AVC
I mentioned at the beginning of this decision, the relatively small AVC element Mr H had 
alongside the OPS. Ive noted documentation from the time where Concerva set out to Mr H 
that it was a condition of the enhanced offer that the AVCs would also have to be 
transferred. It therefore follows that the only reason for transferring the AVC, as we now 
know Mr H subsequently did, was because of this requirement. And so, had Concerva 
provided Mr H with suitable advice not to transfer the OPS, its highly unlikely he would have 
transferred the AVCs. 
Accordingly, Ill be including this unsuitable advice in the redress I am directing Concerva to 
pay.
Suitability of investments
Likewise, Concerva recommended that Mr H invest in funds within a personal pension. As 
Im upholding the complaint on the grounds that a transfer out of the OPS wasnt suitable for 
Mr H, it follows that I dont need to consider the suitability of the investment 
recommendation. This is because Mr H should have been advised to remain in the OPS and so the investments in the personal pension funds wouldnt have arisen if suitable advice had 
been given.
Summary
In this decision Ive explained why I dont think the advice given to Mr H was suitable. Given 
the starting position of the regulator, Concerva should have noted from the outset that 
transferring out of Mr H OPS was assumed to not be suitable. 
However, as Ive described, Concerva took the opposite approach and recommended that 
he transfer out nonetheless, and for reasons that dont bear scrutiny. The financial 
comparisons showed he would most likely receive lower retirement benefits, even after 
applying the enhancement he was being offered to transfer away from the scheme. And Ive 
explained why there were also no other reasons he should have been advised to transfer 
out, particularly at such a young age. 
Ultimately, Mr H was giving up a guaranteed, risk-free and increasing income and has lost 
the guarantees associated with having a DB scheme, such as a pension for life and a 
spouses pension in the event of his passing.
So, I think Concerva should have advised Mr H to remain in his OPS and used the pension 
in the way it was originally intended.
Im therefore upholding his complaint.
Putting things right
Overview - On 2 August 2022, the FCA launched a consultation on new DB transfer redress 
guidance and has set out its proposals in a consultation document - CP22/15-calculating 
redress for non-compliant pension transfer advice. The consultation closed on 27 September 
2022 with any changes expected to be implemented in early 2023. In Mr Hs case, this 
guidance applies to part of his pension complaint.
In this consultation, the FCA has said that it considers that the current redress methodology 
in Finalised Guidance (FG) 17/19 (Guidance for firms on how to calculate redress for 
unsuitable defined benefit pension transfers) remains appropriate and fundamental changes 
are not necessary. However, its review has identified some areas where the FCA considers 
it could improve or clarify the methodology to ensure it continues to provide appropriate 
redress. 
The FCA has said that it expects firms to continue to calculate and offer compensation to 
their customers using the existing guidance in FG 17/9 whilst the consultation takes place. 
But until changes take effect firms should give customers the option of waiting for their 
compensation to be calculated in line with any new rules and guidance that may come into 
force after the consultation has concluded.
Weve now asked Mr H whether he preferred any redress to be calculated now in line with 
current guidance, or wait for the any new guidance /rules to be published. He has chosen 
not to wait for any new guidance to come into effect to settle his complaint. 
So, I am satisfied that a calculation in line with FG17/9 remains appropriate and, if a loss is 
identified, will provide fair redress for Mr H 
If the complaint hasnt been settled in full and final settlement by the time any new guidance 
or rules come into effect, Id expect Concerva to carry out a calculation in line with the 
updated rules and/or guidance in any event.What should Concerva do?
My aim in awarding redress is to put Mr H as far as possible in the position he would be in
now if Concerva had given him suitable advice. I think Mr H would have remained in the
DB scheme. I also think he would have retained his existing personal AVC arrangement.
To compensate Mr H fairly, Concerva must determine the combined fair value of his
transferred pension benefits as outlined in Step One and Step Two below. If the actual
value is greater than the combined fair value, no compensation is payable.
Actual value
This means the actual amount payable from the personal pension at the date of the 
calculation. My aim is to return Mr H to the position he would have been in but for the actions 
of Concerva.
Fair value  step one
If Mr H had been given suitable advice, I think he would have remained in the DB scheme. 
Concerva should therefore undertake a redress calculation in line with the regulators 
pension review guidance, as updated by the FCA in its Finalised Guidance 17/9: Guidance 
for firms on how to calculate redress for unsuitable DB pension transfers.
For clarity, Mr H has not yet retired, and he has no plans to do so at present. So, 
compensation should be based on his normal retirement age of 65, as per the usual 
assumptions in the FCA's guidance.
This calculation should be carried out using the most recent financial assumptions at the 
date of the actual calculation. Concerva may wish to contact the Department for Work and 
Pensions (DWP) to obtain Mr Hs contribution history to the State Earnings Related Pension 
Scheme (SERPS or S2P).
These details should then be used to include a SERPS adjustment in the calculation, which
will take into account the impact of leaving the occupational scheme on Mr Hs SERPS/S2P 
entitlement.
Fair value  step two
Had Concerva provided suitable advice, Mr H would have kept his AVC where it was. 
To determine any loss Mr H suffered as a result of transferring the AVC, Concerva should 
obtain the notional value of the AVC from the ceding scheme provider on the basis that it 
had been invested in the same funds as it was invested in prior to the transfer. The 
combined value of the sums produced by the above two steps is the combined fair value.
If the redress calculation demonstrates a loss, the compensation should, if possible, be paid 
into Mr Hs pension plan. The payment should allow for the effect of charges and any 
available tax relief. The compensation shouldnt be paid into the pension plan if it would 
conflict with any existing protection or allowance. 
If a payment into the pension isnt possible or has protection or allowance implications, it 
should be paid directly to Mr H as a lump sum after making a notional deduction to allow for 
income tax that would otherwise have been paid. Typically, 25% of the loss could have been 
taken as tax-free cash and 75% would have been taxed according to his likely incometax rate in retirement  presumed to be 20%. So making a notional deduction of 15% overall 
from the loss adequately reflects this.
The payment resulting from all the steps above is the compensation amount.
My final decision
Determination and money award: I uphold this complaint and require Concerva Limited to 
pay Mr H the compensation amount as set out in the steps above, up to a maximum of 
£160,000.
Where the compensation amount does not exceed £160,000, I would additionally require
Concerva Limited to pay Mr H any interest on that amount in full, as set out above.
Where the compensation amount already exceeds £160,000, I would only require Concerva 
Limited to pay Mr H any interest as set out above on the sum of £160,000.
Recommendation: If the compensation amount exceeds £160,000, I also recommend that
Concerva Limited pays Mr H the balance. I would additionally recommend any interest 
calculated as set out above on this balance to be paid to Mr H.
If Mr H accepts this decision, the money award becomes binding on Concerva Limited.
My recommendation would not be binding. Further, its unlikely that Mr H can accept my 
decision and go to court to ask for the balance. Mr H may want to consider getting 
independent legal advice before deciding whether to accept any final decision.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 7 November 2022.
 
Michael Campbell
Ombudsman