DRN-2228473
The complaint
Mr N complains about the service provided by British Gas Insurance Limited under a home 
emergency insurance policy.
What happened
Mr N renewed his home emergency policy with British Gas in May 2018 and his boiler was 
serviced in July of that year. Mr N renewed the policy again in May 2019 and he called 
British Gas in October of that year to ask when he last had a service and when he should 
expect another. He was told that after a first visit, the next service would be due 15 months 
afterwards. Mr N complained that hed not been told this before and even though hed now 
paid 15 monthly payments since his last service, his boiler hadnt been serviced again. 
British Gas said Mr Ns policy set out that his annual service would be carried out once every 
contractual period which means it can be over 12 months between visits. It apologised for 
telling him his next service would be due 15 months after the last visit. It accepted this was 
wrong. Mr N wasnt happy with this and came to this service.
Our investigator thought British Gas had acted within the terms of Mr Ns policy. His 
agreement ran for 12 months from May 2019 and it therefore had until May 2020 to complete 
the service on his boiler, even though the last service was in July 2018. She noted that 
Mr Ns boiler had been serviced in December 2019. But she also thought British Gas should 
pay Mr N £50 to recognise the anxiety and confusion it had caused by giving him the wrong 
information about when his service was due.
British Gas didnt agree with the investigators view. It accepted it had made a mistake but 
didnt think this had caused any detriment to Mr N. So, the complaint has been passed to me 
to make a final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive come to the same conclusion as our investigator and for largely the 
same reasons. Let me explain why.
Mr Ns home emergency policy says:
annual service
- a check in each period of agreement to ensure that your gas boiler, appliance or central 
heating, and ventilation is working safely and in line with the relevant laws and regulations. 
See page 28 for more details
Page 28 of the same document includes the following: 
Your annual service may be more, or less, than 12 months after your last service visit.
The renewal letter British Gas sent to Mr N in April 2019 also included a note to say that the 
annual service may be more than 12 months apart.
Mr Ns period of agreement ran between May 2019 and May 2020. So, I dont think British 
Gas has acted unfairly by saying he was due an annual service at some point within those 
12 months. I recognise his previous service had been carried out in July 2018 but his policy 
explains that an annual service may be more, or less, than 12 months after the last service. 
And, in light of the commitment to provide the annual service with the period of agreement, I 
dont think British Gas has acted unreasonably in not servicing his boiler again until 
December 2019. 
But British Gas accept it gave Mr N the wrong information in October 2019 when it said his 
next service would be due 15 months after the previous one. Its clear from the evidence this 
confused Mr N and led him to believe his service was overdue. He said this made him angry 
and upset as he believed hed paid for a service hed not received. British Gas has 
apologised for the mistake it made but I think it should do more to reflect the trouble and 
upset caused. 
Putting things right
In light of the above, I think British Gas should pay Mr N £50 to recognise the stress and 
worry caused by its mistake.
My final decision
My final decision is that this complaint should be upheld. In order to resolve Mr Ns 
complaint, British Gas Insurance Limited should pay Mr N £50 for the trouble and upset 
caused by its poor service.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr N to accept or 
reject my decision before 9 December 2020.
 
Richard Walker
Ombudsman