DRN-3672910
The complaint
Mr K is unhappy that Clydesdale Bank Plc (trading as Virgin Money) hasnt reimbursed him 
in full after he was the victim of a scam.
What happened
In May 2021 Mr K was contacted by a scammer claiming to be from Virgin Money. They told 
him his account was at risk and suggested he transfer money to a trusted family member. Mr 
K suggested his son, and the scammer said they would set up a new account in his sons 
name to send the money to. They provided an account number and sort code.
Mr K attempted to send £5,000 to the account provided by the scammer but this was 
blocked by Virgin Money. Two debit card payments of £401.20, £902.70 were then made 
from the account to a money transfer service. Mr K says he had no knowledge of these 
payments and the scammers mustve made them. Hes said he didnt provide his card 
details and suggested they mustve somehow hacked his phone, but has said he didnt 
download anything and they didnt send him anything.
He says the scammer attempted a third debit card payment of £4,914.70 which was also 
stopped by Virgin Money and it restricted his use of the debit card. Mr K contacted Virgin 
Money about the blocked payments. He told Virgin Money hed made the debit card 
payments himself and was helping his son with a debt which is why he needed to pay the 
money transfer service. Based on what hed said, the restrictions were removed from Mr Ks 
card and the payment of £4,914.70 was made. Hes explained that the scammer stayed on 
the line while he spoke to Virgin Money and wouldve heard the call.
Mr K called Virgin Money the next day and discovered hed been the victim of a scam. Virgin 
Money reimbursed him for the first two payments of £401.20, £902.70 because it felt it 
couldve done more to prevent the payments being made. But as hed called up an 
authorised the final payment of £4,914.70 it didnt feel it was liable for refunding this to him.
I issued my provisional decision in August 2022. In summary I said that:
As part of the complaint I was only considering whether Virgin Money needed to 
reimburse Mr K for the final payment of £4,914.70 as the others had been refunded 
to him.
Mr K had said he hadnt authorised this payment himself on balance I thought it was 
more likely than not he had. I didnt think hed been able to explain any point of 
compromise or way the scammers had been able to obtain his card details. Although 
hed said his phone mustve been hacked, in my conversation with him and his 
submissions to the service I hadnt been able to find a plausible explanation as to 
how this had happened. What Mr K had told me wasnt consistent with how, in our 
experience, a scammer does tend to access someones phone. And although hed 
said he didnt know about the attempted card payments, Id heard call recordings 
where he discussed the payments clearly with the bank and was aware of the third 
party transfer service they were being made to. He wasnt able to explain how he 
knew about the card payments or recall what the scammers had told him about this. 
He maintained he hadnt known about them.
Although I thought Mr K had authorised it, I felt it was likely he did this under the 
influence of the scammers. And when discussing this with our service and the bank 
much later, hed been genuinely confused about what information had been provided 
and what instructions the scammers had given him. I felt this was evident in both his 
conversations with the bank and my conversations with him when considering the 
complaint.
Whilst the payment was authorised by Mr K I also took into account the law, 
regulators rules and guidance, relevant codes of practice and what I considered to 
have been good industry practice at the time. As such I thought Virgin Money should 
fairly and reasonably have measures in place to look for and identify transactions that 
are significantly unusual, out of character or otherwise might indicate someone had 
been the victim of a scam. And, where it reasonably ought to have identified such a 
transaction, it might be appropriate for it to carry out further checks to satisfy itself its 
customer isnt at risk. It was clear it did have these measures in place because it did 
intervene and block the card payment in dispute which prompted Mr K to contact it. I 
thought it acted reasonably in blocking the transactions it did and seeking further 
contact with Mr K.
When Virgin Money spoke to Mr K I didnt think it went far enough to satisfy itself Mr 
K wasnt the victim of a scam. From listening to the call recordings, even though Mr K 
lied about what the payments were for, I thought it was clear he was confused by the 
situation and wasnt sure who or which department he was talking to about which 
payment. I thought if Virgin Money had questioned him sufficiently his cover story  
that he was paying his son via a money transfer service  wouldve likely fallen apart. 
I also thought it ought to have seemed odd that Mr K had tried to make the payment 
first via bank transfer, and when this was blocked tried to pay a different amount 
using a third party company but claimed this was for the same purpose.
I also thought Mr K had contributed to his loss by way of contributory negligence. I 
didnt think hed been able to explain why he thought his bank, who he believed were 
contacting him to tell him his account was at risk, would be setting up a new account 
in his sons name for him to transfer his money to. Or, why he then needed to send 
this money using a third party transfer service. I also didnt think hed been able to 
explain why he lied to his genuine bank about the payments he was making and said 
they were to help his son with a debt.
I recommended Virgin Money reimburse Mr K for 50% of his loss.Virgin Money responded to my provisional decision and accepted my findings. Mr K 
responded and explained that although he thought the decision was broadly fair he 
maintained he hadnt made the card payment himself and his phone mustve somehow been 
hacked.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As neither Virgin Money or Mr K have provided any further evidence for me to consider in 
this case I see no reason to change the outcome in my provisional decision, which Ive 
outlined above.
Virgin Money should reimburse Mr K 50% of his remaining loss (£2,457.35) plus 8% simple 
interest from the date of payment to the date of settlement.
My final decision
I uphold this complaint and direct Clydesdale Bank Plc trading as Virgin Money to pay Mr K 
the redress outlined above. Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im 
required to ask Mr K to accept or reject my decision before 27 September 2022.
 
Faye Brownhill
Ombudsman