DRN-3941254
The complaint
A company that Ill refer to as S has complained that Wilson Insurance Services Limited
(WISL) made an error when renewing its commercial insurance policy which meant it wasnt
covered for losses caused by Covid-19.
Mrs W, a director of S, has complained on Ss behalf through a representative. For ease of
reading, Ill refer to S throughout.
What happened
S held a commercial insurance policy through WISL. At the renewal in 2019, S told WISL
that it had found a more competitive quote but gave WISL the opportunity to match it. WISL
forwarded the quote to a sub-broker who Ill refer to as M. M said S currently held a pre-
school policy and the alternative quote S had provided was for a nursery policy. M said they
could source a nursery policy for S instead.
In order for cover to commence under a nursery policy, M said S needed to complete a
proposal form. The proposal forms were sent to S.
WISL said they told M to hold cover on the policy as S was returning the proposal form by
post. WISL said they had no response from M, so chased M a few days later asking for a
response. M sent WISL an email containing a link to the policy which WISL forwarded on to
S. WISL received the completed proposal form from S on the same day and forwarded it to
M.
S claimed on its policy after its business was impacted by Covid-19 and the Governments
response to the pandemic. The insurer said that the policy in place was the pre-school policy
and declined Ss claim because the pre-school policy didnt cover what had happened.
S complained to WISL as it thought the error had led to its claim being declined. WISL said
that while they had forwarded the email on to S, M is responsible for the errors which led to
Ss losses. WISL said they told M to hold cover, yet it issued cover under the incorrect pre-
school policy, despite being asked to provide a nursery policy.
Unhappy with WISLs response, S brought its complaint to our service.
Our investigator looked into Ss complaint and recommended it be upheld. She thought that
WISL had made an error and that had caused S a loss. She recommended WISL
compensate S to the value of what it would have received in payment for the claim, which it
thought was £25,429.95. She also recommended that WISL add interest to that amount due
to the time S had been without the money.
WISL disagreed. They remained of the view that the loss was caused by M and queried what
M had done with the proposal forms that they had forwarded. WISL asked for an
ombudsman to reach a final decision.
I issued a provisional decision on this complaint on 28 November 2022. In that I said:
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I recognise that there were two firms involved in placing Ss policy with the insurer, WISL
and M. However, as this complaint is against WISL I can only comment on what WISL, and
not M, might or might not have done wrong. Having reviewed all of the information, I intend
to uphold this complaint. Ill explain why below.
When selling Ss policy, WISL had a duty to provide information that was clear, fair and not
misleading.
I can see that M emailed WISL with the proposal form which was needed to get a
quotation. WISL responded by asking for a response to its email asking M to hold cover. M
responded by providing a copy of the pre-school policy documents.
Ive reviewed the email that M sent to WISL which was then forwarded to S. The email says,
Thank you for your instructions to proceed with your clients Pre-school policy. Ive
considered WISLs point that M is the one that made the error, but whether or not M made
errors, I think WISL made errors.
The email from M, which WISL forwarded to S, didnt answer WISLs question and I think
WISL should have noticed that the content of the email didnt correspond with what had
been asked. I also think WISL should have been aware that, as the proposal form was
needed to obtain a quotation, its unlikely M would have been able to put the nursery cover in
place without the proposal form. I think WISL should have noticed that the email from M
wasnt the cover that had been requested. And if they had noticed the error S would have
asked WISL to ensure that the nursery policy was put in place instead.
Where I believe there has been an error, I look at how to put the policyholder back in the
position they would have been in if the error hadnt occurred. So, Ive considered the cover
that S would have had if the nursery policy had been put in place.
The nursery policy provides cover where access to the premises is hindered or prevented
due to an emergency which is likely to endanger life or property. There is an exclusion for
notifiable human infectious or contagious diseases, but notifiable human infectious or
contagious diseases is defined as a specific list of diseases which doesnt include Covid-19.
I think this clause would have provided cover for Ss claim and WISL doesnt seem to
dispute this. As this policy wasnt in place, I think that WISLs error caused S a loss it
wouldnt have had without the error  i.e. it didnt have the correct policy.
As I think WISL caused S a loss, I think the fair and reasonable outcome is for it to put S
back in the position it would have been in without the error. To do that I think WISL should
compensate S to the value of what it would have received for its claim if the nursery policy
was in place. Ive gone on to consider those losses below.
The part of the policy which looks to provide cover has a three month indemnity limit. S said
it was impacted from 21 March 2020. S hasnt indicated that there is any further period of
loss. so I think losses would be payable between 21 March 2020 and 20 June 2020. The 
terms and conditions of the policy say that the insurer will pay for the loss of gross
revenue or increased cost of working. S has indicated that its claim is for loss of gross
revenue.
Under Basis of Claims Settlement Clauses the policy says:
loss of gross revenue being the amount by which the gross revenue during theindemnity period falls short of the standard gross revenue in consequence of the
damage less any sum saved during the indemnity period in respect of such of the
charges and expenses of the childcare business payable out of gross revenue as
may cease or be reduced in consequence of the damage
Ive thought about how Ss claim would be settled in line with this by an insurer and
calculated this using information S has provided from its accountant.
Expected turnover 35,574.55
Less actual turnover 9,398.98
Shortfall in turnover 26,1175.66
Less savings
Staff savings compared to 2019 3,156.17
Furlough 10,795.15
Loss 12,224.34
The information was updated from a previous letter from the accountant due to the
accountant mistakenly not including PAYE and pension contributions in the calculation.
I believe that an insurer would have deducted any saving S made in staffing costs as well
what S received in furlough for this period. I think an insurer would have been entitled to
deduct furlough from the claim settlement as the policy is to cover Ss losses and furlough is
a saving S made against its losses.
I havent taken any other operating costs into account as S said it didnt make any other
savings as its premises remained open during the period of loss. However, if WISL or S
considers that any other costs should be taken into account they should let me know before
12 December 2022.
I havent seen anything from WISL to persuade me that the amounts above are
unreasonable so in the absence of anything to the contrary I think it would be fair and
reasonable for WISL to compensate for its financial loss by paying £12,224.34.
If WISL are aware of any additional amount that the insurer would have deducted such as an
excess then they should let me know by 12 December 2022. If theres an excess I think its
fair and reasonable for this to be deducted from the £12,224.34 as S would have needed to
have paid this when making a claim. I also think its fair and reasonable for WISL to deduct
any additional amount that S would have paid for the correct policy. Or, if the policy was
more expensive, it should reimburse this additional amount.
As S has been without money it should have had I think its fair and reasonable for WISL to
include interest on the settlement amount. As Im awarding a total amount rather than the
monthly payments an insurer would have made I think its fair and reasonable to award
interest from 20 June 2020 as S would have incurred its losses by that point.
S said it took out a Bounce Back Loan (BBL) in July 2020 for £50,000 and said it wouldnt
have taken such an amount if its claim had been paid. So I think its fair to take this into
consideration when deciding at what rate interest should be paid.
I think it would be fair and reasonable for WISL to add interest to the compensation amount
at our normal rate of 8% simple per annum from 20 June 2020 until the date S took out the
BBL. S should let me know what date it took the BBL by 12 December 2022. As a BBL is 0%interest for 12 months, I dont think WISL need to pay interest between the date S took out
the BBL and when interest becomes payable on it. After 12 months interest is payable on a
BBL at 2.5%. Therefore, WISL should add interest at 2.5% simple per annum from the
anniversary of S taking the BBL to the date they make payment.
In summary, I said that WISL should:
Pay S £12,224.34 to compensate for its financial loss.
Add interest at that amount at our normal rate of 8% simple per annum from 20 June
            2020 until the date S took out the BBL.
Add interest to the settlement amount at 2.5% simple per annum from the 12 month
            anniversary of S taking the BBL to the date WISL make payment.
If the policy S should have had was more expensive, WISL can deduct this from the
            settlement. If it was cheaper, WISL should reimburse the additional amount.
WISL agreed to the outcome of my provisional decision in an effort to resolve the complaint
and confirmed that there was no excess on this section of the policy and no further
deductions were necessary from the settlement. However, S provided further comments. In
summary, it said:
It is unfair to deduct the wage salary from 2019 because the difference in staffing
            cost between the years isnt as a result of the insured event, it is as a result of
            the difference in staffing numbers required due to the number of children on roll.
            Due to the requirement for minimum staffing levels the wage bill can change
            substantially while only marginally impacting the turnover.
The amount of loss is higher than I have set out and a fair amount would be
            £35,574.55. During the first lockdown S was required to provide care to key worker
            children and it was from these placements that the amount of £9,398.89 was
            received. Due to the rules around furlough, S wasnt able to claim furlough for these
            members of staff and due to the small number of children attending paid £17,176.16
            in excess wages. S believes that it should be possible to claim for this under
            increased cost of working.
BBLs were designed to help businesses recover from the effects of the pandemic. If
Ss claim had been paid by the insurer or WISL it would have impacted its decision to
            take out a BBL but these should be kept separate and therefore interest should be
            paid at our normal rate of 8%. S doesnt believe that WISL should benefit from the
            BBL.
S would also like to claim £3,405 for its accountants costs as the policy says these
            are recoverable.
I asked for WISLs comments on this. WISL responded to say that M had some responsibility
for what happened but what happened was a genuine error. WISL said it had always acted
in good faith. WISL said that the accountants fees seemed high given the size of S. WISL
made an offer to settle Ss complaint in line with how Id recommended in my provisional
decision. S said it would prefer me to reach a decision on what I consider to be the fair and
reasonable outcome.
I sent an email with my further findings to both parties via our investigator on 25 January
2023. This said:
Difference in wage costs
I note Ss point on this but I remain of the view that, in the absence of evidence to show what
the staffing figures would have been for the claim period if the insured event had nothappened then, that this remains the most appropriate method of calculating Ss loss. I say
that because I have also used the turnover figures for the same period in 2019 so I believe
this produces a fair and reasonable estimate of Ss losses.
Value of claim
I recognise that Ss staffing is dependent on the number of children on roll and the ages of
those children. And that having a small number of key worker children might mean that S
was required to have the same amount of staff working as it would ordinarily have for a
higher number of children. However, I havent seen anything to suggest that S had to take
on any additional staff and they would always have had to pay the staff that they were
contracted to pay. I understand that S couldnt furlough as many staff as it needed them to
work but I dont think that needing the contracted staff to work was an extra cost and
therefore I dont believe this is an amount that S should be compensated for.
As I am not an insurer it is difficult for me to put an exact figure on the amount that
S would have been paid by the insurer if it had bought the policy it should have bought. I
have therefore reached a decision based on what I consider to be fair and reasonable in all
of the circumstances based on the evidence that has been presented to me [I later sent
both parties a correction to this sentence which should read as follows] Having done so, I
remain of the view that S's losses are as set out in my provisional decision:
Interest
When I award interest it is to compensate a policyholder for being without money that it
should have had. In Ss case it explained that it took a BBL to cover the amount that it
should have been paid under its claim. Therefore, its loss is what it is required to pay as
interest on that loan rather than our usual rate of 8%. Interest is not awarded to punish a
business and while WISL will need to pay less than they would have done in interest if S
hadnt taken out a BBL, that doesnt impact on my decision of how much to award for the
reasons Ive explained.
Accountants fees
The nursery policy says:
We will pay under this Section reasonable charges payable by you to
professional accountants for producing any particulars or details or any other
proofs, information or evidence as may be required by us and reporting that such
particulars or details are in accordance with your books of account or other
business books or documents provided that the sum of the amount payable
under this clause and the amount otherwise payable under the Section will in no
case exceed the Maximum Amount Payable
I think the fees would be payable under the policy. WISL have queried the number of hours
and the hourly rate. While the hourly rate does seem high, if S has paid this amount or is
required to pay this amount then I think it would be fair and reasonable for WISL to 
compensate it for this. The fees are from a qualified accountant and I have been provided
with some detail to explain the breakdown of the work involved. I recognise that an insurer
might have limited the hourly rate, but S didnt have the opportunity to discuss this with the
insurer while a claim was ongoing. I also recognise that S might have needed its accountant
to provide more or less information than they would have done to an insurer. But S
presented information from its accountant that it believed was relevant in order to
demonstrate its claim and its complaint.I therefore ask that S provide invoices and bank statements to show that these fees have
been paid. If S shows this amount has been paid then I think WISL should reimburse these
fees as well as the fees which remain outstanding. If S is VAT registered, WISL does not
need to pay the VAT element of the fees.
WISL said they accepted the outcome in order to resolve Ss complaint, although they asked
me to clarify whether the payment of the accountants fees was in addition to the
recommendation in my provisional decision. I confirmed that it was. WISL did not provide
any further comments by the required date.
S provided invoices as well as copies of its bank statements showing payments to its
accountant. S confirmed that its accountant is not VAT registered so it did not pay any VAT.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As I have not received any further comments to persuade me to depart from the outcome set
out in my provisional decision and email of 25 January 2023, I remain of the view that its fair
and reasonable for WISL to compensate S for the financial loss caused by their error. I have
set out this loss in the section below. As WISL have confirmed there is no excess and no
further deductions I have not made any further deductions to the settlement amount.
S has provided copies of its bank statements showing that it makes monthly payments
towards its accountant fees. I have also been provided with invoices for these fees and am
persuaded that S is required to pay them. S has also confirmed that it had not paid VAT on
the accountants costs. Therefore, I have included the reimbursement of the accountants
fees in the section below as part of Ss financial loss. I have not awarded interest on the
accountants fees as I think the reimbursement of them is sufficient compensation.
Putting things right
To put things right WISL should pay S the following as compensation for its financial loss:
£12,224.34 to compensate for what it would have received in settlement of its claim.
Interest on £12,224.34 at our normal rate of 8% simple per annum from 20 June
            2020 until the date S took out the BBL.
Interest on £12,224.34 at 2.5% simple per annum from the 12 month anniversary of
            S taking the BBL to the date WISL make payment.
£3,405 to reimburse the accountant fees.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint and require Wilson Insurance Services
Limited to pay S the following as compensation for its financial loss:
£12,224.34 to compensate for what it would have received in settlement of its claim.
Interest on £12,224.34 at our normal rate of 8% simple per annum from 20 June
            2020 until the date S took out the BBL.
Interest on £12,224.34 at 2.5% simple per annum from the 12 month anniversary of
            S taking the BBL to the date WISL make payment.
£3,405 to reimburse the accountant fees.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask S to accept or 
reject my decision before 10 March 2023.
 
Sarann Taylor
Ombudsman