DRN-3245625
The complaint
Mr B complains about Skrill Limiteds decision to review and subsequently close his account. 
Mr B is also unhappy with Skrills actions when returning money left in the account to its 
original source.
What happened
Mr B held an account with Skrill. In February 2020, Skrill carried out a review on Mr Bs 
account and asked Mr B for documentation relating to the account and Mr Bs identity.
Mr B responded to Skrill with the documentation they asked for  but Skrill continued to ask 
for specific information. Skrill say the information Mr B supplied didnt satisfy their enquiries 
because he wasnt able to supply a copy of a payment card which was used to top up money 
into his Skrill account.
In March 2020, Skrill reversed four payments which had been paid into Mr Bs account. They 
didnt ask Mr B for any evidence relating to these payments and didnt inform him of their 
decision to return the money to the original source.
In April 2020, Skrill reactivated Mr Bs account. At this point, there was around £120 left in 
the account and Mr B withdrew it successfully. 
In May 2020, Skrill made the decision to deactivate Mr Bs account permanently. They said 
they shouldnt have reopened the account in April 2020 as their enquiries relating to the 
account review werent satisfied based on the information Mr B provided.
Mr B wanted access to the money which Skrill returned to source  around £670. Skrill 
referred Mr B to the terms and conditions of the account which explained that payments can 
be reversed. Skrill didnt explain to Mr B why they made the decision to return the money.
Mr B remained unhappy and brought the complaint to our service.
Our investigator reviewed things and didnt think Skrill had acted fairly. In summary, he 
thought based on the evidence hed received Mr B was entitled to the money Skrill had 
returned to source. He explained that Mr B had provided evidence to show hed made 
genuine bitcoin purchases and therefore was entitled to the money. Our investigator also 
didnt think Skrill should have closed Mr Bs account immediately  he thought a notice 
period of around two months would have been more appropriate. Therefore, he asked Skrill 
to repay Mr B the money they returned to source  including interest. And pay Mr B £250 
compensation.
Skrill didnt agree. They also raised that as theyd now became aware Mr B was using his 
Skrill account for the sale of cryptocurrency, they would have had another reason to reverse 
the transactions. Skrill confirmed the terms of the account dont allow customers to use their 
accounts for currency exchanges.
As an agreement couldnt be reached, the complaint has been passed to me to review.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Were Skrill entitled to review Mr Bs account?
Skrill are strictly regulated and must take certain actions in order to meet their legal and 
regulatory obligations. Theyre also required to carry out ongoing monitoring of new and 
existing relationships. That sometimes means they need to restrict customers accounts  
either in full or partially while they carry out their review. Having looked at whats happened, 
Im satisfied Skrill was complying with their legal and regulatory obligations when they 
reviewed Mr Bs account in February 2020. So, I cant fairly say theyve done anything 
wrong.
Should Skrill have returned the money in Mr Bs account to source?
While Skrill are entitled to carry out a review, wed expect them to do so in a timely manner 
and without undue delays. Skrill initially blocked Mr Bs account on 28 February 2020. I 
havent seen any evidence to show the actions Skrill took during the review, but Im satisfied 
they asked Mr B for documentation relating to his identity and bank account which was 
linked to his Skrill account. When financial institutions carry out reviews, its common 
practice across the banking industry that the review will require additional information from 
the account holder. Often, the information required is related to the consumers identity, 
proof of entitlement to recent payments or more details on what the account is used for. 
Based on the evidence Ive seen, and alongside Mr Bs testimony, Skrill didnt ask Mr B any 
questions relating to recent payments as part of their review.
In March 2020, while Skrills review was still ongoing, they decided to return four payments 
back to the original source. Skrill has provided evidence in confidence to our service, relating 
to one payment. However, Skrill returned four payments back to source. I think it would have 
been helpful if Skrill asked Mr B for proof of entitlement to these funds as part of their review. 
They didnt  and therefore, Ive had to consider whether it was fair of them to return the 
money to source. While Mr B isnt aware of the reasons why Skrill took the actions they did, 
he provided documentation to our service to show that the money paid into his account 
rightfully belonged to him. Had Skrill asked Mr B for this information, I think its reasonable to 
conclude that Mr B would have been able to supply it. And, on the balance of probabilities, 
based on the information Mr B has provided to our service, I think its more likely than not, 
Skrill could have given the money back to Mr B directly, rather than returning it to the original 
sender.
Ive carefully considered Skrills evidence and arguments on their reasons why they returned 
the money to source. However, theyve only provided evidence relating to one payment  
and with the absence of any thorough investigation relating to the four payments in question, 
Im not satisfied their actions were fair. Ultimately, Skrill should be satisfied that Mr B wasnt 
entitled to the money to return it back to the original sender. And as they didnt ask Mr B for 
any proof of entitlement, I dont find any plausible explanation as to how they satisfied 
themselves that Mr B wasnt entitled to it. 
Skrill also raised after our investigators view, that the sale of cryptocurrency would allow 
them to return the money to source  as this is forbidden. But I dont think this is entirely 
relevant as Skrill wasnt aware of what the money was relating to due to the lack of 
information they asked for as part of their review.It therefore follows that I think Skrill should refund Mr B the full balance which was returned 
to source in March 2020. I also dont think its reasonable that Mr B has been without his 
money for a long period of time. So, like our investigator, I think 8% simple interest should be 
paid on this amount. As Ive found Skrill were entitled to review Mr Bs account, I think the 
appropriate date to pay the interest from is when they first decided to return the money to 
source, up to the date they refund it to Mr B.
The closure of the account
In May 2020, Skrill made the decision to permanently deactivate Mr Bs account. They didnt 
give Mr B notice and said they made their decision in line with the terms and conditions of 
the account. Our investigator thought they should have given Mr B notice. Sometimes, Skrill 
choose to end their relationship with customers. This can be due to a number of reasons, 
and Skrill isnt obliged to give a reason to the customer. Just the same as if Mr B decided to 
stop banking with Skrill, he wouldnt have to explain why. Skrill can only close accounts in 
certain circumstances and if it is in the terms and conditions of the account. Skrill have relied 
on the terms and conditions when closing Mr Bs account.
Based on the specific circumstances of this complaint, and the reasons for closure provided 
by Skrill, I agree that a notice period would have been more appropriate. I appreciate Skrill 
have since learned about the use of cryptocurrency and this could have been a legitimate 
reason to close the account without notice. However, I have to base my decision on the 
reasons Skrill used at the time. Due to the lack of investigation as part of their review, Skrill 
wasnt aware that Mr B was using his account for the sale of cryptocurrency  they only 
learned about that following our services involvement and the investigations we carried out. 
So I cant fairly say they were entitled to close his account immediately for this reason.
Therefore, based on the evidence Ive received, I think Skrill should have given Mr B two 
months notice to close his account. 
Putting things right
Overall, I find Skrills decision to review Mr Bs account fair. But I dont think they did enough 
to satisfy themselves that Mr B wasnt entitled to the money in the account  so I think they 
should refund him as he is now at a loss. And I think adding interest to the amount they 
refund him fairly compensates Mr B for the loss of use of his money. I also consider Skrill 
should have given Mr B two months notice when closing his account. I think Skrill should 
pay compensation for the trouble and upset this overall situation has caused Mr B and 
consider an amount of £250 to be appropriate in the circumstances.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold Mr Bs complaint. Skrill Limited should do the following:
Refund Mr B the amount of money returned to source - £669. 
Calculate interest at 8% simple per year on the amount they refund Mr B. They 
should calculate this from the date they refunded the money to source to the date 
they refund Mr B. 
HM Revenue & Customs requires Skrill Limited to withhold income tax from the 
above-mentioned interest. Skrill should give Mr B a certificate showing how much 
is taken off if Mr B asks for one.
Pay Mr B £250 compensation.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 14 April 2022.
 
Hayley West
Ombudsman