DRN-3790752
The complaint
Miss E complains that HSBC UK Bank Plc wont refund the money she lost when she was 
the victim of a scam.
What happened
In October 2021, Miss E met a man through a dating app she had downloaded. They started 
communicating frequently over the next few weeks, first through the dating app and then via 
an instant messaging app. And their relationship developed to the point where Miss E 
thought they were in a romantic relationship. 
The man had mentioned he was interested in investing and had made money through 
trading and so Miss E asked him if he could explain it to her. The man then showed her how 
to open an account with a cryptocurrency exchange and use it to send money to the trading 
platform he used. Miss E then made a number of payments from her accounts, including her 
HSBC account, to the cryptocurrency exchange. Ive set out the payments she made, and 
the withdrawals she was able to make from the platform, below:
Date Details Amount
19 October 2021 To cryptocurrency exchange (from different account) £500
20 October 2021 To cryptocurrency exchange £20
20 October 2021 Withdrawal from trading platform £530.64
20 October 2021 To cryptocurrency exchange £2,000
21 October 2021 To cryptocurrency exchange £3,000
21 October 2021 To cryptocurrency exchange £1,000
22 October 2021 Withdrawal from trading platform £6,435
22 October 2021 To cryptocurrency exchange £7,600
Unfortunately, we now know the man was a scammer and the trading platform was a scam.
Miss E had been able to make withdrawals from the trading platform. But when she tried to 
withdraw the money she had made following her last payment, she was told she would need 
to pay taxes on her investment before the money could be sent to her. And as the numbers 
she was given for the tax calculations didnt make sense and she didnt think tax needed to 
be paid in that way, she became suspicious and ultimately reported the payments she had 
made to HSBC as fraud.
HSBC investigated but said the payments were made to an account with the cryptocurrency 
exchange Miss E had access to. So it didnt agree to refund the money she had lost. Miss E 
wasnt satisfied with HSBCs response, so referred a complaint to our service.
One of our investigators looked at the complaint. They thought HSBC should have 
intervened and asked Miss E about the last payment she made, before allowing it to go 
through. But they didnt think anything wed have expected HSBC to ask or explain to Miss E 
would have stopped her making the payment. So they didnt think HSBC should have to 
refund the money Miss E had lost. Miss E disagreed with our investigator, so the complaint 
has been passed to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Banks are expected to make payments in line with their customers instructions. And Miss E 
accepts she made the payments. So while I recognise she didnt intend for the money to go 
to scammers, she did authorise the payments. And so the starting position in law is that she 
is liable for them and HSBC doesnt have to refund the money she lost.
But taking into account the law, regulators rules and guidance, relevant codes of practice 
and what I consider to have been good industry practice at the time, I think HSBC should 
fairly and reasonably:
Have been monitoring accounts and any payments made or received to counter 
various risks, including anti-money laundering, countering the financing of terrorism, 
and preventing fraud and scams.
Have had systems in place to look out for unusual transactions or other signs that 
might indicate that its customers were at risk of fraud (among other things). This is 
particularly so given the increase in sophisticated fraud and scams in recent years, 
which banks are generally more familiar with than the average customer.  
In some circumstances, irrespective of the payment channel used, have taken 
additional steps, or made additional checks, before processing a payment, or in 
some cases declined to make a payment altogether, to help protect customers from 
the possibility of financial harm from fraud.
So Ive also considered whether HSBC should have identified that Miss E was potentially at 
risk of fraud as a result of these payments.
The first four payments Miss E made out of this HSBC account werent for particularly large 
amounts. They didnt leave the balance of her account at a particularly unusual level. And I 
dont think they formed a particularly suspicious pattern. So I dont think these first four 
payments will have looked particularly suspicious or unusual to HSBC. And I think its 
reasonable HSBC didnt identify that Miss E was potentially at risk of fraud as a result of 
these payments or ask any further questions before allowing them to go through.
I do think HSBC should have identified that Miss E was potentially at risk of fraud as a result 
of the final payment of £7,600 she made though. This payment was for a significantly 
amount, and was significantly larger than any other payments made out of her account in the 
previous 12 months. So I think HSBC should have intervened and contacted Miss E to ask 
further questions about this payment, before allowing it to go through.
But even if HSBC had asked further questions about this payment, I dont think this would 
have prevented Miss E from losing her money.
Its not for our service to dictate the checks HSBC should do or the questions it should ask. 
But banks should take steps designed to protect their customers from the risk of financial 
harm. And, in these circumstances and given the size of this payment, I think it would be 
reasonable to expect those checks to include questions about the purpose of the payment 
and then follow-up questions about the investments Miss E thought she was making.Based on what Miss E has told us and what she said in the calls she had with HSBC after 
the scam was discovered, I think its likely she would have told HSBC this payment was for 
an investment she was making. I think HSBC should then have asked further questions 
about the investment, to determine whether Miss E was at risk of fraud. But Miss E had been 
told about the investment by someone she thought she was in a romantic relationship with, 
rather than being cold-called or contacted unexpectedly about it. The investment wasnt the 
result of a celebrity endorsement or adverts on social media. The returns Miss E had been 
told she could get werent too good to be true. And shed been able to make several 
withdrawals from the trading platform, and been able to withdraw significantly more than she 
had invested.
So I think the types of questions I would have expected HSBC to have asked wouldnt have 
uncovered anything particularly suspicious or given HSBC any significant concerns about 
what Miss E was doing. And so I dont think anything I would reasonably have expected 
HSBC to do would have uncovered the scam or prevented Miss E from making the payment.
So I dont think it would be fair to require HSBC to refund the money she lost.
I sympathise with the position Miss E has found herself in. She has been the victim of a cruel 
scam and I appreciate that my decision will come as a disappointment to her. But, for the 
reasons Ive set out above, I dont think anything HSBC could reasonably have been 
expected to do would have prevented her losing the money. So I dont think it would be fair 
to require it to refund the money she lost.
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss E to accept 
or reject my decision before 26 April 2023. 
Alan Millward
Ombudsman