DRN-3219016
The complaint
Mr S is unhappy Society of Lloyd's (SoL) turned down a claim he made for tenant default 
under a landlord insurance policy.  
What happened
The details of the complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here. Instead Ill focus on giving my reasons for my decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the outcome reached by the investigator for the following 
reasons:
The intention of the tenant default section of the policy is to provide cover for rent 
arrears accrued during a repossession process. However, the claim will only be met 
if certain references were obtained before a tenancy was granted  this isnt an 
unusual requirement. SoL say the credit check showed the tenant was a risk and 
therefore Mr S should have obtained a guarantor.
The relevant policy term says that where a credit check cant be met in full a 
guarantor is required. The credit check obtained showed recent county court 
judgements (CCJs) and scored the tenant as a high risk. I dont think SoL has acted 
unreasonably here by saying this condition of the policy has not been met, as I dont 
think it can reasonably be said the credit check was met in full. 
I appreciate Mr Ss reasons for granting the tenancy, having been reassured about 
the CCJs by the tenant. However, while he may have been willing to take the risk, I 
think the policy wording does imply this would be a situation where a guarantor would 
be required.  
Mr S mentions the policy wording has changed since he took it out. This is the case, 
however having looked at the previous wording this makes it clear satisfactory 
checks should be obtained. So, even if I had considered this claim under the 
previous policy wording, I think its more likely than not I would have reached the 
same conclusion.
For the reasons above, I wont be upholding this complaint. I think SoL has applied the terms 
and conditions of the policy fairly and has reasonably declined the claim.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold Mr Ss complaint against Society of Lloyd's.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 8 March 2022.
 
Alison Gore
Ombudsman