DRN-4107635
The complaint
Mr L complains about the delays Watford Insurance Company Europe Limited caused in 
making repairs to his car following a claim made on his motor insurance policy.
What happened
Mr Ls car was damaged, and he made a claim on his policy. He provided an estimate for 
repairs from his own repairer, but Watford didnt then negotiate this with the repairer. Mr L 
said it took three months for his car to be repaired and during this time he was without a car 
and his mental health suffered. He said he was told several times his car was unrepairable 
before it was repaired by an approved repairer. Watford offered Mr L £150 compensation for 
the delays in carrying out repairs. But Mr L wanted £2,500 compensation for the trouble and 
upset caused.
Our Investigator recommended that the complaint should be upheld. She thought Watford 
was responsible for an avoidable delay of five weeks at the start of the claim until repairs 
were approved. Watford didnt provide its policy documents, so she couldnt say that Mr L 
wasnt entitled to a courtesy car during the claim. So she thought Watford should 
compensate Mr L for his loss of use at £10 a day from the date his car was assessed,18 July 
2022, until he received it back. And she thought Watford should pay Mr L £350 
compensation for the trouble and upset caused by its delays. 
Watford replied that it agreed to increase the compensation offer to £350. It said loss of use 
wasnt covered by the policy, but it didnt provide a copy of the policy document to evidence 
this.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I can understand that Mr L felt frustrated that it took so long to repair his car. There was 
initial confusion about pre-existing damage to the car. Then the car was deemed repairable, 
but a suitable repairer couldnt be located. A higher quote from Mr Ls own garage made the 
car beyond economical repairs. Watfords engineers said they should have negotiated this 
price with the repairer, but they didnt. 
Mr L then asked for his car to be repaired at the approved repairers where the discounts 
would make repairs economical. But he was told twice that his car was a total loss when it 
had been booked in for repairs. And then Watford caused delays in recording Mr Ls 
dissatisfaction and in responding to his Subject Access Request. 
When a business makes mistakes, as Watford accepts it has done here, we expect it to 
restore the consumers position, as far as its able to do so. And we also consider the impact 
the errors had on the consumer. 
I can see that Mr Ls car has now been repaired. And I agree with the Investigator that 
Watford caused an avoidable delay in the repairs process of five weeks from the date the car 
was assessed until the repairs were finally approved. I can see from the engineers 
assessments that the car was unroadworthy due to the damage caused by the incident. And 
Mr L was without a car from the date of assessment, 18 July 2022, until he received it back, 
15 October 2022. 
Watford said Mr L wasnt entitled to a courtesy car under his policys terms and conditions. 
But I havent seen the policy documents, which we have requested for many months, so I 
dont have evidence of this. I can see from Watfords file that Mr L made it clear to Watford 
that he needed hire. It explained to Mr L that he wouldnt be entitled to a courtesy car if he 
chose to use his own repairer, which would imply that one would be available if he used 
Watfords repairer. 
I think its common in comprehensive motor insurance policies for a courtesy car not to be 
provided if a consumer used their own repairer or if the car was deemed to be a total loss. 
But Mr Ls car was deemed to be repairable, and he used Watfords approved repairer. 
So I would usually expect Watford to have provided Mr L with a courtesy car whilst his car 
was being repaired. But it didnt do this. And where we think an insurer is responsible for 
delays in repairs, as in Mr Ls circumstances, we consider whether it should compensate 
them for loss of use. 
Mr L made it clear to Watford that he was without transport, and hes explained that this 
affected his health, his personal life and his work commitments. We expect a consumer to 
reasonably mitigate their losses by looking at alternative transport in such circumstances. 
But Mr L couldnt hire a car due to age restrictions. He couldnt borrow a car as he lived 
some distance from his family. And he couldnt use taxis due to the distances he needed to 
travel or rely on trains due to reliability issues. So Im satisfied that Watford should 
compensate Mr L for the loss of use caused by its delays in his claim. 
And, as I havent seen evidence that Mr Ls policy doesnt provide a courtesy car whilst 
repairs are carried out by an approved repairer, I think it should provide loss of use for this 
period, as the Investigator also recommended. 
Watfords assessment of the car was completed on 18 July 2022, and he received the car 
back on 15 October 2022. So I think Watford should pay Mr L £10 a day for his loss of use 
during this period. I think that restores Mr Ls position. 
Watford has agreed to increase its offer of compensation for the trouble and upset caused 
by its delays in the claim and other failings from £150 to £350. Mr L was caused 
considerable upset, confusion and trouble during this time. So I think thats fair and 
reasonable and in keeping with our published guidance for the significant impact the errors 
had on Mr L over a period of several months. 
Mr L has raised other concerns about his service from Watford. But, as our Investigator 
explained, he would firstly need to raise these with Watford to give it a chance to respond 
before I can consider them.
Putting things right
I require Watford Insurance Company Europe Limited to do the following:
1. Pay Mr L £350 in total compensation for the distress and inconvenience caused by its 
handling of his claim.
2. Pay Mr L for his loss of use of his car from 18 July 2022 until 15 October 2022 at the rate 
of £10 a day. 
My final decision
For the reasons given above, my final decision is that I uphold this complaint. I require 
Watford Insurance Company Europe Limited to carry out the redress set out above.  Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr L to accept or 
reject my decision before 23 August 2023.
 
Phillip Berechree
Ombudsman