DRN-2993902
The complaint
Mr B complains that Trading 212 UK Limited unfairly closed his positions in his Contract for 
Differences (CFD) trading account resulting in a financial loss.
What happened
Mr B held two positions in an American Company that I will refer to as Company S. In 
September 2019, Company S was delisted from the New York Stock Exchange (NYSE) so 
Trading 212 UK Limited (212) closed his two open positions and removed them from their 
trading platform.
 
Mr B says 212 unfairly closed his positions because the instrument was still available in the 
Over the Counter (OTC) exchange and so he should have been able to continue trading it. In 
addition, he says 212 closed his positions at an unfair price because 212s price should 
reflect the market, he should have been given a price that was reflective of the market at 
closure of his positions.
 
Mr B also makes an additional point, that 212 prevented him from trading and closed his 
positions two days before the instrument was delisted so they could make a profit at his 
expense.
212 responded to Mr Bs complaint saying he had misunderstood the situation and that the 
positions were delisted on the NYSE and so they could no longer offer this instrument. They 
say the instrument he refers to, which is available on the OTC, was a different instrument 
offered by the same company and rejected his complaint. 
In relation to the price and closure of his positions, 212 say they did not do anything to 
prevent him from trading. They say there was a lack of liquidity in the market which meant no 
price was available for trading and such he was unable to trade. They say they closed his 
positions in accordance with the terms of the account he signed up to. 
An investigator at this service considered Mr Bs complaint and didnt uphold it. He agreed 
with 212 and for the same reasons. As Mr B didnt agree, this has come to me for a final 
decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I can see Mr B has taken considerable time to explain his position and Id like to reassure 
him that Ive considered everything even though I havent specifically commented on each 
point. Having done so, I am not upholding this complaint and for the same reasons as the 
investigator.
Ive started my investigation by looking at whether the instrument was still available on the 
market. The evidence Ive seen shows Mr Bs argument that the instrument was still 
available in the OTC market was incorrect. The evidence hes provided simply shows the 
wrong instrument. The same company had offered a different instrument and was not 
available on the NYSE market. This supports 212s point that the instrument had been 
delisted from the NYSE market and was no longer available and so 212 removed it from 
their trading platform. 
This is also supported by the Client Agreement clause 16.5, which says If a company goes 
bankrupt or is delisted from the respective stock exchange, you shall be informed that your 
positions in CFDs of this company shall be closed, and you agree to the closing prices.
Ive explained above that Mr B was referring to the wrong instrument. The available price he 
mentions was for the wrong instrument and so his arguments about the available price are 
incorrect. In terms of the price the positions actually closed at, this should be the last 
available price which was 0.12 and this was the price applied to his positions at closure, so I 
dont think 212 have done anything wrong here. 
I have also considered that Mr B says he was prevented from trading, so he wasnt able to 
close his positions. He believes 212 imposed an expiry date on the instrument which 
constitutes a violation of trust and amounts to unfair practice. I am not convinced that 212 
imposed an expiry or did anything to restrict his ability to trade as its clear the instrument 
was delisted from NYSE but Mr B says he was unable to trade. It is important to note, it is 
only possible to trade if there is a price available for the instrument - which in this case there 
wasnt. They say that lack of liquidity in the market meant there was no value showing for the 
shares in Company S and so no indicative price was available that they could reasonably 
use. Lack of liquidity in the market is something beyond 212s control as such, I am 
persuaded to accept 212s explanation for why Mr B may not have been able to trade.
Ultimately, I am not persuaded that any wrongdoing on 212s part has been established so I 
will not be asking them to do anything.
I know Mr B will be disappointed with my decision, as I can see his concern around the 
trading practices of 212. This is not something that I can consider here as it is not within the 
remit of this service to tell a business how to operate, that is the role of the regulator the 
Financial Conduct Authority. I would suggest he contact the Financial Conduct Authority if he 
continues to have concerns around trading practices or conduct of 212.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I dont uphold this complaint against Trading 212 UK Limited.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 20 October 2022.
 
Naima Abdul-Rasool
Ombudsman