DRN-1782781
The complaint
This complaint has been brought by Mrs R and Mr B in their capacity as executors of the 
estate of their late mother, Mrs B. The complaint is against Mortgage Express and is about 
an equity release mortgage taken out by Mrs B in 2004. Mrs R and Mr B say the mortgage 
was mis-sold and was unsuitable for their mother.
What happened
In 2004, after taking advice from an independent financial adviser, who I will call Mr D, from 
a firm I will all MWM, Mrs B took out an equity release mortgage with Mortgage Express. 
She was 68 years old at the time and borrowed £136,584, including fees. No monthly 
payments were required; instead the mortgage offer explains that interest was rolled up into 
the loan and the balance was repayable when the property was sold, which would be either 
on Mrs Bs death, her move into long-term care or if the property ceased to be her main 
residence.
I am very sorry to note that Mrs B passed away in February 2019. Mrs R and Mr B say that it 
was only after Mrs Bs death that they first became aware of the existence of the mortgage. 
Mrs R and Mr B contacted Mortgage Express with their concerns.
They say that, at the time of the mortgage, Mrs R had inherited £900,000 from her late 
husbands estate, so there was no logical explanation as to why she needed equity release, 
and no evidence of what happened to the funds. They suspect fraud by Mr D.
Mortgage Express, in its final response letter, explained that it wasnt responsible for the sale 
of the mortgage and that Mrs R and Mr B should contact MWM or, if MWM was no longer in 
business, the Financial Services Compensation Scheme (FSCS).
Dissatisfied with Mortgage Express response, Mrs R and Mr B brought their complaint to us, 
where it was considered by an investigator. He looked at the documents from the time of 
sale and explained to Mrs R and Mr B that Mortgage Express was the lender, but that the 
mortgage had been sold by MWM and that it was MWM which was responsible for the 
advice and for explaining how the loan worked. In the circumstances, he was satisfied 
Mortgage Express hadnt done anything wrong.
Mrs R and Mr B disagreed. They say their mother was conned with the equity release and 
there is no way she would have been aware of how the product worked, with the roll-up of 
interest. They also say that there is nothing in the documentation to state that interest is 
rolled up. They say that who ever sold this mortgage to my mother should not be walking 
our streets conning other people if there is a way of investigating him then it should be done 
sooner than later (sic) Mrs R and Mr B say that it is criminal that these financial advisers 
can get away with it and ruin peoples lives.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive reached the same conclusion as the investigator, for largely the same 
reasons.
The mortgage was not sold by Mortgage Express, but by MWM. Mortgage Express had no 
involvement in any advice given to Mrs B to take out the mortgage. The advice and 
recommendation to take out the mortgage was solely the responsibility of MWM.
The mortgage offer clearly explains that interest is rolled up into the loan, and so Im 
satisfied that the information provided by Mortgage Express about the product is clear and 
unambiguous. It was up to MWM to explain to Mrs B how the mortgage operated, not 
Mortgage Express. 
There was no direct contact between Mortgage Express and Mrs B, nor was there any need 
for there to be because she had her own independent financial adviser, MWM.
Mortgage Express didnt sell the loan to Mrs B, so Im unable to hold Mortgage Express 
responsible for the advice Mrs B was given by MWM to take it out. 
I fully understand it was a shock for the family to find out that Mrs B had taken out this equity 
release mortgage. But they are directing their concerns to the wrong party, as Mortgage 
Express didnt give Mrs B any advice about it. 
After considering everything Mrs R and Mr B and Mortgage Express have said and provided, 
Im satisfied that Mortgage Express has done nothing wrong. Its documentation shows how 
the mortgage works, including the fixed interest rate and the roll-up of interest over the term 
of the loan. It wasnt the role of Mortgage Express to explain how this worked to Mrs B  that 
was the role of her adviser, MWM.
If Mrs R and Mr B want to complain about the advice given to Mrs B to take out this 
mortgage, theyll need to contact the independent financial advisers who sold the loan. Their 
details are as follows:
Market Wide Mortgages Limited
Unit 1 Northam Business Centre 
Princes St 
Southampton SO14 5RP
www.mwmlimited.com
Tel:  023 8063 6377
Email: info@mwmlimited.com
If Mrs R and Mr B are unhappy with the response from MWM, they will be able to bring a 
fresh complaint to us against MWM about the sale of the mortgage.My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs R and Mr B on 
behalf of the estate of Mrs B to accept or reject my decision before 15 October 2020.
 
Jan O'Leary
Ombudsman