DRN-4062678
The complaint
Mr C is unhappy with Wise Payments Limiteds service during a call he made in relation to 
opening an account with Wise. 
What happened
Mr C was trying to open a multi-currency account with Wise, and began the process on 25 
January 2023. Due to an accidental error, Mr C keyed the wrong year for his date of birth. 
Because of this Wises systems rejected verification documents Mr C had uploaded. 
On 26 January 2023 Mr C called Wise to find out what was happening with his application 
and the agent on that day noticed the error with Mr Cs date of birth and corrected it. 
However, following this Mr C still encountered some problems loading up the necessary 
documents. 
Mr C called Wise again on 27 January 2023, and an agent advised the documents would 
need to be passed to the verification team for manual approval and this was escalated after 
the call on 27 January 2023 in the morning. Mr C called later the same day to find out what 
was happening as he said Wise had not resolved things within the time-frame he said theyd 
promised to him. The documents were later approved on 27 January 2023 at the end of the 
working day. 
In the last call on 27 January 2023 Mr C spoke with Agent L, and it is this call that Mr C is 
particularly unhappy with. In summary, Mr C has said he felt humiliated, insulted and belittled 
by the agent. Mr C said Agent L was rude and unprofessional and had laughed at him. And 
the exchange had made him feel bad and angry for some time after the call. 
One of Mr Cs concerns related to why Agent L would not share his location with Mr C, and 
this became a particular point of contention during the call. 
Mr C said Agent L had not been helpful and he believed that the telephone call affected how 
Wise then dealt with his application after this, so Mr C made this complaint about Agent Ls 
involvement in the application process. 
Initially Wise did not uphold Mr Cs complaint and said that Agent Ls laughter had been an 
involuntary response to Mr Cs line of questioning. Wise also said there was no obligation for 
an agent to share where they were located or if they were working from home. However, 
later on when making submissions to this service, Wise accepted Agent L had been 
unprofessional at times during the call due to laughing at Mr C and being condescending 
towards him. Wise noted that no inappropriate language was used, but said Agent L could 
have been more tactful during the conversation. 
Wise confirmed that this had no bearing on the support Mr C received from the team after 
the call, and all other agents had been respectful to Mr C and helped him with the 
application. 
In view of this Wise amended their position on Mr Cs complaint. They told this service that 
feedback had been given to Agent L and that they would like to offer Mr C their apologies for 
any emotional distress the matter had caused, as well as £25 to be paid to Mr C to an 
account of his choice. 
Our Investigator considered the case and concluded that the offer was fair in the 
circumstances. Mr C accepted the offer, but then said while he was not concerned with the 
financial compensation, he still felt strongly about how he had been treated in the process by 
Agent L, so he asked for an Ombudsman to review things. 
As a resolution could therefore not be reached, the complaint has come to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im aware Mr C has made other complaints to do with the verification process part of the 
application and that hes more recently raised a third complaint to do with his data. To be 
clear, this final decision only deals with the part of the process involving Mr Cs call with 
Agent L as described above. I therefore make no findings on any other complaints Mr C has 
with Wise. 
Having reviewed all the available submissions from both parties, including listening to the 
telephone call between Mr C and Agent L on 27 January 2023, Ive decided the offer Wise 
have made is fair in the circumstances. Ive explained why below. 
Summary of the telephone call 
At the start of the call Mr C let Agent L know that hed already logged a complaint that 
morning, and he was fed up with the service he was receiving as he had not heard back 
from the verification team. Mr C said he was fed up with having to repeat himself to different 
agents while Agent L tried to familiarise himself with Mr Cs application and what was 
happening. 
Agent L recognised there was an issue with uploading verification documentation and 
confirmed the matter had been referred to be reviewed manually. Agent L also asked Mr C if 
he had other documentation available and initially gained Mr Cs agreement to send a copy 
of Mr Cs passport to the verification team in the hopes that this could help (if there was 
anything problematic with the driving licence Mr C had submitted). At first Mr C said the 
passport could be shared, but later he said not to share it as he felt strongly there was 
nothing wrong with his driving licence. Mr C also challenged how helpful sharing his passport 
would be, and suggested Agent L had wrongly said it could help the verification process be 
dealt with more quickly. Agent L agreed not to send Mr Cs passport to the verification team. 
The call progressed with Mr C later asking Agent L where he was located. Agent L indicated 
this had no connection to the case, and that he didnt have time for this. Mr C said he 
thought Agent L was rude and said other agents had been willing to share where they were. 
Mr C explained he wanted to know where Agent L was based for the purposes of his own 
notes as several people could have the same name, so it would help him to differentiate who 
they were when he called again on another occasion. Although I note that Mr C did not ask 
to speak to either of the agents he spoke to earlier in the day to spare him from rehearsing 
the purpose of his call once more.When Mr C then raised a complaint about Agent L he asked if Agent L was still unprepared 
to share his location, and Agent L said he did not feel safe. Mr C seemed in disbelief of this 
statement and laughed at Agent L and asked Agent L if he thought he was going to come 
and find Agent L. Agent L explained he did not think it was relevant to the case. 
Mr C said it was relevant because there could be several people with the same name, and 
suggested that would mean asking lots of different individuals with the same name are you 
Agent L? are you Agent L?. Agent L laughed at this, to which Mr C said Agent L was being 
rude and belittling him as a customer. Agent L explained again this wasnt relevant as the 
details of who Mr C had spoken to would be saved in Wises log. Mr C said he had his own 
log which was something he kept in order to be able to say who he had been dealing with. 
Mr C said it would be found out if Agent L needed training. Mr C also said Agent L was 
mocking him. 
There followed some discussion around the complaints Mr C raised and different references. 
Mr C clarified his concerns, and referenced other agents he had spoken to who had shared 
their locations and who he was sure felt safe in their respective countries, but said Agent L 
felt threatened or unsafe. Agent L said he didnt feel safe to share this information with Mr C. 
The call continued, and at the end of the call there was some confusion around the times 
Wises phone lines were open due to Agent L mixing up time-zones and referencing the 
times where he is based  to which Mr C said, which you still dont want to share. Agent L 
laughed at this and explained again its because theres no reason to share that information. 
Mr C questioned Agent Ls professionalism and why it was ok to laugh at a customer. Agent 
L said he thought the situation of Mr C asking him where hes located was funny. 
Mr C said it was relevant where Agent L was located because it was for his own records. 
Agent L explained their systems can show who Mr C had spoken to, so Mr C challenged 
Agent L to say who hed spoken with yesterday. Agent L confirmed this to Mr C. And Mr C 
said that agent had felt safe, and other agents had felt very safe sharing this information with 
him. 
While Ive only summarised the call above, I would like to assure both parties that Ive 
listened to the whole call. 
My findings 
During these early parts of the hour-long call, it seems to me Agent L could be considered to 
have been a little impatient, albeit in an attempt to help Mr C with the verification 
documentation issue, as far as he was able to. I think at this point it could have helped to 
explain more clearly what he was trying to do for Mr C. 
However, it seems the call then escalated with much of the focus shifting to whether or not 
Agent L should share his location with Mr C. So was this something Agent L needed to do? 
Wise referred to their Acceptable Use Policy which sets out the terms under which 
customers can access Wises services and applies as soon as a customer accesses and/ or 
uses Wise. The policy includes a section about the material a customer submits and says 
contributions must not, amongst other things, invade anothers privacy. 
I am not aware of any obligation upon Agent L to have shared his location with Mr C  if 
other agents had chosen to share that, then it would have been their choice to do so. And 
Ive not seen anything from Wise to suggest that they expect their agents to share that 
information with a customer as part of their processes.  That said, Im mindful that Mr C had made Agent L aware that he was already unhappy with 
how his application was progressing, and I dont think Agent L laughing at Mr C  on more 
than one occasion during the call  was professional or helpful in the circumstances. At 
times Agent L also appeared impatient and condescending.
Ive noted Mr C appeared to disbelieve how Agent L could feel unsafe given the likelihood 
was that they were in very different locations. And Mr C returned to mentioning this on more 
than one occasion. But while Mr C may have felt this way and said that knowing Agent Ls 
location was important to him, Agent L felt differently as this wasnt something Mr C needed 
to know because Wises records would show which agent had been spoken to.  
From what I heard, I think Agent L could have done more earlier on to try and clearly 
address Mr Cs concerns about making sure it would be possible to track who Mr C had 
been talking to through the course of his application, and that there was no obligation for an 
agent to share their location with Mr C. I think this may have helped offer Mr C some 
reassurance. 
And overall I dont think its unreasonable for Mr C, as the customer, to have expected a 
better level of service than he received during the call. Mr C said he had no problems with 
any other agents. 
Mr C has suggested this call affected the progress of his application. However, from the 
submissions available to me, Im unable to agree. Mr C called and spoke with Agent L to 
follow up on his earlier calls to Wise to see what was happening with the verification part of 
his application and the concerns hed raised earlier in the day. Agent L had confirmed the 
status of this to Mr C when he called and had suggested sending additional documentation 
as that could help  which Mr C then chose not to do. Verification was confirmed for Mr C 
later the same day. So I cant say that this call had any impact at this point. 
Im aware there were some other issues relating to the application following this call, and 
these do not form part of this complaint. But based on what Ive seen I think its reasonable 
to say the call with Agent L didnt impact on the next steps of the application. As Mr C has 
said, he did not have any problems with other agents. So I think it would be unreasonable to 
say Mr Cs call with Agent L affected how his application moved forward. 
I am sorry to see how much this matter has upset Mr C. It is also disappointing Wise did not 
recognise sooner that their agent had not provided an acceptable level of service when 
dealing with Mr Cs application at this point. But overall I think Wises offer is fair in the 
circumstances and they have said theyve already given feedback to Agent L following this 
incident  which I think is a reasonable thing to do.
It may help Mr C to know that the role of this service is to review individual complaints, so we 
do not fine or punish businesses or tell them to change their processes or systems  those 
are things for the regulator to consider. 
Putting things right
Wise Payments Limited must pay Mr C £25 if they have not already done so.
My final decision
For the reasons above, my final decision is that Mr Cs complaint is upheld and Wise 
Payments Limiteds offer is fair in the circumstances. Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 22 June 2023.
 
Kristina Mathews
Ombudsman