DRN-4272054
The complaint
Miss R complains that J.P. Morgan Europe Limited trading as Chase (Chase) wont refund 
the money she lost in a scam.
What happened
Miss R says that in August 2022 she received a text message that purported to be from 
another bank, followed shortly afterwards by a call. She was told that someone had tried to 
take money from her account and would continue to clear her funds, so she needed to move 
her money to a safe account. The call came from a spoofed number. Miss R was told that 
her money in other accounts was also at risk, and she needed to move all her funds as 
quickly as possible. Miss R did as she was instructed and moved £2,900 from her Chase 
account to the safe account. She attempted to make further payments, but these were 
blocked by Chase.
After shed made the transfers Miss R spoke to her mother who advised her that no bank 
would ask her to move her money in this way. Miss R then reported the scam to Chase on 
the day of the scam.
Chase looked into Miss Rs claim and initially made a £50 compensation payment to reflect 
its poor customer service and lack of empathy. Miss R complained again, and Chase said it 
could have contacted the bank that received Miss Rs funds sooner. Had it done so, Chase 
could have recovered some of Miss Rs funds so refunded this amount - £309. Chase also 
made an additional payment of £25 to reflect the additional inconvenience it had caused.  
Miss R wasnt happy with Chases response and brought a complaint to this service. She 
said that Chase was aware of suspicious activity on her account when she made the £2,900 
transfer so should refund this amount. She also said that Chase didnt act quickly enough 
when the scam was reported and that had it done so her funds could have been recovered.  
Our investigation so far
The investigator who considered this complaint didnt recommend that it be upheld. She said 
that the transaction wasnt so unusual or out of character that Chase should have 
intervened. The investigator also said that Chase should have contacted the receiving bank 
sooner, but no further funds would have been recovered, and the amount Chase had paid in 
respect of the service it provided was fair.
Miss R didnt agree with the investigators findings. In summary, she said:
- Chase was aware she was at risk of financial harm as it stopped subsequent 
payments. 
- The payments formed a pattern of suspicious payments.
- After her appeal Chase refunded £309 which it said it should have refunded months 
earlier.
- She did what she could to protect herself.
I approached Miss R informally to explain why I didnt think I could uphold her complaint but, 
for largely the same reasons Ive set out above Miss R didnt agree. She added that:
- If Chase had contacted the receiving bank sooner her funds wouldnt have been 
withdrawn from the account. 
- She is the innocent victim of a scam and Chases handling of her claim has had a big 
impact on her emotionally. 
- Miss R discussed proposed new legislation that would give greater protection to 
scam victims. 
- It would make financial sense to refund her as her feedback to other customers 
would be valuable. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im sorry to hear about what happened here and of the impact this has had on Miss R. 
In deciding whats fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of a complaint, Im required to
take into account relevant: law and regulations; regulators rules, guidance and standards;
codes of practice; and, where appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry
practice at the time.
The CRM Code doesnt apply in this case because Chase hasnt signed up to it. So in broad 
terms, the starting position at law is that a bank is expected to process payments and 
withdrawals that a customer authorises it to make, in accordance with the Payment Services 
Regulations and the terms and conditions of the customers account. And I have taken that 
into account when deciding what is fair and reasonable in this case.
But that is not the end of the story. Taking into account the law, regulators rules and 
guidance, relevant codes of practice and what I consider to have been good industry 
practice at the time, I consider Chase should fairly and reasonably:
Have been monitoring accounts and any payments made or received to counter 
various risks, including anti-money laundering, countering the financing of terrorism, 
and preventing fraud and scams.
Have had systems in place to look out for unusual transactions or other signs that 
might indicate that its customers were at risk of fraud (among other things). This is 
particularly so given the increase in sophisticated fraud and scams in recent years, 
which banks are generally more familiar with than the average customer.
In some circumstances, irrespective of the payment channel used, have taken 
additional steps, or make additional checks, before processing a payment, or in some 
cases declined to make a payment altogether, to help protect customers from the 
possibility of financial harm from fraud.
In this case, I need to decide whether Chase acted fairly and reasonably in its dealings with 
Miss R when she made the payment, or whether it should have done more than it did. I have 
considered the position carefully. Having done so, Im satisfied that Chase acted reasonably 
in processing Miss Rs payment request and will explain why. 
Although I recognise it was a large amount to lose, the amount of the payment was relatively 
low. There were also no other concerning factors at the time it was made. Miss R transferred 
funds from her savings account and then made the £2,900 payment to a named individual 
with the reference Holiday. People regularly move funds from savings to make a more 
significant payment for something like a holiday. And, as this was the first payment Miss R made to the scammer, an unusual pattern of payments hadnt emerged that ought 
reasonably to have led Chase to have any particular concerns.
In the circumstances, I consider that Chase went far enough in providing an on-screen 
warning when Miss R set up a new payee before transferring £2,900. Chase provided Miss 
R with a warning that said,
Well never ask you to move your money to a safe account
If youre ever in doubt about a payee, stop and get more advice.
The fact that subsequent payments were blocked doesnt mean Chase knew there was a 
risk of financial harm when Miss R made the first payment. Patterns emerge when further 
payment requests are made. Making payments in quick succession can be an indication that 
something is wrong  but this only happened after the £2,900 payment was made and Im 
pleased to see that Chase recognised this and took appropriate action.
Recovery of funds
Id expect Chase to contact the bank that received Miss Rs funds as soon as possible after 
the scam was reported to see if any funds remained to be recovered. Miss R first contacted 
Chase via its in-app chat at 15:54 on the day of the scam (29 August 2022). But Chase 
didnt approach the receiving bank until the following day. 
Ive considered the impact of the delay. The bank that received Miss Rs funds has provided 
details of when the funds were removed from the recipient account. Some funds were 
removed very quickly, and before Id expect Chase to made contact. But £309 was removed 
after I think Chase ought reasonably to have contacted the receiving bank. When Chase 
reviewed Miss Rs complaint it refunded her this amount and recognised it could have done 
better. Im satisfied Chase acted reasonably in doing so and dont consider that Chase 
should refund anything more.
I consider the amounts already offered to Miss R in respect of the service Chase provided 
are fair and am not awarding anything more. Chase recognised it didnt update Miss R 
adequately and that it should have refunded £309 sooner. The £50 award is fair for the 
service issues. Id have asked Chase to pay interest on £309 but its award of £25 exceeds 
the interest Id have awarded, so I think its fair. If Chase hasnt already paid the awards of 
£50 and £25 it should do so now. 
Im afraid I can only apply current law, regulations, guidance and best practice so cant 
consider proposals for reform when assessing what is fair and reasonable in the 
circumstances of Miss Rs complaint. And I cant require Chase to pay anything to Miss R on 
the basis that it might make financial sense. 
Overall, whilst Im really sorry to hear of Miss Rs loss and recognise shes the victim of a 
cruel scam, I cant reasonably ask Chase to do anything more. 
My final decision
For the reasons stated, I do not uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss R to accept 
or reject my decision before 14 September 2023.
 
Jay Hadfield
Ombudsman