DRN-4366200
The complaint
Mr B complains about the advice given by The Informed Partnership Limited trading as 
Informed Financial Planning (IFP) to transfer the benefits from his defined-benefit (DB) 
occupational pension scheme to a personal pension. He says the advice was unsuitable for 
him and believes this has caused a financial loss.
What happened
Our Investigator thought the complaint should be upheld. IFP disagreed with the 
Investigators opinion. The complaint was then passed to me. 
I issued my provisional decision saying that Mr Bs complaint should not be upheld. A copy 
of the background to the complaint and my provisional findings are below in italics and form 
part of this final decision. 
What I said in my provisional decision
In 2015 Mr Bs employer, Tata Steel, was experiencing some problems. Mr B was also concerned 
about the DB scheme the British Steel pension scheme (BSPS).
Mr B has said that, because of the problems with his employer, and the scheme, he had decided to 
seek work elsewhere. In the middle of 2015 Mr B attended some seminars about the DB scheme 
given by his employer. He says these prompted him to look further into the DB scheme and his 
pension planning in general.
Mr B approached IFP in July 2015 to discuss his pension and retirement needs. He was referred to 
IFP by another adviser who couldnt advise on pension transfers. He was still concerned about the 
situation with his employer and the BSPS.
IFP completed a fact-find to gather information about Mr Bs circumstances and objectives. This 
showed that:
Mr B was 58, divorced and in good health. Whilst he had children, they were not dependent.
He worked full time for Tata Steel.
Mr B did have some debt. This was an interest only mortgage of around £60,500, a 
repayment mortgage of £36,500 and personal loans and credit cards of £25,000.
Mr B was paying a total of £1,050 each month to this credit.
Mr B had received a Cash Equivalent Transfer Value (CETV) from the BSPS which was guaranteed 
to 8 December 2015. This showed that Mr B had built up around 40 years service in the BSPS and 
the transfer value of this was £346,673.80.
IFP carried out an assessment of Mr Bs attitude to risk, which it said was balanced. This was 
described as Mr B being prepared to take some investment risk in order to increase the chances of 
achieving a reasonable return, but that capital protection was still important. However, Mr Bs capacity 
to take risk was noted as being very low. IFP said that Mr B could accept a growth rate of 7% with 
this attitude to risk.
Mr B left the DB scheme with effect from 1 September 2015. IFP didnt advise Mr B to do this.
IFP prepared a financial Planning Report in October 2015. IFP and Mr B discussed this report in 
person. This showed that his objectives were:
To repay his mortgage and other personal debt. This would save him a significant amount of 
interest.
To be able to retire relatively quickly, he did not wish to continue working with his current 
employer.
He wanted to use his pension fund flexibly, and to spend more at the early part of his 
retirement and less later on. He wanted to use it as it suited him even if this meant relying on 
only the state provision in retirement.
He wanted his children, and grandchildren, to benefit from his pension fund.
But IFP said that losing the guaranteed benefits the DB scheme had was unlikely to be beneficial to 
Mr B and so there wasnt sufficient reason to recommend that he transfer. The report said that the 
yield required to match the benefits was unlikely to be achievable on a consistent basis.
It went on to say that Mr B should look at refinancing his debts now and start to repay the interest-only 
mortgage when possible. He should take benefits from the scheme when the income from it would 
meet all of his retirement needs, which it would in the not-too-distant future. IFP provided some 
calculations to support this.
Mr B and IFP discussed the report. IFPs notes to the discussions say Mr Bs options and his cash 
flow situation in retirement were looked at in some detail. This included some calculations that Mr B 
had already prepared about this. IFPs notes to this meeting conclude that, ultimately, given the 
uncertainty about his overall situation and the DB scheme then it wouldnt be right to advise him to 
leave his DB scheme.
Following this meeting I understand Mr B applied for voluntary redundancy and it looked likely that he 
would soon leave Tata Steel.
And on the 5th November 2015, Mr B emailed IFP and informed it about this. He said that:
As soon as I hear anything I'll let you [IFP] know as I want to get the pension out of the scheme as 
soon as possible to get debts paid off and money invested and working for so that Im not working for 
nothing effectively ( ie all my wages spoken for ) as I am now. The recommendation to work until in 65 
is not realistic to be honest anyway as this entire site will be shut in the next two years . Or sooner- 
the sooner my pension is out the happier I will be..
Following this, on 19 November 2015, IFP produced a second suitability report. I understand that Mr B 
met with IFP again and discussed the report. This contained essentially the same information the 
earlier one had about Mr Bs circumstances. But there was more detail about how a transfer to a 
personal pension, and taking an income from the transferred funds, would affect Mr B.
This second suitability report reiterated that Mr B should not transfer his DB scheme benefits and 
should, ideally, look at working a few more years and taking the benefits from the DB scheme when it 
could provide enough income to meet his needs and repay all his outstanding debts.
The suitability letter went on to say, in bold, that IFP do not recommend you transfer/access your 
retirement benefits now we have agreed to suggest a provider which will allow you to access your 
provision; however please note that this advice is been carried out under an insistent client basis.
The letter said that Mr B had decided to disregard this advice because he wanted to repay his debts 
straight away and he wanted to retire as soon as possible. He wanted to provide his fund to his non-
financially dependent children.
IFP then provided its recommendation about which third party personal pension provider Mr B could 
transfer to and advised him on how to invest the proceeds in funds that met his attitude to risk.
And Mr B also signed an insistent customer form on 20 November 2015 which said that he wanted to 
transfer for the following reasons:The work environment was harsh and he thought a drawdown arrangement was the best way 
to retire early. He couldnt do this in the BSPS without penalties.
He was single and so didnt need the death benefits the DB scheme offered.
He wanted to clear some debts.
He would not need a lot of money in retirement.
He could leave an inheritance for his children.
He thought the scheme was failing and it had introduced penalties for early retirement in 
2015. He thought the scheme would ultimately move to the PPF.
Tata Steel was also in severe financial difficulty.
He thought the transfer value was good but it would fall if he delayed.
Mr B then transferred his DB scheme value to a personal pension.
Mr B complained in 2021 to IFP about the suitability of the transfer advice. He said he was concerned 
about the closure of the scheme and sought advice. He says he was told the transfer was borderline 
but that he could transfer as an insistent customer. He thinks this wasnt the best advice and he has 
suffered a loss because of this. He says he should have been advised to join the BSPS2.
IFP didnt uphold Mr Bs complaint. It said that:
Mr B understood fully what he was giving up including the guaranteed income. Mr B had done 
his own calculations about his projected income from the transfer and so he wouldve 
understood this.
It pointed out the disadvantages of the transfer and recommended that Mr B not proceed.
Mr B was clear that he wanted to transfer out and why this was.
Mr B referred his complaint to our service. An Investigator upheld the complaint and recommended 
that IFP pay compensation. He said it was clear that the DB transfer was not in Mr Bs best interests 
as there was no prospect of the personal pension giving Mr B benefits of the same value as those he 
gave up from the DB scheme. He wasnt persuaded that Mr B necessarily understood this. He didnt 
think that the suitability reports left Mr B in an informed position.
IFP disagreed, saying that Mr B wasnt a complete novice and he made the decision himself after 
contact with the DB scheme. He was aware of the benefits he was giving up and chose to transfer 
despite this.
The Investigator wasnt persuaded to change their opinion, so the complaint was referred to me to 
make a final decision.
What Ive provisionally decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to provisionally decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
When Ive looked at the recommendation Ive taken into account relevant law and regulations, 
regulators rules, guidance and standards and codes of practice, and what I consider to have been 
good industry practice at the time. This includes the Principles for Businesses (PRIN) and the 
Conduct of Business Sourcebook (COBS). And where the evidence is incomplete, inconclusive or 
contradictory, I reach my conclusions on the balance of probabilities  that is, what I think is more 
likely than not to have happened based on the available evidence and the wider surrounding 
circumstances.
The applicable rules, regulations and requirements
The below is not a comprehensive list of the rules and regulations which applied at the time of the 
advice, but provides useful context for my assessment of IFP's actions here.
PRIN 6: A firm must pay due regard to the interests of its customers and treat them fairly.PRIN 7: A firm must pay due regard to the information needs of its clients, and communicate 
information to them in a way which is clear, fair and not misleading.
COBS 2.1.1R: A firm must act honestly, fairly and professionally in accordance with the best interests 
of its client (the client's best interests rule).
The provisions in COBS 9 which deal with the obligations when giving a personal recommendation 
and assessing suitability. And the provisions in COBS 19 which specifically relate to a DB pension 
transfer.
The regulator, the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA), states in COBS 19.1.6G that the starting 
assumption for a transfer from a DB scheme is that it is unsuitable. So, IFP should have only 
considered a transfer if it could clearly demonstrate that the transfer was in Mr Bs best interests.
Ill briefly look at whether the advice IFP gave to Mr B at the time of sale was suitable for him. I wont 
do this in detail, as IFP did say that the transfer wasnt in Mr Bs best interests.
IFP said that Mr B shouldnt transfer, broadly, because the critical yields, that is the amount that the 
transferred-out funds would need to grow by to replicate the scheme benefits, were very high. They 
were calculated to be around 15% each year. IFP said that a growth rate this high was unachievable. 
So, transferring to a personal pension would lead to Mr B receiving significantly lower pension 
benefits.
The suitability letter said that Mr B wanted an income of £16,000 a year after his debts were repaid. At 
age 65 Mr B could receive an income of £27,247 or tax-free cash of £126,013 and a reduced pension 
of £18,902 from the DB scheme. So, the DB scheme would provide more than enough income and 
tax-free cash at this age.
Mr B did want to retire early and use some of his pension fund to repay some of his debts. It was clear 
both of these were very important to him. He was finding work very hard and he was spending a 
significant amount each month to repay his mortgages and other credit. Even if he didnt retire early, 
there is no disagreement that he wanted to make some changes.
IFP did look into this. It said that if Mr B were to retire immediately, he would receive an income of 
£14,954 or tax-free cash of £69,160 plus a pension of £10,374 from the DB scheme. So, taking the 
benefits immediately from the DB scheme wouldnt give him enough to meet all his aims.
But, as IFP said, Mr B was repaying his borrowing without problems and, given the cost of the 
benefits he would give up, making a DB transfer was a very expensive way to repay his credit. It didnt 
think that repaying this debt was a good reason to transfer his DB scheme benefits. It also said he 
should instead try to refinance his debt to make it more affordable. 
One of Mr Bs aims was to provide his pension fund to his wider family on the event of his death. It 
wouldnt have been possible for him to do this in the DB scheme. But the priority here was to advise 
Mr B about what was best for his retirement provisions. A pension is primarily designed to provide 
income in retirement which is what IFP concentrated on. 
IFP essentially said that Mr B should wait as long as possible to take his DB scheme benefits. This 
would enable him to use the tax-free cash to repay his remaining debt and the income would meet his 
needs if he was closer to the schemes normal retirement date. I think this advice was suitable overall.
So, having considered all of this, I agree with IFP that it wasnt in Mr Bs best interests financially to 
transfer his DB scheme to a personal pension. And that IFP was right to advise Mr B not to do this. It 
was clear that Mr B did have some pressing aims, but I think it was right that IFP said he should try 
and meet these in other ways. And look to fully retire later on.
Was it fair for IFB to classify Mr B as an insistent customer?
At the time of the advice there was no regulatory advice or guidance in place in respect of insistent 
clients. But COBS required IFP to act honestly, fairly and professionally in accordance with the best interests of its client. In addition, COBS required IFP to provide information that was clear, fair and 
not misleading. So, IFPs recommendation had to be clear and Mr B had to have understood the 
consequences of going against the recommendation.
I can see that our Investigator talked about the rules and guidance that came into force not long after 
this advice was given. And I appreciate these arent entirely relevant here. Although, as I understand 
it, the later guidance was informed in part by existing best practices and so on, rather than it being 
entirely new expectations.
For example, it was good practice at the time for IFP to have asked Mr B to explain why he
wanted to proceed with the DB transfer in his own words. And according to the meeting note of 20 
November 2015, Mr B had prepared a document in his own words setting out the reasons why he still 
wanted to transfer his pension. Ive reviewed this and note it is very detailed and gives several 
reasons why Mr B wanted to transfer his pension.
Although this letter didnt state that Mr B understood if he transferred out hed be doing so against 
IFPs advice, he clearly explained the many reasons why he wanted to transfer and why he felt it was 
the right thing to do. And I think at this point Mr B understood that he was proceeding against the 
advice, given hed had a full suitability report in which the recommendation to remain in the scheme 
was set out and explained. Mr B also had a further conversation with IFP following this, and an 
additional suitability report again reiterating the advice to remain in the scheme. The report also stated 
that Mr B had confirmed in the last meeting that he had decided to disregard the recommendation and 
so it was processing the transaction on an insistent client basis. So, I think Mr B understood what he 
was doing and made an informed decision to proceed.
I do think there were some shortcomings in the process IFP employed. For example, in his letter, Mr B 
talked about the penalties hed face by retiring early under the DB scheme  IFP ought to have 
explained that they were not penalties, rather just actuarial reductions that applied because the 
pension would have to be paid over a longer period of time. And it ought to have emphasised that Mr 
B would still be better off by retiring early, despite the lower income payable to him. It also ought to 
have provided further reassurance about the PPF in response to the concerns Mr B wrote about in his 
letter about the pension scheme failing  the pension transfer analysis showed Mr B still wasnt likely 
to be able to match the benefits he could get from the PPF if he transferred out. That ought to have 
been explained. 
However, even if IFP had gone further to try and dissuade Mr B from transferring, I think Mr B would 
still have gone ahead with the transfer of his DB scheme into the personal pension and made the 
subsequent investments. Ill explain why.
Mr B has said that his first discussions about transferring his DB scheme were with the scheme itself, 
in one of the seminars that it ran. He said he was left with a favourable impression of the transfer. I 
understand that Mr B also discussed his situation with some other advisors before contacting IFP. So, 
Mr B wasnt acting just on the information and advice that IFP gave him. He was actively looking to 
make changes here.
And it was Mr B who contacted IFP with a view to transferring his DB scheme and potentially retiring 
early. At this point his situation was changing and his plans to leave Tata Steel had advanced. And Mr 
B explained that he was considering not working going forward and he wanted the option to do this. 
He seemed very concerned about the impact the physical nature of the work was having on his 
health. And he was worried about the level of debt that he had and the payments he needed to make 
each month to service this. In particular, he had no means to repay his interest only mortgage. Mr B 
didnt have a spouse who would benefit from his DB scheme and wanted to access his pension while 
he was of an age to enjoy it. All these things seem to have added to Mr Bs desire to transfer his DB 
scheme away.
I also think that Mr B had a very negative view of his employer  he (not unreasonably) believed his 
job was at risk given the redundancies that had been made. And he felt that taking action now and 
leaving his employment was the right thing to do here. Its clear he had concerns about the future of 
the pension scheme, which remained even though IFP explained the protection offered to him by the Pension Protection Fund (PPF). Mr B still felt that removing the pension from his employers control 
was in his best interests.
And whilst it seems that Mr B could have taken a partial transfer from the DB scheme. And this wasnt 
mentioned in the information at the time. I dont think this would have met Mr Bs want to transfer his 
funds away from the BSPS.
The notes that IFP have made also show that Mr B made his own analysis of the cashflow the DB 
scheme could provide after he had repaid his debt. And the information IFP provided about the 
pension plans, the returns from each of his options, helped him make an analysis of the situation if he 
transferred out and decide what was the best course of action for him.
And I think this analysis that Mr B undertook himself, using his own information and what IFP had 
provided, goes to demonstrate that he understood, as far as he could, the course of action and the 
risks he was taking. I think he understood the overriding risk that if he transferred the DB scheme, 
repaid his debts, and drew significant amounts from the remaining fund, he may exhaust this fund and 
only have the state pension to rely on in retirement. Again, the point-of-sale documentation shows 
that Mr B was aware of this but that it wasnt a great concern to him as he didnt expect to have 
expensive needs in retirement.
It seems to me that Mr B had clearly thought about the benefits of transferring. The fact find notes 
show that in the second meeting to discuss the advice Mr B thought that repaying his debt would 
vastly improve his financial wellbeing. And in the notes and emails that exist Mr B confirmed that he 
didnt think that he had another means to finance the changes to his life that he felt he needed to 
make. Im satisfied from the evidence that I have that this was the case. I think Mr B was clearly 
driven to transferring his pension to access the tax-free cash. And he did have what he thought were 
good reasons for doing this.
Taking all of this into consideration I think its evident that Mr B was set on this course of action. He 
had several strong personal reasons for wanting to transfer out of the BSPS, and even if IFP had 
done more to try and explain why it wasnt in his best interests, I think he wouldve gone ahead 
anyway.
IFP initially recommended that Mr B shouldnt do this. It explained the benefits he could receive now 
and in the future from the DB scheme. And it explained that the DB transfer would also likely not meet 
his retirement aims. It went on to explain that Mr B should consider working for a few more years and 
using his surplus income to reduce his indebtedness. It provided examples of how he could do this. 
He would then be very likely to meet his needs at retirement and repay his debts.
I think the advice and explanations that IFP provided were reasonable. It demonstrated that it had 
considered Mr Bs situation and provided what I think were viable alternatives to what he wanted to 
do. And whilst the suitability reports were lengthy, I think they were understandable. And it was clearly 
presented to Mr B that the DB transfer was not in his best interests.
IFP didnt invite Mr B back after the first suitability letter or go on to suggest that he make the transfer 
in any event in this document. It only said that it would arrange the transfer on an insistent customer 
basis after Mr B had got back in touch with it to say he wanted to go ahead despite its advice.
So, it was suitable advice for Mr B not to transfer; IFP explained why this was and gave what I think 
were reasonable alternatives. But Mr B, for his own strongly felt reasons disregarded this advice.
Overall, even though I think IFPs process could have been more robust, I dont think that would have 
changed the outcome in Mr Bs particular case. I think Mr B would have pursued the transfer and 
insisted on IFP transferring his pension in any event.
Developments
IFP, and Mr B, confirmed that they had received my provisional decision. IFP didnt have 
anything to add after theyd seen it.Mr B, via his representative, didnt agree with my provisional decision. His representative 
said that, in summary:
Allowing Mr B to opt out of the BSPS without advice was a significant failure, it 
should have advised him not to do this.  
IFP didnt properly address Mr Bs reasons for wanting to transfer and it didnt put 
right any misconceptions he had. 
IFP failed to assess Mr Bs alternative options. It only really listed these as 
possibilities. 
If Mr B was given better information about the alternative options, such as looking for 
lower mortgage rates, or taking alternative employment, he wouldnt have 
transferred. 
IFP should have reassured Mr B about the safety of his pension scheme in the 
BSPS. And it should have looked at cashflows in more detail.  
Mr B didnt need to transfer, he wasnt in financial difficulty and he didnt need to 
repay his debts. He could have accessed the scheme benefits and met his needs. He 
didnt want the state pension to be his only source of income. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As a starting point Ive reached the same conclusions I reached before, for the same 
reasons. But Ill comment on what Mr Bs representative has said. 
I firstly dont think its reasonable to say that IFP should be responsible for Mr Bs decision to 
leave the BSPS. Whilst there had been some contact before he did this, there isnt anything 
to show that IFP had any input into this decision. Mr B seems to have made it himself, after 
contact with the DB scheme, and in response to the wider events that were happening in his 
workplace and with the DB scheme. I dont think it would be fair to say that IFP should have 
advised him to stay in the DB scheme. 
Mr B says that it wasnt clear to him that he had other options, and if he had been given 
better information about what else he could have done, he may hot have transferred. He and 
his representative have outlined some of the options he may have had available to him. 
But I dont think this properly takes into account Mr Bs situation and the advice process. As I 
said in my earlier decision, IFP advised Mr B not to transfer his DB scheme. It essentially 
said that he should wait to take the benefits from it, and this would better meet his needs for 
tax-free cash and a retirement income. I can accept that there could have been more detail 
about some of the advice given. But I think it was clear why IFP advised Mr B not to transfer. 
And I think the reasons why it did this were sound. 
Mr B now says that cashflows werent looked at, but the point-of-sale information shows that 
they likely were. In particular, the file notes to the meetings Mr B and IFP had make 
reference to this being discussed and to Mr B making his own cashflow calculations. Im 
persuaded that this was an important part of the process. 
Mr B now says that he wasnt desperate to leave his employer or the scheme and if hed 
been given better options, he may not have left the scheme. And that it would have been 
relatively straightforward for him to stay with his employer and refinance his borrowing to 
make it more affordable.But there are numerous references to Mr B being unhappy with his employer and he had 
applied for voluntary redundancy. He clearly did want to leave, if at all possible. And he did 
leave the DB scheme before being given advice by IFP.
Mr Bs representative has said that mortgage rates were very low and changing his credit 
arrangements would be straightforward. But Mr B was 58 and had a significant amount of 
debt, a large part of his mortgage was on an interest only basis. He was actively trying to 
leave an employer that was experiencing difficulty. I dont think this situation was 
straightforward and I dont think it would have been reasonable to give Mr B advice on the 
basis that he would have found it easy to secure alternative employment or the lowest ever 
mortgage rates. I dont think IFP exaggerated this when it advised Mr B not to transfer.  
And the insistent client process could, of course, have been improved. And I dont disagree 
that things such as better information about the pension protection fund would have been 
useful. 
But, again, the context around this is important. IFPs advice was that Mr B shouldnt 
transfer. It was only when Mr B contacted it again to say that he didnt agree that IFP started 
to look at where Mr B could transfer to. I think, overall, its clear that Mr B did understand that 
there were disadvantages to transferring, but he wanted to proceed in any event. So, I still 
dont think a more robust insistent customer process would have changed this. 
Given all of the above, Im still not persuaded that Mr Bs complaint should succeed. 
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold Mr Bs complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 25 October 2023.
 
Andy Burlinson
Ombudsman