DRN-3985514
The complaint
Mr F complains that Moneybarn No. 1 Limited irresponsibly granted him finance (under a 
conditional sale agreement) he couldnt afford to repay.
Mr F is represented in this complaint by a third party. But for ease I will simply, in the main, 
refer to Mr F rather than Mr F and his appointed representative.
What happened
In October 2019 Mr F entered into a conditional sale agreement for a used car costing 
£4,895.
Under the term of the agreement, everything else being equal, Mr F undertook to make 59 
monthly payments of £142.23 making a total repayable of £8,391.57 at an APR of 36.9%.
In February 2022 Mr F complained to Moneybarn that it had acted irresponsibly when it 
granted him finance in October 2019.
In March 2022 Moneybarn issued Mr F with a final response letter (FRL). Under cover of 
this FRL Moneybarn said it that it couldnt agree that it acted irresponsibly in granting the 
finance that it did.
In April 2022, and unhappy with Moneybarns FRL, Mr F referred his complaint to our 
service.
Mr Fs complaint was considered by one of our investigators who came to the view that 
Moneybarn should have carried out more checks to assess affordability of the finance it was 
looking to grant, but such checks wouldnt have caused it to conclude that finance was 
unaffordable. 
In other words, the investigator concluded that Moneybarn hadnt done anything wrong in 
approving the finance that it did. 
Mr F didnt agree with the investigators view, so his complaint has been passed to me for 
review and decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Moneybarn (and Mr Fs appointed representative) will be familiar with all the rules, 
regulations and good industry practice we consider when looking at a complaint concerning 
unaffordable and irresponsible lending. 
So, I dont consider it necessary to set all of this out in this decision. Information about our 
approach to these complaints is set out on our website. 
I would also like to make it clear that we consider each case on its individual merits and my 
decision is based on the unique circumstances of this  complaint.
 
Based on what has been said and submitted Im satisfied that Moneybarn did enough to 
verify Mr Fs declared net monthly income.
Moneybarn hasnt provided a copy of the credit checks it completed. Ive therefore relied on 
what Mr F says a search of his credit file in October 2019 would have likely returned. 
And this leads me to conclude that prior to October 2019 Mr F had experienced some 
financial issues (including but not restricted to a number of defaults being registered against 
him) and that he was likely to be struggling financially in October 2019. 
Although Im satisfied that what Mr F says a search of his credit file in October 2019 would 
have likely returned, in itself, shouldnt have led Moneybarn to conclude it shouldnt grant the 
finance, especially given the market it operates in, I think it would have been proportionate 
for it to have verified Mr Fs expenditure to ensure it had a thorough understanding of his 
financial circumstances before doing so.
One of the ways that Moneybarn could have verified Mr Fs expenditure was by reviewing 
bank statements and/or by completing an income and expenditure form. While Moneybarn 
wasnt required to do either, Ive reviewed three months of Mr Fs bank statements and what 
he says was his average monthly expenditure. 
I think this gives me a  good indication of what Moneybarn would likely have found out had it 
completed proportionate checks. 
This information shows that Mr Fs regular committed monthly expenditure at the time was 
around £2,300. In calculating this figure, Ive included costs such as food, rent and other 
credit commitments. 
Also, this information doesnt bring into doubt what Mr F declared (to Moneybarn) was his 
monthly net income (£1,708) and it shows that he was in receipt of at least £1,500 a month 
from his partner (this being a contribution towards expenditure), all of which means he was 
in receipt of bank credits (at the relevant time) totalling more than £3,200 a month.
As the repayments under the agreement were for around £142, I dont find that I can say that 
had further checks taken place then the agreement would have been found to be 
unaffordable. 
For this reason, Im not persuaded that Moneybarn acted unfairly in approving the finance.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr F to accept or 
reject my decision before 1 May 2023.
 
Peter Cook
Ombudsman