DRN-2074335
The complaint
Miss F complains that Royal & Sun Alliance Plc (RSA) has poorly handled a claim shes 
made on her buildings insurance policy following an oil leak.
What happened
RSA issued its final response in August 2019 so my investigation will focus on what 
happened up to that time. I wont pass comment or make findings on anything that happened 
after this.
RSA used a number of specialist agents throughout the claim and references I make to 
RSAs actions include those of its various agents unless stated otherwise.
This claim began in 2017 and various issues have been raised about what happened during 
the length of the claim. The circumstances and the details of the claim are well-known to the 
parties. Theyve also been documented previously by our investigator, so I have only 
provided a summary of the background rather than going into detail about everything that 
happened. 
Miss F owns a property insured by an RSA buildings insurance policy. In 2016 there was an 
oil leak at her next-door neighbours. Sometime later, this caused damage to Miss Fs 
property. She reported the issue to RSA in June 2017 to make a claim on her policy. 
RSA accepted the claim and instructed a specialist agent (C) to manage it on its behalf.
During July and August 2017, C undertook investigation work and excavated the 
contaminated soil near the rear wall of the property. During this process, C found that the 
soil beneath the footprint of the property was also contaminated by oil. This meant the 
kitchen and kitchen floor had to be removed so further investigations and excavation could 
be undertaken.
This excavation was completed in December 2017 and only low levels of residual 
contamination were found. C decided these could be remediated with a treatment program 
which started in January 2018. 
Shortly after this, the smell of oil was noticed and following further investigation it became 
apparent further excavation work was needed under the living room and hallway. During this 
time, it was suspected the oil contamination had travelled through from Miss Fs neighbours 
property and had been going on for some time.
This further work was completed in July 2018 and the floor was put back. External works 
were started in September 2018 and both internal and external work was completed in 
November 2018. 
C then arranged for final reinstatement works, decoration and the installation of new kitchen 
units to commence in January 2019. The timescale for completion of these works was 
estimated to be five weeks. In April 2019 it was decided the units needed to be replaced due 
to their condition. These works continued around June 2019 were completed in September 
2019.
Due to the nature and extent of the work, Miss F had to live in alternative accommodation for 
approximately two years from October 2017 to October 2019. This was in the same rented 
property and was paid for by RSA as part of the claim.
Miss F was unhappy with the way RSA handled things and she complained. She listed a 
number of issues she was unhappy with, which included the time the claim had taken, how 
long shed lived in alternative accommodation, the foundation work not being signed off by 
building control and the leak not being adequately stopped.
RSA responded on 15 August 2019 and addressed each of Miss Fs complaint points. It said 
the claim had been made much more difficult by Miss Fs neighbours being unwilling to 
cooperate and allow access to their property.  Overall, it said it hadnt caused any avoidable 
delays. 
Miss F didnt agree with this and brought her complaint to his service. One of our 
investigators considered all the evidence and concluded that RSA had caused some 
avoidable delays and should pay Miss F £500 in recognition of this. RSA accepted this 
recommendation. Miss F remained unhappy and asked an ombudsman to make a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
My role as an ombudsman at this service is to determine quickly and informally how a 
complaint should be settled. That means Ill focus on what I consider to be the crux of the 
complaint and while that may mean I wont comment on everything that has been raised, I 
can confirm I have read and considered everything in reaching my decision.
Oil leaks present a serious environmental and health risk and insurance claims relating to 
damage caused by them are often necessarily lengthy and protracted. When considering 
these claims, particularly significant ones such as this, I need to keep in mind they inevitably 
cause a level of inconvenience and distress to the policyholder. They're also likely to take 
some time to resolve. I can't hold the insurer responsible for those things. 
I can however consider if it took longer than it should have done or if there were 
unreasonable delays in the progress of the claim. Ill also keep in mind RSAs duty to handle 
claims promptly and fairly and what I consider to be fair and reasonable. 
Ive looked at what I consider to be the key issues in turn.
The excavation of the contaminated soil
Form the file, its clear the contamination caused by the leaking oil was significant. Indeed, 
16 skips were filled with in excess of 18 tons of soil that had to be excavated.
The excavation took more than a year and this was partly because, while it was going on, 
contamination was found in other areas of the property including along the wall onto the 
kitchen and hall, the living room and the party wall shared with the next-door neighbour.
Cs notes show these areas had been tested previously and hadnt shown signs of 
contamination and so it seems more likely than not the oil had continued to spread beyond 
the initial area being worked on. Ive not seen enough evidence to conclude that RSA could have established these areas 
were contaminated sooner than it did. Given the extent of the contamination and the risk 
posed by the oil, I dont think RSA took an unreasonable time to conclude this part of the 
claim.
After the excavation work was completed, the flooring was re-laid. This had to have an 
extensive layer of screed applied and it was estimated this would take several months to dry. 
To speed things up, C arranged for drying equipment to be installed. This seems like a 
reasonable approach to take.
Work on the reinstatement then took some time to start. This was caused by delays in the 
inspection of the kitchen units which had been kept in storage while the excavation work had 
been undertaken.
From the evidence, its clear RSA hadnt paid some of the fees to the storage company and 
so it refused access to the units. This meant the inspection was delayed and took longer 
than the original five-week estimate provided by C. 
Once C got access to the units, it decided they werent in a satisfactory condition and would 
need to be replaced. But Im mindful here, Miss F had expressed concern about the 
condition of the units back when the decontamination works were being undertaken having 
explained theyd been left in water for some time before going into storage.
So, I think RSA could have inspected the units much sooner than it did and in failing to do 
so, the ordering of new units was delayed and the claim took longer than it should have.
The white goods
Miss F was concerned about the condition of some of the white goods that had also been in 
storage and thought these would need to be replaced.
RSA agreed for the items to be checked by an electrician and then it would agree which  if 
any  should be replaced. 
Despite this, Miss F contacted RSA in June 2019 to say her old fridge had been reinstalled 
in the kitchen and she wasnt happy with this. I can see in July 2019, following a further 
inspection by the electrician, the fridge was found to be unsatisfactory. 
While RSA then agreed to replace it, I think this should have been done sooner and 
proactively, without the need for Miss F to have to chase RSA to get it done.
The replacement of the carpets
Miss F tells RSA as early as February 2019 that she will want the carpets in the property 
replaced rather than cleaned. She explains she has respiratory problems so this is important 
for her health and wellbeing. 
For some time, C said it wanted to attempt to clean the carpets first before replacing them. C 
eventually inspected the carpets in September 2019 and decided they couldnt be restored. 
It said it looked like theyd been left uncovered while the work was going on in the property. 
The carpet on the stairs had black marks due to people going up and down and there was 
debris lying in the bedrooms. It agreed the carpets should be replaced.
Given that Miss F was concerned about the state of the carpets due to a health condition 
she experienced I understand why the time it took for RSA to reach this decision would have 
been stressful for her. I think RSA could have done a better job here by inspecting the carpet 
sooner and reaching the decision before it did.The source of the leak
In October 2017, following an inspection of the site, C reported that the oil causing the 
contamination was seeping from a disused electrical cable which continued below the 
neighbouring property. 
It said that the oil might have therefore been travelling from another upgradient property, with 
the cabling acting as a pathway, onto Miss Fs property. C therefore suggested RSA instruct 
solicitors to make contact with the neighbours in an effort to establish if their property was 
the source of the oil. This was also partly to enable mitigation of possible re-contamination at 
a later stage.
Access to the neighbouring property proved difficult as RSA says the owners werent willing 
to cooperate. Because of this lack of access, it wasnt possible to say definitively that the 
source of the oil leak had been addressed. 
C cut the cable and continued to monitor the open excavation over the next eight months 
and confirmed in August 2018 that no further oil had migrated onto Miss Fs property. It was 
satisfied the reinstatement works could therefore proceed and Miss F agreed to this.
I can understand Miss Fs desire to reach a definitive conclusion about this aspect of the 
claim but I dont consider it to be RSAs fault that this wasnt possible. Given the 
circumstances, Im satisfied RSA did what Id expect it to do and thats monitor the situation 
over a reasonable period of time before proceeding with the work when no evidence of 
further contamination was found.    
The lack of a building control certificate
C said that building control had been out to inspect the foundations that had installed after 
the excavation work was completed but this turned out not be correct. I can see an 
application had been submitted but it seems the final inspection wasnt actually undertaken 
following this application. 
I know Miss F says Cs claim the inspection had been undertaken wasnt a mistake but was 
fraudulent and she says it calls into question the validity of everything else it said too. But 
Miss F hasnt presented any evidence to support this allegation and Ive not seen anything 
which persuades me its correct or beyond speculation.
I can see that a regularisation inspection had been arranged by the time Miss F made this 
complaint. Following this, RSA says a regularisation building control certificate would be 
issued. Im satisfied this should have been done much sooner and without the need for 
Miss F and her legal representative to have to chase RSA repeatedly to ensure it did. 
I cant see that this issue caused the claim to be delayed. But I understand why the lack of 
this final inspection and certificate would have been stressful for Miss F as she says she was 
worried about the implications for the future value of her house. And I can also see the need 
to keep chasing RSA to ensure this aspect was resolved would have been frustrating for 
Miss F. Overall, I dont think RSA handled this aspect of the claim as well as it should have.
Putting things right
For the reasons Ive explained, I think RSA could have handled this complaint better and it 
caused Miss F trouble and upset because it didnt. 
Ive considered all the evidence and thought very carefully about this claim, and having done 
so, Ive concluded that RSA should pay £500 to Miss F in recognition of the impact of its failings. I realise this is less than Miss F wants and more than RSA thinks is right, but Im 
satisfied its fair and reasonable in all the circumstances.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint and instruct Royal & Sun Alliance Plc to pay 
Miss F £500 in recognition of the impact of its failings
 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss F to accept or 
reject my decision before 18 December 2020.
 
Paul Phillips
Ombudsman