DRN-3695236
The complaint
Mr L complains that Lloyds Bank PLC (Lloyds) have excessively long queues to speak to a 
staff member in their telephony centres and their customer service is poor. 
What happened
Mr L has held an account with Lloyds for some time. He says that he has had to contact their 
central telephone system on a number of occasions and that the queues are excessively 
long. He says that he has never been offered a call back, but has been expected to remain 
on hold until a staff member becomes available. Mr L wishes to have the direct telephone 
numbers for his closest branches of Lloyds.
Mr L asks how long he should be expected to wait in order to speak to a staff member. He 
says that his time is not being treated as valuable and that this is unfair and unreasonable. 
He says that he has sent a number of emails to the bank, setting out his queries and 
expecting a response within a reasonable period. He has forwarded emails with specific 
queries about telephone waiting times, particular branch opening times, and methods for 
paying in a cheque, together with chaser emails sent in relation to each query. He says that 
it was unreasonable for Lloyds to not respond more promptly
Lloyds say that their telephone system incorporates a call back system known as Queue 
Buster, which offers a call back where a customers wait time is expected to be over two 
minutes but under 20 minutes. It says that this is applied to all calls which meet this, and that 
the upper limit is in place to ensure that calls back can be placed within a reasonable period. 
The bank says that Mr L must have called in particularly busy periods, where no such call 
back would be offered because of the longer queues. It says that its centralised automated 
telephone systems are in place to ensure calls are answered as quickly as possible. It says 
that branch staff are often too busy with face to face customers to take telephone calls, and 
so these telephone numbers are not provided.
In relation to the email queries received from Mr L, Lloyds treated them as complaints and 
provided written responses. The banks system notes state that it was not able to email 
responses to Mr L without his authorisation. While this could be given over the telephone, 
the bank says that Mr L did not give this authorisation and so letters were sent out. The 
cheque query received a response dated 2 February 2022, following an email from Mr L 
dated 28 January 2022. In relation to the complaints about wait times on the telephone and 
branch opening times, the response was sent on 1 March 2022 following an email sent on 2 
February 2022. In the meantime, Mr L sent chaser emails roughly weekly.
Our investigator thought that, while telephone waiting times can be frustrating, it can be 
expected that they will sometimes be long. They did not think that the bank had treated Mr L 
unfairly or unreasonably, and so did not have to do anything to put things right.
Mr L did not agree and so this has come to me for a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
My role is that of an ombudsman, rather than a regulator. This means that, while I can make 
decisions in relation to complaints about the way that a bank has applied its policies in 
relation to an individual customer, I have no powers to make decisions upon how suitable 
those policies themselves are. So I am not able to comment upon whether the bank is right 
to use a centralised automated telephone system or whether the Queue Buster system 
described is an effective one. These are matters for the bank to decide.
Having considered what the parties have said, I am satisfied that it is more likely than not 
that Mr Ls calls were not offered a call back because of the way that the system operates, 
rather than because of any unfair or unreasonable approach to his calls. He mentions an 
estimated wait time of 30 minutes on a call, which would take him outside of the Queue 
Buster window of 2 to 20 minutes. While I agree that an estimated 30-minute wait is 
frustratingly long, I think that the number of callers at any particular time is beyond the 
control of the bank, and so it was not treating Mr L unfairly to place him in a queue of that 
length.
I have considered the specific queries which Mr L emailed the bank about. Mr L was raising 
issues about the service he was being provided and his dissatisfaction with it. I can see that 
these received full replies within four weeks. I dont think that this is unreasonable period to 
respond or that this has caused Mr L significant distress and/or inconvenience. I am satisfied 
that using this period was reasonable given the nature of the points raised, which were 
expressed in detail and warranted a full and considered response.
In relation to the direct telephone numbers for the branches, Lloyds have explained their 
policy of not providing these. I do not think that the numbers were being unfairly withheld 
from Mr L in these circumstances. It was the ordinary application of the banks policy in 
relation to telephone queries, which is that they are better handled centrally.
In the circumstances, then, I am satisfied that the bank has not treated Mr L unfairly or 
unreasonably. That being the case, I am not going to ask it to do anything more.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr L to accept or 
reject my decision before 23 February 2023.
 
Marc Kelly
Ombudsman