DRN-3455118
The complaint
Mrs W complains that Scottish Friendly Assurance Society Limited (Scottish Friendly) failed 
to advise her about processing deadlines and then caused delays in making a withdrawal 
from her pension plan. This resulted in the payment being made to her in the wrong tax year. 
She would like compensation for the additional tax paid and the inconvenience suffered.
What happened
Mrs W wanted to arrange a withdrawal from her pension plan using Uncrystallised Funds 
Pension Lump Sum (UFPLS) where a combination of tax-free cash and taxable income is 
paid. She says shed taken benefits in this way from one of her other pensions previously. 
Mrs W called Scottish Friendly on 16 February 2021, and says she told it she wanted to 
make the withdrawal in the current tax year. Scottish Friendly said it would issue the 
necessary paperwork. But didnt indicate any timeframes for the withdrawal to be processed. 
It says it posted the withdrawal form on 23 February 2021. 
Mrs W didnt receive this and called again on 1 March 2021 for an update, telling Scottish 
Friendly she needed the withdrawal to be made in the current tax year. It sent the form by 
email, which Mrs W returned on 9 March 2021. Scottish Friendly said as it hadnt provided 
details of the retirement options available to Mrs W in the previous three months, it needed 
to issue these. It sent this information along with a risk questionnaire that was also required 
to her by post on 11 March 2021. 
Mrs W called for an update on 15 March 2021, again saying she wanted the payment to be 
made in the current tax year. Scottish Friendly said this wouldnt be possible as the payroll 
cut-off date had already passed, and the payment would be made in the new tax year. This 
was confirmed by email the same day and Scottish Friendly apologised for any 
inconvenience this would cause. The documents posted on 11 March were attached to this 
email. 
Mrs W called Scottish Friendly back that day and completed the risk questionnaire verbally. 
Because of the answers shed provided it then emailed her a risk statement on 19 March 
2021, asking for this to be signed and returned by post. Mrs W emailed back querying this 
and asked if there is any way this can be processed in time? for payment to be made in the 
current tax year. On 25 March 2021 Scottish Friendly emailed Mrs W advising the risk 
statement hadnt been received. And that it wouldnt be able to make a payment before 5 
April 2021 as the payroll cut-off date had passed. Mrs W called on 26 March 2021 confirming 
she wished to go ahead and says she was advised the withdrawal would be processed on 
30 March 2021 and she would be emailed to confirm the date of payment. 
Scottish Friendly emailed Mrs W chasing the risk statement again on 27 March 2021 and 
Mrs W responded on 28 March 2021 saying this had been sent on 19 March 2021 and said: 
the inconvenience caused is quite significant because, due to the payment rolling 
over into 2021/22, any further benefits I take in that tax year (excluding the 25% tax 
free cash will now be subject to 40% tax rather than 20%. Having started my claim on 
16 Feb (and stating I required payment this tax year) and having not been told of any 
cut off dates until 15/3 during a phone call, Im not happy about this.
She asked if the information shed been given about the payment on 26 March 2021 was 
correct. Scottish Friendly sold the necessary investment funds on 30 March 2021 and made 
the payment on the next available payroll run of 23 April 2021. 
Scottish Friendly acknowledged the complaint made in Mrs Ws email of 28 March 2021 and 
issued its final response on 4 May 2021 rejecting her complaint. It said it was sorry that the 
process had taken longer than Mrs W had expected. But that all steps to process your claim 
were completed in a timely manner with the payment being made on the next available 
payroll run once its requirements had been met. 
Mrs W said she should have been told about the payroll cut off dates when she first 
contacted Scottish Friendly on 16 February 2021. It agreed that it should have done this. But 
said it still wouldnt have been possible to complete all stages of the process before the 
payroll cut- off date of 4 March 2021.
Mrs W said if shed been told about the deadline on 16 February 2021, she would have 
made a withdrawal from another of her pension plans in order to utilise her remaining 
personal allowance. And, because the payment had been made in the following tax-year 
shed paid an additional £840.37 in income tax and some of her other income would now be 
subject to 40% income tax rather than 20%. She said the tax implications had prevented her 
from taking a further withdrawal in the 2021/22 tax year. And as a consequence, she hadnt 
been able to make a deposit on a new home as her regular pension income was insufficient 
to obtain a mortgage instead. 
Mrs W referred her complaint to our service and our investigator looked into it, but she didnt 
uphold it. 
She said shed considered whether it was possible for Scottish Friendly to have processed 
the withdrawal in time for the 4 March 2021 payroll cut-off date, had it met its normal service 
level. She said given the steps involved even if the initial forms hadnt been delayed in the 
post it was unlikely this deadline could have been met. So, she didnt think Scottish Friendly 
had caused Mrs W a financial loss. 
But she said it should have managed Mrs Ws expectations better than it did. As shed 
requested the payment be made in the current tax year on two occasions before being told 
on 15 March 2021 this wasnt possible. Had it done so, she said Mrs W may have been able 
to make other arrangements, so it had caused a loss of expectation. Our investigator said 
Scottish Friendly should pay Mrs W £300 for the distress and inconvenience this had 
caused. 
Scottish Friendly accepted our investigators view, but Mrs W disagreed. She said, she 
carefully planned her finances and hadnt utilised all her personal allowance due to Scottish 
Friendlys actions. And the compensation should reflect the additional tax paid. She said its 
process seemed very muddled, including letters being written but then not posted for days. 
She said it took one of her other pension providers:
a maximum of 2 weeks, from start to finish, to take an UFPLS  
And that there should be an industry standard for the pension freedoms to operate by.
Our investigator said there wasnt a set timescale for how long a business should take to 
process a withdrawal. And because Scottish Friendly wouldnt have been able to process the request in time for the 4 March 2021 payroll cut-off in any case, it wasnt fair to ask it to pay 
compensation for the loss of the personal tax allowance. 
As Mrs W doesnt agree it has come to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I am upholding the complaint in part but I wont be asking Scottish Friendly 
to compensate Mrs W for the loss of her personal allowance. I know this will disappoint Mrs 
W, so Ill explain why.
The role of our service is to resolve complaints impartially, we dont regulate financial 
businesses, which is the role of the Financial Conduct Authority. That means I cant tell 
Scottish Friendly or other financial services firms to change administrative procedures or 
impose sanctions on them if I think there have been failings. What I can consider is whether 
a businesss mistakes caused someone a financial loss and/or distress and inconvenience 
and, if so, what the business needs to do to put things right. 
Ive taken note of everything Mrs W has said, and I understand her frustration over what has 
happened. There isnt any set timeframe for a pension provider to process a withdrawal 
request and a key factor is the frequency with which the provider will operate payroll runs. 
The Uncrystallised Funds Pension Lump Sum Information document provided to Mrs W 
with the forms she completed states that UFPLS payments can be made on the 7th and the 
24th of the month and that Scottish Friendly:
will proceed with making the payment to you once you have fully met the 
requirements for making a UFLPS and will confirm the pay date at this point. 
So, Scottish Friendly hadnt undertaken to make a payment by a certain date or indicated a 
typical timeframe for processing one. But in the circumstances here I think it should have 
told Mrs W what deadlines applied at the earliest opportunity. Not doing so has caused her 
avoidable distress and inconvenience. She rushed to return documents and chase matters 
up before being made aware of the deadlines and suffered a loss of expectation as a result. 
But I dont think it is fair to say Scottish Friendly is responsible for her tax loss. Because I 
think that it is unlikely that it would have completed its usual administration processes before 
the payroll cut-off date. Particularly given that not all steps could be completed electronically. 
And I also think it is clear that by 15 March 2021, Mrs W had been told both verbally and by 
email it would not be possible for Scottish Friendly to process the withdrawal before the end 
of the tax year. This was consistently reconfirmed in subsequent emails and I havent seen 
anything to suggest Mrs W was told that the payment would be made before the new tax 
year had started. 
Mrs W says she wasnt advised early enough to make alternative arrangements with another 
of her pension providers. But she has also said that her other provider could have processed 
a UFPLS withdrawal in a maximum of two weeks. When Scottish Friendly did advise the 
payment couldnt be made in time there were around 16 working days before the end of the 
tax year. So, I think there was still time for her to stop or modify the withdrawal with Scottish 
Friendly. And then make the alternative arrangement to ensure her remaining personal 
allowance for the 2020/21 tax year was utilised and potentially mitigate any higher rate tax 
liabilities in the following year. So, whilst I think Mrs W was inconvenienced by what has happened, I dont think Scottish 
Friendly was responsible for the tax loss incurred or that it is responsible for the other issues 
Mrs W says arose regarding a potential house move.
Putting things right
I think Mrs W has suffered distress and inconvenience over the initial poor communication in 
respect of the deadlines applying to UFPLS withdrawal requests. I think it fair that Scottish 
Friendly pay her compensation of £300 in respect of this, which is in line with the awards our 
service would make in similar circumstances.
 
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold the complaint against Scottish Friendly Assurance Society 
Limited.
I direct Scottish Friendly Assurance Society Limited to pay Mrs W £300 in compensation for 
the distress and inconvenience caused to her.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs W to accept or 
reject my decision before 14 November 2022.
 
Nigel Bracken
Ombudsman