DRN-1456950
 
The complaint
Mr T complains Canada Square Operations Limited mis-sold him a payment protection 
insurance (PPI) policy.  The complaint is brought on his behalf by a claims management 
company. 
What happened 
This complaint is about an Egg credit card PPI policy taken out in March 2001. The policy 
was added to Mr Ts credit card account when he applied for the card online.
Our adjudicator did not recommend that the complaint should be upheld. Mr T disagreed 
saying, in summary, that he wasn't aware he'd taken out the policy and he didn't make it 
clear in the application that he wanted to take it.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Weve set out our general approach to 
complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
Mr T's complaint.
Ive decided not to uphold Mr T's complaint because:
I think Canada Square Operations made Mr T aware that the PPI was optional and a 
separate product from the credit card, and that he chose to take it. I say this because 
the online application process included equally clear options to accept or decline the 
PPI and Mr T clicked the yes box to confirm that he wanted it. Im not surprised Mr 
T cant remember this as it took place so long ago.
 
Canada Square Operations didnt recommend the PPI to Mr T so it didnt have to 
check if it was suitable for him. 
Its possible the information Canada Square Operations gave Mr T about the PPI 
wasnt as clear as it should have been. But Mr T chose to take out the policy and so 
appears to have wanted this type of cover. He wasnt affected by any of the 
exclusions or limitations and the policy was competitively priced and apparently 
affordable. So I think it unlikely Mr T would have made a different decision if better 
information had been provided. On balance I think he would still have taken out the 
policy.
My final decision
 For the reasons I've explained, my final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint. Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr T to accept or 
reject my decision before 31 March 2020.
Elizabeth Dawes
Ombudsman