DRN-4166759
The complaint
Mr R is unhappy that Revolut Ltd has refused to pay him a refer a friend reward.
What happened
The circumstances that led to this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat 
them in detail here. But, in summary:
Mr R has an account with Revolut. From time to time they offer customers the chance to 
refer a friend. If that friend has never held a Revolut account before, opens a new 
account using the refer a friend link and performs certain activities within a defined 
period of time, a cash reward will be paid to the referrer. Mr R referred a friend earlier 
this year who has assured him that he completed all the steps required for Mr R to get 
his reward. But Revolut says the qualifying criteria was not met and has refused to pay 
the £50 reward that Mr R believes is due.
Our investigator was satisfied that the reward should not have been paid. But Mr R didnt 
agree, so the complaint has come to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
When Mr R first queried the position with Revolut, it said that Mr R had referred the same 
friend to it in the past, so he was ineligible to apply again. In response, Mr R explained that 
he had referred his friend previously, but that friend hadnt been able to complete the 
account opening process. 
I appreciate Mr R is relying on the information his friend has provided. But Ive seen 
Revoluts records relating to the friends account and can confirm that the qualifying criteria 
of the refer a friend offer were not met. I have accepted this evidence from Revolut in 
confidence and cannot share any further detail with Mr R due to data protection regulations 
and because that information relates to someone elses account.
In all the circumstances, I cant fairly instruct Revolut to pay the refer a friend reward to 
Mr R.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision before 7 December 2023.
 
Ruth Hersey
Ombudsman