DRN-3309699
The complaint
Mr P complains that Starling Bank Limited failed to raise a chargeback or refund transactions 
from an internationally based gambling merchant.
What happened
Mr P made several transactions through a foreign based merchant who offered online 
gambling services Ill refer to as J. Following these transactions Mr P complained to the 
Gambling Commission as he believed J were not authorised to operate in the UK. They 
advised Mr P that J were unlicensed to offer their services in the UK and this was illegal. Mr 
P was advised to approach his bank to recall the funds.
Mr P approached Starling about the transactions hed made to J. Starling initially told Mr J 
that they couldnt deal with his loss because he was no longer a customer. Starling corrected 
this position and advised Mr P that they couldnt raise a Chargeback against J because the 
rules they operate under for card payments meant that the type of transactions hed carried 
out werent covered. Starling operate under the Mastercard rules and are required to follow 
them when challenging card payments, which is how the transactions were made by Mr P.
Starling declined to refund Mr P and he made a complaint. Starling maintained their position 
and told Mr P they couldnt use the Chargeback system to challenge his transactions. Mr P 
remained unhappy with how Starling had dealt with his issue and brough this complaint to 
the Financial Ombudsman for an independent review.
It was looked into by one of our investigators who thought it was reasonable for Starling not 
to make a Chargeback request and hold Mr P liable for the transactions. Mr P disagreed with 
the investigators outcome and asked for a further review of his complaint.
Mr P explained that Starling should have raised a Chargeback because J were an illegal 
business and the service which they provided was gambling related but not a fair and legal 
service in the UK.
Mr P added that they (J) have no jurisdiction to communicate or work in the UK.
Mr Ps complaint has now been passed to me for a decision.
 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr P sought a refund using the Chargeback system, which is a way to challenge card 
payments and is operated under specific rules set out by the operator of the system  in this 
case Mastercard.
Mr P acknowledges that he made the transactions, so the issue of whether they were 
authorised isnt something I need to consider here. Essentially Mr Ps complaint is that 
Starling declined to undertake a Chargeback request.
Starling believed the Mastercard rules exempted gambling transactions and Mr P argued 
that because J arent licensed by the Gambling Commission  the services they offered 
werent fair or legal. 
What I need to consider is whether it was reasonable for Starling to decline a Chargeback 
request and thats because if there was a reasonable chance of success, wed expect a 
Chargeback request to be made.
Mastercard describe their exception for gambling related to Chargebacks as:
Chargebacks are available to the issuer for transactions in which any value is purchased for
gambling, investment or similar purposes. However, issuers have no chargeback rights related
to the use of these chips or value, unspent chips, or withdrawal of such value, or on any
winnings, gains or losses resulting from the use of such chips or value.
Mr P argued that Starling could have attempted a Chargeback using the reason code Goods 
or services not provided. Thats because J werent licensed by the Gambling Commission 
and their services were illegal to offer to UK residents. Mr P accepts that he received a 
service , but not a fair and legal one.
The Mastercard exclusion for gambling transactions allows for a dispute, but not once the 
service(s) had commenced, which is the case here. So, I dont think that it was unreasonable 
for Starling to decline Mr Ps request for a Chargeback as I dont think it would have been 
successful.
I appreciate Mr P says their services were illegal in the UK, but thats not the issue here. 
There are no specific Chargeback reasons for Mr Ps particular complaint and Starling 
couldnt proceed on the basis that the Gambling Commission consider J an illegal business. 
I realise Mr P will be disappointed but because the transactions were authorised and I think 
Starling acted fairly and reasonably when they declined to use the Chargeback process, I 
wont be upholding this complaint. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint against Starling Bank Limited.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision before 8 April 2022.
 
David Perry
Ombudsman