DRN-3333913
The complaint
Mr R complains about AXA Insurance UK Plcs handling of a claim under his motor 
insurance policy. He says it shouldnt have settled a claim made by another party after his 
vehicle was involved in an accident.
 
References to AXA include its agents. 
What happened
In late 2019, AXA was informed that Mr Rs car was involved in an accident, causing 
damage to another vehicle. The driver of the other vehicle made a claim for the costs of 
repair and a replacement vehicle. They also made a claim for personal injury.
Mr R says AXA accepted the other drivers claim without asking him about the incident. He 
says he only became aware of the claim after receiving his motor insurance quote which 
showed an accident had been added to his policy. He complained that AXA had paid out on 
a fraudulent claim.
AXA said it had sent Mr R an accident report form to fill out which detailed his account of the 
incident. It said it had settled the other partys costs without admitting liability. It did this to 
avoid litigation and it meant if it found the other party was at fault it would be able to recover 
the costs from them. Having reviewed the documents sent from the other party, AXA didnt 
see cause for concern with regards to the vehicle damage. It said it had repudiated the 
personal injury claim as it didnt believe it to be legitimate.
AXA said it understood Mr Rs car had been pushed into other drivers vehicle by another 
party behind it. It hadnt been able to recover AXAs costs from them as it didnt have any 
details for that vehicle. It had a legal liability to cover the claim for the vehicle in front. AXA 
had the right to settle the claim as it saw fit. AXA said the claim had been correctly deemed 
as a fault claim because it wasnt able to recover any of its costs.
AXA said it wasnt able to release the engineer reports Mr R had requested as it would be a 
breach of GDPR (General Data Protection Regulation).
AXA acknowledged there had been some issues with the customer service it had provided to 
Mr R. It said it was sending Mr R a cheque for £150 in recognition for the inconvenience this 
had caused. Mr R says he didnt receive the cheque and AXA has told us that although the 
payment was raised, it didnt go through. 
Our investigator looked into Mr Rs concerns and concluded that AXAs decision to settle the 
claim was fair and reasonable, in line with the terms of the policy. He thought the £150 AXA 
said it would pay for customer service issues was sufficient to put things right.
Mr R disagreed with our investigators view and asked for the matter to be referred to an 
ombudsman. So, his complaint has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive reached broadly the same conclusions as our investigator. Ill explain 
why.
Its not my role, or the role of this service, to decide if the other drivers claim was genuine or 
to determine the amount AXA should have paid in relation to their claim. What Ive needed to 
decide is whether or not AXA has acted fairly and reasonably and in line with the policys 
terms and conditions.
The policys terms and conditions say that AXA has the right to take over and deal with the 
defence or settlement of any claim in the name of the person making a claim under this 
policy
Similar provisions are found in most motor insurance policies, so I dont find this unusual. It 
means AXA is entitled to decide whether to defend a claim or settle it.
While AXA didnt need Mr Rs consent to deal with the claim, Id expect it to let him know 
about it to allow him to defend his position. I can see AXA sent Mr R a letter in December 
2019, which was around two months after the incident. The letter included the date and 
alleged circumstances of the incident and explained that AXA had a very short timescale to 
respond to the other side. AXA asked Mr R to call urgently and said if it didnt hear back 
within seven days, it would accept liability on his behalf and deal with the third partys claim 
in full. 
Mr R says he didnt receive the letter at the time. Hes told us he was away for work and has 
questioned why AXA didnt contact him by telephone or email. According to AXAs records 
Mr R called a week after the date of the letter and the claim was validated at this point. But 
Mr R doesnt appear to have any recollection of this phone call and AXA hasnt been able to 
locate a recording of it.
From what Ive seen, I think AXA did attempt to make Mr R aware of the incident before it 
settled the other drivers claim. Its possible AXA didnt communicate with Mr R as clearly as 
it should have done. But I dont think better communication with Mr R would have made a 
difference to AXAs decision to settle the other drivers claim.
Both parties have confirmed that Mr Rs car was being driven by his sister, Miss R, who is a 
named driver on the policy. Mr R and Miss R completed an accident report form (ARF) in 
June 2020, which confirms the circumstances of the accident. The ARF says Mr Rs car was 
pushed into the other drivers vehicle by a third car who struck it from the rear. 
According to the ARF, there was no damage to the car at the front. But it also says that 
nobody got out of the cars and the first and third cars drove away. I appreciate Miss R might 
not have observed any damage to the car in front of her at the time. But she doesnt appear 
to have inspected the car, and in any event, AXA has said that the full extent of damage may 
not have been known until assessed by a repairer. 
I understand Mr Rs frustration that he hasnt had sight of an engineers report showing 
damage to the other drivers car. But AXA says the amount it paid out on the claim is 
reasonable and indicative of the damage the incident would have caused. While I appreciate 
Mr R has concerns that the other drivers claim might be fraudulent, I havent seen evidence 
to show this. AXA has explained to Mr R, that in these circumstances it has a legal liability to cover the 
claim for the vehicle in front. Without details of the third vehicle (who hit the rear of Mr Rs 
car) AXA isnt able to recover its costs from them. 
The terms of the policy allow AXA to make the decision about whether to settle a claim or 
dispute it. Given the circumstances of the accident, I dont think AXAs decision to settle the 
claim was unreasonable.  As an insurer, AXA is likely to have experience of how the matter 
would be viewed if it went to court. 
It is no doubt frustrating for Mr R for a fault claim to be recorded when he wasnt to blame for 
the accident. Unfortunately, this has resulted in him needing to pay higher premiums. But Im 
satisfied that AXA has recorded the claim correctly because it hasnt been able to recover its 
costs. So, while I empathise with Mr R, I cant say AXA has acted unfairly.
AXA has acknowledged some issues with the customer service it provided to Mr R. It says it 
didnt contact him proactively and Mr R found it difficult to contact it. There were long hold 
times and delays in responding to emails. I think the £150 AXA said it would pay Mr R for the 
inconvenience he experienced because of this is fair and reasonable. But both parties have 
confirmed the £150 cheque wasnt sent to him. So, AXA should send Mr R another cheque 
or payment by a different method.
Putting things right
AXA should pay Mr R £150 for trouble and upset.
 
My final decision
AXA Insurance UK Plc has already made an offer to pay £150 to settle the complaint and I 
think this offer is fair in all the circumstances.
So, my decision is that AXA Insurance UK Plc should pay Mr R £150.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision before 24 March 2022.
 
Anne Muscroft
Ombudsman