DRN-1195891
 
The complaint
Mr L complains about what happened when he transferred an ISA to Leeds Building Society. 
He said the account wasnt what he expected. He thought Leeds hadnt done enough to tell 
him about the restrictions on the account he was opening.
What happened
Mr L transferred an existing ISA from another bank to Leeds. The process finished in early 
June 2019. 
Mr L contacted Leeds on 31 July to find out how to pay more money in. He was told then 
that the account would be closed for further deposits that day. He wasnt able to pay in any 
more money after that, and there would be a penalty for closing the account or for taking 
money out. Mr L said he hadnt been told those things. So he complained. He now wants to 
be able to take his money out, and put it elsewhere.
Leeds said the possibility that the account wouldnt accept further deposits, and the penalties 
on the account, were all mentioned in the documents shown to Mr L when he opened the 
account. It didnt think it had done anything wrong there. But it said it had given Mr L some 
wrong information over the phone on 31 July. It said he could just open a new ISA for that 
tax year, and tax rules prevent that. So Leeds paid £25 to apologise for that mistake.
Our investigator didnt uphold this complaint. She said what Leeds had done was in line with 
the terms and conditions and key facts of the account. She drew Mr Ls attention to two parts 
of the terms, which set out how deposits can be made, and which explain that withdrawals 
do incur a penalty. She thought Leeds had made Mr L aware of this. So she didnt think 
Leeds had to do anything now.
Mr L didnt agree. He said that from applying for the account up until 31 July hed only 
received two letters, one with an activation code and one saying Leeds was processing his 
application. He said he never received any terms and conditions in the post, and he never 
signed and returned any documents.
Mr L admitted he didnt read the terms and conditions properly, but he assumed there was 
no cut off date for making deposits. He thought the part of the terms that our investigator 
drew to his attention just meant he couldnt transfer any more money in from other ISAs. And 
he said that was really his complaint, that he couldnt pay any more money in.
Mr L said he hadnt just been told he could open another ISA, hed also been told that terms 
regarding the fixed term and restrictions making deposits were clearly displayed on the 
website. He thought that was wrong too. 
Our investigator wrote back to Mr L to clarify what he had received from Leeds. She still 
didnt think that Leeds had failed to make Mr L aware of the deadline for deposits. And she didnt think that the wrong information about opening a second ISA that Leeds gave over the 
phone made any difference in this case. 
Mr L said he still felt the wording was misleading. Our investigator didnt agree, so she 
passed this complaint to me for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The main things I need to think about here are whether Leeds did enough to draw Mr Ls 
attention to the terms of the account, and whether those terms are clear.
Mr L opened this account online. Leeds doesnt send out a paper copy of terms and 
conditions when someone does that. It asks customers to read them before opening the 
account, and, as the call handler explained to Mr L, it provides a short summary of the 
accounts key provisions online. I dont think that Leeds did anything wrong when it did that. 
I can see that Leeds provides a set of key facts for this account, which summarises the 
main points of the account on two pages. The call handler told Mr L that terms on deposits 
and withdrawals were also highlighted on the website. I cant see the website as it was on 
the day Mr L opened the account, but Leeds still does this now, and I think it's likely it 
highlighted this then. So I think its likely that this information was drawn to Mr Ls attention in 
a number of ways. And I also think that by providing key facts, and asking Mr L to read the 
terms as part of opening his online account, Leeds did enough to draw his attention to these 
points. 
Our investigator referred to the wording of the key facts document. Mr L said the provision 
on deposits was open to misinterpretation. He thought it only applied to transfers in, not cash 
deposits. That provision says  deposits or transfers in of previous ISA funds can be 
made up to and including 31 July 2019. It refers separately to deposits, and to transfers in. I 
think thats reasonably clear that its talking about two separate ways of funding the account. 
If Mr L read this differently, then I dont think that would be Leeds fault.
When Mr L complained about what had happened, he was told that he could open a new 
ISA for the same tax year. That was wrong. Hed already deposited some money into his 
existing ISA for that year, so he cant simply open a new one. Leeds paid Mr L £25 for that 
incorrect information. I think that provides a fair outcome to this part of Mr Ls complaint.
Im sorry to hear the ISA that Mr L opened isnt what he wanted. But I dont think that Leeds 
is to blame for this. So, although I know that Mr L will be disappointed, I dont think Leeds 
has to do any more now. I dont think this complaint should be upheld. 
 
 
 
 
 
My final decisionI dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr L to accept or 
reject my decision before 13 May 2020.
Esther Absalom-Gough
Ombudsman