DRN-2677354
The complaint
Mr G complains that Aviva Insurance Limited unfairly cancelled his motor insurance policy. 
What happened
Mr G was stopped by the police while driving. When the police checked his insurance 
details, they noticed his insurance had been cancelled the day before. Mr G was then asked 
to attend court but wasnt prosecuted for driving without insurance. Mr G wasnt happy his 
insurance had been cancelled and complained to Aviva. 
He said as he hadnt been prosecuted for driving without insurance it showed Aviva had 
unfairly cancelled his policy. He also complained about how Aviva had notified him about his 
insurance being cancelled and said Aviva hadnt taken into account the delays in post at the 
time. 
Aviva looked into Mr Gs complaint and didnt uphold it. It said it had given him sufficient 
notice that hed missed his monthly payment. And that as he hadnt paid for his policy as 
hed agreed it didnt think it had done anything wrong. Mr G didnt agree and brought his 
complaint here. 
Our Investigator reviewed Mr Gs complaint and didnt recommend it was upheld. She found 
that Aviva had sent Mr G an e-mail which hed opened, and the e-mail made him aware of 
the missed payment and notice of cancellation. Mr G said as the notice of cancellation had 
come at the same time as his renewal quote, he didnt think it was clear enough. He also 
said hed made a manual payment online and thought his insurance had been fully paid for 
the year. Our investigator reviewed Mr Gs comments but didnt think it changed that Aviva 
had given Mr G sufficient notice of the missed payment and cancellation. 
As Mr G didnt agree the complaint has come to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The terms of Mr Gs policy say Aviva or its agents can cancel Mr Gs policy by giving seven 
days notice in writing, to either his postal and/or e-mail address. One of the reasons given is 
for non-payment of the premium, including missing a monthly payment. The terms go on to 
say if the policy is paid for on a monthly basis Aviva will give Mr G 14 days notice to make 
the payment before the policy is cancelled. 
Mr G paid for his policy on a monthly basis, the scheduled payment date was the 17 of each 
month. Aviva sent Mr G an e-mail on 20 April 2020, to say it had been unable to collect his 
monthly payment and that he had until 7 May 2020 to pay the outstanding amount otherwise 
his policy would be cancelled. Aviva tried to take the payment again on 21 April 2020 but it 
was unsuccessful so wrote to Mr G on 24 April 2020 saying the amount was still outstanding 
and if payment wasnt made by 7 May 2020 his policy would be cancelled. 
Avivas records show it e-mailed Mr G on 20 April 2020 and again on 24 April 2020 to let him 
know a payment was due and his policy would be cancelled if it wasnt made. Aviva has also 
given Mr G sufficient notice to make the payment and of the cancellation in line with the 
policy terms and conditions. 
Ive considered Mr Gs points that Aviva didnt do this in a fair and reasonable way, but Im 
not persuaded by them. I say this because one of the reasons Mr G has given is that the first 
e-mail notification was sent at the same time as his renewal quote. While I can see this was 
sent on the same day they were sent at different times and Mr G opened both the e-mails. 
So, Im not persuaded it was unreasonable for Aviva to send them on the same day. 
Mr G is also unhappy that he was sent letters in the post because of the delays with the post 
at the time, however as Aviva also e-mailed this correspondence to him, Im satisfied Aviva 
acted fairly by sending them by post and e-mail. So, while there may have been delays with 
the post, as Aviva also e-mailed him, he wouldnt have been negatively affected by the 
delays in post. 
Mr G also said he thought his policy had been fully paid for the year due to the notification he 
got when he made a manual payment on 4 April 2020. Ive reviewed the message he 
received, and I dont think its misleading as it was in relation to the monthly payment he 
made. In any event even if it did mislead Mr G Im satisfied the e-mails sent on the 20 & 24 
April 2020 were clear that there was an outstanding amount. And as Aviva also wrote to Mr 
G after his policy was cancelled and sent this via e-mail too, Im persuaded Aviva has acted 
in a fair and reasonable way. 
I appreciate Mr G feels that as a court hasnt prosecuted him for driving without insurance 
then it must mean Aviva acted unfairly. While Mr G hasnt been prosecuted for driving 
without insurance its not enough to persuade me that Aviva didnt act fairly or reasonably.  
My final decision
Mr final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision before 24 June 2021.
 
Alex Newman
Ombudsman