DRN-3447655
The complaint
Ms Z complains about her insurer, Plum Underwriting Limited (Plum). Ms Z is unhappy at the 
premiums charged by Plum when she took out insurance cover for renovations carried out at 
her property.
This decision only covers the role of Plum as the insurer of Ms Zs policy. Ms Z made a 
separate complaint about the broker (B) through which she took out the policy, which was 
the subject of a separate decision by this service.
What happened
Ms Z had a property on which she took out home insurance with an insurer (PR) in 
November 2020 at a premium of £1,389. Ms Z then wanted to carry out renovation work at 
the property, originally scheduled to start in February 2021 and complete in August 2021. Ms 
Z contacted B to tell them of the planned renovation works, initially asking to cancel her 
home insurance policy as she thought the contractors would take over the insurance of the 
property whilst the renovation work was carried out. B queried whether the contractors would 
cover the existing structure of the property (as opposed to the renovation work theyd be 
carrying out).
Ms Z then discussed the position with her architect who said the building would still need to 
be covered, but in the joint names of Ms Z and the contractor. B referred the issue to PR, 
who said they wouldnt provide cover for the existing structure of a building with the 
contractor as a joint policyholder. PR advised the existing policy with them would need to be 
cancelled and alternative cover arranged. Ms Z asked B to provide suitable quotes from 
other insurers.
B approached Plum as one of the insurers on the panel they used. Based on the information 
provided by B about the proposed renovation work (including the plans for the work) as well 
as the property, Plum quoted £3,240. Ms Z thought the quote was too high and asked for 
alternative quotes. B approached a second insurer from the panel, but they refused to quote 
because of the nature of the contract for the renovation work. A quote of £3,138 was 
obtained from another insurer on the panel. Together with PR as the original insurer, these 
were the only four insurers used by B who would cover properties undergoing renovation 
work. Ms Z was unhappy at the cost of the quotes and discussed the position with B. They 
said the cost was due to the estimate rebuild value of the property (£1 million), the estimated 
cost of the renovation work (£426,000) and because a specialist policy was necessary due 
to the higher level of risk where a property is renovated.
Ms Z then told B to take out the policy with Plum. Subsequently, the renovation work took 
longer than planned, due to Covid-related delays and some supply issues. To maintain 
cover, extensions of the policy were taken out, initially to October 2021 (at an additional cost 
of £1,129) and then to December 2021 (at an additional cost of £1,005). Ms Z was unhappy 
at the cost of the premiums, saying her architect and contractor thought them much higher 
than theyd have expected.
Unhappy at the cost of the premiums (including the two extensions) Ms B complained to 
Plum. They didnt uphold her complaint. In their final response they said theyd reviewed the 
premiums charged and concluded they were correct. They noted Ms Z had accepted the 
initial quote (and the first extension). They also said the extensions were calculated on a pro 
rata basis to the initial quote, which was their usual procedure, the same for any of their 
policyholders. They also said the policy differed from a normal household insurance policy 
because it covered both the property as well as the contractors risks. While most household 
insurers would continue to provide cover on a property while some building works were 
undertaken, once the building contract exceeded a certain value then insurers could cancel 
a household insurance policy as that type of policy wasnt designed to address the risks 
where significant building (renovation) work was being carried out. In these circumstances, 
the type of cover provided where significant renovation work was being carried out would be 
more expensive, being a direct reflection of the increase in risk.
Plum also said that while there had been some delays in the renovation work, theyd 
considered whether the premiums should be reduced during periods where work wasnt 
being carried out. But theyd concluded they shouldnt, because while some risks would 
reduce (those associated with contractors being on site) others would be enhanced when 
the site wasnt occupied (such as theft, malicious damage and vandalism).
Ms Z then complained to this service about Plum, unhappy at the level of premiums shed 
been charged. Based on what shed been told by her architect and contractor, she thought 
they were too high and significantly above the market rate for the type of cover.
Our investigator didnt uphold the complaint. He discussed the cost of the premiums with Ms 
Zs architect and contractor but concluded Plum had treated Ms Z fairly when providing a 
quote. Ms Z had the option to accept or decline the quoted premium (including the 
subsequent extensions).
Ms Z disagreed with the investigators view and asked that an ombudsman review the 
complaint. In doing so, Ms Z said Plum had overcharged her for what she considered a 
standard building project (to renovate her property). 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
My role is to decide whether Plum have acted fairly towards Ms Z.
The key issue in Ms Zs complaint is that Plum acted unfairly in charging her a significantly 
higher level of premium than what she says (based on what her architect and contractor 
have told her) would be the industry norm for a standard building project on her property. 
Plum say the nature of the policy required where a property is being renovated is different to 
a standard home insurance policy (the latter isnt designed to provide cover where significant 
renovation is being carried out). They also say the premium reflects the higher level of risk 
where a property is being renovated. 
Ive thought about both views carefully, but on balance I agree with Plum. I know this will be 
very disappointing for Ms Z, so Ill set out why Ive come to this conclusion.
The first point Ive thought about is about the nature of a policy where a property is being 
renovated. Whats clear from the sequence of events is that Ms Zs original home insurance 
policy with PR wasnt considered (by PR) to be appropriate for the different circumstances 
when the renovation work began. Thats consistent with PRs position that they wouldnt 
continue to provide home insurance cover in those circumstances  which is why they declined to provide a quote for cover. Thats a commercial decision on PRs part (as it was 
for the second insurer approached by B, who also declined to quote for cover during the 
renovation work). I think its reasonable to conclude that the decisions not to quote reflect 
those insurers being unwilling to accept the level of risk in the circumstances of the 
renovation work. My understanding is that the insurers approached by B were provided with 
information on the proposed scope of the renovation work (including its estimated cost) as 
well as the detailed plans for the work. So, its reasonable to conclude they took this into 
account when deciding not to quote.
The second point is that the two insurers approached by B that were willing to offer cover 
had the same information and used it to assess the level of risk they assessed they would be 
taking on. That, in turn, would have led them to price that risk through the premiums for the 
period of the scheduled renovation work. Ive noted that both quotes are close to each other, 
suggesting a similar assessment of risk (and pricing of risk) by the two insurers. Plum say 
that the pricing of the risk (reflected in the premium) would be specific to the circumstances 
of the case and the details provided on the property, the scope of the renovation work and 
other information. Again, the pricing of the risk is a commercial decision for both, including 
the quote from Plum that Ms Z accepted. I think thats reasonable and what I would expect.
Ive also considered Plums view that the nature of a standard home insurance policy is 
different to that where a significant renovation is being carried out (as is the case with Ms Zs 
property). I agree. Ive looked at the policy document for Ms Zs policy and it differs 
substantially from those I see for standard home insurance policies, particularly in respect of 
those aspects concerning the contractor and the work theyre carrying out. Given the 
significant estimated cost of the renovation work (compared to the sum insured for the 
property) together with the length of time for the renovation to be carried out, I think thats 
consistent with the conclusion that they two types of policy are different (as will be the 
associated risks). I think its reasonable to conclude the risks where a property is being 
substantially renovated will be significantly higher than a standard home insurance policy.
Ms Zs complaint is principally about the level of premium charged, rather than the cost of 
the extensions to the policy to cover the longer-than expected time to complete the 
renovation work. But Ive also considered the two extensions that were charged up to the 
point Ms Z complained to Plum (and then to this service). Looking at the figures and the 
periods covered, they are in line with the premium charged for the initial period of the policy 
(February 2021 to August 2021). They have been calculated on a pro rata basis of the initial 
premium, which is consistent with the underwriting guidance Plum have provided. To that 
extent, the premiums for the extensions have been calculated in accordance with Plums 
underwriting guidance, which I think is reasonable.
 
Its also consistent with the wording of the policy document, which makes it clear that its not 
an annual policy. Rather, its designed to cover the period during which the renovation work 
is scheduled to take place. So, extensions would be considered if necessary (as is the case 
here, given the delays to the renovation work). But there was no obligation on Ms Z to agree 
the extensions (although it would have been convenient to do so) and she would have had 
the option to see whether similar cover from another insurer could be obtained at a lower 
premium. Taking these points together, Ive concluded it was reasonable for Plum to offer 
extensions on the pro rata basis to the original premium.
Taking all these points together, I dont think Plum have acted unfairly or unreasonably in 
how theyve treated Ms Z. 
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, its my final decision not to uphold Ms Zs complaint.  Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms Z to accept or 
reject my decision before 5 July 2022.
 
Paul King
Ombudsman