DRN-4422866
The complaint
Ms R complains that Nationwide Building Society (NWide) wouldnt refund money she lost 
in an investment scam.
What happened
What Ms R says:
In 2021, Ms R was looking for ways to improve her financial security and, in the longer term, 
to be able to leave money to her grown up children. She saw a pop-up advertisement on 
social media which said people could invest as little as £200 and still make returns. She 
clicked on the advert and found the service was provided by an investment firm (which I will 
call A).
Ms R explored As website and it appeared genuine and professional. She was contacted by 
an advisor who seemed charismatic and reassuring. He said he had worked in the finance 
industry for more than 20 years. He built a rapport with Ms R. 
The advisor downloaded software onto her computer so he could remotely access her crypto 
wallet, and then move funds to A to help her trade. He advised her to open bank accounts 
(with two other banks which I will call bank X and bank Y), together with the crypto wallet 
accounts. Ms R authorised him to do that. 
A first, small deposit was made by payment from her bank account with NWide to Ms Rs 
crypto wallet. She then saw the credit appear in her account at investment firm A, and saw it 
was making good returns. The adviser could access Ms Rs account with A and traded with 
her money. She then went ahead and made further deposits.
The advisor then opened a loan facility within As portal for £40,000  without her authority 
 to invest this sum. The adviser said Ms R had to pay off the loans and otherwise, debt 
collectors would visit her.
Ms R didnt want to be in debt and took out loans totalling £50,000 with four third party loan 
companies to pay off the loan with A. The adviser controlled her computer and applied for 
the loans on her behalf. The advisor said the loans were then paid off the loans with A, but 
then said she was still £40,000 in debt  he said because of the accumulated interest and 
because of the successful trades he had placed. The adviser put more pressure on Ms R to 
pay the further debt off.
The proceeds of the four loans (£50,000) were paid into her account with NWide, and 
payments were then made from her NWide account to her account with bank X. The funds 
were then transferred from bank X to Ms Rs crypto wallet with a payment service provider. 
The advisor (who had control of Ms Rs computer) then transferred the funds to investment 
firm A.
Ms R allowed the adviser to access her computer to apply for a further loan with NWide  in 
July 2021, but this was declined. Ms R later took out a  secured mortgage with another firm 
for £39,853 (under guidance or control of the advisor) and this was drawn on 10 December 
2021. It was paid into Ms Rs NWide account.
Then, in December 2021, the adviser told Ms R to open an account with bank Y - he said it 
was easier to make crypto payments from that bank. Under his guidance, Ms R opened her 
account with bank Y. From NWide, the loan funds were sent to Ms Rs account with bank Y, 
and payments were made to Ms Rs crypto wallet account with a payment service provider. 
The funds were then transferred to the investment firm A  by the adviser. 
There were three banks involved in this scam  NWide, bank X and bank Y and I set out the 
receipts and payments for all three for clarity:
There were two periods in the scam:
Period one:
Date Payment type Beneficiary Amount
24 June 2021 Card payment Payment service provider  crypto wallet £192.93
1 July 2021 Card payment Payment service provider  crypto wallet £200
7 July 2021 Loan recvd Ms Rs account  NWide (£20,000)
7 July 2021 Card payment Payment service provider  crypto wallet £200
7 July 2021 Faster payment Ms Rs account  Bank X £20
7 July 2021 Faster payment Ms Rs account  Bank X £10,000
7 July 2021 Faster payment Ms Rs account  Bank X £10,000
20 July 2021 Loan recvd Ms Rs account  NWide (£10,000)
20 July 2021 Loan recvd Ms Rs account- NWide (£10,000)
20 July 2021 Faster payment Ms Rs account  Bank X £10,000
20 July 2021 Faster payment Ms Rs account- Bank X £10,000
28 July 2021 Loan recvd Ms Rs account- NWide (£10,000)
28 July 2021 Faster payment Ms Rs account- Bank X £10,000
30 July 2021 Card payment Payment service provider  crypto wallet £500
10 August 2021 Card payment Payment service provider  crypto wallet £1,000
31 August 2021 Card payment Payment service provider  crypto wallet £150
Summary for period one:
Total loans received into NWide  July 2021 (£50,000)Payments from NWide to Mrs Rs account with Bank X  July 2021 £50,020
Payments from NWide direct to Ms Rs account with Payment service provider 
 crypto wallet£2,242.93
Total payments £52,262.93
Period two:
Date Payment type Beneficiary Amount
10 December 2021 Loan recvd Ms Rs account  NWide (£39,853)
18 December 2021 Faster payment Ms Rs account  Bank Y £10,000
18 December 2021 Faster payment Ms Rs account  Bank Y £5,000
18 December 2021 Faster payment Ms Rs account  Bank Y £100
18 December 2021 Faster payment Ms Rs account  Bank Y £10,000
18 December 2021 Faster payment Ms Rs account  Bank Y £10,000
18 December 2021 Faster payment Ms Rs account  Bank Y £3,000
21 December 2021 Card payment Payment service provider  crypto 
wallet£400
Summary - period two:
Total loans received into NWide  December 2021 (£39,853)
Payments from NWide to Mrs Rs account with Bank Y  December 2021 £38,100
Payments from NWide direct to Ms Rs account with Payment service provider  
crypto wallet£400
Total payments £38,500
After the amounts were sent to A, Ms R asked for funds to be withdrawn from A, but that 
wasnt possible. Contact with the adviser stopped. Ms R realised she had been the victim of 
a scam. Ms R contacted NWide on 23 August 2022 to advise them of the scam.
Ms R says the scam has destroyed her life. She has lost the money she wanted to invest for 
her children, who she feels no longer trust her. She suffers from sleepless nights and is 
emotionally distressed. She has taken out loans totalling £88,000 with six lenders and is 
struggling to make the payments. One loan is secured in her house. As a result, she is 
having to work longer hours to make ends meet.
What NWide said:NWide said none of the payments had been flagged on their systems as being unusual and 
needing intervention. They said the payments were to Ms Rs accounts with bank X, bank Y 
and then to her account with the payment service provider (her crypto wallet). They couldnt 
therefore be held liable for the scam payments  as those were too far removed from the 
payments made from NWide. 
Our investigation so far:
Ms R brought her complaint to us. Our investigator said NWide shouldve intervened from 
the first large payment on 7 July 2021. Had they done so, the scam wouldve been 
uncovered and the payments prevented. If theyd contacted Ms R she would likely have said 
she was investing on the advice of the advisor and shed taken out loans to do so; and that 
she had done limited research into A.
He said that NWide couldve realised what was going on when they declined Ms Rs loan 
application for a home improvement loan in July 2021  when they couldve asked why she 
needed the money and why she was going to pay it into an account with bank X. Ms R could 
then have been given a tailored warning and the payments prevented.
Our investigator said Ms R should be held responsible for 50% of her losses as she couldve 
done more to protect herself  she acted on the advice of a third party whose details were 
sourced from the internet; she cooperated in applying for six loans to pay back the loan in 
As portal; and she told NWide she wanted a loan for home improvements, when it was 
really for bitcoin investment.
During our investigation, bank X agreed to meet 80% of the losses due to payments made 
by that firm  they refunded £40,016 of the payments made from bank X  which totalled 
£50,000. 
Our investigator said NWide should pay Ms R £15,551.75  being their share of Ms Rs total 
losses. This included £10,004 (less a deduction of 50% for contributory negligence)  in 
respect of Ms Rs unrecovered losses at bank X. 
Ms R accepted this, but NWide didnt agree and asked that an ombudsman look at Ms Rs 
complaint, and so it has come to me to do that.
I made a provisional decision which said:
Im sorry to hear that Ms R has lost money in a cruel scam. Its not in question that she 
authorised and consented to the payments in this case. So although Ms R didnt intend for 
the money to go to a scammer, she is presumed to be liable for the loss in the first instance. 
So, in broad terms, the starting position at law is that a bank is expected to process 
payments and withdrawals that a customer authorises it to make, in accordance with the 
Payment Services Regulations and the terms and conditions of the customers account. And 
I have taken that into account when deciding what is fair and reasonable in this case.
But that is not the end of the story. Taking into account the law, regulators rules and 
guidance, relevant codes of practice and what I consider to have been good industry 
practice at the time, I consider NWide should fairly and reasonably:
Have been monitoring accounts and any payments made or received to counter 
various risks, including anti-money laundering, countering the financing of terrorism, 
and preventing fraud and scams.Have had systems in place to look out for unusual transactions or other signs that 
might indicate that its customers were at risk of fraud (among other things). This is 
particularly so given the increase in sophisticated fraud and scams in recent years, 
which banks are generally more familiar with than the average customer.  
In some circumstances, irrespective of the payment channel used, have taken 
additional steps, or make additional checks, before processing a payment, or in some 
cases declined to make a payment altogether, to help protect customers from the 
possibility of financial harm from fraud.
The Lending Standards Board Contingent Reimbursement Model Code (CRM Code) doesnt 
apply in this case. That is because it applies to faster payments made to another UK 
beneficiary and in this case, the payments were made by Ms R to her own account  with 
bank X and bank Y.
I need to decide whether NWide acted fairly and reasonably in its dealings with Ms R when 
she made the payments, or whether it should have done more than it did. I have considered 
the position carefully.
The first consideration here is: if the payments were of a sufficient size and was out of 
character with how Ms R normally used her account  then we would expect NWide to have 
intervened and spoken to her about them.  I looked at Ms Rs account for 2021 - and its fair 
to say that she used her account only for typical day to day living expenses.
First four payments:
Looking at the first four payments (£192.93, £200, £200, and £20)  these were low value 
and we wouldnt have expected NWide to have intervened. Theres a balance to be struck: 
NWide has obligations to be alert to fraud and scams and to act in their customers best 
interests, but they cant be involved in every transaction as this would cause unnecessary 
disruption to legitimate payments. In this case, I think NWide acted reasonably in processing 
those payments.
First payment £10,000:
But after that,  the first payment of £10,000 on 7 July 2021 was unusual compared to the 
way in which she used her account. And the payment was to a new payee.
So  I think its reasonable to say that NWide could be expected to have stepped in at that 
time and contacted Ms R about it.
But I also must consider whether that wouldve made a difference here. And on balance, I 
dont think it would have. I say that because:
In this case, multiple accounts under Ms Rs control were involved, and the payments from 
NWide were to her bank accounts with bank X and bank Y  and then moved to the payment 
service provider (her crypto wallet) via those banks. So, NWide were the first bank in a 
series of payments involving another two payments firms. In such circumstances, its less 
likely that wed hold NWide responsible Ms Rs losses. 
On the other hand, Ms Rs accounts with bank X and bank Y had been opened by her (under 
the guidance of the scam advisor) for the purposes of the scam. So  there is an argument 
that NWide couldve asked questions about those accounts and how Ms R intended to use 
them - and discovered what was going on.But - I must be persuaded that Ms R wouldve revealed the extent of the scam to NWide  or 
whether she would simply have said the payments were going to her other bank accounts in 
her name. And here:
- We know that Ms R was firmly under the spell of the advisor and believed what she 
was being told. She was thought the investment opportunity was a genuine one.
- We know that Ms R had downloaded software onto her computer and the advisor 
was controlling her interactions with banks (and was moving money from her crypto 
wallet to her account with A). He had applied for the loans with finance providers in 
her name and on her behalf.
- I therefore think it more likely than not  that the adviser wouldve either responded to 
any online warnings from NWide himself; and if NWide had called Ms R, he wouldve 
coached her as to her responses.
- For NWide to have uncovered the scam  where payments were being made to Ms 
Rs own account with bank X and bank Y - before being moved from those accounts 
to her crypto wallet  seems to me to place an unreasonable obligation on NWide in 
this case.
Our investigator argued that NWide shouldve been put on alert because of Ms Rs failed 
application for a home improvement loan in July 2021  that during the loan approval 
process, they couldve uncovered her real reason for wanting to borrow money, and 
therefore uncovered the scam. But  I think this places an unreasonable obligation on 
NWide to do that, so I set that aside. And  as we know, the loan application was carried out 
by the scam advisor, so responses to any questions would likely have been from him.
Therefore on balance, and in the circumstances of this case, I dont think I can reasonably 
hold NWide liable for Ms Rs losses here.
Recovery
We expect firms to quickly attempt to recover funds from recipient banks when a scam takes
place. I looked at whether NWide took the necessary steps in contacting the bank that 
received the funds  in an effort to recover the lost money. Here, I didnt see any evidence 
that NWide did take such action. But  as the scam took place in 2021, and Ms R didnt 
report it to NWide until August 2022, its very unlikely that any funds wouldve been available 
 as normally in such scams, funds are removed from the recipient bank immediately.
NWide did attempt to get the amount of the debit card payments refunded by the card 
scheme which issued the card. The claim failed. I havent looked at this further as this was 
an authorised payment by Ms R, and a chargeback had no reasonable prospects of 
success.
I intend to not uphold this complaint against NWide, and say that NWide are not liable for the 
payments made. But I intend to uphold the complaint about bank Y and say that bank Y are 
liable for the payments made through that bank. As noted, bank X have refunded £40,016, 
being 80% of payments made through that firm. For the reasons Ive explained, I dont think 
its fair to ask NWide to bear a share of the amount not refunded by bank X.
Responses to the provisional decision:
Mrs R accepted the provisional decision. Nationwide didnt make any comments.I now need to make a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As Mrs R accepted the provisional decision, and Nationwide didnt make any comments, my 
final decision is unchanged from the provisional decision.
My final decision
I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms R to accept or 
reject my decision before 24 November 2023.
 
Martin Lord
Ombudsman