DRN-3759376
The complaint
Mr J is unhappy with the way Metro Bank PLC (Metro Bank) handled his claim for a refund 
of two payments he made using his Metro Bank debit card.
What happened
On 7 September 2020, Mr J made two payments to a heavy goods vehicle (HGV) training 
provider Ill call A. The first payment was for £349. The second payment was for £1,449. He 
used his Metro Bank debit card to make both payments. The payments were for a 4-day 
HGV training course and test.
In April 2021, A contacted Mr J to confirm his place on a 4-day course condensed into 3 
days. When Mr J queried this, A replied to say it was the same amount of time (16 hours 
including the test). The email also said: If you would like 4 days instead of the condensed 3, 
I can request this from the school but there may be a longer wait time. Mr J says he 
reluctantly agreed to the condensed course.
On his first day  9 June 2021  Mr J was told his test would be on 11 June 2021 at 9.45am. 
He completed his first day of training but contacted A that evening to complain. And he wrote 
again early on 10 June 2021 to explain why he was unhappy.
A replied to say hed still receive 16 hours for the course.
Mr J asked A to refund his money, less the cost of first days training.
When A refused, he contacted Metro Bank on 17 June 2021 to raise a chargeback. 
Metro Bank asked Mr J to provide some supporting evidence, which it received on 
5 July 2021. However, when it reviewed the evidence, it chose not to raise a chargeback. It 
wrote to Mr J on 16 July 2021 to say:
under Mastercard regulations we would be unable to assist you with this dispute 
due to the terms and conditions of the sale.
Mr J then wrote to Metro Bank to complain about its decision and, understandably, the letter
hed received, which didnt adequately explain why it couldnt do more.
In reply, Metro Bank explained that it chose not to raise a chargeback because Mr J had 
completed part of the course. It said that as A had provided the service hed paid for, it didnt 
think it had grounds to pursue a chargeback under Mastercards rules.
Mr J then referred his complaint to our service.
One of our investigators didnt think Metro Bank had acted unfairly given the evidence 
provided.
Mr J asked that an ombudsman make a final decision.
I issued a provisional decision on 14 October 2022, which included the following provisional 
findings:
A chargeback is a way for a debit card provider to reclaim money from the suppliers bank 
when a consumer doesnt get the goods or services he paid for. It isnt a legal right and 
theres no guarantee the card provider will be able to recover the money this way. The 
process is subject to the rules of the scheme  which, in this case, are set by Mastercard  
and a strict criteria and time limits apply.
The card provider isnt required to initiate a chargeback just because the consumer asks it to 
 but I think its good practice for one to be attempted when theres a reasonable prospect of 
success.
Mr J is clearly very unhappy with A and the course set up. However, I can only look at 
whether Metro Bank acted fairly when he asked it to raise a chargeback. This means I must 
first decide whether I think Metro Bank should have raised a chargeback. And, if I think it 
should have, I must then decide whether I think the chargeback would have been 
successful.
I think Metro Bank should have raised a chargeback for the simple reason that it said it 
would.
When Mr J called Metro Bank on 17 June 2021, after hed accurately explained what had 
happened, the Metro Bank employee said:
Well contest this transaction with the merchant. Well present your cover letter, and 
all the email evidence you sent to them and stuff like that, and see what we can do to 
help.
I can see why Mr J was frustrated and disappointed to receive a letter a month later from 
Metro Bank saying it wouldnt do this, especially as the letter didnt really explain why.
Put simply, when a debit card provider says it will contest a transaction, and the consumer 
provides the evidence thats requested, it should do just that. At the very least, if it 
subsequently decides not to, it should clearly explain why.
That said, in this case, I think its unlikely the chargeback would have been successful. Ill 
explain why.
Its clear from the evidence Ive seen and Mr Js own testimony that he agreed to a 3-day 
condensed course, even if reluctantly. And its on this basis that I must consider his 
complaint.
The applicable terms and conditions say:
6.2a The minimum course length of a C or C+E course is 16 hours including the time 
whilst on test, which could be run between two and six days.
6.2b A training day can start at various times throughout the day, a days training on 
a 1:1 basis is 4 hours and a days training on a 2:1 basis is 8 hours. The trainee is 
responsible for making sure they are available for all training time as required, any 
missed time due to trainee availability will be forfeited.
6.2c Your course may be run on a 1:1 or 2:1 basis. We reserve the right to arrange 
your training on either basis without notifying you in advance. If you specifically require 1:1 or 2:1 training, please let us know and well do our best to allocate you to 
a suitable course if it is operationally viable to do so.
Mr J says he had six hours of training on the first day and would therefore have needed to 
drive for 10 hours on day 2.
Mr J says his instructor told him on day 1 that he could come in at 6am on day 2 but that he 
had a test booked for someone else at 9.45am. Mr J says it was unacceptable to expect him 
to travel to and from the training location, drive for ten hours, and wait for up to 2 and a half 
hours in between  and then take a test the next morning. Mr J says a qualified HGV driver 
must rest for 11 hours a day. And he says as his return journey on day 2 would have been at 
least 75 minutes, what A expected him to do was dangerous, unfair, illegal, and morally 
wrong. He says that when he agreed to a 3-day condensed course, he was told his test 
would be at a later date.
Metro Bank could have initiated a chargeback on the basis that the goods or services [were] 
not provided or the goods or services were either not as described or defective. (It would 
have had to choose from a list of reason codes, and I think these two are the most 
appropriate in this case.)
A's bank would then have been notified and A would have had the chance to review and 
defend the claim. Based on the correspondence Ive seen between Mr J and A, I think its
likely A would have defended the claim.
When Mr J complained on 9 and 10 June 2021, A replied on 10 June 2021 to say hed still 
receive 16 hours in total for the course. This is what I expect it would have said if Metro Bank 
had initiated the chargeback on the basis that the service was not provided.
If, alternatively, Metro Bank had used the other reason code on the basis that Mr J was 
purportedly misled about the course, I think A would have:
referred to the email it sent Mr J in April 2021, which he got before he agreed to the 
3-day condensed course and which explicitly said hed get 16 hours including test;
referred to its terms and conditions, which also say hed get 16 hours including the 
time on test;
maintained that Mr J would have received 16 hours; and,
repeated what it said in an email it sent Mr J on 10 June 2021, which said: None of 
our advisors would have stated that you would receive a 4-day course with a test 
booked on a later date as this is not a service we have ever offered.
As the 16 hours included time on test, I dont agree that Mr J needed to drive for 10 hours 
on day 2. If the test takes two hours, he would have only needed to drive for 8 hours on 
day 2. And A may have included some training time on day 3 before the test.
Therefore, on the face of it, I think A would have been able to defend a chargeback  
irrespective of the reason code used.
And, on the evidence Ive seen so far, I cant say that, had Metro Bank escalated the dispute 
and asked Mastercard to make a final decision, its more likely than not that Mastercard 
would have determined the dispute in Mr Js favour. I say this because its not clear to me 
that it would have considered Mr Js concerns about safety, fairness, and lawfulness.
All things considered, Im currently minded to tell Metro Bank to pay Mr J £100 to 
compensate him for the inconvenience and upset caused by the fact it didnt do what it said it would do. But as I dont think the chargeback would have been successful, Im not 
currently minded to tell it to pay more.
Metro Bank has confirmed that its received my provisional decision. It says it has nothing to 
add.
Mr J disagrees with my provisional decision. Ive summarised and addressed his points 
below.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In reply to my provisional decision, Mr J says he was utterly mis-sold and deceived  and 
doesnt see how anyone could think this course was sold fairly or that he received anything 
like what hed paid for.
Mr J says it was totally unfair for A to try to make him cram in those hours and wait about 
for the instructor. He says if those hours are acceptable, then qualified HGV drivers would 
be allowed to do them too. And he says he had the right to refuse the course on the grounds 
of what is right and what is safe.
Mr J doesnt accept my provisional findings that he wouldnt have had to drive for ten hours 
on day 2. He says: The test does not count as training, its a test and all I was told was we 
will have a quick warm up before.
He says its absolutely disgraceful that Im only minded to tell Metro Bank to pay him £100 
when I know he paid a lot more for the course.
Ive carefully considered Mr Js comments. However, they havent changed my mind.
First, in my provisional decision, I said Mr J wouldnt have had to drive for ten hours on day 2 
because the course was 16 hours including time on test. I accept that the test is not 
training. But the course wasnt 16 hours of training  it was 16 hours in total. My findings 
reflect both the contract and the correspondence Mr J received from A before he agreed to 
the 3-day condensed course.
Second, I think Metro Bank should pay Mr J £100 because it didnt do what it said it would 
do  it has nothing to do with the amount he paid for the course.
Finally, its clear how strongly Mr J feels about the course and how he was treated by A. The 
other points hes made are the same as those he made when he referred his complaint to 
our service  and which I considered before I issued my provisional decision. To be clear, its 
not that Mr J doesnt have an arguable case against A. Its simply that, as I explained in my 
provisional decision, I think its unlikely a chargeback would have been successful. This 
reflects the limitations of the chargeback scheme and the nature of Mr Js concerns.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given, I uphold this complaint and direct Metro Bank PLC to pay Mr J 
£100.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr J to accept or 
reject my decision before 29 November 2022.
 
Christopher Reeves
Ombudsman