DRN-4386405
The complaint
Mr and Mrs W complain about how Great Lakes Insurance SE handled their travel 
insurance policy. Reference to Great Lakes includes its agents.   
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here in full. In summary, in May 2022, Mr and Mrs W took out an annual travel insurance 
policy underwritten by Great Lakes. Mr W declared three medical conditions
On 18 January 2023, Mr W had eye surgery for a detached retina. On 19 January 2023, 
Mr W phoned Great Lakes to tell it about the procedure. Great Lakes told Mr W that the 
procedure hed had wasnt on its list of acceptable procedures and that meant that all of 
Mr Ws pre-existing conditions wouldnt be covered under the policy. Great Lakes said 
that Mr W could cancel his trip and make a claim for cancellation, cancel the policy and 
have a pro rata refund or continue to travel in the knowledge that his pre-existing 
medical conditions were no longer covered. 
I understand that on 25 January 2023, Mr W had post operative checks. The consultant 
discharged Mr W and told him he was fit to fly. Mr and Mrs W took out a new annual 
travel insurance policy with another insurer. On 1 February 2023, Mr W cancelled his 
policy with Great Lakes and received a pro rata refund of £338.55. Mr and Mrs W 
travelled as planned on 5 February 2023.  
Mr and Mrs W say that Great Lakes was wrong to conclude that it wouldnt cover Mr Ws 
pre-existing conditions. He says that a proportionate response would have been to 
exclude claims arising from his eye surgery and not to exclude cover for his previously 
declared and accepted pre-existing conditions. Mr W says that he was worried hed be 
uninsured and that they had to cancel a perfectly acceptable policy. Mr and Mrs W 
complain about how Great Lakes handled the complaint in that it withdrew the offer to 
talk to Mr W about the matter. They want Great Lakes to acknowledge its errors and pay 
compensation of £200 in relation to their inconvenience and worry.
In response to Mr and Mrs Ws complaint, Great Lakes said that it had made an error in 
its final response to Mr W in that it referred to Mr W waiting for surgery when in fact he 
was waiting to be discharged from post operative checks. But it said that it had 
responded correctly to the new medical information provided by Mr W. And it had offered 
to update the policy once Mr W had undergone post operative checks and before         
Mr and Mrs Ws trip on 5 February 2023. 
One of our investigators looked at what had happened. He said that this service cant 
consider complaints about complaint handling, as its not a regulated activity but that he 
could consider the other parts of the complaint. 
The investigator said that Great Lakes made an error as retinal detachment is on its list 
of acceptable medical conditions. He said that Great Lakes now acknowledges that it 
should have referred Mr Ws case for assessment and its likely than it would have 
continued to offer cover. The investigator also said that Great Lakes made an error in its 
final response letter in that it referred to Mr W waiting for surgery whereas he was 
waiting for discharge from pre-operative checks. He thought that fair compensation in 
this case was £200 in relation to Mr and Mrs Ws distress and inconvenience. 
Great Lakes said that it mainly agreed with the investigators view but didnt agree that 
compensation of £200 was fair. The investigator considered what Great Lakes said but 
didnt change his view. Great Lakes asked that an ombudsman consider the complaint, 
so it was passed to me to decide.    
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
the relevant terms and conditions
The starting point is the terms and conditions of the policy, the relevant parts of which say  
as follows:
Changes to your health after purchasing your policy
If after you purchase your policy, or before booking any new trips, any of the following 
happens:
you are diagnosed with a new medical condition
your doctor, or consultant changes your prescribed medication
you receive inpatient medical treatment
you are now awaiting a diagnosis, investigation, test results or medical treatment
then you must contact Staysure Customer Services. A member of the team will ask you 
specific questions about your medical condition(s).
This may result in an additional premium to allow cover to continue, to add additional  
Terms and Conditions to your policy or to exclude cover for the newly diagnosed condition or 
for the condition that has undergone significant change.
If we are unable to continue to provide cover, or if you do not wish to pay the additional 
premium you will be entitled to make a claim under Section 1 (Cancellation) for costs which 
cannot be recovered elsewhere for trips booked prior to the change in health.
Alternatively, you will be entitled to cancel your policy, in which case, we will refund a 
proportionate amount of your premium.
Please note that your doctor, or consultant telling you that you are not well enough to 
travel does not mean that you will be covered for your pre-existing medical condition(s). []Medical Declaration
[]
One of the following can be covered as standard if you are either awaiting a procedure, or 
have not been fully signed off from all post-procedure follow ups providing you are not 
travelling against your UK doctors advice. This must be accepted by Staysure and shown on 
your Validation Certificate and an additional premium may be required.
[]
Retinal detachment (no blurriness and not flying within 60 days)
[]
Where you have not been signed off from all post-procedure, or treatment follow-ups.
For the procedures listed on the previous page full cover will be provided except for medical 
and repatriation expenses arising as a result of, or related to the procedure you are awaiting 
to be signed off from. []
It is a condition of this policy that should you be awaiting sign-off from the follow-ups relating 
to any of the procedures listed above that:
1. All surgical stitches have fully healed and no longer require dressing
2. All external stitches, sutures, or staples have been removed
3. There have been no complications, or infections after having had the procedure
4. Your mobility is no worse than it was before you had the procedure
5. You obtain a letter from your GP (doctor) confirming that you are medically fit enough to 
undertake this trip
6. You understand that this policy will not cover the cost of any follow-ups required during 
the insured trip.
has Great Lakes acted unfairly or unreasonably?
I uphold Mr and Mrs Ws complaint and Ill explain why:
Its  now common ground that Great Lakes made an error following Mr Ws disclosure 
of his surgery. Great Lakes has acknowledged that its usual process broke down and 
that Mr Ws case should have been referred for assessment. It says that if that had 
happened, its more likely than not that cover would have continued. I think thats a 
reasonable conclusion as retinal detachment is one of the medical conditions      
Great Lakes is willing to cover. 
As a result of Great Lakes error, Mr and Mrs W were worried about Mr Ws  
insurance cover in relation to their imminent trip. This was no doubt already a 
worrying time, as Mr W was recovering from surgery. Mr and Mrs W had to act swiftly 
to ensure that Mr W had cover for their trip. They were put to unnecessary trouble 
following the cancellation of their policy with Great Lakes and they had to arrange 
cover elsewhere shortly before their planned trip. 
As the investigator explained, we cant consider the concerns about Great Lakes 
withdrawal of the offer to speak with Mr W about the complaint, as thats not a 
regulated activity. But we can consider Mr and Mrs Ws concerns about the content 
of Great Lakes final response letter, as that was a continuation of the provision of the 
underlying financial service and the expected customer service associated with it. 
Great Lakes made an error in the final response letter in that it referred to Mr W 
waiting for surgery when that wasnt in fact the case. I think that caused further 
confusion.  The remaining issue for me to decide is the fair level of compensation for                  
Mr and Mrs Ws distress and inconvenience in this case. Considering everything, I 
think that compensation of £200 is fair and reasonable. In reaching that view, Ive 
taken into account the nature, extent and duration of the distress and inconvenience 
caused to Mr and Mrs W as a result of Great Lakes errors in this case. 
Putting things right
In order to put things right, Great Lakes should pay Mr and Mrs W compensation of £200 in 
relation to their distress and inconvenience.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint. Great Lakes Insurance SE should now take 
the step Ive set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs W and Mr W 
to accept or reject my decision before 15 November 2023.
 
Louise Povey
Ombudsman