DRN-3396510
The complaint
Mr A has complained that Santander UK Plc didnt alert him about payments made by 
someone hed given use of his account.
What happened
In December 2020, a series of payments were made to an online merchant using Mr As 
card details and 3DSecure verification. These put his account into an unarranged overdraft 
of around £800.
A few days later, Mr A called Santander and was told about the overdraft. He didnt 
recognise the payments, but said he wasnt the only one who uses his card, so hed check 
with the other people who hed given access to his account. He later clarified that it was a 
family member whod made the payments.
Mr A complained. He felt Santander should have alerted him to the spending or asked him to 
verify the transactions, and shouldnt have put him in an unarranged overdraft. Santander 
said they didnt stop the payments because they didnt have sufficient security concerns, and 
the account went into an overdraft because more had been spent than was in the account. 
As the overdraft was unarranged, Santander didnt add any charges or fees on top.
Our investigator looked into things independently and didnt uphold the complaint. Mr A 
didnt agree, so the complaints been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I should first explain that, broadly speaking, Santander are only responsible for 
unauthorised payments  payments which were not made by Mr A, nor by someone who 
hed given permission to use his account. Santander are not responsible for authorised 
payments  payments made by Mr A or by someone who hed shared his account with.
Similarly, Santanders security systems are broadly there to detect fraudulent, unauthorised 
payments. Theyre not there to stop payments made by Mr A or by people who Mr A willingly 
shared his account with  even if the system stops genuine payments like that sometimes by 
mistake.
So it would be one thing if these payments were made by a fraudster whod got hold of 
Mr As security details without his consent or via a scam. But thats not the case here. The 
payments in question were not unauthorised or fraudulent. They were made by someone 
who Mr A had given use of his account.
I can see no good reason to say that Santander needed to have blocked these payments. 
They were made using Mr As genuine details, from an IP address Mr A normally used, to a 
merchant who hed used before, and they were verified by 3DSecure. And, again, they were 
not unauthorised or fraudulent, they were made by someone whod been given use of the 
account by the authorised accountholder.
Mr A pointed out that Santander have flagged up genuine payments in the past. But while 
I can understand why he thought to bring that up, it still doesnt mean that Santander had 
any requirement to stop these payments. I cant see that they did anything wrong by letting 
these transactions through  they were properly-authorised payments.
I also understand Mr As concern about an overdraft being created when hed not previously 
agreed to one. But that can and does happen when a customer spends more money than is 
in the account  these are known as unarranged overdrafts, and are allowed. Santander 
were not required to block genuine spending just because it would create an overdraft. And 
Im afraid that customers do have a responsibility to make sure that theres enough money in 
their account to cover their spending or the spending of someone they give use of their 
account. If its any consolation, I can see that Santander did not add any interest or fees for 
this unarranged overdraft.
Taking everything into account, I cant see that Santander got things wrong here.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I dont uphold Mr As complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision before 11 May 2022.
 
Adam Charles
Ombudsman