DRN-3794890
The complaint
Mr R complains about the fees charged by Bennetts Motorcycling Services Limited trading 
as Bennetts when he cancelled a motorcycle insurance policy. 
Mr Rs also unhappy that an outstanding debt related to these fees was passed to a debt 
collection agency, and the lack of a response when he complained about the fees.
What happened
Mr R insured a motorcycle on a policy arranged with Bennetts. During the course of the 
period of cover, Mr R decided to cancel the policy and contacted Bennetts to do so. Bennetts 
responded to say that the policy had been cancelled, but that £40.03 was payable.
Mr R queried this, and requested a breakdown of how this amount had been calculated. He 
says in doing so, he was making a complaint. Bennetts responded to Mr R, providing a 
breakdown of the fees involved. Bennetts passed the outstanding amount to a debt recovery 
agency.
Mr R emailed Bennetts around two weeks later, saying hed had no acknowledgement of his 
complaint. Bennetts acknowledged, and subsequently rejected, his complaint.
Mr R referred his complaint to our service. Our investigator thought Bennetts had acted 
fairly. Mr R didnt agree and asked for an ombudsmans decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
When Mr R took out the policy, he was provided with the terms and conditions of the policy, 
which included details of the fees payable for cancellations and amendments. Of relevance 
to this complaint, the terms and conditions say If either you or we cancel at any time after 
the first 14 days, we will charge a fee of £50.00. Im satisfied this condition was clearly 
stated in the documentation provided to Mr R. The condition isnt ambiguous or unclear, and 
plainly states the £50 charge will apply. Theres no suggestion of any exceptions to this, or 
that the amount will be reduced depending on the circumstances.
Mr R believes the cancellation fee of £50 is disproportionate. In an email to Bennetts, he 
said three times the monthly fee is not a reasonable charge, particularly if its a nonsensical 
admin fee that youre justifying with a minimum-wage administrator having to click a few 
buttons.
The £50 cancellation fee is the same irrespective of the premium, or how that premium is 
paid. This is what Id expect to see  it isnt reasonable to have a higher charge for a more 
expensive policy as the work which is required to cancel a policy is the same regardless of 
the premium.
Im also satisfied the £50 cancellation fee is a fair reflection of the work required to cancel 
the policy. Cancelling the policy involves a number of tasks, including the updating of the 
policy details on systems, calculating the appropriate refunds or further payments due and 
contacting the policyholder. Insurers cant use the cancellation fee to profit, but I think the 
£50 charged here is reasonable in the circumstances. The fee isnt disproportionate and is in 
line with the amount typically charged by insurers when a policy is cancelled.
Bennetts initially responded to Mr Rs request to cancel the policy, confirming this had been 
done and that an outstanding amount of £40.03 was due. Mr R responded, asking for a 
breakdown and disputing the amount due. A full breakdown of the costs hed paid, and the 
costs incurred was provided, showing how the £40.03 figure had been reached. Im satisfied 
Bennetts provided a suitable breakdown of the amounts, which detailed how theyd been 
calculated and why Mr R owed the amount in question. 
Mr Rs also unhappy Bennetts passed the debt onto a recovery agency. I understand why 
hed be concerned about this but Bennetts has said that where an outstanding amount 
hasnt been paid within 7 days, its process is to refer it to a debt recovery agency. Our 
service wont usually tell a financial business how it should operate or what processes it 
should follow to recover debts.
I can understand Bennetts reasons for passing debts to a recovery agency, as it removes 
the need for them to use their own resources for that task. Bennetts passed the debt to the 
recovery agency when Mr R didnt pay the outstanding amount and had been provided a 
breakdown of the costs. Im satisfied it acted reasonably in doing so.
Mr R also says that when he complained about the outstanding amount being requested, he 
didnt receive any acknowledgement of his complaint until he chased it more than two weeks 
later.
Ive looked at the email exchange between Mr R and Bennetts around the outstanding 
amount and fees. Im satisfied that Bennetts response to the email from Mr R was 
reasonable. While its clear from the content of the email that hes disputing whether its fair 
for Bennetts to say he owes £40.03, he asks in the email for a breakdown of the costs, and 
that hed like to contest any fee that is disproportionate. He also said he wanted an apology 
for the blas way in which this has been administered.
In its response, Bennetts apologised for any distress and inconvenience caused. It also 
provided a full breakdown of the costs and invited Mr R to contact its customer services 
department if he wanted to discuss the matter further. I think from the content of Mr Rs 
email, and the response from Bennetts, it was fair for Bennetts to conclude it had responded 
to the points made by Mr R and if he wanted to further dispute the outstanding amount or 
how it had been calculated Bennetts had explained how he could do so. I think it acted 
reasonably in not treating Mr Rs email as a complaint.
Once Mr R responded further, saying his complaint hadnt been acknowledged, Bennetts did 
so. It also provided its response to the complaint within a few days. The rules about how 
insurers handle complaints say that a final response needs to be issued within eight weeks 
of the complaint being made, at which point the complainant can refer their complaint to our 
service. Theres no dispute that Bennetts response was issued within eight weeks, 
regardless of whether the complaint is considered to have been made when Mr R sent his 
first email, or his second email more than two weeks later.
Im satisfied Bennetts responses and the actions it took in response to Mr Rs emails were 
reasonable.My final decision
Its my final decision not to uphold this complaint. I dont require Bennetts Motorcycling 
Services Limited trading as Bennetts to do anything further.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision before 9 December 2022.
 
Ben Williams
Ombudsman