DRN-3219214
The complaint
This is a complaint that Yorkshire Building Society mis-sold Mrs and Mr B 
payment protection insurance (PPI).
What happened
This complaint is about a monthly premium PPI policy taken out with a mortgage in 1999.
Our adjudicator said the complaint shouldnt be upheld. Mrs and Mr B disagreed and so 
the complaint was passed to me. I reached the same overall conclusion as the 
adjudicator, but I wanted to explain my thinking about some of the evidence, and to give 
everyone the chance to comment before I considered a final decision. So I wrote a 
provisional decision. This is what I said:
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide 
whats fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our 
website and Ive taken this into account in deciding this case.
Mrs and Mr B have said that Yorkshire presented the mortgage and PPI as a 
package, and told them there was no choice  they had to take PPI if they wanted 
the mortgage. This was despite the fact that Mr B was already covered by a 
standalone PPI policy  and this was provided by the same insurance company as 
the one offered by Yorkshire. Because Yorkshire was the only company offering 
the type of mortgage they wanted, Mrs and Mr B felt they had no choice. They 
contacted the insurer and cancelled the insurance, and they set up the new policy 
through Yorkshire. Mr B says he would be prepared to swear on oath that they 
were not given a choice.
One problem I have is that this all happened about 20 years ago, and its quite 
possible that someone wouldnt remember the full detail and context of something 
that long ago. So it might not be fair to rely just on what Mrs and Mr B now recall, 
even though I do not doubt that they are giving a true account of what they do 
remember.
Mr B is effectively saying it is implausible that he would contact the insurer to 
cancel a cheaper policy, just to take out a similar policy with the same insurer, for 
a higher price.
Mr B has sent us evidence to show that his original policy, which started in [1997] 
was £24.99 per month and gave a benefit of £475 per month if there was a 
successful claim.  But the one taken out through Yorkshire, starting in 1999, cost 
£28.96 with a monthly benefit of £500.
Put like that, he is making a very reasonable point. However, there is an 
alternative explanation for why Mrs and Mr B may have wanted to change the 
policy. Although the one through Yorkshire was about £4 a month more expensive, 
it was free for the first six months (this is shown in the documents from the time). 
So, over the free period, Mrs and Mr B would have saved about £100 - £125 (if 
you take into account the overlap between the new policy starting and the other 
one being cancelled). And, although costing £4 more, the terms of the new PPI 
were slightly better  there was the small increase in cover, but also a claim could 
be made after 30 days rather than the 60 days in the previous policy.
As Mrs and Mr B already knew they could set up their own PPI (as they had in 
[1997]) its quite possible they would have decided to take advantage of the 
six-month free offer and consider shopping around again later.
This means there are two possible explanations for what happened. And this 
leaves me considering how far I can rely on the accuracy of what Mrs and Mr B 
now remember for their motivations in cancelling the other policy. And its a long-
established principle that someone (or an organisation) accused of wrongdoing 
doesnt normally have to prove that their innocence. Instead there needs to be 
good evidence that they probably did do something wrong. And I dont see that I 
have such evidence to show Yorkshire probably said the PPI was compulsory.
Also, even if I did decide to uphold this case, I would have to look at how much 
Mrs and Mr B actually lost out. They clearly wanted to have PPI, as they had 
already taken out a standalone policy about a year earlier, and which they 
cancelled only when the Yorkshire one started. So its arguable that the 
potential loss they had was the increase in the premium cost only. And, in 
return for that additional premium cost, they received a slightly enhanced 
policy.
But, as Ive said, I dont currently have enough evidence to say they were told 
the PPI was compulsory.
It is possible that the Yorkshire adviser did strongly push the PPI  but this 
doesnt necessarily amount to a mis-sale. It isnt necessarily wrong to strongly set 
out the possible benefits of an insurance policy, even if the adviser is partly 
motivated by making a sale  as long as the policy is actually something worth 
having. The closer it gets to making someone feel they have no real sensible 
alternative to taking the policy, the less acceptable it is. But I cant be sure exactly 
what was said.
Ive thought about other ways that the PPI might have been mis-sold, but I dont 
think they apply:
Mr B (the person covered) was eligible for the policy, so would have been 
able to make a claim if the need arose.
Yorkshire appears to have explained the cost, so Mrs and Mr B knew 
what theyd be paying.
Its possible Yorkshire didnt clearly point out the main things the policy 
didnt cover. But its unlikely Mr B would have been affected by any of 
these.
Although my current view is that the PPI wasnt mis-sold, Yorkshire has paid 
back some of the cost of the PPI to Mrs and Mr B because:Yorkshire got a high level of commission and profit share (more 
than 50% of the PPI premium) - so it should have told Mrs and 
Mr B about that. Because Yorkshire didnt tell Mrs and Mr B, that 
was unfair.
To put that right, Yorkshire has paid back the amount of 
commission and profit share that was above 50% of the PPI 
premium - and I think that is fair in this case.
Mrs and Mr B said they didnt agree with me. Their comments included that:
I had set out hypothetical scenarios which I had chosen to believe.
They had not been given a choice about taking the PPI. 
They were not told about the commission. 
To avoid the risk of losing continuity of cover, Mrs and Mr B had had to agree with 
the insurer to accept a reduced level of cover (that of the old policy) in the event of 
a claim. Thus, if they had needed to make a claim, the reduced pay-out could have 
negated the savings they made from the six month premium-free period when they 
switched to the Yorkshire policy. 
I was wrong to say their recollection of events may have changed since the 
meeting when the PPI was sold, as Mr B remembers it very clearly. He says his 
memory of it is closely linked with that of being told he had been made redundant 
just after. 
It is wrong to say that Yorkshire does not have to prove it didnt do something 
wrong. There are some situations where there is a positive duty for someone to 
prove that they did take a certain action required by regulations. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In setting out possible alternative explanations for the change in the policies, I was 
explaining why I didnt accept that Mrs and Mr Bs explanation was the only plausible one. If 
their account of events had been the only plausible explanation, I might have upheld the 
complaint even without strong corroborating evidence. Even though Mrs and Mr B have 
explained how the insurer agreed to give them continuity of cover, albeit for the lower level of 
potential payout, this does still leave open the possibility that the move was made to save on 
premiums for six months. 
It is also very possible that Mrs and Mr B are recalling what happened exactly  and I do not 
doubt at all they are giving me an honest account. But I also know that it often isnt fair to 
rely only on what someone honestly recalls happening. Having looked at hundreds of 
complaints of historic PPI mis-selling, I have come to know that peoples honest recollections  
have sometimes been proved wrong  such as when they have been convinced they never 
signed an agreement, but for the documentary evidence to later come to light and the 
complainant to accept this. 
I was careful in my comments to say that someone doesnt normally have to prove they 
didnt do something wrong. I agree that there are sometimes legal and regulatory obligations to have taken certain steps. I dont see that there was such an obligation for Yorkshire to 
prove it had presented the PPI as a choice (although, if I thought it probably hadnt 
presented it as a choice, I would have regarded this as a mis-sale.) And, as I said, I dont 
have enough evidence to say that Yorkshire probably did present the PPI as compulsory. 
As I said in my provisional decision, Yorkshire has accepted that it must refund some of the 
commission. 
My final conclusion is that, for the reasons Ive given, Ive not found that the PPI was mis-
sold. 
My final decision
The PPI policy wasnt mis-sold  so Yorkshire Building Society does not have to pay back all 
of the cost of the PPI to Mrs and Mr B
But Yorkshire Building Society does have to pay back to Mrs and Mr B any commission and 
profit share it got that was more than 50% of the PPI premium. I understand it has already 
done this, and so Im not awarding any further compensation. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs B and Mr B to 
accept or reject my decision before 18 February 2022.
 
Timothy Bailey
Ombudsman