DRN-3712708
The complaint
B, a sports club, complains that Liberty Mutual Insurance Europe SE (Liberty) has declined a 
claim made under its Sports Combined Insurance Policy.
What happened
B has a Sports Combined Insurance Policy underwritten by Liberty. It covers, amongst other 
things, property damage.
In February 2022 fences enclosing Bs sports playing areas were damaged during a storm. B 
made a claim to Liberty.
Liberty declined the claim. They said Bs policy excluded damage caused to fences. B was 
unhappy with Libertys decision and approached this service.
One of our investigators considered the complaint and upheld it. In his view, Liberty had 
acted unfairly by declining the claim based on the policy exclusion. He said the exclusion 
only applied to movable fences, whereas Bs damaged fences were permanently fixed, so he 
said the exclusion didnt apply.
Therefore, the investigator said Liberty should reassess the claim in line with the remaining 
policy terms.
Liberty didnt agree and asked for a final decision from an ombudsman.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Bs Sports Combined Insurance Policy covers a number of defined perils under the property 
damage section of cover:
Defined Peril
Fire, lightning, explosion, aircraft or other aerial devices or articles dropped 
therefrom, riot, civil commotion, strikers, locked-out workers, persons taking part in 
labour disturbances, malicious persons, earthquake, storm, flood, escape of water or 
oil from any tank, apparatus, pipe or appliance, falling trees, underground fire and 
impact.
And B also has specific cover listed on the policy schedule for:
Buildings  Fencing with a sum insured of £57,500.
Bs permanently fixed fences enclosing its sports playing areas were damaged during high 
winds, so B made a claim for storm damage, which is one of the defined perils under the 
policy. Liberty declined the claim as they said the following exclusion applied:
Exclusions
The following exclusions apply to this Section and does not cover;
Damage caused by or consisting of:
O. movable property in the open including fences and gates caused by wind, rain, 
hail, sleet, snow, flood or dust; other than to Sightscreens and Scoreboards
Our investigator was of the view that the exclusion was specifically for movable property in 
the open, including, by extension of the wording, movable fences rather than permanently 
fixed fences. In contrast, Libertys position is that the policy exclusion excludes movable 
property, and separately, excludes fences, whether movable or not. 
Having considered the wording of the exclusion, and Libertys arguments in relation to the 
wording of the policy and exclusion, I dont agree with their position. Ill explain why. 
Reading the exclusion Liberty has relied on to decline the claim, my interpretation of it is that 
this exclusion excludes damage to movable property in the open. The key point of focus 
being movable property. And this then gives examples of movable property in the open 
which is excluded, including fences and gates. So, this implies, movable fences and gates in 
the open are excluded, rather than more broadly, any fences whether movable or not.
Liberty has said the policy intention is to exclude fences more generally whether movable or 
not and they say that is clear, but I dont agree based on the specific wording of the 
exclusion as outlined. 
Liberty has also referred to another part of the policy, which they say shows the intentions of 
the exclusion above and more general policy cover more broadly:
Playing Surfaces Extension
If stated as operative within the Schedule the insurance (sic) by this Section of this 
Policy includes Damage to playing surfaces caused by;
A. fire, lightning, aircraft, storm of flood; or
B. emergency services attending the Premises up to a maximum of GBP5,000 
any one Loss.
This Extension excludes Damage caused by:
A. frost or subsidence or ground heave or landslip
B. walls, fences or gates or movable property in the openHowever, this exclusion, whilst not relevant here as this isnt a claim for damage to the 
playing surfaces, is worded differently. This exclusion makes a distinction to exclude, more 
generally, damage caused to playing surfaces by fences. And it separates fences specifically 
from movable property in the open by the use of the word or. Therefore, fences and 
movable property in the open are clearly separated here, and damage caused by them to 
playing surfaces is excluded independently of each other - unlike the exclusion which Liberty 
has applied when declining Bs claim.
The policy wording needs to clearly explain what is excluded, rather than leave it to the 
policyholder to try to understand the intentions, whilst not specifically written, of the 
underwriters. 
The fences damaged during the winds are fixed, and the exclusion is worded to exclude 
movable property, and then gives examples of movable property which isnt covered. As the 
damaged fences here arent movable and are permanently fixed, I dont think Liberty has 
acted fairly or reasonably in declining the claim for fixed fences damage based on an 
exclusion relating to movable property, including movable fences, in the open.
With this in mind, its not fair or reasonable for Liberty to apply this exclusion to decline the 
claim, and they therefore need to reconsider Bs claim in line with the remaining policy terms.
My final decision
Its my final decision that I uphold this complaint and direct Liberty Mutual Insurance Europe 
SE to:
Reconsider Bs storm damage claim in line with the remaining policy terms
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask B to accept or 
reject my decision before 19 October 2022.
 
Callum Milne
Ombudsman