DRN-4276513
The complaint
Ms R complained that esure Insurance Limited, trading as Sheilas Wheels, delayed in 
reclaiming costs from the third party after shed had an accident.  This meant that the claim 
was still recorded as open on the CUE database when she had to renew her insurance  
which Ms R feels led to her being charged a much higher premium.
What happened
In autumn 2022, Ms Rs car was hit by another.  So she made a claim on her motor 
insurance policy for the damage that had been caused.   Esure deemed Ms Rs car a total 
loss and made her a cash settlement.    Ms R raised concerns about customer service 
during this process.  Esure upheld her complaints and made two payments of compensation 
totalling £100 for this.
Ms R replaced her car.  Her policy came up for renewal about four months later.  She was 
shocked to find her premium was about five times higher than it had been the previous year.  
When she asked the reason for this, she was told it was because the Claims and 
Underwriting Exchange (CUE) database showed the claim was still open.
Ms R was unhappy because esure hadnt pursued the third party for their costs and felt that 
this was why she had to pay a much higher premium.  She complained to esure.  In 
response, esure explained the claim was still open on CUE because they were trying to 
recover what theyd paid out from the third party.  They said CUE would be updated when 
that process was complete and Ms Rs insurer could review her premium at that time.
Ms R wasnt satisfied with esures response and brought her complaint to our service.  She 
was unhappy that esure hadnt contacted the third partys insurers until around the time her 
renewal was due and said that esure hadnt complied with their obligation to deal with claims 
promptly and fairly.
Our investigator considered the complaint and concluded esure didnt need to do any more 
to resolve it.  She accepted esure could have tried to recover their outlay earlier than they 
did.  But she noted that, by the time she delivered her view of the complaint, esure still 
hadnt made any recovery from the third party.  So she concluded that, even if theyd acted 
sooner it wasnt likely the CUE entries would have been different at Ms Rs renewal date.  
With Ms Rs authority, the investigator spoke to her current insurer, who confirmed they 
could recalculate the premium once the claim was closed and would issue any refund they 
calculated was due.
Ms R didnt agree with our investigators view.  So Ive been asked to make a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done that, Im not upholding Ms Rs complaint.  Ill explain why.
I note Ms Rs initial complaints were addressed and she was paid £100 compensation.  Her 
complaint to us has focused on what occurred after that.  So thats what my decision deals 
with.
I understand why Ms Rs frustrated.  Her car was written off in an accident in autumn 2022 
and esure paid her claim.  Its clear why she thought the matter was resolved, and why it 
was a shock to find the claim was still open on CUEs database several months after that.  
But I can only say esure should do more to resolve her complaint if Im satisfied they did 
something wrong  and that error had a negative impact on Ms R.
Ive considered the information available.  That shows esure inputted the details of their 
outlay into an industry database at the time of the claim.  But they didnt follow that up with 
the third party insurer until February.
Its obvious esure couldnt have submitted a claim to the third party immediately they were 
notified of the claim.  They first needed to assess the car, calculate its value, and settle.  But 
I agree with our investigator they could have followed up with the third party insurer some 
weeks earlier than they did.
But Im not persuaded that doing this would have meant Ms R was in a different position at 
the point she renewed her policy.  Shes made her own enquiries and established esure 
were reimbursed by the third party insurer 21 weeks after they contacted them in February 
2023.  Theres no evidence to show there was any delay in the reimbursement after 
February.
So I think its most likely recovery would have taken this long whenever it was requested.  
That means the claim would still have been recorded as open when Ms R had to renew her 
policy - and her premium would have reflected this.  
Im pleased to note esure have now recovered their outlay from the third party.  Theyve 
confirmed this is now recorded on CUE, so Ms R can seek a refund from her current insurer 
of any proportion of her premium attributable to the open claim.  But I dont think esure need 
to do anything further to resolve her complaint. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, Im not upholding Ms Rs complaint about esure Insurance 
Limited.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms R to accept or 
reject my decision before 10 November 2023.
 
Helen Stacey
Ombudsman