DRN-2907168
The complaint
Mr R is unhappy that when he applied for credit with Premium Credit Limited (Premium 
Credit), they left a footprint on his credit file while they carried out a credit file search.     
What happened
Mr R took out an insurance policy with a company Ill refer to as C. Mr R financed his 
insurance premiums for this insurance policy through a credit agreement with Premium 
Credit. In November 2020, Premium Credit left a footprint on his credit file when they carried 
out a credit file search. He is unhappy because if he had been specifically informed that a 
hard search would have been recorded on his credit file with Credit Reference Agencies 
(CRAs) at the time of application for the credit, he said he wouldve gone with an alternative 
provider, that would have completed a soft search only. He said that a soft search wouldnt 
have negatively impacted his credit score, but it wouldve been enough for them to perform 
their affordability, anti-money laundering, ID and fraud checks. 
Also, Mr R said that terms and conditions he has been provided with dont explain that a 
hard search will be completed, and only that a credit check will be done. So, he said that he 
assumed this wouldve been a soft search, as is common practise for the type of financing 
he was taking out. He said that his policy premiums were for a low amount so he wouldnt 
expect a hard credit search to be completed. He would like Premium Credit to remove the 
hard search from his credit file, because he says he now has a lower credit score which 
could limit his ability to apply for future credit; if or when he may need to apply.
In February 2021, Premium Credit wrote to Mr R. In this correspondence, they explained that 
the broker that arranged the credit, wouldve advised him that Premium Credit will carry out 
searches and this will appear on his credit file. In this correspondence they also said that as 
a business regulated by the Financial Conduct Authority, they must ensure that they are 
lending to their customers responsibly, therefore, the searches they carry out, will allow them 
to reach a decision on whether they should or shouldnt lend. 
Premium Credit said that Mr R was provided with their credit agreement which he signed. 
They said the agreement sets out how they use his data, including information relating to the 
credit reference agencies. So, they said they didnt uphold Mr Rs complaint, and dont think 
they should remove the search from his credit file. 
Mr R was unhappy that Premium Credit refused to remove the search from his credit file, so 
he brought his complaint to this service. 
Our investigator thought the complaint shouldnt be upheld. 
Mr R disagreed with the investigator. 
So, the complaint has been passed to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In considering what is fair and reasonable, I need to take into account the relevant rules, 
guidance, good industry practice, the law and, where appropriate, what would be considered 
to have been good industry practice at the relevant time.
Where evidence is unclear or in dispute, I reach my findings on the balance of probabilities  
which is to say, what I consider most likely to have happened, based on the evidence 
available and the surrounding circumstances.
I also want to acknowledge that Ive summarised the events of the complaint. But I want to
assure Mr R and Premium Credit that Ive reviewed everything on file. And if I dont comment
on something, its not because I havent considered it. Its because Ive concentrated on
what I think are the key issues. Our powers allow me to do this.
Premium Credit provided our service with information that Mr R wouldve been given by the 
broker who arranged the credit for his insurance policy. This says: Your credit agreement is 
provided by Premium Credit Limited. It provides finance for your [name of business] 
Insurance Policy. We will share your name, risk address, email and other personal data with 
Premium Credit Limited who require this to carry out anti money laundering checks and 
credit underwriting to assess creditworthiness and affordability. Details of the search will 
appear on your credit file.. 
Ive also seen that the credit agreement from Premium Credit, which was signed by Mr R, 
says: by entering into this Agreement you agree that we may: (a)search your records at 
CRAs when you first enter into this Agreement and periodically during the term of this 
Agreement such as if you apply to increase the credit amount. These searches will tell us 
about your credit history. When the CRAs receive a search from us they will place a footprint 
on your credit file and in this way they will add to their record about you details of our search 
which will be seen by other organisations making searches (for example, other lenders or 
providers of credit). These details will be used by those other organisations when assessing 
your applications for credit. Credit searches and other personal information about you which 
we provide to the CRAs will be used by the CRAs and shared with those other organisations 
to trace your whereabouts, recover debts that you owe and to verify your identity. Records 
remain on file at the CRAs for 6 years after they are closed, whether settled by you or 
defaulted. 
I think that it is not disputed that Mr R was provided with the above information before he 
entered into the credit agreement with Premium Credit. And, I think this information made it 
clear enough that this kind of search will form part of his application process. Also, it is 
generally accepted that an application for credit may leave a footprint on a credit file. 
Even if this wasnt the case, Ive not be presented with any evidence that this affected Mr R
adversely. I know that Mr R says that his credit score has been negatively impacted, and I 
can see that one of the CRAs on their website explains that too many hard credit checks 
over a short period of time can affect a credit score for six months. But, I have to consider 
that any subsequent declined applications for credit would be because of decisions made by 
a prospective lender. Those lenders will decide themselves how to interpret the information 
that is present on his credit file, and each lender has their own criteria for this. New 
applications for credit could be declined or accepted for any number of reasons, and I dont 
have a way of knowing what bearing the search in question will, or will not, have on such a 
decision. Also Ive not been presented with any evidence which would show that Mr R has 
suffered a financial loss due to the actions of Premium Credit. And, I cant comment and take into consideration what might happen, as we consider each complaint on its own merits and 
based on its own specific set of circumstances.
Ive also taken into consideration that lenders are usually required to perform financial 
checks to ensure that a borrower is able to sustainably repay any credit that is granted. And 
it is not unreasonable for lenders to use a credit reference agency to conduct a hard search 
of a prospective borrowers credit file. This can happen as long as the creditor obtained the 
borrowers permission to access their personal information  and Im satisfied that Premium 
Credit have done so in this case.
I understand that Mr R feels strongly that a hard search has not been mentioned 
specifically, and he says had he been made aware of this, he wouldve gone with a different 
provider. But I think that the terms and conditions of his credit agreement do state that a 
footprint will be placed on his credit file, and they do also say that: For full details about our 
sharing of your personal information with the credit reference agencies (CRAs) please 
contact us (details below)., so I dont think it wouldve been unreasonable for him to clarify 
what type of search will be completed prior to entering into this particular credit agreement, if 
this was so important to him.
So overall, while he has my sympathy, Im very sorry to disappoint Mr R but on this occasion 
my decision is that Im not asking Premium Credit to take any further action.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision before 25 October 2021.
 
Mike Kozbial
Ombudsman