DRN-3339518
The complaint
Mrs M complains Lloyds Bank PLC wont reimburse funds she lost when she fell victim 
to a scam.
What happened
Mrs M was attracted to an investment opportunity which appeared to be endorsed by a 
well-known celebrity. The investment was with a trader known as BrokerZ which turned 
out to be a scammer.
Below is a table of the transactions in dispute, which also attracted a foreign transaction fee:
Date Merchant Amount
30 January 2019 FBX*Buysmartbits £243.58
30 January 2019 FBX*Buysmartbits £2,653.88
20 February 2019 FBX*Buysmartbits £4,381.54
total £7,017.42
Mrs M raised a chargeback claim through Lloyds as she didnt receive the service expected. 
Lloyds declined to raise a chargeback as the party she paid was a money exchange service, 
which provide the service requested.
Not happy with that Mrs M referred the matter to our service. Ultimately, our investigator 
upheld the complaint  he was satisfied Lloyds hadnt acted unfairly in relation to the 
chargeback as Mrs M hadnt provided evidence of an available withdrawal balance, but he 
did think it ought to have intervened when Mrs M made her final payment. And had it done, 
he believes Mrs M would have been able to provide the information necessary to meet any 
chargeback requirements for the first two payments. He therefore asked Lloyds to reimburse 
the transactions in full and add interest.
Lloyds didnt agree and asked for the matter to be referred to an ombudsman.
I issued my provisional decision on 3 February 2022, explaining why I wasnt minded to 
uphold this complaint. I agreed Lloyds didnt do anything wrong in relation to the chargeback, 
and I didnt think any of the transactions were unusual and/or uncharacteristic such that I felt 
Lloyds ought to have intervened. 
Lloyds confirmed it didnt have anything further to add. We havent heard from Mrs M, 
although we have emailed her twice to ensure she received my provisional decision and to 
query if she had any further submissions. Its now appropriate to move to this complaint to 
the final stage of our process. 
As neither party has provided any further evidence or arguments for me to consider, I see no 
reason to depart from my provisional findings. I therefore make them final below. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
A chargeback is a voluntary scheme run by card scheme providers  in this case, Visa. It 
arbitrates on disputes between a customer and a merchant where they havent been able to 
resolve matters themselves. The arbitration process is subject to the rules of the scheme  
which are set by Visa  and there are only limited grounds on which a chargeback can be 
raised. Chargebacks raised outside of these grounds are deemed invalid.
Mrs M was dealing with a trader known as BrokerZ. Given the information we know about 
them, Im satisfied she has fallen victim to a scam, rather than simply losing money as a 
result of a high-risk investment. But she never made the payments to BrokerZ; she paid 
Buysmartbits. This is important; Lloyds was only able to chargeback against the party she 
paid, not another party.
Its my understanding that Buysmartbits is a legitimate cryptocurrency exchange business. 
The service provided by the exchange would be to convert Mrs Ms payments into 
cryptocurrency. Therefore there are no chargeback rights under the scheme  the merchant 
she paid provided the service asked for. That the cryptocurrency was later transferred 
elsewhere  to the scammer  doesnt give rise to a valid chargeback claim. I therefore dont 
find Lloyds was acting unfairly or unreasonably when not pursuing a chargeback claim that 
didnt have any reasonable prospect of success.
So the next question I need to consider is whether Lloyds ought to have intervened before 
allowing any of the payments to be made?
Under regulations, and in accordance with general banking terms and conditions, banks 
should execute an authorised payment instruction without undue delay. The starting position 
is that liability for an authorised payment rests with the payer, even if they were duped into 
doing so, for example as part of an investment scam.
However, in accordance with the law, regulations and good industry practice, a bank has a 
duty to protect its customers against the risk of fraud and scams so far as is reasonably 
possible. If, in breach of that duty, a bank fails to act on information which ought reasonably 
to alert a prudent banker to potential fraud or financial crime, it might be liable for the losses 
incurred by its customer as a result.
As mentioned above, I am satisfied Mrs M has likely been the victim of a scam. The 
payments made in January and February 2019 were made by Mrs M using her card and 
associated security credentials. I therefore conclude these were authorised payments  for 
which Mrs M is liable, unless there is evidence the bank could and should reasonably have 
done more to protect her, which issue I now turn to.
Mrs M made three payments and so I have considered whether these ought to have 
triggered the banks alert systems such that it ought to have questioned whether she was a 
victim of a scam and intervened. I have considered the operation of Mrs Ms account in the 
previous 6-12 months. Over that period, she used her account to make other foreign 
transactions. She also made a payment in November 2018 of £5,000  which is higher than 
any of the payments in dispute. And the payments still left a substantial sum in the account. I accept these payments were to a new payee, but Im not persuaded that, of itself, ought to 
have triggered the banks systems; payments are made to new payees all the time. Im not 
persuaded that the payments were so unusual or uncharacteristic that they ought to have 
triggered an alert or given grounds for suspecting fraud.
It follows that I find no persuasive evidence that Lloyds breached its duty to Mrs M or that it 
shouldnt have executed without undue delay the payment requests she had made and 
authorised. There is a reasonable balance to be struck for the benefit of all account holders 
and/or commercial efficiency  and the bank did also have a duty to execute properly 
authorised payment requests within a reasonable period.
In summary, having considered the matter very carefully, and realising this will come as a 
considerable disappointment to Mrs M, I dont uphold this complaint. I accept she has been 
the unfortunate victim of a scam and has lost money as a result. But I can only uphold a 
complaint and make an award if Im persuaded the bank has done something wrong. And for 
the reasons given here, Im not persuaded Lloyds has. 
My final decision
For the reasons given, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs M to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 March 2022.
 
Claire Hopkins
Ombudsman