DRN-3019285
The complaint
Ms J says S.D. Taylor Limited trading as Loans at Home (LaH), irresponsibly lent to her. She 
says that the loans werent affordable for her and they caused financial problems. 
  
What happened
This complaint is about seven home collected loans LaH provided to Ms J between 
July 2013 and July 2017. Some of the information I have been provided about the lending is 
in the table below.
loan 
numberdate 
startedamount 
borrowedterm 
(weeks)date ended
1 25/07/2013 £600 52 01/05/2014
2 12/12/2013 £300 32 28/08/2014
3 01/05/2014 £600 52 14/05/2015
4 14/05/2015 £750 52 16/06/2016
5 16/06/2016 £300 33 01/12/2016
6 01/12/2016 £400 33 20/07/2017
7 20/07/2017 £400 33 01/03/2018
Our adjudicator partly upheld Ms Js complaint and thought the loans from loan 4 onwards 
shouldnt have been given. This was because she thought the pattern of lending looked 
harmful and was indicative that the consumer wasnt sustainably repaying their lending. 
LaH disagreed and so the complaint was passed to me.
  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about irresponsible lending  including all 
of the relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice  on our website. Broadly 
speaking, this all means that LaH needed to take reasonable steps to ensure it didnt lend 
irresponsibly. In practice, this means it should have carried out proportionate checks to make 
sure Ms J could repay their loans in a sustainable manner. Additionally, there may come a 
point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly demonstrates that the 
lending was unsustainable.
Applying this to the circumstances of this particular complaint, I have reached the same 
outcome as our adjudicator, for essentially the same reasons.
Ms J didnt disagree with our adjudicators opinion about loans 1 to 3. Because of this I dont 
think there is any ongoing disagreement about these loans. So, I wont be making a decision 
about this lending. But they were part of the borrowing relationship Ms J had with LaH. So, 
they are something I will take into account when considering the other loans she took.
Ive considered the pattern of lending up to loan 4 and I think the lending history and pattern 
of lending itself clearly demonstrates that further lending would likely be unsustainable. This 
is because:
At this point Ms J had been using the loans for just under two years. 
There wasnt a period that Ms J wasnt making repayments to LaH. She took a new 
loan a very short time after the previous one she had was repaid. 
Ms J was borrowing reasonably high amounts and loan 4 was a continuation of this. 
It shouldve been clear that Ms J didnt just have a shorter term or temporary need for 
this high cost credit. 
Ms J continued to borrow over time. And loan 7 was taken around four years after 
Ms Js first. 
So I think LaH was irresponsible to continue lending after loan 4.
Ive considered the points LaH made in response to the adjudicators view. It says there is no 
evidence that Ms J was reliant on the lending by loan 4 and she wouldnt have been 
pressured to repay a loan early or start a new one. There were long breaks between the 
start of each of the loans. And Ms J borrowed higher amounts at the start of the lending than 
towards the end of it. This points to her making a choice to use this credit rather than a 
reliance on it. 
Ill firstly say these arent new points  theyre factors already taken into account in the 
adjudicators assessment, and they dont demonstrate to me that the lending from loan 4 
was sustainable. 
And as Ive said above its the time in indebtedness, rather than the gaps between the start 
of a loan, that to me indicates that the lending was unsustainable. And whilst Ms J did take 
some larger loans at the beginning, the later loans didnt depreciate by a large amount. And 
there was the fact that she had been in debt for a longer time to consider with the later loans. 
The crux of LaHs objections to what our adjudicator said is essentially it thinks that Ms J 
was making a reasonable choice to use this credit. And this isnt unreasonable. But as LaH 
is aware we have published decisions on our website, and it has also received decisions 
itself, which explain why we think longer term use of high cost credit is likely to be harmful to 
a consumer. The industry regulator has supported this view. 
And this applies here. Its clear to me that Ms H, by loan 4, was now using these loans 
unsustainably. I think its reasonable to say she needed to do this as making the loan 
repayments were leaving her short. I dont see why she would continue to take high cost 
loans over a protracted period if this wasnt the case. 
So, the points raised by LaH havent changed my decision and Im upholding this complaint 
about loans 4 to 7.
 Putting things right
In deciding what redress LaH should fairly pay in this case Ive thought about what might 
have happened had it stopped lending to Ms J from loan 4, as Im satisfied it ought to have.
Clearly there are a great many possible, and all hypothetical, answers to that question. For example, having been declined this lending Ms J may have simply left matters there, not 
attempting to obtain the funds from elsewhere  particularly as a relationship existed 
between them and this particular lender which they may not have had with others. If this 
wasnt a viable option, they may have looked to borrow the funds from a friend or relative  
assuming that was even possible.
Or, they may have decided to approach a third-party lender with the same application, or 
indeed a different application (i.e. for more or less borrowing). But even if they had done 
that, the information that would have been available to such a lender and how they would (or 
ought to have) treated an application which may or may not have been the same is 
impossible to now accurately reconstruct. From what Ive seen in this case, I certainly dont 
think I can fairly conclude there was a real and substantial chance that a new lender would 
have been able to lend to Ms J in a compliant way at this time.
Having thought about all of these possibilities, Im not persuaded it would be fair or 
reasonable to conclude that Ms J would more likely than not have taken up any one of these 
options. So, it wouldnt be fair to now reduce LaHs liability in this case for what Im satisfied 
it has done wrong and should put right.
LaH shouldnt have given Ms J loans 4 to 7.
A) LaH should add together the total of the repayments made by Ms J towards interest, fees 
and charges on these loans, including payments made to a third party where applicable, but 
not including anything it has already refunded.
B) LaH should calculate 8% simple interest* on the individual payments made by Ms J which 
were considered as part of A, calculated from the date Ms J originally made the payments, 
to the date the complaint is settled.
C) LaH should pay Ms J the total of A plus B.
D) The overall pattern of Ms Js borrowing for loans 4 to 7 means any information recorded 
about them is adverse, so it should remove these loans entirely from Ms Js credit file. If LaH 
has sold any of the loans LaH should ask the debt purchaser to do the same.
*HM Revenue & Customs requires LaH to deduct tax from this interest. LaH should give Ms 
J a certificate showing how much tax LaH has deducted, if they ask for one.
  
My final decision
For the reasons given above, Im partially upholding Ms Js complaint. 
S.D. Taylor Limited should put things right as set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms J to accept or 
reject my decision before 25 October 2021.
 
Andy Burlinson
Ombudsman