DRN-3247139
The complaint
Mr W complains that Legal and General Assurance Society Limited (L&G) has turned down 
an incapacity claim he made on an income protection insurance policy.
What happened
Mr W was insured under a personal income protection policy. The policy began in December 
2017. The policy provided cover for Mr Ws own occupation as a contractor.
In March 2020, Mr W made an incapacity claim on his policy. His GP had diagnosed him 
with anxiety and depression on 5 February 2020. Mr W had been prescribed anti-depressant 
medication and had been referred for counselling.
L&G investigated the claim. It noted from Mr Ws claim form that hed stopped work in July 
2019. He stated that hed had to stop work mainly due to work-related stress and anxiety-
related issues. Hed decided to take a career break and had planned to return to contracting 
early in 2020. However, his health hadnt improved, so hed sought medical advice and had 
been signed-off by his GP in February 2020. L&G set-up a telephone consultation between 
one of its rehabilitation specialists (RS) and Mr W. During the call, Mr W told the RS that he 
could always get washed and dressed and had begun certain types of exercise. The RS 
concluded that Mr W would be capable of returning to work with reasonable adjustments.
Ultimately, L&G turned down Mr Ws claim. It said that as Mr W hadnt been working at the 
time his incapacity had been verified by a doctor (in February 2020), it hadnt considered the 
claim under the own occupation definition of incapacity. Instead, it had considered the claim 
under the activities of daily living definition of incapacity which applied to policyholders who 
werent working in their occupation at the point of claim. This definition meant that Mr W 
needed to be unable to carry out at least three tasks from a defined list of activities for a 
sustained period in order for incapacity benefit to be paid. Based on the interview Mr W had 
had with the RS, L&G concluded that Mr W would be capable of carrying out all of the tasks. 
So L&G didnt consider that Mr W had met the policy definition of incapacity.
However, it did accept that it hadnt handled Mr Ws claim as well as it couldve done and so 
it paid Mr W £475 compensation, which he accepted.
Mr W was unhappy with L&Gs decision and he asked us to look into his complaint.
Our investigator didnt think Mr Ws complaint should be upheld. He felt the policy made it 
clear that in order for a claim to be assessed under the own occupation definition of 
incapacity, a policyholder would need to be gainfully self-employed  working for profit for at 
least 16 hours per week. As such, he thought Mr W needed to provide evidence that at the 
time he became incapacitated, he was in gainful self-employment. However, the first 
available medical evidence which indicated that Mr W was medically incapacitated was 
dated broadly seven months after hed stopped his work as a contractor. 
So the investigator considered itd been fair for L&G to assess Mr Ws claim under the 
activities of daily living criteria. And he felt itd been reasonable for L&G to conclude that Mr 
W hadnt met this definition of incapacity.
Mr W disagreed and Ive summarised his detailed responses to our investigator:
His GP would confirm that his condition was prevalent in July 2019. His condition had 
been purely mental health based;
The nature of contracting work meant that he often had gaps of five-six months 
between his jobs. The policy didnt state that he wasnt covered between contracts;
He was only looking for the claim to be paid from February 2020 onwards;
His last billable contract had ended in August 2019. After that point, hed still been 
employed as a director of an operational company and received dividends and a 
salary from his accountants payroll system. So he had still effectively been employed 
and carrying out some work;
Hed gone on to cancel the policy, as the premiums were no longer affordable.
The complaints been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, whilst Im sorry to disappoint Mr W, I think it was fair L&G to turn down his 
claim and Ill explain why.
First, while Ive summarised the background to Mr Ws complaint and his detailed 
submissions to us, Ive carefully considered all hes said and sent us. I understand Mr W has 
been through a difficult time and Im sorry to hear about his ill-health. I dont doubt what a 
worrying time this mustve been for Mr W and his family. In making my decision though, I 
havent commented on each and every point Mr W has made and nor do our rules require 
me to. Instead Ive focused on what I consider to be the key issues.
The relevant regulators rules say that insurers must handle claims promptly and fairly. And 
they mustnt turn down claims unreasonably. So Ive considered, amongst other things, the 
terms of Mr Ws policy and the available medical evidence, in deciding whether L&G handled 
Mr Ws claim fairly.
Should L&G have considered Mr Ws claim under the own occupation definition of 
incapacity?
Ive first considered the terms and conditions of Mr Ws policy, as these form the basis of his 
contract with L&G. Theres no dispute that Mr W made an incapacity claim in March 2020. 
So I think it was reasonable and appropriate for L&G to consider whether Mr Ws claim met 
the policy definition of incapacity. The policy says:
To claim for the monthly benefit you will need to meet one of the incapacity definitions listed 
below.
Incapacity definition: Own occupationIf you are in gainful employment or gainful self-employment at the time of incapacity we will 
consider you to be incapacitated once we have assessed your claim as set out in the section 
headed Assessing your claim and are satisfied that you have no capacity for working in 
your own occupation , on any basis, as a direct result of your injury or illness.
As Mr W was a self-employed director of a limited company, I think it was reasonable for 
L&G to consider whether Mr W was in gainful self-employment at the time he was 
incapacitated. The policy defines what L&G means by gainful self-employment. It says:
Gainful Self-Employment and Gainfully self-employed
Working for profit for at least 16 hours per week (either alone or with others) and being liable 
to pay Income Tax and/or National Insurance Contributions.
I think the policy terms make it sufficiently clear that L&G will only assess claims for self-
employed policyholders under the own occupation definition of incapacity if they were 
working for profit for at least 16 hours per week. L&G concluded that Mr W wasnt gainfully 
self-employed at the time his GP certified him as unfit to work in February 2020. So Ive 
considered the available evidence to decide whether this was a fair conclusion for L&G to 
draw.
Its a general principle of insurance that its for a policyholder to show they have a valid claim 
on their policy. This meant it was for Mr W to provide L&G with enough evidence to 
demonstrate that he met the policy definitions of incapacity and gainful self-employment.
Mr W completed a claim form in March 2020 which he sent to L&G. This stated that:
(Mr W) had to stop work due to mainly work related stress and anxiety related issues
He said: I terminated my recent contract myself due to my illness and as a result unable to 
earn circa £2k per week.
The form continues: My symptoms led to me leaving my last contract early in July 2020 (I 
understand this to mean July 2019, based on the evidence). I decided to take a career break 
to see that if that would improve matters and intended on restarting early 2020. My condition 
had not improved sadly despite a long break, so decided to go to my GP for help.
The RS report also says that Mr Ws absence began in July 2019, and that due to a build-up 
of stress, anxiety and mental health issues, he decided to have a break from work. Hed got 
to February 2020 and sought help from his GP, as he didnt feel able to return to work. 
Having considered the medical records Mr Ws GP provided, it seems the first consultation 
Mr W had with a doctor about his symptoms was on 10 December 2019. The notes say that 
Mr W was suffering with some: anxiety and tiredness over the last few months, despite less 
work. The notes show that while Mr W sought medical advice in July 2019 following an 
accident (and which was broadly the time he ceased his contracting role), he didnt mention 
his mental health symptoms for around another five months. And the medical records show 
that a diagnosis of anxiety and depression wasnt made until 5 February 2020.
While Mr W feels his GP would suggest that hed been suffering from anxiety and 
depression since July 2019 and had been incapacitated since that time, I note that the GP 
hasnt indicated that any such diagnosis was made prior to February 2020. Instead, the GPs 
letter dated 29 June 2020 says that it was on 5 February 2020 that Mr Ws condition was 
diagnosed and it was noted that the symptoms had been of approximately one years 
duration. The GP has also stated that at the time of Mr Ws consultation in December 2019, 
no medication was prescribed and no treatment was planned. It doesnt appear that Mr W was signed-off at this point either. So I havent seen enough persuasive medical evidence to 
show me that Mr W was incapacitated in July 2019, while he was still engaged on a contract.
Based on the evidence Mr W set out on the claim form and given what it appears he told the 
RS; I think it was fair and reasonable for L&G to consider that Mr W wasnt in gainful self-
employment when his GP certified him as unfit to work. 
Its clear Mr W feels strongly that he was still employed in February 2020, at the point the 
claim was made. Thats because he was still receiving a salary and dividends. Ive thought 
about this carefully. But Ive borne in mind that on the claim form, Mr W told L&G that his 
business had stopped trading and that it had suffered a loss of income. Ive also considered 
that in his email to us of 16 December 2021, Mr W told us that his salary and dividends had 
come from business reserves from his former billable contracts. 
In my view then, this suggests that Mr W was drawing down on existing funds from his 
company, rather than increasing turnover by working on new contracts. And I think the 
definition of incapacity is clear enough that in order to be gainfully self-employed, a 
policyholder must be working for at least 16 hours per week and working towards a profit. It 
seems more likely to me that by drawing a salary from existing reserves from past contracts, 
Mr W wasnt working for more than 16 hours per week and was actually reducing his 
business overall reserves. On that basis then, I still dont think it was unfair for L&G to 
conclude that Mr W wasnt gainfully self-employed when he made his claim. Therefore, I find 
it was reasonable for L&G not to apply the own occupation of incapacity when it assessed 
Mr Ws claim. 
Did L&G fairly consider Mr Ws claim under the activities of daily living definition of 
incapacity?
As Mr W didnt meet L&Gs definition of own occupation incapacity, it assessed the claim 
under the activities of daily living definition of incapacity. The policy says:
You will be deemed a houseperson for the purposes of these terms and conditions if you do 
not meet our definition of gainful employment or gainful self-employment.
The policy definition of incapacity for a houseperson is as follows:
If you are a houseperson your inability to carry out three of the Activities of Daily Living.
I think the policy makes it clear that if a policyholder isnt considered to be gainfully 
employed or self-employed, they will be treated as a houseperson. This is also set out 
clearly in the policy summary, which provides an at-a-glance explanation of cover. It also 
appears to be cover which would apply during gaps between Mr Ws contracts. Given my 
findings above, Im satisfied it was reasonable for L&G to treat Mr W as a houseperson when 
it assessed his claim. So Ive considered whether L&G acted fairly when it concluded that Mr 
W didnt meet this policy definition of incapacity. This says:
If you are a houseperson at the time of incapacity we will consider you to be incapacitated 
once we have assessed your claim as set out in the section headed Assessing your claim 
and are satisfied that you are unable to undertake at least three of the tasks from the 
activities listed below for a sustained period and as a direct result of your incapacity.
The activities of daily living are:
Walking: The ability to walk more than 200 metres on a level surface.Climbing: The ability to climb up a flight of 12 stairs and down again, using the handrail if 
needed.
Lifting:  The ability to pick up an object weighing 2kg at table height and hold for 60 seconds 
before replacing the object on the table.
Bending: The ability to bend or kneel to touch the floor and straighten up again.
Getting in and out of a car: The ability to get into a standard saloon car, and out again.
Writing: The manual dexterity to write legibly using a pen or pencil, or type using a desktop 
personal computer keyboard.
L&G acknowledges that it didnt ask Mr Ws GP to comment on his ability to carry out these 
tasks. Instead, it considered the available evidence. On the claim form, Mr W told L&G that 
he was interested in spending time with his friends and family, cooking, sport and keeping fit 
 although he stated that due to his mental health and energy levels, his physical activities 
had been low. The RS report also made the following finding:
He said that he gets up at regular times, 09.00am and always gets washed and dressed. He 
said that on a good day he is getting tasks done around the house.. He has also started 
walking and cycling.
Based on Mr Ws own testimony then and the medical opinion of the RS, I dont think it was 
unfair for L&G to conclude that Mr W hadnt shown that he couldnt carry out at least three of 
the specified activities of daily living. Instead, the evidence is more suggestive that Mr W 
was capable of carrying out these tasks  particularly because he told us that his illness was 
purely down to his mental health. Ive also considered the fact that Mr Ws GP hasnt 
provided any evidence to demonstrate that Mr W was unable to carry out more than three of 
these tasks.
Overall then, I think it was fair and reasonable for L&G to reach the conclusion that Mr W 
hadnt met the policy definition of incapacity. So while I sympathise with his position, I dont 
think L&G acted unfairly when it turned down Mr Ws claim. Ive considered too the handling 
of Mr Ws claim. L&G accepts there were unnecessary delays in its handling of the claim and 
that it couldve handled things better. It paid Mr W £475 compensation to recognise the 
distress and inconvenience it had caused him. Having considered the totality of the claim 
and the circumstances, I find that this payment was fair and reasonable and I dont require 
L&G to pay anything more.
Mr W has indicated that he may wish to pursue a complaint about the sale of the policy. Its 
important that I make clear that L&G says it didnt sell Mr W the policy  it was sold by an 
independent financial adviser. So if Mr W feels the policy was mis-sold to him, hell need to 
make a separate complaint to that independent financial adviser. My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 30 March 2022.
 
Lisa Barham
Ombudsman