DRN-3155907
The complaint
Mr M complains that Santander Consumer (UK) Plc supplied him with a car that wasnt of 
satisfactory quality under a conditional sale agreement.
What happened
In November 2018, Mr M says he acquired a used car from a dealership (who I will refer to 
as G) financed by a conditional sale agreement from Santander. He says the car was 
around 13 months old and had travelled around 7,000 miles. Mr M says the cash price of the 
car was around £148,000 and that he paid a £20,000 deposit as well as paying an additional 
£1,800 for paint protection. He says that under the agreement he was required to make 
monthly repayments of around £1,200.
This complaint doesnt relate to the above agreement (agreement one) but the details of 
which are included as relevant context for some of the issues Mr M has raised about a 
subsequent agreement he entered into, also with Santander which is the subject of this 
complaint.
Mr M says he had several issues with the quality of the car that was supplied under 
agreement one. He says in April 2019, G and Santander arranged for the car to be part-
exchanged for a different model by the same manufacturer and for Mr M to enter into a new 
finance agreement for that car (agreement two). Agreement two was also financed by 
Santander under a conditional sale agreement and is the agreement Mr M has complained 
about and asked our service to look into.
The car was used although it had only travelled around 160 miles and was around 4 months 
old. The cash price of the car was around £181,000 and the total repayable under the 
agreement was around £220,600. Mr M was required to make 48 monthly repayments of 
around £1,774 followed by one payment of around £130,400. There was a £5,000 deposit 
added to the agreement which was paid by G. Mr M part-exchanged the previous car, but 
the entire part-exchange value was used to settle nearly all of agreement one.
Mr M says hes experienced a number of problems with the car. Hes provided a detailed 
timeline of events of what he says happened. Ive summarised the key parts of his timeline 
below, which for clarity, G appears to accept in the main:
An active dampener fault appeared within the first 45 minutes of him driving the car 
and it was returned to G the same day for repair.
In early May 2019, he reported damage to the rear mesh deck.
In June 2019, he reported issues with vibrations and rattles within the car.
In July 2019, he reported missing and loose bolts on the under tray.
In August 2019, the car went into limp mode after a number of warning lights 
appeared on the dash. G took the car in for a second repair and discovered some 
loose wiring which had caused the limp mode problem. He had been without the car 
for 10 days whilst it was in for repair.
On collection Mr M says the rear mesh deck hadnt been repaired and that the 
ignition key was damaged.
Around three weeks later, further warning lights appeared including a gearbox failure.
In October 2019, he reported issues with the door catching causing damage to the 
paint work, an intermittent fault where the windows would drop open on their own and 
further warning lights illuminating.
In early November 2019, he reported a continuation of the window fault as well as a 
number of other electrical issues. He says the manufacturer agreed to collect the car 
and return it to G for investigation and repairs. 
G had the car for 23 days and told Mr M it had repaired all the faults he had 
identified. Mr M says that when he collected the car the issue with the door hadnt 
been fixed and there had been damage caused to the car during transport to and 
from G.
Mr M first contacted Santander about the issues hed had with the car at the end of 
November 2019. He says shortly after this, G collected the car again to fix the damage that 
had been caused and to attempt a further repair on the door. Throughout December 2019, 
Mr M had various conversations with Santander by phone and email about the repairs to the 
car. Discussions were had about Mr Ms statutory rights and Mr M says he enquired about 
his right to reject the car and set out that would be his ideal outcome to the issues hed 
experienced. Santander advised him in one conversation to pursue a strong case for 
rejection due to the failed repairs. In early January 2020, Santander called Mr M to clarify 
when repairs were completed and said it was unable to carry out an independent inspection. 
Mr M said that some of the recent repairs were carried out without his authority. In response 
Santander confirmed in the call that it had made it clear to G that the ideal outcome was 
rejection and [Santander was] looking to build a strong case for this.
A few days after this call Santander responded to Mr M to say that it wouldnt support 
rejection of the car as the faults Mr M had reported werent reoccurring, in other words, each 
fault was unconnected to the others. Further, it said that it didnt have sufficient evidence to 
demonstrate the faults were present at the point of sale. However, it said that it would again 
offer a payment of £2,000 as a gesture of goodwill towards a future service.
Mr M wrote to Santander saying that he wished to exercise his right to reject the car under 
the Consumer Rights Act 2015 (CRA). He said he did not intend on collecting the car from 
G. He said the car had experienced a number of faults and there had been several repair 
attempts by G. He said that under the CRA the trader should be allowed one attempt at a 
repair and if that didnt make the car of satisfactory quality, Mr M could exercise his right to 
rejection. He said it didnt make a difference that each of the faults were different and 
unconnected to one another. Mr M asked Santander to refund him everything he had paid to 
date.
In May 2020, Santander responded to Mr M to say that when Mr M asked to reject the car in 
January 2020, he didnt have the right to rejection under the CRA. In summary, this was 
because Mr M had never told Santander about any quality issues with the car until around 8 
months after the point of sale. Further, Mr M had never asked Santander to remedy any 
quality issues. It said that under the CRA Santander was the trader, not G or the 
manufacturer, therefore Mr M couldnt reject the car as Santander had never had an 
opportunity to repair the car.
In addition, Santander said that Mr M hadnt demonstrated the reported faults were present 
at the point of sale, and even if they were, they have all now been fixed by G meaning the 
car is now of satisfactory quality. It said that in any event, Mr M wouldnt be entitled to a full 
refund under the CRA even if he could reject the car.Santander did however offer to arrange for an independent inspection of the car to provide 
assurance that all issues had been rectified. It said that if the inspection identified faults with 
the car attributable to the point of supply it would rectify these. It said any repairs it carried 
out at that stage would be considered its first attempt at a repair under the CRA. Further, in 
resolution of his complaint it said it would pay Mr M £2,000 as a gesture of goodwill and that 
G would also contribute £2,000 towards a future service. Mr M didnt agree to that proposal. 
Mr M agreed for Santander to carry out an inspection of the car at their cost, but he said he 
wasnt prepared to accept its offer to resolve the complaint at this stage. He wanted to wait 
for the outcome of the inspection report and then he could engage further in any settlement 
discussions.
Santander agreed to arrange the independent inspection of the car. The inspection took 
place in June 2020.
The inspection highlighted that there were seven areas that needed remedial work and had 
likely been present since the point of sale. These included some loose trim and seals, 
blistering on window moulding and a misaligned panel. It highlighted a number of other 
areas of damage but in the inspectors opinion these were as a result of normal in service 
wear and tear. This included some paint chips, scratches, touch and contact marks and 
debris in the air vents.
The inspector had been notified of the previous issues Mr M had highlighted with the car and 
in the inspectors view these previous issues had been rectified. He said that apart from the 
seven minor defects hed listed the car was in a satisfactory condition. He noted that those 
seven issues would need to be rectified but in a later addition to the report he concluded that 
given the minor nature of the issues, they didnt warrant rejection of the car.
Santander asked Mr M if he would be willing to accept this as a resolution to the complaint. It 
said it would appoint G as its repair agent to remedy the seven minor defects and arrange to 
pay him £2,000 and for G to honour the same amount towards a future service. Mr M didnt 
accept that proposal as he was still of the view he should be allowed to reject the car. 
I sent Mr M and Santander my provisional decision on 30 September 2021. I explained why 
I thought the complaint should be upheld. My provisional findings are copied below:
Can we investigate this complaint?
The rules for what complaints I have jurisdiction to consider are set out in the section 
titled Dispute Resolution: Complaints (DISP) of the Financial Conduct Authoritys 
Handbook. One of the provisions regarding the point at which the Ombudsman 
Service can consider a complaint set out that unless Santander consents, I cant 
consider a complaint which Santander hasnt had an opportunity to investigate 
themselves first. Santander hasnt consented to us considering any complaint about 
agreement one, as it hasnt had an opportunity to investigate and respond to a 
complaint about it first. It says I cant therefore consider any losses that Mr M may or 
may not have suffered in relation to that agreement.
I also agree that Mr M hasnt made any complaint about agreement one directly to
Santander. In principal, it would therefore seem that I dont have jurisdiction to 
consider any complaint about agreement one.
Santander says that because I dont have jurisdiction to consider that agreement, 
I cant consider any payments he made towards agreement one. However, this isnt 
quite right. While its possible I dont have jurisdiction to consider a complaint about agreement one, for example whether the car that was supplied was of satisfactory 
quality, I can consider any financial loss Mr M may have suffered in relation to 
agreement two.
Mr M says the on the road price of the second car was reduced broadly by the value 
of his payments towards agreement one. He says this was done to ensure that he 
didnt lose the payments hed made towards the deposit, monthly repayments and 
paint protection on agreement one. If I conclude on the evidence that that is correct 
and I consider the complaint about agreement two should be upheld, Im satisfied I 
can consider whether there is any loss which Mr M may have incurred in relation to 
this. In those circumstances I would be able to do so as these payments made to 
agreement one would have been included in the financial arrangements and 
negotiations as part of agreement two.
I should be clear though that I agree I dont have jurisdiction to consider anything in 
relation to agreement one, such as, but not limited to, the way it was sold, the quality 
of the car that was supplied or any administrative issues. Mr M has specifically 
indicated that one of the points he is complaining about is the loss of his deposit and 
other associated costs as a direct result of the car supplied under agreement two 
being of unsatisfactory quality. I am satisfied that I can consider this specific issue.
 
Was the car of satisfactory quality?
The agreement Mr M entered into was a regulated conditional sale agreement so this 
service can consider complaints relating to it. Under the conditional sale agreement, 
Santander is also the supplier of the car and is therefore responsible for a complaint 
about its quality.
The CRA implies a term into any contract to supply goods that those goods will be of 
satisfactory quality. Satisfactory is taken to be what a reasonable person would 
consider satisfactory, taking into account any description of the goods, the price or 
other consideration for the goods (if relevant) and all other relevant circumstances. In 
terms of all other relevant circumstances, in this case I think both the age and 
mileage of the car are additionally key to the question of whether the quality of the 
goods was satisfactory.
The CRA says the quality of the goods includes their state and condition and the 
following aspects (among others), where appropriate - their fitness for all the 
purposes for which goods of that kind are usually supplied, appearance and finish, 
freedom from minor defects, safety, and durability.
Santander supplied Mr M with a car that I would consider to be nearly new, in that it 
had only travelled around 160 miles and was only around four months old. The cash 
price of the car (including VAT) was set out in the sales invoice as being around 
£181,000. My starting point therefore is that a reasonable person would expect the 
quality of the car to be of a much higher standard than a more road worn, cheaper 
car. This was also a very expensive, prestige car and I think it would be reasonable 
to expect it to be free from defects for a considerable period of time.
Mr M has provided a comprehensive list of issues hes experienced with the car. It 
appears that G has also confirmed to Santander that the faults Mr M has listed were 
reported to G. Further, G also accepts that it carried out repairs to the car at the 
following times:
1. On the day of sale in April 2019 relating to the active dampener fault.2. July 2019, new bolts were fitted to the undertray by a different garage, but 
G said the missing bolts had likely come loose due to Mr Ms driving style.
3. In August 2019, the car was recovered by the manufacturer. G fixed a 
wiring fault and loose bolts.
4. Car recovered by manufacturer in November 2019. G replaced the radio, a 
window regulator, steering wheel control module, adjusted the position of a 
door and replaced the rear mesh deck. G said the rear mesh deck dent was 
due to impact damage rather than a manufacturing defect but was replaced 
as a gesture of goodwill. It said that while some of the faults Mr M had 
reported couldnt be duplicated, it replaced some parts as a precaution.
5. In December 2019, car was returned as door adjustment hadnt been done 
correctly and there was damage caused to the car during transit.
The car developed a fault when it was supplied. Mr M had to return it to G within an 
hour of taking possession of it and G found it necessary to carry out a repair to rectify 
the issue. Since then, some of the issues Mr M has reported, G has said, were due to 
normal wear and tear or Mr Ms driving style  such as the loose bolts and the mesh 
deck. Mr M hasnt provided any evidence to rebut these suggestions and Ive found 
Gs explanation of the cause of these issues to be persuasive.
However, Mr M has also reported a number of other issues, including incorrect door 
alignment and electrical faults. G has carried out several repairs to rectify these 
reported issues. Santander has argued that the majority of these issues were 
identified more than six months after the point of sale. It says the onus is therefore on 
Mr M to prove the issues were present or developing at the point of sale and he 
hasnt satisfactorily done that. It says these issues therefore dont make the car of 
unsatisfactory quality, I disagree.
The CRA sets out that goods which do not conform to the contract at any time within 
six months from delivery of the goods must be taken not to have conformed to it on 
delivery, unless it is established that the goods did conform to the contract on that 
day or the presumption of non-conformance with the contract is incompatible with the 
nature of the goods or how they fail to conform to the contract. The timeline Ive set 
out above shows a number of faults within the first six months which under the 
provisions of the CRA would be considered to have been present at the point of 
delivery of the goods. Santander hasnt demonstrated that the goods did conform to 
the contract on the date of delivery.
G has clearly carried out repairs to remedy the reported problems mentioned in the 
paragraph above. Other than the issue with the loose bolts and mesh deck, neither G 
nor the manufacturer has at any point suggested these issues were down to 
expected wear and tear or driver misuse. Im therefore persuaded that given how 
soon the faults developed they were most likely present or developing at the point of 
supply.
Given the car was for all intents and purposes brand new and cost in excess of 
£180,000, I think its unreasonable to expect the number of electrical faults Mr M 
experienced or that a door would be misaligned. All the faults mentioned in Mr Ms 
complaint appeared in under eight months which when considering the age and 
condition of the car suggests that it wasnt durable. Overall, I dont think this level of 
durability would be considered satisfactory to a reasonable person when considering 
the cost of the car, the fact it was four months old at sale and that it had only covered 
around 160 miles.Further, Santander later arranged for an independent inspection of the car which 
revealed a further seven problems with the car that required rectifying. The inspector 
noted these were likely present at the point of sale. Even though they were noted as 
minor defects, the CRA says the goods should be free from minor defects. Given the 
price, age and mileage of the car I dont think a reasonable person would consider 
the car was of satisfactory quality for this reason also.
Overall, Im therefore satisfied that the car Mr M was supplied with wasnt of 
satisfactory quality.
Remedies under the CRA
Mr M is seeking rejection of the car under the CRA. Sections 19 through to 24 of the 
CRA set out what remedies a consumer would have where goods were not of 
satisfactory quality and when that consumer is entitled to those remedies.
The key parts that concern this complaint say that where the goods supplied under 
the contract arent of satisfactory quality, Mr M has a right to reject the goods within 
the first 30 days if he chooses to. I havent seen anything to suggest Mr M exercised 
those rights here, even though Im satisfied there was a fault with the car as soon as 
he took possession of it which made it of unsatisfactory quality. Instead, it appears 
Mr M sought a repair from G which remedied the initial problem.
Mr M did not seek to reject the goods in the first 30 days. Alongside the short term 
right to reject (and extending beyond the first 30 days) exists a right to repair and a 
final right to reject. If Mr M reported defects to the trader, the trader would have one 
opportunity to repair or replace the goods. If the goods still dont conform to the 
contract after that one attempt, then Mr M would have a final right to rejection.
As Ive set out above, Santander was the supplier of the car under the conditional 
sale agreement. For the purposes of the CRA, Mr M and Santander agree that 
Santander is the trader. This leads to a key point of contention for Santander. It says 
that the CRA makes it clear it is the trader who is afforded one opportunity to repair 
or replace the goods before Mr M has a right to exercise his final right to rejection. It 
says that Mr M has never given Santander an opportunity to repair or replace the car 
as he has asked G or the manufacturer to do so in relation to the previous issues.
I agree with Santander and Mr M that Santander is the trader under the CRA, Im 
also satisfied on balance that Mr M has not given Santander an opportunity to repair 
or replace the goods before seeking rejection. So, on a strict interpretation of the 
legislation, I agree it could be argued Mr M doesnt have a right to exercise his final 
right to reject. However, that isnt the end of the matter.
Santander has argued that is the only consideration I am required to make, but that 
isnt right. My role is to decide what is fair and reasonable in all the circumstances. At 
this point I think it would be useful to set out DISP 3.6.4R of the FCA Handbook 
which explains what I am required to consider when determining what is fair and 
reasonable:
In considering what is fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of the 
case, the Ombudsman will take into account:
(1) relevant:
(a) law and regulations;
(b) regulators' rules, guidance and standards;
(c) codes of practice; and(2) (where appropriate) what he considers to have been good industry 
practice at the relevant time.
So, whilst the law is a factor I am required to take into account when determining 
what is fair and reasonable it is not the only factor and I am able to depart from the 
law where I consider it fair and reasonable to do so. This is because strictly 
interpreting the legislation wont necessarily always allow for a fair and reasonable 
outcome.
Ive thought about whether it would be fair and reasonable to say that Mr M should be 
allowed to reject the car. Having done so, Im satisfied that he should. Ill explain why. 
It seems to me that Santander is fundamentally in no different position now than it 
would have been had Mr M reported all of the issues to it in the first place instead of 
going direct to G or the manufacturer. I say this because I fail to see how things 
would have likely played out any differently. Santander disagrees with this, but Ill set 
out below why I am not persuaded by each of the arguments they have made.
1. It says that it is unfair to assume any repair attempt it would have carried 
out wouldnt have resolved all the problems with the car. However, it seems 
clear to me that had Mr M reported the issues to Santander first, it would 
simply have just referred him to G to have the repairs carried out. I say this 
because this was a unique car with only a limited number of locations across 
the country that specialise in repairing them. It would seem illogical to send 
the car somewhere other than the supplying dealership (who did specialise in 
these repairs) when that was the most convenient location. This is exactly 
what Mr M did do, except for notifying Santander about it first.
2. Santander says it wouldnt necessarily have asked G to repair the car, it 
might have taken it to a different manufacturer approved garage. While that is 
possible, I consider it unlikely. I say this because following the independent 
inspection, as part of its settlement proposal to Mr M, it offered to have the 
car repaired by G. It seems to me this is exactly what it would have done at 
the outset had the earlier problems been reported to it. It would also make the 
most sense given it was G that initially sourced the car and this car required 
specialist knowledge for repairs.
3. Santander says before arranging for the car to be repaired it would have 
instructed an independent inspection to be completed and arranged for 
another inspection after the repairs were completed. But I dont accept that is 
likely. The first fault manifested itself within an hour of Mr M taking possession 
of the car. This was essentially a warning light illuminating. I dont think its 
likely Santander would have gone to the inconvenience and costs of 
arranging an independent inspection of the car just for that issue. So, it 
follows the most reasonable and logical conclusion to reach is that it would 
have directed Mr M back to G to have the issue investigated and remedied. 
Im therefore not persuaded that Santander would have done as it now says it 
would.
Therefore, had things gone as they should i.e. Mr M contacting Santander about the 
warning light, one attempt at a repair would already have been carried out. Now that 
further issues with the car have arisen or have been identified by the independent 
inspection, it seems clear Mr M ought reasonably to have a right to reject the car. 
Therefore, although Santander werent notified of all the previous faults in advance, I 
dont believe their position has been prejudiced for the reasons Ive set out above.Ive also considered that the terms of the agreement do say that Mr M should notify 
Santander of any problems promptly. I acknowledge he didnt do this, however, as 
outlined above, Im not persuaded this has caused Santander any material loss. 
Further, while it is taken to be that Mr M has read and understood the terms of the 
agreement by signing it, I dont believe he acted unreasonably in reporting the issues 
with the car to G or the manufacturer in the first instance. I think its relevant to note 
that when Mr M did notify Santander of the problems in late November 2019, 
Santander didnt indicate hed acted unreasonably by not reporting the previous 
problems sooner. Nor did Santander tell Mr M that it required an opportunity to repair 
the latest faults instead of allowing G to complete them under the manufacturer 
warranty.
Santander says Mr M was aware who the trader was under the CRA as hes 
referenced this in his letter dated January 2020. It says on this basis Mr M was 
clearly always aware he should have notified Santander first. However, I dont agree. 
Santanders contact notes from November and December 2019 clearly indicate Mr M 
didnt have an understanding of his rights under the CRA. It appears Santander 
informed him of the CRA and gave a brief overview of what this meant during various 
phone calls. So, I dont think Mr M was aware from the outset who the trader was or 
what relevance this had.
But the reasons I have set out so far are not the only reasons I consider it would be 
fair and reasonable to allow Mr M to reject the car. Ive reviewed Santanders contact 
notes and reviewed copies of correspondence between Mr M and Santander at the 
end of 2019 and early 2020. Having done so, Ive noted the following:
Mr M contacted Santander on 29 November 2019 to raise his concerns about 
the quality of the car. Santander agreed to log a new complaint for him.
Mr M called on 4 December 2019 to say the car was with G for repairs. He 
told Santander some of these issues G had already had a previous attempt at 
repairing.
Over the course of the next two weeks Santander asked Mr M to provide 
evidence of the previous faults and repair attempts by G. It appears 
Santander also spoke directly with G in order to ask it to send evidence of the 
repair attempts and the faults.
On 19 December 2019, Mr M called to say G had told him the car was ready 
to collect. Santander appears to have advised Mr M to pursue a strong case 
for rejection and he shouldnt accept anything until the complaint had been 
fully investigated.
On 2 January 2020, Santander told Mr M that it had previously told G that the 
ideal outcome was rejection of the car and that it was looking to build a strong 
case for rejection.
On 6 January 2020, Santander advised Mr M it wouldnt support rejection on 
the basis that the faults he had reported werent re-occurring.
Its worth noting that it appears Mr M did notify Santander of the need for the repairs 
completed in December 2019, before they were actually carried out by G. So, it could 
be argued that Santander was given the opportunity to put right those problems at 
that stage, except it elected not to do so and allowed G to carry them out instead. I 
dont think it would be reasonable to say this means Mr Ms consumer protections 
ought to be diminished because Santander opted not to do what it was entitled to at 
that stage.In any event, its clear that while the December repairs were being carried out 
Santander was not concerned at all that Mr M had failed to report the faults sooner, 
or that G had attempted repairs without Santander agreeing to them first. Santander 
appeared to be prepared to accept rejection if it could find evidence to show G had 
failed to repair previous faults. It didnt raise any issues at that time with the fact that 
Santander hadnt carried out the repairs themselves and did not say that this would 
prevent Mr M from exercising his final right to reject. However, it seems the only 
reason Santander deemed rejection unsuitable was that it considered each of the 
faults Mr M experienced with the car were unique and unconnected to each other.
This is clearly at odds with the position Santander has now sought to take regarding 
Mr Ms right to rejection. The contemporaneous evidence demonstrates to me that 
its more likely than not that Santander didnt consider Mr Ms actions unreasonable, 
nor would it have prevented him from seeking rejection for a failed repair attempt by 
G. It seems Santander has changed its opinion after Mr M pointed out that the CRA 
makes no mention of previous faults needing to be connected to one another.
Ive noted that the inspector is of the view that the nature of the current faults dont 
constitute sufficient grounds for rejection given that they are minor cosmetic issues. 
Santander says all the historic issues Mr M has reported with the car have been 
repaired by either G or the manufacturer. It says the only outstanding issues are 
those the independent inspector identified. Given they are relatively minor issues and 
straightforward to rectify, it says the fairest remedy here would be to allow Santander 
to fix those defects. Particularly, because it maintains it has never had an opportunity 
to repair the car.
While I acknowledge the existing defects are minor, its clear Mr M has had a number 
of problems with the car requiring repairs, some of them quite significant in a short 
space of time. Irrespective of how minor the current defects are, the car does not 
conform to the contract despite repeated repair attempts. I therefore think it is fair 
and reasonable that Mr M is entitled to now reject the car. I do not think, when taking 
into account the historic problems the car has already had, that it would be fair and 
reasonable for me to conclude that Mr M cannot reject the car simply given that the 
current identified defects are minor. In any event, given the age and mileage of the 
car at sale and the price of the car, I think even these minor defects would be beyond 
what a reasonable person would consider satisfactory.
Santander says that by making this finding it would set a precedent allowing 
consumers to unfairly circumvent rights within the CRA. I dont agree. Each case is 
considered on its own unique circumstances. While I acknowledge that Santander 
has referred to a large number of previous ombudsman decisions which it says 
supports its view of what a fair outcome should be, those cases all differ in their facts 
and circumstances in some way to this one. For the reasons Ive set out above, Im 
satisfied that it would be fair and reasonable in the individual circumstances of this 
case to allow Mr M to reject the car, irrespective of whether a court would have 
ordinarily agreed with that approach. 
Putting things right
As Ive already set out, I think it would be fair and reasonable to allow Mr M to reject 
the car. Santander should therefore arrange to collect it at no cost to Mr M. It should 
also end the conditional sale agreement with nothing further to pay and remove any 
adverse information it might have recorded on his credit file, if applicable.Given the car wasnt of satisfactory quality, I dont think it would be fair to say Mr M 
has to make all the repayments under the conditional sale agreement. The CRA sets 
out that Mr M is entitled to a full refund minus a deduction for his use. Ive therefore 
thought about what a fair amount would be.
Mr M stopped driving the car in early December 2019 when G collected it for repairs. 
The car has remained with G since. Between April and December 2019, the car had 
been in for repair a number of times. In total Mr M had been without the car for over a 
month, much of which was between early November and early December 2019. So, 
it seems Mr M didnt have any meaningful use of the car from early November 
onwards.
However, Im aware that despite this he was still able to cover a reasonable amount 
of mileage in the car, so he did get reasonable usage of it during the time it was in his 
possession.
Taking all of this into consideration I think Mr M should only have to pay the 
payments he made between April 2019 and October 2019 to reflect his fair usage of 
the car. This is accounting for the time the car was in for repair and unable to be 
driven. Any payments Mr M has made since that date should be refunded to him. 
Santander should also add 8% simple interest on each of those refunds from the 
date of each payment to the date of settlement. Santander say that the car was 
repaired and ready for Mr M to collect in mid-December 2019. However, it says that 
he unreasonably refused to collect it despite earlier agreeing that he would. It says 
the car has been in a driveable and useable condition since then.
Mr M says he didnt authorise the repairs in December 2019 and had asked 
Santander to reject the car. Its not entirely clear whether he did authorise the repairs 
or not, but even if he did, I dont think that makes any material difference now to what 
fair redress should be. I say this because it has since been discovered that the car 
still had further defects after these repairs. In between that time Mr M hasnt driven 
the car at all which might have otherwise caused its value to depreciate further. 
Whether Mr M acted reasonably or not, Im not persuaded his actions have caused 
Santander any further loss than if it had simply accepted his rejection of the car in 
January 2020. This is because any additional costs in storing the car that G or 
Santander may have incurred since that date have only arisen because it failed to 
fairly accept rejection of the car.
As Ive said above, the CRA says that Mr M ought to receive a full refund minus a 
deduction for fair use. This means any deposit he paid towards the car should also 
be refunded. There was a £5,000 dealer contribution which clearly wasnt a cost Mr 
M incurred so it wouldnt be reasonable to refund that to him. However, he did part-
exchange another car. The value of that part-exchange was £123,000.
Despite this large part-exchange value, none of it was used to reduce the cost of the 
new car. This is because the entire amount was used to settle most of agreement 
one. On the face of it then, Mr M didnt pay anything further towards agreement two 
other than his monthly repayments. Although, I note Mr M was around £280 short of 
settling agreement one even with the dealer contribution. This additional amount was 
added to the amount borrowed on agreement two.
Mr M hasnt raised a complaint about the quality of the previous car, so this isnt 
something I can consider as part of this complaint. Im only considering whether I 
think the payments Mr M made towards agreement one can be considered as a loss 
in relation to agreement two.It is worth noting that s.56 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974 has the effect of holding 
Santander responsible for the antecedent negotiations between G and Mr M when 
entering into agreement two. Therefore, anything that was said or promised by G in 
relation to the sale of the car being financed by way of agreement two is to have 
been said on behalf of Santander. Ill explain below why I consider this to be relevant.
Mr M says agreement two was only agreed because the car under agreement one 
was of unsatisfactory quality. Mr M says that he put a £20,000 deposit towards 
agreement one, paid around £1,800 for paint protection and made four monthly 
rentals of around £1,200. 
Transferring to a new car and a new agreement without factoring in these payments 
would mean that the payments under agreement one would be lost. In accepting the 
part-exchange, Mr M has said he understood these payments from agreement one 
would be transferred over to agreement two. Mr M says in effect these payments 
were therefore part of his deposit towards agreement two. He says the reason for this 
was to compensate him for the fact that the car under agreement one wasnt of 
satisfactory quality. Incorporating the payments from agreement one into agreement 
two would ensure that the payments from agreement one were not lost just because 
agreement one had come to an end as a result of the car under that agreement not 
being of satisfactory quality.
He says G told him the on the road price of the new car was around £214,000 but 
that G would discount the car to around £181,000 in order to carry over his payments 
from agreement one to agreement two. The discount doesnt appear anywhere on 
the invoices G supplied. However, Santander has accepted a price reduction of 
around £30,000 was agreed. Im therefore satisfied this discount was applied. 
However, Santander has not confirmed whether it accepts this discount was intended 
to compensate Mr M for his £20,000 deposit, the paint protection payments or the 
repayments made on agreement one.
I have had to consider the evidence to determine whether, on balance, the discount 
of the purchase price was intended to carry over these payments from agreement 
one into agreement two. Mr M had paid a £20,000 deposit around six months earlier, 
had made substantial monthly repayments towards agreement one and paid almost 
£2,000 towards an additional paint protection for the car he was handing back. In 
total he said hed paid around £27,000 towards a car hed only had use of for around 
six months. I find it very unlikely Mr M would have agreed to swap into a new 
agreement and willingly taken a loss of nearly £30,000 over such a short period of 
time.
Further, G contributed £5,000 towards agreement two to reduce the negative equity 
transferring from agreement one. It seems G was prepared to ensure Mr M received 
a beneficial deal. The discount Mr M says G applied to the new car was broadly 
similar to the amount of money Mr M had paid towards agreement one. I dont think 
its likely Mr M would have agreed to enter into agreement two for what was a 
significantly more expensive car, with significantly larger monthly repayments, unless 
the payments hed made towards agreement one were carried over to the new 
agreement in some way, ensuring hed suffered no financial loss.
For these reasons, Im satisfied that the discount of the purchase price was intended 
to carry over the payments I have noted above from agreement one into agreement 
two. As previously mentioned, these formed part of the antecedent negotiations with 
Mr M carried out by G on behalf of Santander.It appears that the transfer of the payments from agreement one to agreement two 
was part of the settlement of agreement one. The terms of the settlement under 
agreement one are inextricably linked with agreement two. Rather than settling 
agreement one in isolation, it seems that there were antecedent negotiations 
between Santanders agent (G) and Mr M during which it was agreed that the 
deposit, the repayments made and the sum paid for paint protection all paid by Mr M 
under agreement one would be carried over to, and form part of, agreement two. As 
set out above, I am satisfied that this was intended to be achieved by reducing the 
price of agreement two in an attempt to ensure the payments from agreement one 
were not lost. I therefore think Mr Ms deposit of £20,000, the sum paid for paint 
protection and his monthly repayments did form part of agreement two even if it 
wasnt specifically listed on any of the paperwork.
As Im satisfied those terms of settlement for agreement one formed part of 
agreement two, I am of the view that it would be fair and reasonable that these 
elements be considered when unwinding agreement two as a result of the rejection. 
By finding that the car supplied under agreement two is of unsatisfactory quality and 
should be rejected, the financial benefit Mr M received in transferring elements of the 
settlement from agreement one to agreement two is effectively lost. I therefore 
consider that it would be fair and reasonable that Santander refunds him his £20,000 
deposit, the monthly repayments under agreement one and the cost of the paint 
protection.
Mr M accepted my provisional decision, but Santander didnt. It provided a substantive 
response. I have considered all the points Santander has raised but for ease Ive 
summarised below what I consider to be the key issues it has raised:
The provisional decision is grossly unfair and is compounded by the length of time 
the complaint has taken to resolve. Our service could have told Mr M in January 
2020 that he should have allowed Santander to attempt one repair. The ombudsman 
is required to find a fair solution to both parties and that hasnt been done. No 
fairness has been shown to Santander.
Santander says that a court would strike out any rejection complaints by Mr M as 
premature. 
Santander says that it is nonsensical to suggest or find that denial of the right to 
repair is the only way to deliver a fair outcome. The provisional decision is 
unprecedented and directly at odds with relevant case law, previous ombudsman 
decisions and legislation. 
Mr M hasnt followed the proper process within the terms and conditions or the CRA, 
so it is unfair for Santander to be punished for his failures. It isnt Santanders fault 
that Mr M asked other parties to complete repairs to the car instead of seeking to 
have Santander complete them. It isnt fair to deny Santander its statutory right to 
repair the car. The complaints process is wrongly being used as a tool to circumvent 
Santanders statutory right to repair. 
The CRA was introduced to guard against the very decision you are seeking to 
make by ensuring the trader always has one opportunity to put things right. There is 
no prejudice caused to Mr M by having Santander repair the car, he initially wanted 
the car and the current issues can be easily and quickly repaired by Santander. 
In any rejection case the question in law and in assessments of fairness never 
concerns whether the trader would have done the same things if they had been 
asked to carry out the repairs instead. The only question is whether there are any 
outstanding defects required to be repaired by the trader and whether the trader has been given an opportunity to perform repairs at the point of the complaint being made 
to them. 
All repairs that Mr M asked third parties to complete were completed satisfactorily, 
nothing that Mr M complained to Santander about required repairing. This critical 
point has not been addressed or noted in the provisional decision.
Santander says it went above and beyond and arranged a forensic inspection that it 
wished to offer to do. 
Mr M has acted in bad faith by agreeing to have Santander carry out an expensive 
inspection on the quality of the car and then refused to have the repairs carried out. 
The purpose of the inspection report was to identify any unknown defects and have 
them repaired by Santander, not to give Mr M a report he could use for his own 
purposes to support his request to reject the car. 
Santander considers that the normal application of the statutory rejection process set 
by s.15 CRA and standard industry practice will deliver a fair and reasonable 
outcome in this case. Santander consider it is unfair and against natural justice for 
me to, as it says, openly deny it its statutory right of repair in terms of the CRA.
Santanders offer to perform repairs and pay £4,000 compensation is fair and 
reasonable. 
Santander says that Mr M has been supported in this process throughout by a 
solicitor, so he has been aware of his rights under the CRA from the outset. Mr M 
informed Santander in a call on 18 December 2019 that hed sought legal advice 
about his rights. Mr Ms letter of 10 January 2020 seeking to reject the car stated his 
understanding of the CRA. Mr M instructed lawyers to issue pre-action 
correspondence on 1 May 2020. Santander considers that this shows that Mr M 
therefore did have an understanding of who the trader was under the CRA. It is clear 
that Mr M sought to lead and direct discussions with Santanders customer relations 
staff to suit his purposes. 
Santander consider that the terms of the directions in the provisional decision 
evidence that Santander is being severely prejudiced by being denied its statutory 
right of repair. It says it will be forced in incur what it describes as a major financial 
loss when it is being denied a chance to put things right. Santander says that this is 
not fair.
Santander has been prejudiced by Mr M not complying with the terms of the 
agreement and not notifying it of the issues with the car promptly. It notes that the 
provisional decision made a finding that Mr M had not complied with this term of the 
agreement. Santander says this would have altered things materially by guaranteeing 
the intervention of an independent expert which is part of Santanders standard 
complaint process. There is no proper basis for me to assert no difference would 
have occurred had Santander been involved earlier as Santanders involvement at an 
earlier stage would have altered things materially with the guaranteed 
intervention/involvement of an independent expert, as per Santanders complaint 
response process. Further, Santander says that the repairs are minimal and capable 
of being performed in a short space of time.  
I havent placed any weight on the fact Mr M was compensated £2,000 towards a 
future service by G for inconvenience caused due to previous repair works before 
any complaint was made to Santander. 
Mr M made what Santander describes as a written promise in his email dated 16 
December 2019 that he would collect the car from G if his complaint wasnt upheld. 
Mr M has gone against this promise and abandoned the car. No consideration has 
been given towards this and Santander says it has been prejudiced by this. 
Santander says the email exposes what it considers to be the truth  that the true 
intention for Mr M was to reject the car and get it returned to G under false pretences. 
Santander says that I have not mentioned in the provisional decision that all prior 
repairs arranged by Mr M were completed satisfactorily and are irrelevant in relation to Santanders offer to repair defects it has taken care to identify in the car. 
Santander notes that Mr M has never complained about those defects. 
Santander didnt at any time say it would accept rejection of the car but assured him 
they would do the best they could. Mr M should have collected the car after all the 
repairs he organised with G were successfully done. 
Santander suggest that there is nothing in the provisional decision to justify my 
decision of departing from the statutory rejection process set by the legislator.
Santander says that I have misdirected myself by considering what would have 
happened had Mr M contacted Santander when the first fault materialised. It 
considers that it is wrong to suggest that any problem with the car should be put by a 
consumer to the trader to repair in terms of the CRA. It says that consumers dont 
have to seek the protection of the CRA whenever a problem occurs with the car and 
Santander notes that it is in fact very rare for that to occur immediately when the 
customer has the choice/option to instruct warranty repairs at no cost. Mr M can 
make his own decisions on who he instructs to carry out simple repairs and seeking 
remedy from the trader is usually the last option rather than the first. 
Prior repairs without knowledge of Santander should not be taken into account when 
assessing Santanders request to perform repairs to the car. Santander has provided 
previous final decisions issued by the Ombudsman Service on other cases which it 
claims support this. 
Santander says that I have overlooked that all prior repairs were carried out 
satisfactorily leaving it with no need to do anything with those repairs. It considers 
that I have misdirected myself in seeking to question what Santander may have done 
if Mr M had asked Santander to do earlier repairs rather than arrange for other 
parties to carry out those repairs under warranty. Santander says that is an irrelevant 
and unfair consideration. 
The provisional decision found that Santander wasnt given an opportunity to repair 
the car. Santander says that there is nothing special in the circumstances of this case 
that justifies taking a different approach to previous ombudsman decisions and the 
courts. It says that the core facts of this case mirror the facts of some previous 
ombudsman decisions, copies of which have been supplied by Santander. 
Santander says that it is wrong to say it would have referred any repairs back to G 
had they been notified of them earlier by Mr M. Santander says that it is its well-
established practice to instruct an independent expert to inspect a car whenever a 
complaint is made. Santander say that is what it immediately sought to do here but 
the repairs were completed before the expert had the opportunity to inspect the car.
In response to my finding in the provisional decision that Santander appeared to be 
prepared to accept rejection initially before deeming it unsuitable, Santander says 
that it merely conducted a normal investigation into the complaint made by Mr M in 
accordance with its standard procedure. It says Mr M arranged for G to carry out 
repairs and Santanders sole reason for refusing the complaint was the defects Mr M 
had complained of had all been repaired by G and there was nothing further for G to 
do. It says this is reflected in Santanders final decision letter. 
Santander will take into account a customers preference about repair agents 
particularly in cases involving cars such as this one and if the relationship between 
the consumer and the dealer has broken down before deciding what garage to 
instruct to perform repairs. Therefore, the car could have been repaired at another 
manufacturer approved garage without difficulty. Santander simply appointed G as its 
repair agent at a later date because the car was already there. Mr M chose to have 
the manufacturer transport the car to G, but the manufacturer would have transported 
the car to any approved garage free of charge. 
Santander says that it is irrelevant which garage would have carried out repairs had 
Mr M notified Santander first because all those faults have since been repaired. Santander says that the mere existence of a defect in a car complained about long 
after the delivery date does not automatically merit the rejection of the car. Santander 
says that it makes no sense for me to refuse to apply the CRA when it protects 
Santander but apply it only when it protects Mr M. It suggests that the only fair and 
reasonable direction is for Santander to be allowed to repair the car.
Santander says it had no obligation to appoint G as its repair agents. Only Mr M has 
asked G to repair the car, not Santander. Santander would have considered 
whatever Mr M asked for which it says is evidenced by the wording of its offer to Mr 
M dated 12 May 2020.
Santander says that following receipt of a complaint from Mr M in terms of the CRA it 
would have instructed an independent inspection to be completed and arrange for 
another inspection after repairs were completed by Santander. It says this is 
evidenced by the 12 May 2020 offer letter.
Santander says that the first fault to the car is irrelevant. It says that the fault was 
successfully repaired by others under warranty. Mr M could have exercised the short 
term right to reject at that point. Santander argues that it would never have had the 
legal right to repair that first problem in terms of the CRA. No consideration has been 
given to the findings of the independent expert who inspected the car and determined 
that the current faults with the car dont warrant rejection. 
The proposed sums directed to be paid in the provisional decision are excessive, 
unfair and unjust. It would place Mr M in a position of betterment which is unfair and 
unreasonable. 
Santander says that Mr M doesnt have any entitlement to any payments paid under 
a separate, prior finance agreement. If Mr M had taken that previous agreement out 
with a different lender, there would be no grounds to direct Santander to make any 
payment in relation to that agreement. Santander says that this goes to show that 
these agreements are entirely distinct and are required to be treated separately.
Santander says that Mr M isnt entitled to the repayments he made under agreement 
one. No notice is given of this complaint point and no prior car was rejected. No loss 
was incurred by Mr M in relation to the previous car, he paid for the fair use he had. 
Mr M shouldnt be given a windfall. Santander also says that no notice is given of 
what is claimed in relation to this complaint point, what use Mr M had of the car under 
agreement one or why agreement one was settled. It considers this to be well 
beyond the scope of this complaint. 
Santander contests that the Ombudsman Service has jurisdiction to assess 
agreement one. 
Santander did not receive payment for paint protection. 
I have shared Santanders response with Mr M who has made the following comments: 
Santanders response of 12 pages to the provisional decision is disproportionate and 
excessive and mainly repeats arguments already made. 
Santander cannot repair the cars it supplies. It lacks the staff, skills and facilities to 
do so. Its repeated claims that it has a right to do something it cannot actually do is 
disingenuous. It is also disingenuous to say the current issues with the car are the 
only faults that need to be considered. 
Having legal representation shouldnt mean a consumer is treated differently to 
another. He only sought legal advice after repeated problems with the car, this 
doesnt mean he understood from the beginning who the trader was under the CRA. 
He has been without the car for nearly two years and continued making monthly 
repayments to Santander in that time. The notion that the proposed remedy in the 
provisional decision would place him in a position of betterment doesnt withstand 
scrutiny. 
Mr M alleges that Santander has made a number of false and defamatory statements about him in its response to the provisional decision.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Santander has made detailed submissions and arguments both before and after my 
provisional decision. If I dont comment on each and every point either party has made it 
doesnt mean I havent considered it  I have. Instead, it means I havent felt it necessary to 
comment on it in order to reach what I consider to be a fair and reasonable outcome. Ive 
therefore focused on what I consider to be the key issues. 
Santander says that I dont have jurisdiction to consider any payments Mr M may have made 
towards agreement one. However, as I explained in my provisional decision, I can consider 
any losses Mr M may have suffered in relation to agreement two, if Im satisfied that the 
payments Mr M made towards agreement one were included in the financial arrangements 
and negotiations as part of him entering into agreement two. DWF says that there were no 
losses in relation to agreement one and the car under that agreement wasnt rejected. 
However, neither of those points are relevant to the point I am considering, this being 
whether payments that were made under agreement one formed part of the negotiations and 
financial arrangements for agreement two. 
I can consider this specific issue only if Im satisfied that the payments Mr M made towards 
agreement one were included in the financial arrangements and negotiations as part of him 
entering into agreement two. I mention this purely for the sake of completeness and this 
clarification does not materially change my conclusions on the outcome of this complaint.   
Santander says that if agreement one had been entered into by a different lender, I wouldnt 
have jurisdiction to consider those payments. It says this highlights that they should be dealt 
with distinctly and separately. But the position where the lender for agreement one is 
different to that of agreement two is not directly relevant in this case as both agreement one 
and agreement two were provided by Santander. In the specific circumstances of this case, 
where both agreements were provided by Santander, Im satisfied I can consider the 
payments Mr M made towards agreement one, if I consider those payments formed part of 
the antecedent negotiations for agreement two. 
Santander also says that no notice has been given to it about some of the losses Mr M is 
claiming for, such as the payments under agreement one. However, I dont think thats 
particularly relevant. The losses flow from the complaint Mr M has made, just because 
Santander hasnt considered them before, doesnt mean I cant make an award for them if 
Im satisfied they stem from this complaint. And, in any event, Santander has been notified 
by our service of these losses previously, including in my provisional decision, which it has 
now had an opportunity to respond to and provide comments and relevant evidence. 
Santander also says the decision is grossly unfair, disproportionate and at odds with 
legislation and previous ombudsman decisions. Santander says a Court would never have 
reached the same outcome I reached in my provisional decision. As I explained in my 
provisional decision, the Ombudsman Services approach to deciding cases is different to 
the approach of the Courts. While I am required to take into account relevant law, I can 
depart from it, if I consider it to be fair and reasonable to do so. I dont consider this to be a 
way for consumers to circumvent the law as Santander appears to suggest. Our service is 
intended to be an informal alternative to the Courts, which is required to reach conclusions 
based on what is fair and reasonable. As I mentioned in my provisional decision, DISP 
3.6.4R provides that the law is only one of the factors I am required to take into account when deciding what is fair and reasonable  it is not the only factor. I am therefore able to 
depart from the law where I consider it fair and reasonable to do so.  
Santander also says that that the normal application of the statutory rejection process set by 
the CRA and standard industry practice will deliver a fair and reasonable outcome in this 
case. However, its relevant to note that Im required to consider under DISP 3.6.4R(2), 
where appropriate, what would have been good industry practice at the relevant time, not 
standard industry practice. Its important to note that what is standard industry practice may 
not necessarily be the same as what is considered good industry practice. Nonetheless, 
when considering all the factors under DISP 3.6.4R in order to determine what is fair and 
reasonable, I remain of the view that this complaint should be upheld.
Each case at the Ombudsman Service is decided on its own individual facts and merits. This 
means no two cases are ever exactly alike nor will they always produce the same outcome. 
What is fair in one set of circumstances may not be fair in another. For the reasons set out in 
my provisional decision, Im satisfied the outcome Ive reached is fair and reasonable taking 
into account all of the unique facts and circumstances of this case. I will however further 
address what I consider to be the key points Santander has raised in response to my 
provisional decision and explain why these havent persuaded me to change the outcome 
Ive reached.  
First, I want to address Santanders assertion that our service should have informed Mr M 
when the complaint was first made by him in January 2020 that he required to allow 
Santander to attempt one repair to the car. Ive explained in my provisional decision why Im 
satisfied Mr M should be entitled to reject the car and Ill go on to address in a moment why I 
dont think he acted unreasonably in not collecting the car or accepting a repair. In any 
event, it isnt our role to direct a consumer or give them advice as to what they should do. 
Further, Mr M didnt refer his complaint to our service until February 2020 and it wouldnt be 
reasonable for us to provide our findings to the parties to the complaint until wed completed 
a full investigation. The issue I have to determine is whether Santander has acted fairly 
when dealing with Mr Ms complaint and if it hasnt, what the appropriate remedy would be.
Santander says Mr M has unreasonably refused to collect the car since the repairs were 
carried out in December 2019. It says he initially agreed to collect the car and has since 
gone back on that promise. But I dont agree that Mr M did promise to collect it, nor do I think 
hes acted unreasonably in not collecting the car. 
The email which Santander refers to as Mr Ms written promise to collect the car from G if 
his complaint was not upheld says: 
I am aware the paint was an issue that was being resolved this week so my expectations 
would have most likely been that the car returned home to me this week, however, as 
mentioned, Id prefer the car remain with [G] until [Santander] has completed [its 
investigation]. 
Three days later, Mr M spoke to Santander on the phone. Santanders notes of that call say 
that Mr M informed them the car was now ready to collect. However, Santander advised 
Mr M to pursue a strong case for rejection and not to accept anything until investigated 
fully. 
It seems to me therefore that it was on Santanders advice that Mr M shouldnt collect the car 
following the repairs carried out by G. I note that this was only until the point at which 
Santander completed its investigation, which was in early January 2020 and that Santander 
then instructed Mr M to take possession of the car. However, given that Santander had given 
erroneous reasons for turning down Mr Ms complaint (in that it said this was because the faults hed experienced with the car werent re-occurring), I dont think Mr M acted 
unreasonably in continuing to seek rejection when it appeared Santander hadnt investigated 
his right to reject appropriately and it had previously told him he should pursue a strong case 
for rejection. 
I note Santander has now tried to say that the original outcome to Mr Ms complaint wasnt 
turned down because the issues werent related, but instead it was turned down because the 
repairs had already been completed. However, Santanders notes from the time indicate that 
the complaints handler spoke to a team leader for advice who said that Mr M cant exercise 
his right to reject due to different faults. The call note between Santander and Mr M dated 
6 January 2020 notes EXPL AS ADHERING TO CRA 2015 AS FAULTS LISTED ON 
TIMELINE OF EVENTS NOT REOCCURING CANNOT PURSUE REJECTION.  The final 
response letter also confirms this was the reason the complaint was rejected as it says the 
complaint is not upheld because the vehicle faults were not reoccurring. 
In any event, even if I was to agree that Mr M ought reasonably to have agreed to take back 
the car in January 2020, any loss Santander may or may not have suffered has only arisen 
because Santander acted unreasonably in not allowing rejection of the car when that would 
have been the fair and reasonable course of action to take at the time. Further, the car 
hasnt been driven in that time so any depreciation it may have suffered has been minimised. 
Santander says delays in dealing with the complaint have led to further depreciation in the 
value of the car. While I understand that Santander believes Mr M has been unreasonable 
and there have been delays, Im not persuaded his actions in not taking possession of the 
car in January 2020 have made any significant or meaningful difference. 
Santander has made much of the fact that Mr M has breached the terms of his credit 
agreement by not notifying Santander of the previous faults which he was contractually 
obliged to do. It says this has caused prejudice to Santander and has led to it being denied 
the right to investigate and manage all repairs with the vehicle that could have resolved all 
issues with the vehicle at an earlier stage. It considers this to be a material loss. I find it odd 
that Santander at the same time also seeks to argue that Mr M was well within his rights to 
seek repairs warranty repairs instead and his decision to do so is neither unusual nor 
unreasonable. Santander says that it was up to Mr M to make up his own mind about who to 
ask for repairs from. But if Santander accepts that to be the case, then it cant possibly have 
been caused the sort of prejudice it says by Mr M not notifying it of the earlier faults with the 
car. This is because it wouldnt have been able to carry out an inspection and a repair if 
Mr M sought repairs under the warranty  which Santander says Mr M would have been well 
within his rights to do. Both situations cant be right. However, whichever is right, I dont think 
it makes any material difference to the outcome.  
This is because when Mr M did notify Santander of the previous repairs it did not tell him 
then that hed acted unreasonably by not notifying them of the faults earlier or that this would 
prevent his ability to seek rejection under the CRA. Instead, Santander told him to seek a 
strong case for rejection, knowing full well it hadnt previously been notified of the faults, 
carried out repairs itself or appointed an agent to do so on its behalf. So, it doesnt appear 
Santander was at all concerned about any prejudice that might have been caused at that 
time, it has much later sought to make those arguments after Mr M pointed out the incorrect 
reasoning Santander gave for declining his request for rejection.
Further, had Mr M notified Santander of each fault when they occurred, Im not persuaded 
things would have played out in a materially different way. I set out in my provisional 
decision and in this final decision why I consider it more likely that the majority of the repairs 
would still have been conducted by G whether Santander were notified of them or not. 
Therefore, the position Santander and Mr M are in now is likely to have been broadly the 
same. Santander says that Ive misdirected myself by making a finding on what I think would have 
happened if events had played out differently. It says that is never a consideration in law nor 
in assessments of fairness. While it may not be a consideration in law, I disagree that it isnt 
a consideration in assessments of fairness. Santander has said that Mr M cannot reject the 
car as he has not given Santander a first opportunity to repair as per the CRA. Mr M 
complains that Santanders refusal to allow him to reject the car is unfair. To determine a fair 
outcome, I need to consider whether Santander has acted fairly in refusing to allow Mr M to 
reject the car and part of that consideration requires me to think about whether any detriment 
has been suffered by either party due to the others actions. In deciding whether Santander 
has been prejudiced or not by Mr Ms actions, I need to consider what would have likely 
happened but for what he did. Therefore, in determining what is fair and reasonable, I 
consider it crucial for me to make a finding as to what I think would have happened if 
different actions had been taken. 
Santander says that the only things I should consider are: (i) if there are any outstanding 
defects that require repairing by the trader and, (ii) has the trader ever been given one 
opportunity to perform repairs at the point the complaint was made. 
However, I dont agree. To condense my considerations to just these two very specific points 
wouldnt necessarily result in a fair and reasonable outcome. Point (i) doesnt take into 
account all the facts and circumstances of the case, such as the history of repairs and issues 
with the car. Nor does it consider Santanders actions concerning the history of repairs and 
issues with the car when Mr M contacted Santander about them in late 2019. Point (ii) 
doesnt take into account whether there has actually been any prejudice caused to 
Santander, or the issues around whether Santander ought to have asserted its right to repair 
in late 2019 when Mr M contacted it about them prior to some of the repairs being carried 
out. Further, it is important to note that my remit as an ombudsman is inquisitorial, meaning it 
is much wider than the narrow view of the complaint which Santander has highlighted. 
Santander says that Mr M has prejudiced their position by not notifying it earlier of the 
repairs that were required. It says that had Mr M done this, things would have been 
materially different. Specifically, it says it would have guaranteed the intervention of an 
independent expert to assess everything that was wrong with the car. However, I cant 
accept that to be true. I say this because Mr M did notify Santander of faults with the car 
prior to some of the repairs actually being carried out. 
In late November and early December 2019, Mr M told Santander about the problems he 
was experiencing with the car. At this point there were still outstanding issues to be rectified. 
Despite Mr M notifying Santander of these issues, Santander did not  as it now asserts it 
would have  appoint an independent expert to inspect the car prior to the repairs being 
carried out. At that time Santander was in discussions with G about the repairs and could 
have instructed it not to complete those repairs until it had inspected the car. Santander did 
not take the opportunity to do so. I therefore cant accept that its more likely than not 
Santander would have done so at an earlier point in time if Mr M had referred the earlier 
faults to Santander when they materialised. Santander says it was legally impossible for it to 
interrupt or stop any repairs Mr M had instructed to be carried out. Even if Santander is right 
about that, it could still have done more to assist Mr M at that stage, such as obtaining 
Mr Ms consent to cease repairs or set out the position in the CRA clearly to him regarding 
repairs.   
In addition to the above, I note the first fault with the car occurred as soon as Mr M drove 
away with the car. It seemed this was a relatively straightforward repair and given how soon 
it occurred and how quick it was to resolve, I find it unlikely Santander would have arranged 
for a full independent inspection of the car both before and after that repair. Santander has said it would have been its process to instruct an independent inspection 
after repairs were carried out to ensure all faults had been fixed. But its own notes from the 
time indicate that it specifically chose not to carry out an independent inspection because 
repairs have been carried out.  For all these reasons, Im not persuaded Santander would 
have arranged inspections before and after repairs as it now says. 
Santander says in May 2020 it offered a specialist independent inspection of the car and this 
is exactly what it would have done in 2019 had it been given the opportunity. However, what 
it offered in 2020 and the circumstances surrounding that offer are very different to what it 
was proposing to do in 2019. Santanders contact notes from 2019 show it briefly considered 
appointing its usual independent car inspection firm but as Ive noted above, this didnt go 
ahead because repairs had already been completed. The offer in May 2020 appears to have 
been made to give Mr M some reassurances about the current state of the car. Notably, 
Santander had agreed to arrange a specialist independent inspection firm. This firm was 
different to the firm Santander had suggested it might instruct when Mr M contacted it in late 
2019. The specialist firm Santander instructed in May 2020 had specific knowledge about 
the type of specialist car Mr M had. Santander has made much of the fact that this inspection 
was very costly, which highlights what an unusual step it was. For Santander to say it would 
have always offered this is simply not accurate given that its own notes from 2019 show the 
firm it was considering to carry out the inspection was a different one and the one it normally 
uses, not this specialist firm it offered in May 2020. 
Santander says none of the issues Mr M complained to it about required repairing. This isnt 
quite right though. Mr M did raise concerns about the quality of the car before G completed 
some of the repairs. I do however accept the earlier faults appear to have now been fixed. 
And I note that Santander says having the remaining faults repaired wouldnt cause Mr M 
any prejudice. However, it is also true that the car has had numerous problems in the short 
time Mr M was in possession of it. In addition, further faults were later identified by 
Santanders inspection of the car. So, I dont think its fair to consider the current faults in 
isolation when thinking about what is reasonable.  
It seems this car continued to experience issues which have made it of unsatisfactory quality 
and still has outstanding issues. It would be unfair and unreasonable to therefore insist that 
Mr M ought to continue in an agreement to pay for a car of that quality, particularly given the 
significant costs of the agreement. A reasonable person, taking into consideration the price 
paid, the age and mileage of the car wouldnt expect to experience the number of problems 
Mr M has had in such a short period of time. Many repairs have been carried out on the car 
and while most of those were prior to Santander being notified of them, Im not persuaded 
Mr M or Santander would be in any different position now had he notified them of those 
faults before the repairs were completed.  
Had Mr M contacted Santander each time these faults occurred, then Mr M would have been 
within his rights to now reject the car under the CRA as I consider it more likely than not that 
there would have been a number of repair attempts carried out in line with the provisions of 
the CRA. I noted in the provisional decision that other than the issue with the loose bolts and 
mesh deck, neither G nor the manufacturer has at any point suggested these issues were 
down to expected wear and tear or driver misuse. For completeness, there were some other 
minor issues reported by Mr M which I havent mentioned, such as loud/rough running of the 
car. It isnt clear whether those other minor issues were due to expected wear and tear or Mr 
Ms misuse of the car. However, I dont consider that to be material to the outcome Ive 
reached. 
I say this because even if those issues were down to Mr Ms misuse, Im satisfied that even 
excluding all of those issues, the remaining faults such as the numerous electrical and 
warning light issues, the loose wiring, the windows dropping and the door misalignment made the car of unsatisfactory quality. Neither G nor the manufacturer has suggested those 
faults were down to expected wear and tear or driver misuse. That, coupled with how soon 
the faults developed, and the number of relatively significant faults the car experienced in a 
short space of time, means Im satisfied the car wasnt of satisfactory quality. 
Santander says its unfair to assume any repair attempts it would have attempted would also 
have been unsuccessful or meant that the future issues would still have occurred. But I dont 
agree. In response to my provisional decision Santander accepted that it would take into 
account a consumers preference of repair agent and particularly in cases such as this  
involving an expensive, prestige car. It seems Mr M wanted G to put things right for him as 
this is where he predominantly took the car to when something went wrong with it. Given 
what a significant distance this was from his home, it was clearly his preference. I find it 
unlikely that had Santander been involved at an earlier point he would have chosen any 
other location. I say this because it was the manufacturer that would arrange free 
transportation to the repair garage, meaning there would be no cost to Santander. It 
therefore follows, that Santander would have no reasonable basis to insist on the use of a 
different garage to that which was Mr Ms preference (G). As Santander would most likely 
have used G too to carry out any repairs (as that would likely be Mr Ms preference) events 
would have played out in much the same way as they would have if Mr M had notified 
Santander of the faults at the outset. 
While under the CRA Santander hasnt had one attempt at a repair, I find that in the specific 
circumstances of this case, it would be unfair and unreasonable to conclude that this means 
Mr M cannot reject the car, as it wont result in a fair and reasonable outcome. This is 
because there have already been several repairs carried out, and Im satisfied its more likely 
than not Santander would have instructed the same repairer to carry out those repairs had it 
been notified of them. Santander accepts Mr M didnt act unreasonably in notifying G or the 
manufacturer to carry out the repairs. Further, it seems Santanders position on Mr Ms 
ability to seek rejection has morphed over time and is currently distinctly different to that 
which it was in late 2019. 
I think its also relevant to point out here that it could be argued that Mr M did give Santander 
an opportunity to carry out the repairs G completed in December 2019. This is because he 
notified Santander of them before the repairs were completed. Santander not opting to 
exercise its right to repair at that stage shouldnt be held against Mr M. 
Santander says Mr M was aware from the outset who the trader was as he sought legal 
advice and that he sought to lead and direct discussions with its customer services staff to 
suit his needs. However, Ive not seen anything to demonstrate Mr M was aware who the 
trader was under the CRA until December 2019. I can see Mr M did seek legal advice, but 
this appears to have only happened after Santander began discussing the CRA with him. Im 
not persuaded he did know who the trader was at an earlier point in time, had he done so he 
would have likely notified Santander of the earlier faults when they materialised. Given that 
I dont think Mr M knew who the trader was at that time, Im also not persuaded that he 
deliberately led Santanders customer services staff in the discussions that were had in 
December 2019. It seems clear to me from the notes that Santander were the ones advising 
Mr M of what to do. 
Santander also says Mr M has acted in bad faith by agreeing for Santander to carry out an 
expensive inspection and then not going ahead with the repairs and using the findings of the 
report to ask for rejection. But I dont think Mr M was precluded from, or acted unreasonably 
in, using the findings of the report in any way he wanted to. From the copies of 
correspondence Ive seen, Mr M said to Santander that he wouldnt be prepared to accept 
any settlement offer until an independent inspection had been completed and hed 
considered the findings of that report. I dont consider Mr M was under any obligation to agree to a repair as a remedy as a result of Santander completing the inspection, particularly 
when the result of that inspection concluded that the car still had defects which would have 
been present at the point of delivery of the car to Mr M. 
Santander says the independent inspector it appointed doesnt consider the current faults to 
warrant rejection of the car. Ive considered those comments but given the history of faults 
and issues the car has had in such a short period of time and all the other relevant 
circumstances Ive detailed above, I think its fair and reasonable that Mr M be allowed to 
reject the car.
The redress I proposed in my provisional decision has also been contested by Santander. It 
says its original offer of a repair and £4,000 compensation is fair, and my proposed remedy 
is grossly unfair and would place Mr M in a position of betterment. I dont agree. 
Mr M hasnt driven the car since late 2019 and has continued to make monthly repayments 
towards the car. Given that I think its fair and reasonable he be allowed to reject the car, it 
would be unfair to make him pay the monthly repayments during the time he had no use (or 
any meaningful use) of the car, irrespective of whether his decision not to drive it was 
reasonable or not. The monthly repayments are essentially the payments Mr M was making 
to have use of the car. If he didnt have use of it, it wouldnt be reasonable to say he should 
make payments. 
I dont think Santander can reasonably argue it would be fair for it to keep those repayments 
either when the car hasnt been driven. This is because there is unlikely to have been a 
significant impact on the value of the car in that time due to it being off the road. I note 
Santander hasnt provided any persuasive evidence to demonstrate that assumption to be 
incorrect. A refund of the monthly payments Mr M has made while he hasnt driven it 
therefore does not put Mr M in any better position than he should have been as hes 
received no benefit from making those payments.
Ive detailed in my provisional decision why Im satisfied I can consider any payments Mr M 
made towards agreement one as part of the redress for agreement two. Santander says it 
would be unreasonable to refund the monthly repayments Mr M made towards agreement 
one because they paid for Mr Ms use of the car supplied under that agreement. It says Mr M 
shouldnt be given a windfall. Santander says that no notice has been given of what use 
Mr M had of the car under agreement one or why agreement one was settled. However, 
under S.56 Consumer Credit Act 1974 it is irrelevant what use Mr M had of the car under the 
agreement one or why agreement one was settled, what Im considering when applying s.56 
is what payments formed part of the antecedent negotiations when entering into agreement 
two. 
As part of the antecedent negotiations between Mr M and G, on behalf of Santander, Im 
satisfied that it was agreed that all the payments Mr M made towards agreement one would 
be transferred over and form part of agreement two. Mr M says he accepted this 
arrangement as redress for the problems he had with agreement one. Now that Im directing 
Santander to unwind agreement two, it means that Mr M would lose the financial benefit of 
those payments agreed during the antecedent negotiations of agreement two. Therefore, by 
directing Santander to now refund those payments too, it doesnt place Mr M in a position of 
betterment. Instead, it ensures he receives the payments that were always due to him. The 
same principle applies to the deposit he paid and the monies he paid for paint protection 
under agreement one. 
Santander says it received no payment for the paint protection. While that may be true, I 
dont think that makes any difference to what a fair remedy would be. This is because Im 
satisfied that the payment for paint protection formed part of agreement two as a result of the antecedent negotiations between Mr M and G (on behalf of Santander). 
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I uphold this complaint and direct Santander Consumer (UK) 
Plc to:
End the finance agreement with nothing further to pay.
Collect the car at no cost to Mr M.
Refund all payments Mr M has made after October 2019, adding 8% simple interest 
per year from the date of each payment to the date of settlement.
On receipt of evidence that Mr M made the following payments, it should refund Mr M 
the £20,000 deposit he says he paid, the additional £1,800 he says he paid for paint 
protection and the monthly repayments he made towards agreement one. 
If applicable, remove any adverse information from Mr Ms credit file in relation to this 
agreement.
If Santander considers tax should be deducted from the interest element of my award, it 
should provide Mr M with a certificate showing how much its taken off, so that he can 
reclaim that amount, if he is eligible to do so. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 2 March 2022.
 
Tero Hiltunen
Ombudsman