DRN-3652011
Summary and background to the complaint
The events that unfolded are well known to the parties, so I dont intend to detail them here. 
Instead, Ill focus on the key reasons for my decision  our rules allow me to do so. 
Miss C complains that Santander UK Plc ought to reimburse the loss she incurred to an 
alleged investment scam.  
In summary, Miss C invested approximately £15,000 with a contracts for differences (CFD) 
trading website, TradeGM. She says the unreasonable sales techniques and misleading 
practices led her to conclude the company was fraudulent  so she withdrew what was left of 
her available balance after a few days. However, not all of Miss Cs total deposit was 
returned by TradeGM, with the firm saying that this was a result of the trades Miss C 
executed. 
Unhappy with this, Miss C asked Santander to recover the money under whats known as 
chargeback. She provided a host of information to support her claim that TradeGM 
misrepresented what investments she was entering into. But after some months, Santander 
declined the refund Miss C was hoping for, claiming that the chargeback was unsuccessful. 
The bank stood by its decision when Miss C raised a complaint about the matter, but it did 
award compensation for the way it handled some aspects of the chargeback process. 
Upon bringing the dispute to our service, one of our investigators considered the case and 
agreed that, despite its failings, Santander had reached a reasonable outcome on the 
chargeback claim. She therefore didnt recommend that the bank do anymore beyond what it 
had already for Miss Cs complaint. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Miss C accepts that Santander could not reasonably be expected to have prevented the 
payments from going to TradeGM in the first place. For completeness, I do not consider that 
the bank ought to have taken further precautions with these transactions on the grounds of 
fraud. They were, after all, authorised payments to a firm regulated in another jurisdiction for 
the purposes of trading CFDs and other investment assets. So, Santanders duty to protect 
Miss C against the risk of financial harm from fraud was not engaged. 
That being so, whats left for me to determine is whether the bank acted accordingly with its 
attempt to recover Miss Cs financial loss through chargeback.  
Chargeback is a voluntary process  not an absolute right for consumers  run by the card 
scheme, in this case VISA. Certain chargeback rights have to exist in order for a bank to 
successfully retrieve a consumers money via this method. If a merchant (TradeGM here) 
defends the chargeback and provides counter evidence, the bank must consider this 
according to VISAs rules. It is then for the rules to dictate which party keeps the funds. 
TradeGM responded to the chargeback and provided a host of information to show that   
Miss C received the agreed service in respect of her payments. Miss C argues that this was 
all a guise and she was given conflicting information pertaining to what she would be buying. 
For example, she submits that a representative of TradeGM repeatedly said she would get 
shares and not CFDs (which is widely considered a lower risk investment area). Miss C 
believes that, had Santander better handled the chargeback, it would have resulted in a 
refund of her money on the grounds of misrepresentation and/or breach of contract. 
Theres documentary evidence that Miss C accepted the CFD Trading Agreement before 
proceeding to deposit her funds. This contract, amongst other things, set out the risk of 
trading and the conditions of doing so. TradeGMs chargeback response is persuasive, as it 
demonstrates that Miss C was given plenty of forewarning about the trading environment 
she was entering. I can also see that it transacted under the correct merchant category 
code, meaning that Santander would not return Miss Cs payment for this reason. 
Its evident that Miss C had to answer questions regarding the suitability and 
appropriateness of the investment service being provided, which specifically spoke of CFDs 
(and not shares). Indeed, the particular trading platform she signed up for was exclusively for 
CFD trading  so it was not possible for her to have invested in the stocks/shares market. 
Whats more, TradeGM has demonstrated that the money Miss C deposited was used to 
execute trades in keeping with the trading agreement.  
Under these circumstances, I cannot safely conclude the further evidence Miss C claims the 
bank omitted would have made a material difference to the chargeback outcome. 
Chargeback has strict evidential requirements that must be met. Ultimately, Im not satisfied 
Santander ought to return whats remaining of the payments Miss C made on these grounds. 
Finally, I acknowledge Santander ought to have dealt with the chargeback in a more 
effective manner. Its awarded compensation to reflect its errors which I find fair and 
reasonable, so I do not judge that it ought to compensate Miss C further. It follows that I do 
not require it to do anything beyond what it has already for this complaint. 
My final decision
For the reasons given above, my final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss C to accept 
or reject my decision before 24 November 2022.
 
Matthew Belcher
Ombudsman