DRN-4074874
The complaint
Mrs M is unhappy with how Fortegra Europe Insurance Company Ltd (Fortegra) handled and
settled a claim made under her furniture warranty.
What happened
Mrs M has a five-year extended warranty for her furniture underwritten by Fortegra.
In September 2021 there were issues with the furniture recliner mechanisms, so a claim was
made to Fortegras claim administrator.
An inspection was carried out and the claim was accepted. However, there were delays in
receiving replacement parts, and once they were received, the repair wasnt successfully
completed.
Across the claim several complaints were made by Mrs M. Fortegra offered a total of £250
compensation. Due to the delays and failed repair, Fortegra offered alternative claim
settlements of reselection or a cash settlement. Mrs M was unhappy with the handling of the
claim and the settlement offered, so she approached this service.
Our investigator looked into things but she didnt uphold the complaint. She was satisfied the
compensation and settlement offers were reasonable, so she didnt ask Fortegra to do
anything further.
Mrs M didnt agree and asked for a final decision from an ombudsman.
I reached a different outcome to our investigator, so I issued a provisional decision, to give 
both parties an opportunity to comment on my initial findings before I reached my final 
decision.
What I provisionally decided  and why
In my provisional decision, I said:
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im minded to reach a different outcome to our investigator, so Im issuing a 
provisional decision, to give both parties an opportunity to comment on my initial 
findings, before I reach my final decision.
Fortegras claim administrator handled the claim and complaints on their behalf. 
Where Ive referred to Fortegra throughout, this includes the actions and 
communication from their administrator, acting on their behalf.
Due to the delays in the claim, several complaints were raised by Mrs M. Fortegra 
issued responses to the complaints and offered a total of £250 compensation.
Fortegra accepts things went wrong. This includes delays in their handling of the 
claim, from delays in ordering parts and chasing these, not communicating for long 
periods at a time, and that the repair completed wasnt successful. There were also 
delays in paying the compensation offered due to admin errors.
Whilst I do understand Mrs M is unhappy with the service shes received, I think the 
£250 compensation already offered by Fortegra for this is reasonable. So, unless 
anything changes as a result of the responses to my provisional decision, Im not 
minded to direct Fortegra to increase the overall compensation amount.
Due to the time the claim was taking and the unsuccessful repair, Fortegra offered 
Mrs M the following alternative settlements:
£5,497.17 reselection at the original retailer
£2,748.59 cash
Fortegra says this is in line with the policy terms:
If a repair cannot be achieved, we may choose to replace the damaged part. 
If this is not possible, (administrator) may provide a replacement product(s), 
or settle the claim by a cash payment at (administrator) and your Insurers 
discretion instead of a repair or replacement (up to the limit of cover). Any 
cash settlement will be limited to the equivalent cost of repair or replacement 
by (administrator).
Im satisfied the reselection is a reasonable settlement offer as it provides a sufficient
amount for Mrs M to replace her furniture, as this is the same amount as she 
purchased the furniture for. However, Mrs M would rather a cash settlement for the 
same amount, and she is unhappy the cash offer is considerably lower than the 
reselection offer from Fortegra.
The policy terms do say that alternative settlements would be in line with the cost to
Fortegra. And its not uncommon for insurers to receive discounts from retailers, so 
this can sometimes mean the reselection face value is higher than the cash 
equivalent cost to the insurer, and therefore the insurer only offers that equivalent 
cash amount for a cash settlement.
However, for me to be satisfied Fortegra is offering a fair and reasonable settlement, 
in line with the above policy terms, Id need to be persuaded they are offering a cash 
settlement in line with what it would cost them. However, despite asking for a 
breakdown of the settlement offers, several times, both from Fortegra and the 
administrator directly, neither has provided a breakdown to this service to 
demonstrate that.So, whilst Im satisfied the amount of the reselection offer is fair, Fortegra hasnt
demonstrated how they have calculated the lower cash settlement, or that it is in line 
with the policy terms. So, I cant conclude its fair and reasonable based on what has 
been provided.
Therefore, unless anything changes as a result of the responses to my provisional 
decision, Ill be directing Fortegra to increase the cash settlement amount to the 
same as the reselection  £5,497.17. I understand Mrs M has already received the 
cash settlement already offered (£2,748.59), so Fortegra would also need to add 8% 
simple interest to the additional amount due from the date of payment of the original 
settlement, to the date of the payment of the remainder.
To manage Mrs Ms expectations here though, Fortegra may provide evidence in 
response to my provisional decision which supports their position. This may mean 
that I decide both the offers currently made by Fortegra are reasonable. But based 
on what Ive seen so far, Fortegra hasnt demonstrated this.
Therefore, I was minded to uphold the complaint and to direct Fortegra to increase the cash 
settlement to £5,497.17, and to add 8% simple interest to the additional amount due.
The responses to my provisional decision
Mrs M responded to my provisional decision. She said that the total amount she paid for the 
furniture was higher than the amount I had said, and she provided an invoice to support that. 
She said the amount had changed as she decided after initial purchase to go ahead with a 
slightly different specification. So, Mrs M says neither offer is in line with what she paid for 
the furniture, so she isnt able to replace it for those amounts.
The update to my provisional decision
Due to the additional information provided by Mrs M and the relevance to the provisional 
decision and direction, I wrote to both parties with an update. 
In this I said that based on the additional information from Mrs M, I didnt think the original 
offer of reselection was fair, or the offer of cash settlement either. And my view remained 
that Fortegra hadnt shown the reduced cash settlement was fair either. So, I was minded to 
conclude neither was fair in the circumstances.
I noted that Mrs M said the amount of settlement should be £7,352.50 as this was the total 
invoice cost. However, I said that this amount included the furniture warranty and delivery 
fees, but Mrs Ms policy didnt cover those costs, only the furniture cost which totalled 
£6,963.50.
Therefore, I said that unless anything changed as a result of further responses to my 
provisional decision, and update, Id be directing Fortegra to increase the cash settlement to 
£6,963.50, and to add 8% simple interest as outlined previously.The further responses to the update
Mrs M responded to say she paid for an additional top-up to her warranty for the recliner 
mechanisms, and this was on the invoice she had provided.
Fortegra responded and provided a copy of a commercial agreement between them and the 
retailer which outlined, more generally, they received discounts. Fortegra also said they 
werent aware of the higher amount Mrs M paid for her furniture and they didnt think this 
should be held against them as they say they would have offered reselection in line with this 
if theyd been aware previously.
I responded to Fortegra and outlined that whilst I noted the general trade agreement they 
had sent, they still hadnt provided a breakdown of the cash settlement calculation or that 
this was in line with the terms - despite numerous requests.
I also said I noted what Fortegra had said about not being aware of the invoice costs 
previously, but I said I thought Fortegra should already be aware of what insurance policies 
and cover they were supplying. I also outlined this was information already present in the file 
notes which were sent to this service by them, so they were actually already aware of this.
Fortegra sent a further response, to ask if the retailer had provided a breakdown. They also 
said that if they were to use the higher figure, they thought a different deduction should be 
applied to both settlement offers, including a different percentage for the cash settlement 
and because one of the items wasnt damaged.
I outlined to Fortegra that this service still hadnt received a breakdown of how the cash 
settlement had been calculated by them, despite multiple requests and explanations why this 
was needed if they were offering a lower amount.
I also noted Fortegra had introduced a completely different way, in principle, of calculating 
the settlement, including different percentages to what they had previously based settlement 
on. But what was particularly important to note was that they still hadnt provided a 
breakdown in any event.
So, I said unless anything changes, I was still minded to direct Fortegra to increase the cash 
settlement to £6,963.50 with 8% simple interest added.
Fortegra didnt provide any further responses by the deadline.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
And Ive thought carefully about the provisional conclusions I reached, and what has 
happened since which Ive outlined above. Having done so, Ill be directing Fortegra to 
increase the cash settlement to £6,963.50, with 8% simple interest added to the additional 
payment.Mrs M provided this service with an additional copy of the final sales invoice totalling 
£7,352.50. Mrs M says she should receive the full value of that invoice, as a cash 
settlement. However, this not only includes the furniture items, but also includes the warranty 
cost and delivery fees. The policy covers the furniture under the extended warranty, it 
doesnt include additional cover for costs such as the warranty itself or the top-up warranty 
for the recliner mechanisms, or delivery. So, the maximum limit of cover under the policy is 
the furniture itself  which is £6,963.50.
As Ive mentioned, Fortegra responded to my provisional decision with a copy of a 
commercial agreement between them and the original retailer. This is commercially sensitive 
so I wont outline exactly what this says. But in any event, this isnt relevant here in relation 
to Mrs Ms claim specifically, the claim settlement being offered by Fortegra, or the 
complaint, as this outlines wider agreements Fortegra has with the retailer.
Whilst Fortegra has provided this general agreement, they still havent provide a breakdown 
of how they calculated the cash settlement offer theyve made to Mrs M. And in my 
provisional decision (and before and after this too), this is what I said theyd need to provide 
to demonstrate how theyd calculated that cash settlement for Mrs Ms claim, and that this 
was in line with the terms.
Fortegra provided an additional settlement calculation in which theyd applied different 
percentages to the claim settlements, which they say also took into account that some items 
were undamaged. But Fortegra hadnt previously calculated settlement in this way or made 
any such deductions previously. And of importance, despite multiple requests and 
opportunities, Fortegra still didnt provide a breakdown to demonstrate that settlement (or 
any of the previous amounts) were in line with the terms i.e. the cost to them and the specific 
discounts applicable to this specific settlement or how theyd been applied.
Therefore, given the lack of evidence in support of Fortegra demonstrating their cash offer is 
line with the terms  i.e. what it would cost them, I dont think theyve shown theyve made a 
fair or reasonable deduction when offering a reduced cash settlement.
With this in mind, my final decision remains the same my provisional decision and follow up 
communication, that Fortegra need to increase the cash settlement to the total amount of the 
furniture £6,963.50. This is different to the amount I said in my provisional decision 
(£5,497.17), based on the higher invoice being provided. But both parties have already been 
made aware of this, prior to my final decision being issued.
My final decision also remains the same, that Fortegra also need to add 8% simple interest 
to the additional amount from date of original cash settlement to date of payment of the 
additional settlement due.
Mrs M said that she didnt think the compensation already paid totalling £250 was sufficient. 
However, my view on this remains the same as in my provisional decision, that I think that 
amount of compensation already paid is fair, so Im not going to direct Fortegra to increase 
this.My final decision
Its my final decision that I uphold this complaint and direct Fortegra Europe Insurance 
Company Ltd to:
Increase the cash settlement amount to £6,963.50
Add 8% simple interest* to the additional payment due from the date of original cash 
settlement to date of payment of the additional settlement
*If Fortegra Europe Insurance Company Ltd considers that its required by HM Revenue & 
Customs to deduct income tax from that interest, it should tell Mrs M how much its taken off. 
It should also give Mrs M a tax deduction certificate if she asks for one, so she can reclaim 
the tax from HM Revenue & Customs if appropriate.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs M to accept or 
reject my decision before 10 May 2023.
 
Callum Milne
Ombudsman