DRN-3937864
The complaint
Mr T complains that Paysafe Financial Services Limited has refused to release money from 
his account.
What happened
Mr T says Paysafe closed his account but has refused to send him the account balance. He 
says he has provided identity and other bank account documents, but Paysafe will not send 
him the balance. Mr T would like his money returned.
Paysafe says it closed Mr Ts account in line with account terms and conditions. It says it 
asked Mr T for various documentation before it could send him the account balance and 
says it hasnt received appropriate documents that it can accept.
Mr T brought his complaint to us, and our investigator didnt uphold the complaint. The 
investigator thought Paysafe had regulatory duties to consider before releasing the money 
and thought it was entitled to retain the money in the circumstances here. The investigator 
thought Paysafe was not obliged to provide exact reasons for rejecting the documents but 
had provided sufficient information to Mr T.
Mr T doesnt accept that view
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I have come to the overall view that I dont uphold this complaint. I 
appreciate Mr T will be disappointed by my decision.
I have carefully looked at Mr Ts account terms and conditions which I think he would have 
agreed to when the account was first opened. Those terms and conditions make clear that 
Paysafe can in certain circumstances limit or restrict account use or close an account. So, I 
dont think Paysave acted unfairly or made a mistake by closing and restricting Mr Ts 
account. I appreciate Mr T would like to know the exact reasons for doing so, but Im 
satisfied that Paysafe is not obliged to provide those reasons and has given Mr T general 
reasons for its actions.
Im also satisfied that Paysafe tried to assist Mr T in transferring the money to a different 
account and by asking him for various documents. I find its up to Paysafe when exercising 
its commercial judgement what documents it accepts. We are not Paysafes regulator and so 
its not our role to direct it about the type of checks it carries out or what documents its 
prepared to accept.
Overall, Im satisfied that Paysafe is reasonably entitled to have taken the steps it has in 
closing the account and retaining the money pending appropriate checks on Mr Ts 
documents.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr T to accept or 
reject my decision before 22 May 2023.
 
David Singh
Ombudsman