DRN-2221431
The complaint
Miss R complains that Barclays Bank UK Plc (Barclays) mistakenly allowed third parties to
send payments to her closed Pingit account using her mobile phone number (Paym).
What happened
Miss R opened a Pingit account with Barclays in September 2014. The account was closed
in June 2018. After the account was closed, a third party known to Miss R sent payments
from their account to her using her mobile number, through Paym. These sums totalled to
around £400 and were payment for services Miss R provided as part of her own business.
But as the account was closed this money didnt reach Miss Rs account.
Miss R feels that Barclays didnt handle her account closure correctly, as she said she 
shouldnt have been registered for Paym. So third parties shouldnt have been allowed to 
send money using this method to begin with. Barclays says the payments didnt credit Miss 
Rs account and wouldve been refunded shortly after. So it said Miss Rs customer would 
need to trace the payments through the sending bank. And because Barclays didnt receive 
any funds, it said it couldnt offer any assistance.
Our investigator didnt uphold this complaint  he said that despite the mobile number being
saved, the account was still closed so the funds wouldnt have been received by Barclays. 
He said that Barclays didnt instruct the payments and it was Miss Rs responsibility to make
sure third parties sent payment to her in a suitable way.
Because Miss R didnt agree with our investigator, this case was passed to me for an 
ombudsmans decision. I issued my provision thoughts on this complaint on 16 September 
2020 explaining why I felt the complaint should be upheld. Ive included my findings below.
Barclays says it didnt receive any of the funds that Miss R has said were sent to her, so it
cant offer any assistance on tracing and recovering them. And that the individuals who
made the payments would have the sums refunded into their accounts or need to contact
their own respective banks to recover the money.
Based on the evidence Barclays has provided, and considering the account was closed and
the account wasnt credited, Im satisfied its correct in saying it cannot help trace the funds.
This means the matter of the owed funds between Miss R and her client remains between
them to resolve and not one for Barclays to become involved in.
However, as the payments were allowed to be made (albeit it not received) Ive also
considered whether Barclays made a mistake when previously closing her account.
The account was closed in June 2018 and Barclays has said within its internal notes that the
Pingit registration had been frozen, and not cancelled. And that while the account was
frozen, people were still able to send funds to her using this function. It has said only at the
point Barclays was investigating Miss Rs complaint that it cancelled the Pingit registration.
From what Ive seen, it seems Barclays was wrong to freeze the Pingit registration and not
cancel it. And had it done this, no payments couldve been sent to Miss Rs account simply
using her mobile number, and this confusion would likely have not happened.
Miss R has requested Barclays pay her the sum that the third party had intended to send
her. But Im not persuaded this is fair as ultimately that party still owes her the money and
she will have channels available to her to pursue this if she needs to. I also cant ignore Miss
Rs own responsibilities to specify to her clients how payments should be made to her.
But given Miss R will need to request this money from a client, Im sympathetic to the
situation Barclays mistake has caused. Especially as she may need to request payments
from a client that may believe they have already paid her.
I concluded Barclays should pay Miss R £150 for the distress and inconvenience caused by 
caused by its failure to close the account correctly. I gave both parties until 30 September 
2020 to reply, which now passed and neither party has responded.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As Ive received nothing new from either party in response to my provisional decision, I see 
no reason to change my mind from my provisional decision. And Im upholding this complaint 
for the reasons Ive previously given.
My final decision
My final decision is to uphold this complaint. Barclays Bank UK PLC must pay Miss R £150 
in compensation as a result of its mistake.
Barclays must pay the compensation within 28 days of the date on which we tell it Miss R 
accepts my final decision. If it pays later than this it must also pay interest on the 
compensation from the date of my final decision to the date of payment at 8% a year simple.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss R to accept 
or reject my decision before 29 October 2020.
 
Jack Baldry
Ombudsman