DRN-2896594
The complaint
Mr S complains that Bank of Scotland plc trading as Halifax blocked his account access 
which meant he couldnt use a £100 voucher.
What happened
Mr S says he tried to make an online payment in July 2020 to a company I will call W. He 
says the payment was declined and so was unable to use a W voucher as part of the 
payment which would have saved him £100. Mr S says he wasnt contacted by Halifax or 
told why his card was blocked. He says Halifax unfairly said he failed security during a 
telephone call about this problem. Mr S would like compensation for what took place and for 
the loss of the voucher as well as an explanation for the block being applied.
Halifax says the block was applied on 21 July 2020 and says it sent Mr S a message and 
tried to contact him. It says it removed the block on 24 July 2020 when it spoke to Mr S. 
Halifax says it had security concerns and is entitled to apply an account block in those 
circumstances and that Mr S failed its security questions during one call.
Mr S brought his complaint to us and our investigator didnt uphold it. The investigator 
thought Halifax was entitled to conclude Mr S had failed its security process when he called, 
as he failed to answer its account questions. The investigator thought Halifax was entitled to 
apply fraud and security measures in line with account terms and conditions and so hadnt 
made a mistake. She also thought Mr S could have called Halifax when the account card 
was first blocked.
Mr S doesnt accept that view and says it didnt cross his mind that his account had been 
blocked. He would like to know why the account was blocked and maintains it was blocked 
without a good reason.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I have come to the overall view that I dont uphold this complaint. I 
appreciate Mr S will be disappointed by my decision.
I am sure Mr S appreciates that fraud is a major problem for consumers, banks and building 
societies. So, banks and building societies must have security measures in place to protect 
its customers and its money. I accept on occasions that legitimate customers are affected by 
security measures and legitimate transactions can be declined. Im satisfied that Halifax 
makes that information, that it may apply a block for security reasons, clear in the account 
terms and conditions which I think Mr S would have agreed to when the account was first 
opened.
So, Im satisfied that Halifax was entitled to place the account restrictions on Mr Ss account 
and didnt make a mistake or act unfairly. Im also satisfied that Halifax has explained which 
transaction led to the restrictions. I appreciate Mr S would like to know the exact reasons for 
the block, but Im satisfied that such information is likely to be confidential and that Halifax is 
not obliged to provide its customers with such information. I accept this was Mr Ss account 
and his money, but Im also satisfied that Halifax has acted in line with agreed account terms 
and conditions.
I have listened to all of the telephone calls between the parties. I think its up to Halifax to 
decide when exercising its commercial judgement which security questions it asks its 
customers. And Im satisfied Mr S failed those security questions. I appreciate Mr S says the 
problem was caused by the type of questions. But I dont think it unreasonable to have 
expected Mr S to know if his account had an overdraft facility as that information is 
prominently recorded on his account statements, even if it wasnt used. I dont think that was 
the only question Mr S was unable to answer and so I dont think Halifax made a mistake or 
acted unfairly by concluding Mr S had failed its security process.
I appreciate Mr S says he was unable to use the voucher. I dont think it clear why Mr S 
didnt call Halifax when the payment was declined and think that Mr S during one of the calls 
told Halifax it had cancelled his card without reasons. I think that suggests on balance Mr S 
knew that there was an issue with his account on 21 July 2020 and would have known the 
voucher expiry date in any event. I dont think Mr S has told us if he could have used a 
different account to utilise the voucher or provided us with any evidence about it or the expiry 
date even if I thought Halifax was at fault.
Overall, Im satisfied that Halifax has dealt fairly with this complaint and was entitled to place 
the restrictions on Mr Ss account in line with agreed account terms and conditions. For 
those reasons I cant fairly order Halifax to pay Mr S the compensation he would like or 
provide any further details for the exact reasons for the security concern.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 7 August 2021.
 
David Singh
Ombudsman