DRN-3452502
The complaint
Mr F has complained that Allianz Insurance Plc unreasonably refused to pay his claim under 
his pet policy.
What happened
Mr F said that because his dog had become aggressive with other dogs, his vet advised his 
dog should be castrated. He said he called Allianz after talking to his vet on 10 August about 
this and an adviser in Allianz told him since it was vet advised, he would be covered. And 
that further Allianz then advised him that if he didnt follow his vets advice and something 
went wrong then Allianz wouldnt be able to cover him.
So, Mr F said he made the reluctant decision for him, to have his dog castrated and then 
made a claim to Allianz. Allianz investigated Mr Fs claim to include obtaining the full vet 
history for its dog. It said Mr Fs policy didnt cover castration in these circumstances. It also 
didnt agree any of its advisers had told Mr F that his claim would be covered. 
Mr F complained and Allianz did review his claim again but said his claim wasnt covered by 
this policy. So, Mr F brought his complaint to us.
The investigator was of the view on the evidence presented, that Allianz hadnt done 
anything wrong. Mr F disagreed so his complaint has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im not upholding this complaint. Ill now explain why.
First, I do understand and appreciate that Mr F will be very disappointed with my decision. 
However, my role is to assess matters on the evidence available from both parties, and then 
assess whether Allianz did anything wrong having regard to that evidence and the policy 
terms and conditions.
Pet insurers routinely dont normally cover the castration or spaying of pets. Allianz policy is 
no different. As this is common in virtually every pet policy, I dont find this exclusion unusual 
or significant. 
In the renewal information which Mr F received in July 2021, it clearly wanted Mr F to tell 
Allianz if his dog had been seen by a vet for any reason other routine vaccinations and 
neutering. That shows me its not concerned about neutering as it not covered under this 
policy, along with vaccinations. It also clearly stated Mr F was under a duty to tell Allianz if 
any concerns have been raised about your dogs behaviour and if your dog has attacked, 
bitten or been aggressive towards another person or animal, has been in a fight or has 
shown aggressive tendencies. 
 
The reason for this request, is that this policy also provides cover if Mr Fs dog injured or 
damaged anything or caused an accident.
Mr F is right that the policy also requires him to do the following under the general conditions 
namely:
 Preventative actions - you must take any actions normally recommended by a vet to 
prevent or reduce the risk of injury/illness for behavioural illnesses. Examples of this 
are (but not limited to) regular worming and flea treatments and providing a healthy 
diet.
However, the policy also says under the Veterinary Fees that Allianz will pay:
The cost of veterinary treatment your pet has received during the policy year to 
treat injury and illness,
This section also covers the following when carried out by a member of a veterinary 
practice.
Treatment of a behavioural illness.
Then further down at number 15, it says the following:
15. The cost to neuter your pet
 The only time we will cover the cost of neutering your pet is if it is carried out when 
your pet is suffering from an injury or illness and neutering is essential to treat that 
injury or illness. We will not cover the cost of spaying following a false pregnancy or 
neutering to treat a behavioural illness [my emphasis]. Regardless of why your 
pet is neutered, if he/she suffers complications during or after the procedure, we will 
cover the cost of treatment needed to deal with the complications.
I consider its very clear that only complications from neutering operations are covered by 
this policy, rather than the actual cost of the operation to neuter itself. Furthermore, I 
consider this clause clearly details that neutering to treat a behavioural illness which was 
why Mr F said his dog was neutered, is not covered. I also consider that just because the 
policy advises the policyholder to follow vet advice, that vet advice doesnt then negate any 
subsequent exclusions in the policy. The exclusions therefore are not affected by whatever a 
vet advises. Thats because no insurer would provide cover solely based on whatever a vet 
advises, as no insurer could underwrite appropriately on that basis and indeed be able to 
calculate what premium to charge either.  
For completeness sake, illness is defined as any change from a healthy state; sickness, 
disease, defects and abnormalities, including defects and abnormalities your pet was born 
with or were passed on by his/her parents.  Injury is defined as accidental physical damage 
or trauma caused immediately by an external force. Not any physical damage or trauma that 
happens over a period of time. And clinical signs are defined as any change from a healthy 
state, bodily function or behaviour. Sadly, behavioural illness is not defined. 
As I said above, Allianz asked Mr Fs vet for the full vet history for his dog, which his vet 
provided. Ive gone through this vet history carefully myself. The vet history starts on 24 
October 2012. The entry on 12 August 2021 explains Mr Fs dog underwent the castration 
operation but there is simply no discussion in the vet history about Mr Fs dog behavioural 
problems. So, there is no evidence from this vet history either, that the castration was done 
for behavioural issues. That doesnt mean I dont believe Mr F that he was advised to 
castrate his dog for behavioural issues at all. It just means that the vet history hasnt 
recorded any reason for the castration operation, be it behavioural issues or any other issue.  Allianz file shows us there were three call recordings with Mr F in 2021 before it made its 
decision on his claim. He called 7 July 2021 with a query about paying his premium in 
instalments and whether interest was charged which the adviser confirmed wasnt charged. 
He also raised a query about why the renewal invite said that as he was with Allianz for 
some time, he should check whether it was still suitable for me as he might be able to get 
cheaper insurance elsewhere. Mr F thought this was an odd thing to say. Sadly, the adviser 
also thought it was an odd thing to say. However, the regulator namely the Financial 
Conduct Authority (FCA), has made this a requirement for all insurers to say to their 
policyholders on renewals, so as to ensure that policyholders do check and remain happy 
with the cover provided. Allianz adviser should have known this and provided better 
reassurance to Mr F on this call. However, on this call more importantly, there was no 
mention by Mr F that his dog had any behavioural issues, as he confirmed his dog was very 
well. And there was no indication of any pending decision over the castration of his dog.
The next call recording is for 18 August 2021. Mr F makes no mention of any previous call 
before or around 12 August. He quite rightly reads out the policy conditions about having to 
do what the vet suggests as regards treatment for his dog. He explains his vet thought it 
would be better for his dog to be castrated due to his aggression with other dogs and he 
explains his great reluctance to do this operation on his dog too. The call stops then as its 
clear the advisor had lost the line. Mr F then phones back and talks to a different adviser. On 
this call Mr F explains that once the vet told him to have his dog castrated, he went ahead 
and did it right away, as he really didnt want his dog to continue to be aggressive to other 
dogs given the problems that might cause. The adviser explained Allianz didnt really cover 
neutering costs, but it might consider it here depending on the evidence. So, she organised 
to email him a claim form. This adviser did say the claim form would be filled in with some of 
the information he had given her, so he didnt have to go over it again. She also explained as 
Mr F had already paid the vet for the operation, if the claim was accepted, the payment 
would go directly to him and she checked if they had his bank details which they did as he 
was paying the premium by instalments. Then the call ended.
There is no evidence from what Mr F said on these three calls with Allianz that there was 
any other earlier call where Allianz agreed to cover the costs of this operation before the 
operation took place. I would have thought had there been any call, (before these ones of 18 
August), Mr F would have mentioned it, but he made no mention of it on either call of 18 
August. And further, he explained in the second call that he went ahead immediately with the 
operation once the vet advised it. He didnt explain that he had gone ahead following any call 
with another adviser in Allianz. So, there is no evidence that an Allianz adviser gave him any 
go ahead to have the operation saying it would be covered. I consider the evidence is very 
clear about that indeed. Mr Fs own phone records also only detail these calls to Allianz on 
18 August too. 
No pet insurer including Allianz, gives pre-approval over the phone with an adviser in the 
manner Mr F believes happened here. This is because all pet insurers, and Allianz is no 
different, assess claims on the basis of the vet history from the vet, rather than just what a 
policyholder might say. So, any such pre-approval would only ever be done in conjunction 
with talking to the vet too. There is no evidence here, that any of this potentially happened, 
as Mr F has only alleged that an adviser told him to go ahead.
So, again on this basis, there isnt any evidence to show me an Allianz adviser confirmed his 
claim was covered. And given the policy wording which Mr F wanted me to look at carefully, 
its clear the costs of castration even for behavioural issues would not be covered. So, I dont 
think Allianz has done anything wrong here.Throughout all of Mr Fs dealing with us, and Allianz and from the vet history, I can see that 
Mr F deeply cares for his dog and truly wanted to do the very best for him. I can also see he 
was very upset indeed that his vet advised his dog should be castrated too, as it was very 
clear this wasnt something Mr F would ever have wanted to do to his dog. I also consider 
that Mr F has been very sure he was telling the truth and theres certainly no evidence 
before me that Mr F was deliberately lying or trying to gain some advantage either. More so 
since he had already paid his vet for this operation. But I can only decide Mr Fs complaint 
on the evidence before me and there is no evidence to show me that Mr F was told the 
operation would be covered either before the operation took place, or indeed afterwards. 
Even the best of us can mis-remember the sequences of events, more so when were upset 
as Mr F was here in being advised to castrate his dog by his vet. 
My final decision
So, for these reasons its my final decision that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr F to accept or 
reject my decision before 20 June 2022.
 
Rona Doyle
Ombudsman