DRN-1307439
 
The complaint
Ms J is unhappy with the way Ageas Insurance Limited (Ageas) handled her claim against 
her Staingard warranty for damage to her furniture.
What happened
Ms J cleaned her sofa using the care product given to her when she bought it. The product 
stained her sofa so she claimed against the Staingard warranty. Technicians representing 
Ageas checked the damage and recommended treating it with another product. The 
treatment caused further damage. Ms J complained to Ageas but at first it refused to do any 
more because it felt the warranty didnt cover the damage. Ageas said it tried to repair the 
damage out of goodwill not because it was at fault. 
Ageas then decided it was responsible under the warranty and offered to provide furniture 
for Ms J to use while it took her sofa away for repair. She rejected its offer because she 
thinks she need only provide it with one chance to repair. Ms J wants Ageas to take away 
the sofas and either replace them or refund to her the full cost of the furniture.
Our investigator didnt uphold the complaint.  Our investigator felt that Ageas made a fair 
offer to take away the sofa for repair while providing furniture for Ms J to use in the 
meantime. But our investigator also felt that Ageas should pay £200 to Ms J to apologise for 
the inconvenience and upset during the claims process.
Ms J didnt think this outcome was fair and asked for us to take another look at her 
complaint.
Ageas was happy with the chance to repair the sofa but didnt think it would be fair to pay 
£200.
As neither side agreed with our investigator, the complaint was passed to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I agree with our investigators view and I have decided to uphold in part Ms Js complaint. Ill 
explain why.
To begin with, these are the points covered during the complaint which both sides agree on, 
so they dont need further review. I will take them into account when deciding on the amount 
of inconvenience caused:
Ms J cleaned her sofa using the product provided.
The product stained her sofa.
She reported the damage properly as required in the Staingard warranty.The claim is covered under the warranty.
Ms J gave Ageas the chance to check the damage and repair it.
The attempted repair caused further damage.
 
What remains for me to decide is whether:
Ageas had enough chances to repair the damage; 
it should replace or refund the cost of the sofas, and
whether a payment as an apology is fair and, if so, the amount.
 
Ms J says she took advice from other organisations and she only needs to allow Ageas one 
chance to repair the sofa. She mentions the Consumer Rights Act 2015 and her right under 
that to get a replacement or refund when an item is faulty or not fit for purpose. Im looking at 
what is fair and reasonable based on the circumstances of this complaint, so my role is to 
decide how to put that right. The sofa isnt the faulty item  its the care product which wasnt 
fit for purpose and caused damage  and I must consider whether its reasonable for Ageas 
to try again to repair the damage.
Ageas tried a quick fix by treating the sofa with a care product and I think that was a 
reasonable first course of action in an effort to limit the inconvenience to Ms J. Although it 
didnt work, I dont think that means Ageas shouldnt have the chance to try a more 
substantial repair. A replacement or refund need only be offered if the cost of repair is 
unreasonable or if its likely to cause significant inconvenience to Ms J. I havent seen 
anything in the information available to me which makes me think there would be significant 
inconvenience in a second attempt at repair. So, I think Ageas made a fair offer in line with 
the Staingard warranty and I wont be asking it to do any more than it has already offered in 
response to this part of the complaint.
I can see that Ms J is frustrated by this matter, which is understandable given the 
unsatisfactory standard of service Ageas provided. Because of its service failings, Ms J 
needed to be at home for two separate technician visits and a further two visits will be 
needed to take away her sofa and return it following repair. She needed to challenge 
incorrect information about her warranty cover and she experienced delays in Ageas 
handling her claim. I am satisfied that this, in addition to the original damage caused by the 
incorrect care product, will have caused Ms J upset and inconvenience. In recognition of the 
inconvenience, I think £200 is a fair amount for Ageas to pay Ms J. 
I have decided to uphold in part Ms Js complaint because I dont think Ageas handled her 
claim well and that caused her inconvenience and upset as listed above. But I think it did 
make a reasonable offer to carry out a further repair and it should have the chance to try.  
My final decision
For the reasons given above, my final decision is to uphold in part Ms Js complaint. Ageas 
Insurance Limited should:
pay Ms J £200 as an apology for the gaps in service standard when dealing with her 
claim under the Staingard warranty. 
 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms J to accept or 
reject my decision before 1 April 2020.Debra Vaughan
Ombudsman