DRN-2084990
The complaint
Mr and Mrs M complain repair work undertaken by contractors, appointed by AXA Insurance 
UK Plc after they made a claim on their home insurance policy, is of an unacceptable 
standard. For ease of reference throughout this decision, Ill refer to Mrs M only.
What happened
Mrs M had a leak from the waste pipe in her bath. On emptying her bath, a significant 
quantity of water escaped through a ruptured pipe, causing widespread damage to her 
upstairs floors, and rooms, as well as most of the downstairs rooms in her house.
She made a claim for repairs to AXA, who appointed contractors to undertake the necessary 
works. The repairs were extensive. Mrs M became dissatisfied with the quality of many of 
the repairs. AXAs contractors regional performance manager (RPM) was heavily involved in 
discussions with Mrs M, and attended her home in October 2019 to assess the quality of 
works undertaken. A report was compiled setting out his conclusions. AXA also appointed 
further contractors to assess the quality of work to try and address Mrs Ms concerns.
Agreement couldnt be reached regarding what remedial works AXA was responsible for 
undertaking. Particularly whether some of the decorative flaws Mrs M raised were as a result 
of poor workmanship, or were pre-existing, and so not AXAs responsibility to remedy. And 
Mrs M also refused to allow the original contractors to return to her home to complete any 
works. Mrs M complained to AXA in October 2019 about the quality of the repair work, and 
the scope of the remedial works that AXA was prepared to undertake. AXA responded, 
commenting on each of the broad complaint areas which I can summarise as follows:
Decorating: Responding to the complaint the contractors paintwork was of a poor 
quality, AXA advised theyd spoken to the contractor, whod said the original 
paintwork (pre-claim) was not of a high standard. And the contractor hadnt used the 
wrong paint. 
Electrical: Kitchen lights were fitted correctly, and downlighters were replaced 
because of signs of corrosion, not because theyd failed. And wiring wasnt replaced 
because it wasnt water damaged. And any issue with electrical workings was a pre-
existing fault. AXA also confirmed their contractor didnt rewire a socket in the 
hallway. 
Plumbing: This was checked in the main bathroom and found to be in order. And 
accepting a cistern hadnt been fixed to the wall, AXA advised it was still safe to use. 
And any flushing issue would have been a pre-existing fault. Regarding the issue of 
clunking noises, AXA said this is likely a sign of old pipework or a water pressure or 
washer issue  and not to do with the work their contractor carried out. 
Fridge: There is no evidence that AXAs contractor damaged Mrs Ms fridge. 
Bathroom floor: AXA advised the hardboard fitted beneath the floor tiles, of 6mm 
depth, was agreed during a conversation between Mrs M and the contractor  
although AXA acknowledges the usual British Standard width would be 15mm. 
Bathroom tiles: AXA spoke to a tile retailer, who confirmed the tiles  because they 
were natural stone  could chip easily and would display imperfection marks. The 
tiles were sealed, but there was no need to apply a damp-proof membrane. 
Lounge floor: AXAs contractor denies damaging Mrs Ms lounge floor, but in any 
event Mrs M has been paid a sum to replace the floor following an earlier claim 
event.
AXA identified some service failings, particularly a lack of communication at the start of the 
claim. The complaint was upheld on this point only, and £250 compensation offered. AXA 
said their contractor would work with Mrs M to try and resolve outstanding issues. Mrs M 
was unhappy with this and brought her complaint to us. 
Our investigator initially didnt uphold her complaint fully and just awarded a further payment 
of £250 in compensation for distress and inconvenience  which AXA agreed to pay. 
However, Mrs M didnt accept this and further exchanges with our investigator took place, 
prompting him to issue a revised view upholding many elements of Mrs Ms complaint. In 
summary, he asked AXA to do the following:
Replace all of the bathroom tiles that are chipped or have blemishes.
Realign and securely fix the toilet to the wall.
Replace the bathroom flooring with a minimum 12mm hardboard.
Replace the extractor fan in the kitchen.
Try to repair/clean the carpet and kitchen units that have been damaged with 
glue/paint. And if not possible, these items should be replaced.
Replace the heater in the conservatory.
And referring to the RPMs report, in which many instances of poor decoration were 
acknowledged, he said every item included therein needed to be rectified by AXA.
And he clarified the points he didnt uphold, which I again summarise as:
The kitchen electrics issue: AXAs contractor said they hadnt done any kitchen 
rewiring work  and we had no evidence to dispute this.
The electrical socket issue: the contractor said they didnt re-wire this. And whilst 
they may have removed it for repainting, this isnt evidence they rewired it. So there 
is no compelling evidence to say the contractor caused damage to the socket.
The plumbing/banging pipes issue: Mrs Ms plumber was unable to see the pipes to 
make a proper assessment, so there wasnt enough evidence to say AXAs 
contractor had caused this to happen.
Mrs M confirmed she was happy with these recommendations. However AXA has disagreed 
with certain aspects of this revised assessment. To summarise, they accept fixing the toilet 
to the wall, replacing all chipped tiles, and cleaning/replacing damaged carpets as 
necessary. But AXA disagrees with replacing the conservatory heater, cleaning/replacing 
kitchen units, replacing the kitchen extractor, and replacing the bathroom floor. As AXA 
disagrees, this complaint came to me for a decision.
My provisional decision 
I issued my provisional decision on 12 May 2020. In it, I said I was minded to uphold some 
aspects of Mrs Ms complaint, explaining as follows: Its clear the damage caused was considerable. The water penetrated many parts of the 
home, causing both immediate and longer-term damage in many rooms of the house. And 
some damage appears only to have become evident some months after the leak. 
AXA assessed and agreed a comprehensive scope of works shortly after the leak, and 
appointed contractors to undertake these. I havent set out each of these works here, or set 
out the works that appear to have been carried out effectively, as these arent in issue. 
But Mrs M has made various complaints about much of the repair work carried out. Shes 
also made further complaints about damage, she says caused by the leak that only became 
evident at a later stage. Theres been considerable communication between AXA and Mrs M 
after shed first raised her concerns about the repairs, which continued after shed brought 
her complaint to us. I can see AXA offered to undertake certain remedial works, and not 
others, but a lack of agreement between AXA and Mrs M in certain respects mean these 
havent been done. Furthermore, recommendations made by our investigator have been 
agreed by AXA in part only  adding to a sense of uncertainty regarding what AXA currently 
remain willing or unwilling to do.
In this decision, I want to give clarity to both sides regarding what I think AXA need and dont 
need to do. But, I wont comment on the specific complaint issues our investigator didnt 
uphold  because Mrs M confirmed she accepted his second view in which these werent 
upheld, so Im not going to revisit these points here. 
The remedial works I think AXA need to undertake
Decoration issues
One of the recurring themes evident in the RPMs report, and Mrs Ms various exchanges 
with AXA and our investigator, is the very poor quality of the general redecoration. Most of 
the rooms in the house were redecorated to some extent and both the RPM and Mrs M have 
commented on sub-standard finishes in each of these. I think its clear a significant amount 
of redecoration work is warranted in this case.
However, whilst the RPM acknowledges the poor redecoration quality throughout the house, 
he (and AXAs contractors) said much of the decorative finish in Mrs Ms home, before the 
leak, was of poor quality. And so AXA shouldnt be responsible for all of the redecoration 
requests Mrs M raised. AXA says  correctly in principle  its only required to return Mrs Ms 
house to the condition it was in before the leak event, and not to enhance its condition. An 
issue for me, therefore, is trying to evidence what that pre-leak decorative condition was  so 
I only ask AXA to carry out redecoration works that are reasonable.
AXA says their contractor took photos of Mrs Ms home, before any repair work was carried 
out, which evidences the pre-existing decorative condition. Ive checked the file and cant 
see we have these. Ive asked for these to be provided but these havent been supplied. In 
their absence, Ive taken note of various photos Mrs M provided showing the condition of her 
home before the leak. Whilst they dont show close-up images of skirting or windowsill 
painting, and arent of every room in the house, they appear to show a well-decorated home. 
Im persuaded by these photos that the decorating flaws, that existed after the repairs, are 
more unlikely than not to have been in existence beforehand. Put simply, I think its unlikely 
the decorating in Mrs Ms home would have been as sloppy as the post-repair photos Ive 
seen suggest. I cant discount there may have been some sub-standard decoration before 
the leak, but there is no proof of this. Instead, there is compelling evidence  the RPMs 
report  that the work of AXAs contractor was sloppy throughout. So I conclude its more 
likely the above decorative flaws, highlighted by the RPM, were caused by AXAs contractor. And furthermore, even allowing for any potential quality issues surrounding Mrs Ms existing 
decorative finish, AXA still needs to redecorate to a professional standard as part of its 
responsibility to carry out a lasting and effective repair.
This being the case I think the various decoration issues, acknowledged within the RPMs 
report, must be rectified by AXA. For clarity, the areas requiring redecoration/putting right are 
as follows:
In the utility room instances of poor paintwork on various surfaces, and the quality of 
Mrs M is unhappy with some of the preparation work undertaken.
In the conservatory overpainting on widow frame that needs to be cleaned/removed 
and the frame needs to be properly repainted.
In the kitchen poor paintwork in various places, including a suggestion only part of 
the wall has been painted. There is overpaint on units and the window frame, and 
woodwork painting has limited preparation. The RPM says paint runs and 
overpainting in places would suggest lack of care but also comments issues may 
have been pre-existing.
In the lounge walls needed re-painting  after nail heads (popped during works), 
were sanded back to a smooth surface. Overpainting on the window frame needs 
cleaning off and the frames properly repainting.
On the hall/stairs/landing poor preparation on woodwork repainting (although saying 
some could be pre-existing). And further repainting needed because woodwork was 
repainted whilst the damaged carpet (which was to be replaced) was still in-situ.
Also, screws on the handrail brackets werent fully inserted  the handrail is loose 
and sharp edges of screws are evident. And theres overpainting on brass fittings. 
In the rear bedroom overpainting on the window frame, and a crack in the plastered 
reveal needs filling and re-painting. And, the wall adjacent to the door needs 
checking, as it may not have been painted.
In the main bedroom poor preparation work on the door frame before painting, and 
that further preparation and a re-paint is needed.
And on the doors generally some of the ironmongery has overpaint and paint 
splashes, and some hinges have not been fixed correctly or screws are missing.
In the main bathroom there was overpainting of wall paint onto the tiles, and paint 
splash on one tile. There was also paint on the window frame.
Replace the bathroom flooring with a minimum 12mm hardboard
Its not in dispute the flooring laid in Mrs Ms bathroom is showing early signs of grout 
damage, within only a few months of being re-laid. It appears this may be as a result of the 
width of a plywood floor underlay being too small given the type and size of floor tiles used. 
The original scope of repair says the flooring needs to be renewed with 18mm chipboard/ply 
flooring. But AXAs contractors said they discussed the width of the plywood flooring layer 
with Mrs M, and she agreed a smaller than average 6mm ply would be used. This, they say, 
was because Mrs M wanted to ensure there was no lip between the bathroom and hallway 
floors. Mrs M is adamant this conversation never took place.
Echoing a point our investigator made, it isnt possible to say with any certainty whether this 
issue was discussed, but I dont think this is the key point for me to consider here. Instead, I 
want to focus on what I think should reasonably have happened when a decision was taken 
by the contractors to use 6mm ply underlay.AXA have previously said that there are no strict rules or regulations regarding the width of 
ply underlay to be used in situations similar to Mrs Ms  where ceramic floor tiles were being 
laid. This is true, but there is what appears to be best practice regarding this issue. Our 
investigator had quoted from various trade sources he has reviewed, and it does appear that 
best practice suggests a ply width of between 12mm and 15mm should be used when 
ceramic tiles are to be laid. This being the case, and on the basis Id expect AXA to be 
providing Mrs M ordinarily with repairs of a permanent and effective nature, it means Id 
expect the default width in this situation to have been at least 12mm.
But that doesnt mean AXAs contractor had to use a 12mm ply  it could have been agreed 
between the parties to use a different (smaller width) ply. However, if these best practice 
guidelines were to be departed from, Id expect to see evidence that the contractor informed 
Mrs M  and recorded this clearly - of the likely risks associated with using a lesser-width 
product. Id also have expected the contractor to be notifying AXA, who as insurer are 
ultimately responsible for Mrs Ms repairs, that an agreement had been reached to use a ply 
width that fell below best practice. Put simply, evidence that both parties had agreed to the 
use of a lesser-width ply fully aware of the risks involved.
Having looked through the evidence provided by AXA and Mrs M, I cant see any evidence 
that AXAs contractor did raise the potential risks of using lesser-width ply with Mrs M, or 
advise AXA of any discussions that may have taken place. In the absence of these, the net 
result is that the repairs have not provided Mrs M with a permanent and effective repair to 
the damaged area  her bathroom floor. Accordingly, I think AXA need to replace the flooring 
in Mrs Ms bathroom, using as a minimum 12mm ply underlay (unless it is agreed between 
Mrs M and the contractor to use a width between 6mm and 12mm that may minimise the lip 
 in which case Mrs M will need to sign a form indemnifying AXA against any subsequent 
damage that may occur). AXA will also need to replace the ceramic floor tiles. And if a 
damp-proof membrane is required to similarly meet best practice guidance, AXA should 
ensure this is installed as well.
As part of this, I expect AXA will need to remove all sanitaryware from Mrs Ms bathroom to 
allow the floor to be re-laid. Mrs M has raised a separate concern about the stability of her 
bath in this room. Id expect that issue to be redundant after the relaying of the floor, and so I 
make no finding in this regard, other than to say Id expect AXA will, as is normal practice, 
ensure the sanitaryware is appropriately fixed, and stable, after it has been reinstalled.
Replace the heater in the conservatory
During redecoration works in the conservatory, Mrs Ms wall heater was removed. It appears 
there have been problems re-attaching it to the wall in a level manner. AXA say the heater 
hasnt been damaged by the leak, or works undertaken, instead saying it was attached to the 
wall using poor standard wall brackets that now have failed  so no fault of their contractor.
Ive seen pictures of the conservatory before the repairs, and its clear the wall heater was 
attached, and aligned horizontally. It may well be the brackets were damaged during the 
heater being removed, but from what Ive seen from Mrs Ms photos, they secured the heater 
in place before the works were undertaken. This being so, Id expect AXAs contractors to 
return the heater to the position it was in before the works  secure and aligned on the wall. 
And if theyre unable to do that, given I consider the brackets and the heater to be essentially 
part of the same item, I think AXA will need to provide and fit a replacement heater. Other ad-hoc remedial works referred to in the RPMs report
As mentioned above, following receipt of our investigators view, AXA agreed to undertake 
the following remedial works - fix the downstairs WC to the wall, replace all chipped tiles in 
the main bathroom, and clean/replace all carpets damaged by glue being walked through 
Mrs Ms home by AXAs contractors. For the sake of completeness, I agree AXA need to 
undertake these remedial repairs.
Ill now deal with other repair complaints the RPM addressed in his report. He acknowledges 
many of the repair/complaint points Mrs M had raised, which our investigator said in his 
view, in general terms, need to be rectified by AXA. In their response, AXA didnt specifically 
refer to this report, or the investigators conclusions, which is why  for clarity - I want to refer 
to each issue here. The important point for me is that the RPM, in each of the instances 
below, made an on-the-spot assessment of each particular complaint issue, and reported 
that works were required to fix these. So because the RPM acknowledged the following 
matters required rectifying by AXA, I think AXA also need to do the following:
In the utility room, re-fix and re-seal a small worktop to the wall.
There are splashes on a new fridge. I understand this is a fairly new fridge, and so 
any splashes are likely to have been as a result of the redecoration  so AXA need to 
arrange for these to be removed, and the fridge cleaned.
In the conservatory, the junction between the window boards and frame need 
resealing. Over-spilt sealant needs removing and cleaning. And the junction of the 
patio doors and walls need to be sealed.
In the ground floor WC, where tiles have been re-grouted, dust seems to have 
entered the cistern. This must be drained again and left in a clean and tidy condition. 
And the new grout and sealant to the basin needs replacing.
A newly plastered wall on the landing is uneven, and needs to be re-
plastered/decorated
Some of the doors taken away for French polishing have polish/wax residue visible 
and requiring cleaning as appropriate.
Finally, a deep clean is required once all works completed, to include the cleaning and 
refitting of light fittings on the landing which are covered in dust.
The remedial works I dont think AXA need to undertake
Returning to the October 2019 RPM report, there are also certain issues addressed in this 
that, for the reasons I set out below, I dont think AXA need to undertake:
There is a dent in the fridge (which prevented Mrs M returning it to the retailer for an 
unrelated fault) Mrs M says was caused by contractors. AXAs contractors say they 
didnt cause this. I havent seen any evidence to show this was caused by them, and 
wasnt pre-existing, so I cant reasonably say that AXA need to rectify this matter.
There is a minor split in the door frame leading into the lounge which may have 
occurred when the door was rehung. It isnt possible for me to say, with certainty, 
what the condition of the door frame was before the repair work. And so, in the 
absence of any evidence the split was caused during the repairs, I wont be asking 
AXA to repair this.In the lounge, Mrs M commented on markings made to the laminate floor, that may 
have been made whilst contractors moved her furniture. Mrs M has already been 
paid a sum of money to replace the flooring, after an earlier settled escape of water 
claim from the kitchen, which hasnt been replaced yet  so I think this is a moot 
point. As Mrs M is already in possession of funds to replace the floor, these funds 
can be used to replace the lounge flooring as necessary, and I dont ask AXA to do 
anything further.
The kitchen/lounge door has a scratch, but theres disagreement when this was likely 
to have happened  pre-claim or during repair. As I cant be sure the scratch wasnt 
pre-existing, I wont be asking AXA to repair or replace this.
Replace the extractor fan in the kitchen
Mrs M needed a new kitchen extractor hood - the bath leak was directly above where her 
hood was positioned and was damaged. AXA agreed to replace the hood with a similar 
model to her own, and a new hood was installed.
Mrs M advised that, subsequently, an emergency electrician advised her an internal wire, in 
the new hood, was in the wrong place. AXAs contractor then inspected the hood, and 
responded the wire was a manufacturing issue, and not connected with the on-site 
installation. However, it was accepted that plastic protection, left on the filter, should have 
been removed. AXA remain of the view that there is nothing wrong with the hood, and its in 
good working order. Given this, I cant say Ive seen enough to say the extractor is faulty, 
and needs replacing, so I wont be asking AXA to take any further action regarding this.
Replace the extractor fan in the downstairs WC
Mrs M believes the extractor fan  which was replaced by the emergency electrician who 
attended after the leak - developed an electrical fault. It was noisy and Mrs M says 
subsequently caused the electrics to blow in the house. A further emergency electrician 
said this was possibly due to loose wires and expanding foam in the unit. The RPM says the 
main contractor didnt remove the unit. This may be the case, but this was a new fan that 
was replaced as part of this claim, albeit by the initial emergency electrician rather than the 
main contractor AXA engaged. So, any problems stemming from the replacement remain 
AXAs responsibility to address.
I understand that, whatever caused the electrics to blow has been fixed by the most recent 
emergency electrician - Mrs M has, I believe, a working extractor in her WC. So, whilst I 
accept her extractor fan blowing would have caused inconvenience, I wont be asking AXA 
to replace the unit.
Reimburse the cost of replacing a poorly repaired stopcock
Mrs M advises, after noticing her stopcock was leaking, she paid for her own plumber to 
attend and rectify the issue. The plumber attended in January 2020 and replaced the 
stopcock. Mrs M tells us the reason for the problem was the stopcock was over-tightened. 
She concludes this must be the fault of AXAs original contractors. I disagree. 
In October 2019, as part of the RPM addressing the various complaint points, a separate 
contractor was engaged by AXA to consider the outstanding electrical and plumbing 
complaints. This contractor assessed the stopcock, and reported it was in good working 
order. This conclusion, along with various other issues stemming from this visit, was 
reported to Mrs M. Mrs M responded, taking issue with many of the various complaint point 
conclusions. But she didnt take any issue regarding the stopcock conclusion. From what I 
can see, the stopcock leak issue didnt surface until January 2020  nearly three months 
after the above contractor visit. That being the case, I cant say there is sufficient evidence supporting Mrs Ms belief the stopcock problem, identified in January 2020, was caused by 
the actions of AXAs original contractors many months earlier. And for that reason, I wont be 
asking AXA to reimburse Mrs M for the cost of these stopcock repair works.
Further issues raised, and payment made to Mrs M
As mentioned, AXA have confirmed that none of the suggested works contained within the 
RPMs report have been carried out. However, a subsequent scope of works was created  
which Ill refer to as the snagging scope - based on these recommendations, in which AXA 
confirmed the works they were prepared to carry out. Some of these are mentioned in my 
above recommendations.
Because Mrs M had refused to allow the original contractors back in her home, AXA offered 
to cost these works and provide the funds to Mrs M so she could arrange them at a time to 
suit her. Mrs M was advised in December 2019 these works had been costed at just over 
£1,200. Mrs M refused this offer, stating the snagging scope didnt cover all the necessary or 
agreed works  and this impasse resulted in the complaint and the referral to us.
But Mrs M did subsequently ask for this to be paid to her  so she could use the funds for 
emergency repairs in respect of an issue that hadnt featured within her original complaint, or 
the RPMs report. AXA agreed to release these funds to Mrs M for this reason. 
This particular issue was a problem with the flooring in her en-suite bathroom. Mrs M has 
been told by her own tiler and a plumber she shouldnt use this room until these have been 
fixed. Mrs M advises water is getting underneath cracked grouting and the ply floor is being 
affected. Mrs M was told the floor will need re-tiling. Mrs M hasnt used the room since. 
Mrs M tells us she has also obtained the views of three independent builders. She tells us 
they advised that, because the ply flooring in the en-suite is effectively an extension of the 
ply flooring in the upstairs hallway (essentially one large floor area, separated by a stud 
wall), the en-suite floor would have suffered the same water damage as the landing floor  
which was heavily damaged/replaced in the original works. Put simply, moisture would have 
penetrated under the stud wall. Its my understanding the en-suite floor wasnt replaced.
Whilst this is an issue that has surfaced after Mrs Ms complaint was raised, she thinks AXA 
should rectify these problems, believing them caused by poor workmanship of AXAs original 
contractors  it should have been clear the en-suite floor was an extension of the hallway 
floor, and dried out/re-laid as necessary before it was re-decorated.
AXA havent been given an opportunity to respond to this complaint point, instead simply 
saying they await the ombudsmans decision on what its required to do. So, as this is one of 
the main rooms which AXAs contractor did repair, Id like to address this issue now in the 
hope of speeding matters towards a conclusion.
I think AXA are first entitled to assess the damaged area, so they have an opportunity to 
consider and respond accordingly. But if that assessment results in the same conclusions as 
reached by the contractors Mrs M has engaged, Id expect AXA to accept responsibility for 
any necessary repairs  which may include re-laying the floor with a new ply underlay and 
redecorating the room as necessary.Mrs M has also advised of further problems with her downstairs WC. She has recently 
noticed that some of the grouting, adjacent to the walls/skirting, has been missed. Ive seen 
photographs that confirm this. This too is not an issue AXA have been made aware of 
before. But in this instance, as this appears a clear redecoration issue caused by the poor 
workmanship of the original contractor, Im content to make a finding asking AXA to arrange 
for the gaps in the grouting in the WC to be repaired.
Upheld complaint points  who should attend and repair these
Ive made various recommendations in respect of repairs and redecorations I think AXA are 
responsible for undertaking. Ordinarily, Id say AXA need to arrange for these to be done 
using their own contractors  but acknowledging Mrs M refuses to allow the original 
contractor back into her home, which I think is reasonable here. But I also acknowledge what 
Mrs Ms policy says about how AXA will settle her claim, and what it needs to do if a decision 
is taken to pay Mrs M a sum to arrange her own repairs. The policy says:
We use approved suppliers to settle claims. If We agree to use a supplier of Your choice, or 
where We settle directly with You, any payments(s) will take into account any discount We 
would have received
So, put simply, AXA will cost the various jobs, and the resulting amount is likely to be less 
than what it would cost Mrs M to undertake if she engaged her own contactors. And as 
mentioned above, AXA recently paid Mrs M just over £1,200 for certain works based on this 
principle (and other amounts earlier in the claim process that arent in dispute).
But in this case, the quantity of repairs I think needs doing are extensive. So I think AXA 
should try to arrange and manage the redecoration and repair program in the first instance. 
However, if Mrs M wants to arrange for the works to be undertaken by her own contractor, 
and AXA agree to this, AXA will need to ensure the amount offered in a cash settlement is 
enough to allow permanent and effective repairs to be undertaken. Any settlement offered, in 
this situation, must be enough to indemnify Mrs M for the works required  to allow her to 
pay for works that would return her home to the condition it was in before the leak.
But, AXA have already paid Mrs M just over £1,200 to cover some of the complaints or 
repairs Ive upheld in this decision  I dont think AXA should have to double-pay for these. 
So, if AXA undertake all the repairs recommended, I think Mrs M needs to repay this amount 
to AXA before the works commence. But if its agreed Mrs M will engage her own contactors, 
AXA can deduct this sum from the amount they eventually pay to Mrs M for these works.
Finally, I want to address the considerable distress and inconvenience Mrs M has 
experienced during her claim with AXA. AXA has already paid Mrs M £250 for the distress 
caused. It also agreed to our investigators award of a further £250. However, I think a higher 
award is warranted here.
The quantity of remedial work I think is required is considerable and will likely cause many 
more weeks of upheaval in Mrs Ms home. This would all have been avoided had AXAs 
contractor taken more care when undertaking the initial repairs. Because of the issues with 
both bathrooms, Mrs M has been without functioning shower or bathing facilities for many 
weeks now  although I do recognise her decision not to use the en-suite and bathroom 
were borne out of concerns about not causing further damage to the flooring in these rooms, 
as opposed to them not working. And, finally, Mrs M says shes had to postpone a serious 
operation because shed feel unable to recuperate in a home where works were incomplete.Taken together, I think a figure of £750 better reflects the distress and inconvenience Mrs M 
has experienced, so deducting the £250 already paid I think AXA needs to pay Mrs M a 
further £500 compensation for the distress and inconvenience caused. So, upholding parts 
of Mr and Mrs Ms complaint, my provisional decision also asked AXA Insurance UK Plc to 
do the following:
Rectify all of the decoration faults, outlined in the October 2019 report compiled by 
AXAs regional performance manager.
Replace the main bathroom flooring with a minimum 12mm ply hardboard underlay, 
replace the ceramic floor tiles, install a damp-proof membrane if necessary, and 
securely replace all sanitaryware.
Secure to the wall, or replace if necessary, the heater in the conservatory.
Securely fix the downstairs WC to the wall in the downstairs toilet.
Replace all chipped tiles in the main bathroom.
Clean or replace all glue-damaged carpets.
Re-fix and re-seal a small worktop to the utility room wall.
Remove paint spots from the fridge, and clean accordingly.
Reseal junction between frame and window boards in the conservatory.
Seal junction between patio doors and wall in the conservatory.
Also in the conservatory, remove and clean any over-spilt sealant.
Replace grout and sealant next to the basin in the downstairs WC.
Drain and clean the cistern in the downstairs WC.
Fill in the gaps in floor level grouting in the downstairs WC.
Re-plaster and decorate uneven wall on the landing.
Remove wax residue from, and clean, all doors.
Assess the damage to the floor and tiling in the en-suite bathroom, and arrange for 
all necessary repairs and redecoration, including re-laying new ply underlay if 
required.
If Mrs M and AXA agree that AXA will undertake the above works, Mrs M must repay £1,203 
to AXA before the works are undertaken. If its agreed between the parties Mrs M will 
engage her own contractors, AXA are entitled to deduct £1,203 from the final agreed sum to 
be paid to Mrs M.
AXA responded, and accepted my recommendations in full, subject to Mrs M obtaining her 
own quotes for the work and submitting these for validation prior to a cash settlement being 
released. Mrs M also accepted the majority of my recommendations but asked me to 
reconsider a number of issues, which I deal with below.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I uphold, in part, Mrs Ms complaint. Ill explain why. The responses received from both 
parties to my provisional decision raised some further questions for me, and further enquiries 
with both AXA and Mrs M were made to address these, which I detail as follows:Damage to door frames
Mrs M says the door frame and architrave split during the drying process, and that AXA had 
never disputed this and had agreed to repair these as per the scope of works. And regarding 
the scratch in the door, Mrs M says AXA had examined this during a site visit. However, 
whilst I have no reason to doubt Mrs Ms account here, I havent seen any evidence that 
supports this, and so I cant fairly say that AXA needs to do anything further in this regard.
Plaster and paint was disturbed on internal lights after inspection by AXAs electrician
Mrs M raises this point, but again I havent seen sufficient evidence to support this, and so I 
cant fairly say that AXA needs to do anything further in this regard.
Kitchen ceiling re-plastering isnt smooth
Mrs M has provided a photo that she believes evidences this. However, I dont think this 
photo provides conclusive evidence that the finish is sub-standard. Also, I cant say the 
ceiling is in a worse condition than it was before repair works commenced. Accordingly, I 
dont think AXA needs to do anything further in this regard.
The kitchen extractor hood
Mrs M remains adamant that, when AXAs contractors replaced her kitchen hood  which 
shed purchased using a settlement already paid to her by AXA  they sourced and installed 
an inferior model. This replacement model wasnt fitted properly, had insufficient suction for 
the size of her kitchen, and tripped her electrics when used. 
Revisiting the facts here, Mrs Ms initial hood that was damaged in the water leak was no 
longer being made. So, AXA agreed to provide funds for a like for like replacement. Mrs M 
now tells us that she purchased a different model, but because of some technical issues 
paid extra to transfer the working parts from this unit into a different extractor hood casing. 
And it was this bespoke model that was taken away by AXAs contractors, when 
undertaking decorating works, and returned damaged. AXA, at the time, agreed to replace 
this new/damaged unit. Their contractors supplied and fitted a new extractor fan. Mrs M says 
this was an inferior model, costing much less than her bespoke model, and didnt work 
properly. But AXA say this replacement was a like-for-like model. Given this difference of 
opinion, I asked both parties to provide further information. 
AXA provided a copy of the purchase invoice for this replacement model and have told us 
this was an exact replica of the unit their contractor took away. Mrs M has now advised she 
purchased her replacement unit via her employer, and because of the current COVID 
situation she isnt able to access her work emails which may contain evidence of this. But 
Mrs M has now provided an email from the engineer she used at the time, who confirms he 
removed the motor from a fan shed purchased and fitted into her existing extractor fan. So, 
it appears clear the unit taken away had been modified by Mrs M in some way. 
However, Mrs M now advises that her main concern is the unit AXAs contractor provided 
doesnt work properly  it vibrates and causes her electrics to short out. She wants to have a 
fan that works. This is a separate quality issue. As this was replaced by AXA as part of this 
claim, AXA remains liable if its found to be faulty. So, I think Mrs M needs to obtain a report from an electrician on whether the unit is in full 
working order. And if it isnt, Mrs M will need to obtain a quote for the repair of the unit, or if 
uneconomical the supply and fitting of a replacement like-for-like model (or if unavailable a 
similar specification model). In this instance, Mrs M will need to provide the report and quote 
to AXA, following which AXA will need to include this sum in the settlement it pays her.  
Replaced ply flooring on the landing
Mrs M queries why this hadnt been mentioned. She says the ply flooring still has excessive 
expandable glue residue on the joints. And that glue applied to the ply has stuck to the 
risers, which prevents movement in the staircase. As a result, the landing carpet could only 
be loosely laid, as grippers couldnt be securely fixed to the surface.  
Clearly, when carrying out repairs to the landing floor, AXAs contractors should have 
provided an effective and lasting repair  which as its a floor would allow grippers to be 
securely fastened and allow Mrs Ms carpet to be laid without any imperfections. In this case, 
I havent seen evidence to show the extent of the imperfections, so I cant fairly conclude 
that AXA must pay for necessary repairs. 
Instead I think Mrs M should ask her chosen contractor to assess the area in question, and if 
(and only if) the finish is as Mrs M suggests, obtain a quote for the necessary repairs to 
remove the excess glue, and to securely fit Mrs Ms carpets to the affected area. This would 
include the supply and fit of new grippers and staircase risers if necessary. And AXA will 
need to include this sum in the settlement it pays her
Kitchen lights
Mrs M acknowledges that these were replaced due to water damage, but these 
replacements have become stained. She says AXA agreed to replace these after it became 
clear they were stained. AXA, on the other hand, simply say they replaced the lights as 
agreed within the scope of works. 
The point I made above about AXAs contractors needing to have provided an effective and 
lasting repair applies here too. Mrs M has provided a photo of some lights in her home, but 
this is inconclusive regarding their location or condition. So, I cant fairly conclude AXA must 
pay for necessary repairs or replacement. 
Instead, echoing my conclusion above, Mrs Ms chosen contractor needs to assess the lights 
in question. If they can be shown to be damaged or stained (as opposed to needing a simple 
clean), and in the opinion of the contractor this damage/staining is caused by the after-
effects of the bath leak, the contractor will need to provide a report to AXA confirming this 
and quoting for their replacement and fitting. AXA will then need to include this sum in the 
settlement payment made to Mrs M. 
Correction regarding the WC needing to be fixed to the wall
In my provisional decision, I said the downstairs WC needed to be fixed to the wall, however 
Mrs M advises its the upstairs WC that requires fixing.
Putting things right
Responding to my provisional decision, AXA has asked to pay a cash settlement to Mrs M, 
rather than appoint their own contractors. Mrs M has agreed to this. However, its important 
to clarify this means AXA need to pay enough to Mrs M to put her home back into the condition it was before the damage, rather than only accept the costs they would incur if they 
used their own approved contractors.
However, Mrs M has asked what would happen if, when her appointed contractor carries out 
the repairs, further damage is caused to her property. She refers in particular to the relaying 
of her floor in the bathroom, and the risk that some wall tiles may become damaged. She 
asks if AXA would be liable to repair such damage. AXA, responding to this point, say that 
once the settlement payment is made, their involvement effectively ceases. The cost of any 
incidental damage will need to be met by Mrs M, or her contractor who caused the damage. 
On this point, I agree with AXA. Its AXAs right to choose to offer a cash settlement, and 
once AXA pay the settlement, based on quotes provided by Mrs M and/or her contractors in 
good faith, it isnt fair or reasonable to expect AXA to remain open to further open-ended 
requests for money. Put very simply, if Mrs Ms contractor causes damage, its not AXAs 
responsibility to fix this.  
On the subject of Mrs M obtaining her own quotes Im conscious that due to her health 
conditions, she may not want to ask multiple tradespersons into her home at this time. 
Usually, in a situation where an insurer agrees to settle a claim by cash, wed expect the 
consumer to get two or three quotes for the work, to ensure the amounts AXA need to pay 
reflect value for money. In this case, given the above, I asked if AXA would accept one quote 
only. Or, in the alternative, they provide Mrs M with details of three approved contractors, 
and she chooses one to attend her home and provide a quote. 
Responding, AXA have said for various reasons they arent able to provide a list of approved 
contractors. So, that leaves Mrs M needing to engage her own contractors to quote for the 
works outlined in this decision. Because of Mrs Ms health concerns, coupled with the fact 
these works are all required because of the poor quality of the initial works carried out by 
AXAs own contractor, I think its fair and reasonable to both parties that she provides AXA 
with two quotes for the works outlined in this decision. AXA must then choose which to 
accept, and make payment of the quoted sums to Mrs M within seven days of receipt.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive set out above, both in this decision and my previous provisional 
decision, I require AXA Insurance UK Plc to do the following: 
Pay a cash settlement to Mr and Mrs M to cover the works set out below. 
To facilitate this, Mrs M must arrange and provide two quotes for the following works 
to be completed: 
- Rectify all of the decoration faults, outlined in the October 2019 report 
compiled by AXAs regional performance manager.
- Replace the main bathroom flooring with a minimum 12mm ply hardboard 
underlay, replace the ceramic floor tiles, install a damp-proof membrane if 
necessary, and securely replace all sanitaryware.
- Secure to the wall, or replace if necessary, the heater in the conservatory.
- Securely fix the WC to the wall in the upstairs toilet.
- Replace all chipped tiles in the main bathroom.
- Clean or replace all glue-damaged carpets.
- Re-fix and re-seal a small worktop to the utility room wall.
- Remove paint spots from the fridge, and clean accordingly.
- Reseal junction between frame and window boards in the conservatory.
- Seal junction between patio doors and wall in the conservatory.
- Also in the conservatory, remove and clean any over-spilt sealant.- Replace grout and sealant next to the basin in the downstairs WC.
- Drain and clean the cistern in the downstairs WC.
- Fill in the gaps in floor level grouting in the downstairs WC.
- Re-plaster and decorate uneven wall on the landing.
- Remove wax residue from, and clean, all doors.
- Assess the damage to the floor and tiling in the en-suite bathroom, and 
arrange for all necessary repairs and redecoration, including re-laying new ply 
underlay if required.
- If after assessment its shown the kitchen fan isnt working properly, for the 
repair of the fan. And if not repairable, for the replacement of this fan with a 
like for like, or similar specification, model 
- If after assessment its shown the landing and stairs floor area contains 
excessive glue residue, for the removal of this residue, and the repair and/or 
replacement, if necessary, of grippers and staircase risers, and re-fitting of 
carpets in these affected areas
- If after assessment its shown the new kitchen lights are stained, and this is 
shown to be caused by the after-effects of the leak, to repair or fit and provide 
replacement lights
Upon receipt of the quotes, AXA must choose one to accept
AXA are entitled to deduct £1,203 from the quote chosen
AXA must then pay this remaining sum to Mr and Mrs M within seven days of receipt 
of the quote.
Pay Mr and Mrs M a further £500 for distress and inconvenience 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr and Mrs M to 
accept or reject my decision before 10 September 2020. 
Mark Evans
Ombudsman