DRN-2689207
The complaint
Mr and Mrs B are represented by a claims management company (CMC) in bringing their 
complaint. It says they were misadvised by Lloyds Bank Plc in 2001 into taking out 
investment ISAs and a with-profits bond. 
What happened
The CMC lodged the complaint with Lloyds in January 2020. It submitted that the 
investments were unsuitable because they posed more risk than Mr and Mrs B were willing 
to take and the adviser had failed to properly assess their circumstances and objectives.
Lloyds rejected the complaint. It firstly said that complaints about the bond and Mrs Bs 
investment ISA had already been pursued to the Financial Ombudsman Service in 2006 and 
2017 respectively. It therefore only looked at the remaining matter of Mr Bs ISA.  
Lloyds said that the level of risk Mr B was willing to take with his investment ISA matched his 
risk profile and his previous investment experience. It was also appropriate for his 
documented requirement to achieve greater returns than were available from deposit based 
accounts.  
The CMC brought the outstanding aspect of the complaint to this service. It noted that Lloyds 
had suggested Mr B was an experienced investor but his personal equity plan with a 
separate provider had in fact only been in place for two years and not subject to any market 
volatility during that period. The CMC said that instead of using past investments, Lloyds 
should have undertaken proper risk profiling for Mr B or at the least, asked relevant 
questions. Had it done so, it would have identified that Mr Bs attitude to risk was cautious, 
not medium/high as suggested.    
An investigator considered the complaint but she did not think it should succeed. She said 
that the risk profile for the investment did not seem unreasonable, when taking into account 
Mr Bs existing investments. She also felt that he and Mrs B were left with sufficient capital 
on deposit, should they have needed to call on it. Finally, she considered Mr B was given 
reasonable information to understand the nature of the ISA.   
The CMC said Mr B disagreed. It said while it accepted Mr B had a number of similar 
investments at the time of the advice, the only one of any longstanding nature was a PEP 
from 1993, where Mr B had invested £6,000. Further, the advice of 2001 represented a far 
greater proportion of Mr Bs funds as it was also proposed that he and Mrs B each invested 
£25,000 into the jointly held bond.   
The CMC felt that the nature of the investment in specialist funds within the ISA presented 
too much risk for Mr B and he hadnt got specific experience with funds of that nature. It 
therefore asked that the complaint should be passed to an ombudsman.   
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having reviewed all of the information carefully, I do not believe this complaint should 
succeed. 
I have taken into account Mr Bs wider circumstances at the time of the sale. However, I 
must be clear that this complaint is limited to considering the sale of the investment ISA only. 
Mrs Bs investments including the sale of the joint bond at the same time as the ISAs has 
already been considered by Lloyds and pursued separately to this service.  
At the time of the sale, Mr B had recently retired. He and Mrs B had no documented liabilities 
nor any mortgage on their residential home. Mr B held three recent investments (a PEP, a 
Mini Equity ISA and a Maxi Equity ISA) into which he had invested £6,000, £7,000 and 
£7,000. These investments had been taken out in 1999 and 2000. 
Mr B had two cash savings accounts, as well as two joint accounts with Mrs B totalling just 
under £55,000.
Lloyds has been able to provide a copy of the fact find documentation as well as a summary 
and recommendations letter. Mr B signed a declaration confirming that he was under no 
obligation to act on the recommendations made, and that he had understood the advice he 
had received. Lloydss adviser also gave Mr B information about the two Scottish Widows 
American Unit Trust and Environmental Investor funds into which the ISA investment would 
be placed (with slightly more in the latter fund). 
I do not accept the assertion by the CMC that because the ISA was considered medium/high 
risk that Mr Bs funds were placed at too much risk overall. Firstly, the joint bond had a low 
risk grading. And further, Mr B had experience of investments of this nature. He was 
recorded as wanting to take a higher risk with his investment for the opportunity of greater 
returns, and he was familiar with equity based investments within ISA wrappers.
Further, Mr B was recorded as declining some of the recommendations made to him 
regarding a unit trust, pensions and protection advice. The product information supplied to 
him by the adviser set out how the investment ISA operated. If Mr B had been unhappy, he 
was not obliged to act on the recommendation. He was left with access to £23,000 on 
deposit and I note the ISA was not surrendered until 2007.    
The CMC has confirmed in the complaint that Mr B was comfortable to achieve some level of 
risk to achieve his stated aims. In summary, the information I have seen gives a clear 
overview of Mr Bs position and his preferred approach to investing within the context of 
PEPs and ISAs at a higher risk than longer term bonds into which greater sums were 
placed. 
I do not believe that the 2001 investment ISA recommendation was inconsistent with Mr Bs 
documented needs, nor do I think that the chosen funds had a risk profile which fell outside 
of Mr Bs established attitude to risk. I therefore do not agree that the advice was unsuitable. 
My final decision
I do not uphold this complaint or make any award.  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs B and Mr B to 
accept or reject my decision before 26 May 2021.
 Jo Storey
Ombudsman