DRN-2177570
The complaint
Mr Hs unhappy ETU Forsikring A/S have turned down a claim made on his pet insurance 
policy.
Another company was involved in the handling of this claim, but as ETU are responsible for 
any claims under this policy, Ive just referred to them in this decision.
What happened
I issued my provisional decision in August 2020 setting out what happened, and the 
outcomes I planned to reach.
Although it was one claim Mr H has made, its for three separate conditions. For clarity, Ill 
talk about each condition separately.
Condition one  blood tests for kidney issues
ETU say Mr H told them when he took the dog to the vets on 6 November 2019 this was for 
an annual check-up, and no illnesses were showing. ETU say Mr H also told them the 
reason for the blood tests was because the dog got worked up during the visit, which was 
quite normal, and its because it was a new vet they didnt know this.
ETU had a copy of the history for Mr Hs dog. A note recorded by a vet in October 2016 said 
he was quite an anxious / nervous dog. ETU went on to say his high temperature, brought 
on by anxiety, had been noticed before the policy started in August 2018. This means its a 
pre-existing condition, so under the policy terms they wont pay out.
Condition two  abscess in the side of the mouth / swollen muzzle
ETU say the claim was submitted under infection by Mr Hs vets. When ETU looked into it, 
they saw the infection was within the dogs mouth, so it was then classed as a dental 
infection. They said their policy terms say they wont pay a claim if there hasnt been a dental 
check up in the 12 months leading up to the start of the condition. ETU added that they could 
see from the vets notes the last dental check-up was 15 August 2018 and was then not 
seen again for a dental check until 6 November 2019. And the vets have said the treatment 
started on 6 November 2019  and because the previous check-up was more than 12 
months ago, its not covered under the terms of the policy. 
Condition three  injections for arthritis
ETU said that injections were carried out for Mr Hs dogs arthritis, at the same time he was 
there for a check up on the abscess. But they again said this was a pre-existing condition, 
because in the vets notes there were references to the condition prior to the policy starting in 
August 2018.
What does Mr H say?
Mr H is unhappy with ETU declining his claim. Hes particularly unhappy because the 
treatment for his dogs abscess started on 27 November 2019, and his dog was seen just 
weeks earlier for a dental check-up  so he cant understand why thats not being taken into 
account. Because of this, he asked us to look into things.
What weve said so far  and Mr Hs response to that
Our investigator considered the complaint. In summary he felt ETU had applied the policy 
terms fairly, so didnt need to pay out on any of the conditions Mr H had claimed for.
Mr H didnt agree with this. In summary he said:
Condition one  blood tests for kidney issues  as can be seen from the blood test 
results there were no underlying conditions, which is the reason for the test, so where 
does it say in the policy they cant pay out
Condition two  abscess in the side of the mouth / swollen muzzle  the vets emails 
make it clear there was a dental check-up just weeks before the treatment, so he 
doesnt understand why wed say there hadnt been one for over 12 months
Condition three  injections for arthritis  hes spoken to the vets again on this point 
and just because theres mention of a strain doesnt mean it was arthritis, otherwise a 
claim would have continued at that time, but there were no other check-ups.
Because Mr H didnt agree, the complaints been passed to me to decide.
What Ive provisionally decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive set out my findings in the same way Ive set out the background of this complaint.
Condition one  blood tests for kidney issues
Based on everything Ive seen I think ETU have acted fairly in turning down Mr Hs claim for 
the blood tests, but I dont agree with the reason theyve given.
Theyve relied on Mr Hs dog showing anxiety several years earlier as a reason to turn down 
this part of the claim. I dont think thats reasonable, because dogs will quite often show 
anxiety when going to see a vet.
Mr H has asked where it says they wont pay out for blood tests  and the policy does say 
the cost of blood tests arent included unless theyre to treat a specific condition.
So, Ive looked at the notes recorded by the vet, to see if the blood tests were for a specific 
condition. The notes show this wasnt for a specific condition, but rather to try and diagnose 
what was wrong with Mr Hs dog. Because of this, Im currently satisfied ETU arent required 
to meet Mr Hs claim on this point.
Condition two  abscess in the side of the mouth / swollen muzzle
For this part of Mr Hs claim, having looked at all the information, I cant say ETU have 
turned down the claim unfairly.Mr H has said that his dog had a check up on 6 November 2019, so he doesnt understand 
why the treatment then carried out on 27 November 2019 is being excluded under the 12-
month term of the policy.
I think Mr Hs confusion stems from when the 12-month time period started. The policy terms 
say Mr Hs dog has to have had a check-up in the 12 months before the condition started 
showing signs of being there.
The vets notes show the condition started showing signs of being there on 
6 November 2019, not 27 November 2019. Because of this, the relevant date for starting the 
12-month period is 6 November 2019  meaning there had to be a dental check-up between 
6 November 2018, and 5 November 2019.
The vets notes record the last check-up as being 15 August 2018  so it falls outside the 12-
month time period.
Because of this, Im currently satisfied ETU arent required to meet Mr Hs claim on this 
point.
Condition three  injections for arthritis
On this point of the claim, Im currently planning to uphold it, as I dont think ETU have 
turned it down fairly.
ETU have relied on the vets notes recorded from October 2016 where its shown that Mr Hs 
dog had problems with his back leg  and because of this theyve deemed his arthritis as a 
chronic condition. And that this condition happened before the start of the policy which 
means its not covered. But the notes theyve quoted in their final letter to Mr H dont say why 
his dog is having problems with his back leg.
The full and complete vets notes from October 2016 record that Mr Hs dog had a possible 
knock which is why he might be suffering from pain in his back legs. They also record that a 
CT scan might be needed.
Ive looked at these notes carefully and am satisfied they could reasonably be the record of a 
dog who had a knock, which is what caused the pain, rather than the first record of arthritis. 
Ive also noted there are no further entries from October 2016, until August 2018 when 
Mr Hs dog went in for vaccinations. The notes on 15 August 2018, which pre-date Mr H 
taking out the policy, say Mr Hs dog was in good condition.
Mr H also said, after our view, hed gone and spoken to his vets again who agreed with him 
 just because there was a strain, doesnt mean its the start of arthritis. 
We asked them directly about this  and they replied to say it was a suspected soft tissue / 
muscle / ligament injury. They also said there wasnt a CT scan, but couldnt say why  I 
assume because of the passage of time.
Taking into account all of the above information, Im currently satisfied Mr Hs claim on this 
point meets the terms and conditions of the policy  and ETU should meet the claim.
In addition to paying the claim, I think ETU should also pay compensation to Mr H. When 
theyve quoted the vets notes from October 2016, theyve only partially quoted them. Its not 
clear why, but for the reasons Ive explained above, I think the additional information that 
ETU didnt quote contradicts their argument. And in not quoting that additional information to Mr H, theyve denied him the opportunity to put together a more complete argument for them 
to uphold this part of his claim. Because of this, I think ETU should pay £150 compensation. 
Responses to my provisional decision
Neither Mr H, or ETU, replied to my provision decision by the deadline set.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As neither party replied, Ive seen no reason to change the outcome I reached in my 
provisional decision  so I partially uphold this complaint.
Putting things right
I order ETU to:
Meet Mr Hs claim for the injections for arthritis
Pay him 8% interest from the date Mr H paid the vets, to the date they meet the 
payment.
Pay Mr H £150 compensation
HM Revenue & Customs requires ETU to deduct tax from the interest payment referred to 
above. ETU must give Mr H a certificate showing how much tax theyve deducted if he asks 
them for one.
My final decision
It follows I partially uphold this complaint, and order ETU Forsikring A/S to carry out the 
actions in the putting things right section above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 13 October 2020.
 
Jon Pearce
Ombudsman