DRN-2278731
The complaint
Mrs P complains that Everyday Lending Limited (ELL) lent to her in an irresponsible 
manner. She also complains that an unfair amount of interest has been added to her loan 
and as a result her loan balance isnt reducing as it should.
What happened
Mrs P was given a single loan by ELL. She borrowed £3,000 in July 2017 and agreed to 
repay the loan in monthly instalments over the following three years. At the time she made 
her complaint Mrs P still had an outstanding balance on her loan.
Mrs Ps complaint has been assessed by one of our adjudicators. She thought that the 
checks ELL had done before agreeing the loan had been proportionate. And she didnt think 
that those checks suggested that Mrs P would struggle to repay the loan in a sustainable 
manner. She thought that the interest that had been added to the loan was in line with the 
loan agreement that Mrs P had signed. So she didnt think the complaint should be upheld.
Mrs P didnt agree with that assessment. She said that ELL had gone back on an offer it 
made to her that she could take some additional borrowing if she maintained her repayments 
for six months  she said that would have allowed her to consolidate some additional 
borrowing and make the loan more affordable for her. So, as the complaint hasnt been 
resolved informally, it has been passed to me, an ombudsman, to decide. This is the last 
stage of our process.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our approach to unaffordable/irresponsible lending complaints on our website 
and Ive kept this in mind while deciding Mrs Ps complaint.
The rules and regulations at the time ELL gave this loan to Mrs P required it to carry out a 
reasonable and proportionate assessment of whether she could afford to repay what she 
owed in a sustainable manner. This assessment is sometimes referred to as an affordability 
assessment or affordability check.
The checks had to be borrower focused  so ELL had to think about whether repaying the 
credit sustainably would cause difficulties or adverse consequences for Mrs P. In practice 
this meant that ELL had to ensure that making the repayments wouldnt cause Mrs P undue 
difficulty or adverse consequences. In other words, it wasnt enough for ELL to simply think 
about the likelihood of it getting its money back, it had to consider the impact of any 
repayments on Mrs P. 
Checks also had to be proportionate to the specific circumstances of the loan application. 
In general, what constitutes a proportionate affordability check will be dependent upon a 
number of factors including  but not limited to  the particular circumstances of the 
consumer (e.g. their financial history, current situation and outlook, and any indications of 
vulnerability or financial difficulty) and the amount / type / cost of credit they are seeking. 
In light of this, I think that a reasonable and proportionate check ought generally to have 
been more thorough:
the lower a customers income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make 
any repayments to credit from a lower level of income);
the higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet higher repayments from a particular level of income); 
the longer the period of time a borrower will be indebted for (reflecting the fact 
that the total cost of the credit is likely to be greater and the customer is required 
to make repayments for an extended period). 
There may also be other factors which could influence how detailed a proportionate check 
shouldve been for a given application  including (but not limited to) any indications of 
borrower vulnerability and any foreseeable changes in future circumstances. Ive kept all of 
this in mind when thinking about whether ELL did what it needed to before agreeing to lend 
to Mrs P.
ELL gathered some information from Mrs P before it agreed the loan. It asked her for details 
of her income, and her housing costs. It then used some industry statistical data to estimate 
the remainder of her normal expenditure. It checked her credit file and asked Mrs P for 
copies of recent wage slips and bank statements to verify what shed declared about her 
income and expenditure.
Mrs P was entering into a significant commitment with ELL. She would need to make 
monthly repayments for a period of three years. So I think it is right that ELL would want to 
gather, and independently check, some detailed information about Mrs Ps financial 
circumstances before it agreed to lend to her. So I think that the checks ELL did here were 
proportionate. 
But simply doing proportionate checks isnt enough. A lender also needs to react 
appropriately to the information shown by those checks. So Ive looked at Mrs Ps bank 
statements, and what she told ELL about her financial situation, to see whether it was 
reasonable for her to be given the loan.
Having carefully considered the information shown on Mrs Ps bank statements I havent 
seen any clear evidence that she would be unlikely to be able to repay this lending in a 
sustainable manner. Her bank statements dont show any evidence of serious financial 
problems such as excessive use of an overdraft or regular unpaid transactions. Whilst I can 
see some use of other credit facilities, Mrs P had told ELL that she intended to use the loan 
to consolidate some of those debts  I think it was reasonable for ELL to rely on what Mrs P 
had said. On balance I think it was reasonable for ELL to conclude that the loan would be 
sustainably affordable for Mrs P.I can see that Mrs P has faced problems repaying this loan. But that in itself doesnt suggest 
that ELL shouldnt have given it to her. Circumstances that might be apparent at the time a 
lending decision is made, might alter over the course of such a lengthy repayment period. 
But unless those changes were reasonably foreseeable I dont think that means a lender 
should expect the changes and factor them into any lending decision.
ELL has explained to Mrs P why it might seem that her outstanding loan balance reduced 
more slowly in the early months of her borrowing. In line with many loans, the repayments at 
the start of the loan comprise a greater proportion of interest than capital. It isnt until the 
later stages of the loan that the capital balance begins to fall more quickly. I can see that 
since Mrs P failed to make some of her repayments as planned, a greater amount of interest 
remained outstanding. And the amount of interest that has been added appears to be in line 
with the agreement Mrs P signed at the outset of her borrowing.
I understand that Mrs P might have been disappointed to not receive a further loan later 
during the term of her borrowing. But ELL was required to perform a new set of checks at 
that time to ensure the further loan would also be sustainably affordable for her. And I can 
only conclude, since her application was rejected, that those checks didnt give ELL the 
confidence it needed that Mrs P would be able to repay the additional borrowing as required.
I appreciate how disappointing my decision will be for Mrs P. But, in summary I think the 
checks ELL did before agreeing this loan were proportionate, and didnt indicate that the 
loan request should be declined. The amount she has needed to pay is in line with the 
agreement she signed. So I dont think this complaint should be upheld.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I dont uphold the complaint or make any award against 
Everyday Lending Limited.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs P to accept or 
reject my decision before 29 December 2020.
 
Paul Reilly
Ombudsman