DRN-1971771
 
The complaint
Mr and Mrs H complain that ERGO Reiseversicherung AG has not settled their travel 
insurance claim correctly. 
They are assisted in bringing this complaint to us by their daughter, who is acting as their 
representative.
What happened
Mr and Mrs H travelled abroad in February 2019. They had a return flight home booked for 
18 March 2019. But the airline they were due to fly with suspended flights shortly before this 
date. 
Mr and Mrs H needed to get home as Mr H had a hospital appointment scheduled for 20 
March 2019. So they contacted their travel company who helped them to arrange alternative 
flights with another airline. Mr and Mrs H returned home on 19 March 2019. And the 
replacement flights cost them a total of £2,550. 
Mr and Mrs H received £319.60 back from the airline they were originally due to fly with. And 
they submitted a claim under their travel insurance policy, underwritten by ERGO, for the 
remainder of the additional costs theyd incurred to return home. 
ERGO noted that Mr and Mrs Hs revised flight left 16 hours and 55 minutes after their 
original flight had been due to depart. It said that the only part of the policy that refers to 
flight delays or cancellations is the Travel Delay section which provides "£50 after the first 
full 12 hours [of delay] then £10 for each full 12 hours, up to £1,500
In light of this ERGO offered a claim settlement of £100, but said that unfortunately the full 
costs Mr and Mrs H were claiming were not covered by its policy. Mr and Mrs H werent 
happy with this decision, so their daughter, acting as their representative, referred their 
complaint to our service. 
For simplicity any references I make to Mr and Mrs H throughout my decision include 
representations put forward by their daughter.  
Our investigator considered what had happened and said he felt ERGO had dealt with the 
claim under the only relevant policy section. But he noted that the airline concerned had 
suspended flights to Mr and Mrs Hs home airport until 31 March 2019. And that Mr and Mrs 
Hs travel delay had only been shorter than this due to the fact theyd booked new flights at 
their own expense. The investigator said he thought it would be fair for ERGO to settle their 
claim based on the delay between 18 March 2019 and 31 March 2019. And so 
recommended that ERGO pay Mr and Mrs H a further £250 each.
Mr and Mrs Hs representative accepted this view on their behalf. But ERGO didnt agree. It 
referred to the list of insured perils under the travel delay section, and said that it now thought the delay was not covered by its policy at all. And so it didnt think it should have to 
increase the £100 settlement it had already made. 
The case has been referred to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I do empathise with Mr and Mrs H here. I can understand why they didnt want to miss Mr 
Hs hospital appointment given his history of poor health. I can also see that after the airline 
they were originally due to fly with suspended flights they booked the only available 
alternatives to get them home before 20 March 2019. And in doing so incurred a significant 
expense through no fault of their own.
Mr and Mrs H initially expressed their disappointment that ERGO hadnt dealt with their claim 
under the Cancellation section of its policy which says;
"Cancellation applies for booked trips taking place within the period of cover that you are 
forced to cancel because of one of the following, which are beyond your control, and of 
which you were unaware at the time you booked your trip or purchased the cover (whichever 
is later)."
The wording then goes on to list a number of reasons cancellation cover would be triggered:
a."you, a close relative, travelling companion or any person with whom you have 
arranged to stay during the trip suffers unforeseen illness, injury or, death.
b. you abandon your trip following a delay of more than 12 hours to the departure of 
your outward trip that is covered within Section 5 Travel Delay.
c.c) you or any person with whom you plan to travel being called for Jury Service or 
being summoned as a witness in a Court of Law (other than in a professional or 
advisory capacity).
d.d) you being made redundant, provided you qualify for a redundancy payment under 
current United Kingdom legislation.
e.e) your presence is required by the Police because of accidental damage, burglary, 
flooding or fire which has affected your home, and has occurred within 48 hours 
before the start of your trip, when the damage is in excess of £1,500.
f.f) the Foreign and Commonwealth Office issue a directive advising against all, or all 
but essential travel to your trip destination because of an earthquake, fire, flood, or 
hurricane."
 
Mr and Mrs Hs trip itself was not cancelled, and none of the above listed events which are 
covered under the policy happened. So I think ERGOs assessment that the cancellation 
section of its policy is not applicable here is a fair one.
The policy also includes a section covering Curtailment and Trip Interruption 
This says that cover applies if you are forced to cut short a trip you have commenced, and 
return to your home country
Mr and Mrs H did not cut their trip short. They actually returned a day later than originally 
planned. So curtailment cover isnt applicable here. And whilst I note that the Trip Interruption section of the policy refers to unscheduled returns to a home country, it covers 
two specific reasons for these returns only;
"a) the death, imminent demise, or hospitalisation due to serious accident or illness, of a 
close relative;
b) accidental damage, burglary, flooding or fire affecting your home during your trip, when 
the loss relating to your home is in excess of £1,500 or your presence is required by the 
Police in connection with such events."
Neither of these reasons were applicable to Mr and Mrs Hs situation.
Sections 4a and 4b of the policy provide for Missed Departure and Home Country 
Departure Assistance & Missed Home Country Connection. But Mr and Mrs H didnt miss 
the departure of their flight for any of the reasons detailed in the policy. Rather the flight itself 
didnt go ahead. And I havent seen or heard any evidence to suggest Mr and Mrs H are 
claiming for any further travel connections that they missed as a result.
I note that section 15 of the policy does provide an Optional Travel Disruption Extension 
which includes a provision for Extended Travel Delay and Enforced Stay Cover. This 
section refers to additional travel expenses necessarily incurred to return home following 
cancellation or delay of public transport. But looking at Mr and Mrs Hs validation certificate it 
doesnt appear they paid an additional premium to include this optional extension. So the 
cover set out under this section did not apply to their trip. 
ERGO paid Mr and Mrs H a total of £100 under the Travel Delay section of its policy 
wording which says;
"What is covered:
We pay up to £20 for the first full 12 hours and £10 for each following full 12 hour period 
thereafter, up to a total of £300 for Basic cover and £50 for the first full 12 hours then £10 for 
each following full 12 hour period thereafter, up to a total of £1,500 for Comprehensive cover 
if the intended departure of your first outward or final inward international flight, sea crossing 
or coach or train journey forming part of a booked trip, is delayed as a direct result of strike 
or industrial action, adverse weather conditions, failure of air traffic control systems, or 
mechanical breakdown of aircraft, sea vessel, coach or train.
Alternatively you can choose to abandon your trip and submit a Cancellation claim under 
Section 1, should you experience a delay as specified above, of more than 12 hours beyond 
the intended departure time".
However ERGO has now told us it doesnt think this section of its policy is applicable either 
as it doesnt feel Mr and Mrs Hs flight home was delayed for one of the reasons detailed in 
the wording above.
Our investigator didnt agree and asked ERGO to calculate costs under this section from the 
date the flight was originally scheduled for (18 March 2019) to the date the airline concerned 
resumed flights to Mr and Mrs Hs home airport (31 March 2019) on the basis that Mr and 
Mrs H held comprehensive cover. And overall I think is a fair and reasonable way to resolve 
this complaint. If Mr and Mrs H hadnt made their own alternative arrangements to fly home 
with another airline, it seems more likely than not that they would have had to remain abroad 
until at least the 31 March 2019. So I think it follows that ERGO should pay them the benefit 
they would have been entitled to had they not taken action (at their own expense) to reduce 
the impact the flight cancellation had on them.I appreciate ERGO doesnt feel that Mr and Mrs Hs flight home was suspended for one of 
the insured perils listed in its policy wording. The evidence Ive seen shows that the airline 
advised flights were cancelled for operational reasons. In my opinion operational reasons 
is a broad term which could well include some of the reasons which are listed in the policy as 
insured perils. And whilst I accept it could also include perils which arent insured, I dont 
think its possible to establish what the likely operational reason for the cancellation was 
here. And so it wouldnt be reasonable to expect Mr and Mrs H to be able to demonstrate 
this. (Albeit as our investigator noted, it does seem possible that the operational reasons in 
this case were linked to airspace closures following strike action by a third party, and strike 
action is noted as an insured peril). 
I have also considered that it would have been open to ERGO to specifically exclude 
cancellations due to operational reasons in its policy wording if this is a stance it wished to 
take, but it hasnt done so. So whilst I appreciate ERGO will likely be disappointed, I think it 
would be fair and reasonable for it to deal with Mr and Mrs Hs claim under the Travel Delay 
section of its policy in line with the recommendation put forward by our investigator.
My final decision
My final decision is that ERGO Reiseversicherung AG should pay Mr and Mrs H a further 
£250 each (£500 in total) to settle this claim. Plus interest from the date of the claim. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs H and Mr H to 
accept or reject my decision before 7 August 2020.
Jenette Lynch
Ombudsman