DRN-1044116
 
The complaint
Mr U complains about the way Nationwide Building Society handled his loan application. He 
is also unhappy about how his complaint was handled.  
What happened
In June 2019 Mr U applied for a loan with Nationwide to buy a car. He requested £6,000, to 
be paid over 48 months. Mr U said he visited his local branch a week before his application 
to make enquiries about a  loan. He said he was advised to apply online as there was no 
space available to see him, and after taking account of his circumstances and his financial 
credibility a decision could be made in hours. Mr U said this was also confirmed in a 
telephone call to Nationwide after he completed the form online. During this call he said he 
was advised to take his bank statements to his local branch as evidence of income. 
Mr U provided the statements but was then told he needed to provide his payslips as 
evidence of income, including evidence of tax and national insurance paid. Because the loan 
wasn't approved within 24 hours he said he had to withdraw money from his savings 
accounts to pay for the car, this has affected his savings interest rates. He complained to 
Nationwide.  
Nationwide accepted Mr U was given incorrect information regarding what it accepts as 
proof of income, and that it didnt contact Mr U concerning his complaint within the promised 
3 business days. It paid him £75 for the inconvenience caused. It said it needed payslips so 
it could get a true understanding of Mr U's income.  It added that it was Mr U's choice to use 
his savings to pay for the car. Mr U brought his complaint to this service. 
The investigator concluded that Nationwide had acted fairly when it dealt with Mr U's 
complaint. He said it doesn't have to provide a loan as soon as Mr U expected and it was 
reasonable for it to ask for payslips. Mr U disagreed with this conclusion and asked for a final 
decision from an ombudsman. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. I realise this will come as a 
disappointment to Mr U but, having done so, I won't be asking Nationwide to do anything 
further. 
The Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) sets out a requirement for lenders to assess a 
customer's ability to make repayments on time, given their financial circumstances, prior to 
making a credit agreement. But the FCA does not dictate the criteria for this assessment. So 
lenders, such as Nationwide, determine their own process to assess risk and can ask for 
payslips to verify income and employment details. Mr U has said this is illegal but it isn't. It's 
not my role to assess the adequacy of this policy. My role is to ensure this policy has been 
applied fairly. Mr U has said a bank statement is as good as a payslip because it actually showed the 
amount he was being paid. He said he was asked for his payslips to make sure he paid tax 
and national insurance. He said he found this unfair and unnecessary, and he can't find the 
reason for this request. He said the purpose is to raise the bar on his application to make it 
more difficult for him, which is discriminatory. 
I do understand what Mr U is saying but I'm afraid I disagree that the bank statement is as 
good as the payslip. The bank statement confirms how much money came into the account 
but it does not say if any statutory deductions have been made, such as tax and national 
insurance. The payslip provides information concerning type of employment and any 
statutory deductions. Lenders are interested in what deductions have been made in order to 
establish a customer's level of disposable income, which helps identify if the customer can 
afford the repayment from that disposable income. I'm satisfied Nationwide haven't asked for 
this information for any other purpose than to establish the amount going into Mr U's account 
before or after any deductions (including tax and national insurance), which might affect Mr 
U's level of disposable income and ability to make repayments. I'm also satisfied that 
requesting payslips is a reasonable request, and one I might generally expect of 
lenders, and is not discriminatory. 
Mr U  disagreed with both Nationwide and the investigator's statement that he should have 
made sure the loan was available before putting a deposit down for the purchase of the car 
at auction. He said this is incorrect and that four days before the purchase he visited his 
local branch and made enquiries about a loan. He said he was actually told Nationwide 
would offer him the loan because of his earnings and good credit record. He said he 
then completed the form on line and the loan was approved pending proof of income. 
I understand that Mr U may have had a positive conversation in the branch about getting 
loan approval, but he also said he was advised to apply online as there was no space to see 
him at the time. He then went on to make an application which he said was approved subject 
to proof of income. So I'm persuaded that up to this point Nationwide had not formally 
approved the loan or released the funds. I don't believe it would be fair of me to hold 
Nationwide accountable for lost interest on savings for Mr U's decision to pay for the car 
prior to formal loan approval or release of funds. 
Mr U has said £75 is not enough compensation for the immense stress and financial loss he 
suffered. He said he also got the impression Nationwide thought he was dodging tax and 
national insurance. I do understand Mr U was inconvenienced by Nationwide incorrectly 
telling him he only needed to bring bank statements to the branch. I can see why this would 
have caused frustration. But I'm satisfied that £75 is fair and reasonable under these 
circumstances, including Nationwide's apology for the short complaint delay. I'm also 
satisfied that information concerning tax and national insurance was requested only to help 
establish the affordability of the loan. 
Mr U has noted that after the investigator heard from Nationwide he failed to check his 
response with Mr U before reaching a decision. It might help Mr U if I explain that the 
investigator's role is to be impartial, listen to both sides and give both parties a view, an 
opinion, on what he thinks has occurred. If either or both parties disagree with that view they 
can request a decision from an ombudsman, as Mr U has done. 
Mr U also complained about how Nationwide handled his complaint. Unfortunately complaint 
handling is not a regulated activity, so I'm unable to look at that. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I don't uphold this complaint.  Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr U to accept or 
reject my decision before 1 June 2020.
Maxine Sutton
Ombudsman