DRN-3381163
The complaint
Mr B is unhappy with the way Lloyds Bank PLC (Lloyds) responded to his requests for 
information. Hes also unhappy it contacted the police following a phone call with him.
What happened
In May 2018 Mr B contacted Lloyds to complain about the response hed received to a 
subject access request (SAR) he made under the Data Protection Act. He felt it didnt 
include all the information it shouldve.
He spoke to an advisor at Lloyds over the phone about this and explained he was looking 
specifically for a written response to a complaint hed made in 2016. During this call Mr B 
became upset. In response, the advisor he spoke to felt it appropriate to contact the police 
so they could carry out a welfare check at his home. When the police visited Mr Bs home 
they damaged his property gaining access to it. He feels Lloyds should be liable for the cost 
of this damage. He didnt think anything he said during the call reasonably ought to have 
prompted Lloyds to contact the police.
Our investigator didnt uphold the complaint as they felt Lloyds had acted reasonably. Mr B 
didnt accept their view, so the complaint has been passed to me to make a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Did Lloyds provide all the information it needed to under the SAR in 2018?
Mr B has explained he made a SAR in 2018 so he could get a copy of the final response 
sent to him in response to a complaint he made in 2016. It appears that after receiving the 
response to his SAR, the final response wasnt included as hed expected. So he made a 
complaint to Lloyds that the SAR was incomplete.
What Lloyds explained to Mr B at the time and subsequently to our service, is that when he 
made his complaint in 2016, it responded to Mr Bs concerns over the phone within three 
days of it being made and its recorded that Mr B accepted what it had said. Because it had 
resolved the complaint within this time frame, it didnt need to send out a written final 
response. The rules relating to this can be found in the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) 
Handbook, specifically DISP 1.5. As no final response was issued in 2016, it wasnt provided 
as part of the SAR.
Ive listened to all the available calls between Mr B and Lloyds regarding this issue. When Mr 
B contacted Lloyds to ask for a written response to his 2016 complaint in 2018 he was told it 
wasnt able to write a response on a closed complaint. The advisor he spoke to reads out to 
him the notes from the call when the 2016 complaint was resolved, and talked him through 
the issue complained about (as Mr B had said this had happened again which was why he 
now wanted the previous complaint response). So I think they made a genuine effort to help 
Mr B with his concerns. Mr B asked for a written copy of the note but the advisor explained 
that as hed made a SAR he would already receive this so she wouldnt write it up and send 
it again and I think that was reasonable.
During this conversation I think it became clear Mr B no longer agreed with the way his 
complaint had been resolved in 2016, and didnt agree with what a written response 
wouldve said. He said the only reason he accepted the response in 2016 is because he 
didnt fully understand it. Based on this, and because he had already received a copy of the 
notes from the conversation in his SAR, I think its reasonable Lloyds didnt issue a written 
response to the 2016 response in 2018 when Mr B asked it to.
I can see Mr B has also recently raised with our service his concerns that Lloyds didnt send 
him a final response regarding his 2018 complaint either. I cant see Mr B has asked us to 
look into this specific complaint point until now. But I accept that Mr B is clearly unhappy with 
the overall service hes received from Lloyds over the years and so Ive taken it into account 
as part of the overall complaint about Lloyds not responding to his requests for information.
Mr B brought this complaint to us in 2018 before Lloyds had had the opportunity to look into 
things, and it was given eight weeks in which to do so. As it didnt respond within this time 
frame, our investigation continued. Mr B was aware of his rights to ask our service to look 
into things, and once the eight weeks had passed he was aware we were continuing our 
investigation. I dont think Mr B has suffered any detriment as a result of a final response not 
being issued in 2018. And as our role is not to punish or regulate businesses, I dont think 
Lloyds needs to do anything in relation to this point.
Did Lloyds act unreasonably in contacting the police?
During his call with Lloyds in May 2018  the same call Ive talked about above  Mr B told 
the advisor he was speaking to he was getting very upset and angry and indicated it was too 
much for him in light of the mental health conditions he was living with. Towards the end of 
the call Mr B said around four times he felt he had to end his life over Lloyds responses.
The advisor told him that because hed talked about harming himself she had a duty of care 
to contact the police and she would be doing that after the call. Mr B acknowledged this and 
said she should do this if thats what she needed to do. After this exchange the call 
continued for a few minutes and discussion returned to Mr Bs request to receive a response 
in writing. 
Mr B has told our service that anytime he mentioned taking his own life, it was clear it was 
hypothetical. Hes said the person he spoked to assumed he was going to harm himself and 
that he did not make any direct threat to end his life. So Lloyds was acting unreasonably in 
calling the police.
Im not disputing or questioning what Mr Bs genuine intentions were when he said the things 
he said. I accept Mr Bs position that he had no intention of hurting himself. Ive also seen 
the police report Mr B has provided, following the welfare visit prompted by this call. In 
particular hes highlighted that it states his comments to Lloyds were flippant. 
But, the advisor he spoke to was only able to act based on the information available to them 
during the call. Having listened to the call myself, Ive heard that Mr B talked about taking his 
own life several times, and I dont think it was clear he didnt intend on acting upon this or 
that these were flippant comments. Based on what he said, and his clear distress, I think its 
reasonable the advisor was genuinely concerned he was at risk. Ive also reviewed Lloyds 
internal guidance around how it expects its staff to respond in situation where a customer talks about harming themselves. Overall, I think the advisor he spoke to acted reasonably in 
calling the police.
The advisor also clearly told Mr B she was going to contact the police. At no point did Mr B 
tell her he didnt feel that was necessary or that he didnt intend to act on what hed said. If 
Mr B had wanted to tell the advisor he had no intention of acting on his comments, or that 
these were flippant and a police visit wasnt necessary, he had the opportunity to say this. As 
Ive mentioned, Mr B acknowledged the advisor said she was going to contact the police and 
told her she should do what she has to do.
Mr B has commented that hes unhappy the investigator didnt consider the police report 
before they reached their findings. But it is for our service to decide what information we 
think is relevant to the complaint before we reach a conclusion. That said, I have carefully 
considered all of the information Mr B has provided before reaching my decision in this case.
Im sorry to hear of the damage that was caused by the police visit and the difficulties this 
has caused Mr B, but I dont think Lloyds is to blame for this so I dont think it needs to 
compensate him for it.
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 April 2022.
 
Faye Brownhill
Ombudsman