DRN-1845400
The complaint
Mr B has complained about MetLife Europe d.a.c.s decision to decline his claim under his 
employers group income protection insurance policy.
What happened
Mr B was a member of his employers group income protection insurance policy, held with 
MetLife. The policy, after a deferred period of 26 weeks, would pay a regular benefit if Mr B 
were unable to perform his occupation due to illness or injury.
In November 2018, Mr B stopped working due to stress and anxiety. He remained off work 
and, in March 2019, his employer made a claim to MetLife.
MetLife arranged for Mr B to be interviewed by its rehabilitation consultant (who Ill call 
Ms M). It also obtained information from Mr Bs GP. MetLife noted that Mr B had also 
experienced cardiac symptoms but as these didnt seem to be the reason for his absence, it 
concentrated its assessment on his symptoms of stress and anxiety. In June 2019, after 
examining the available information, Met Life declined the claim. It considered the medical 
evidence didnt support that Mr Bs symptoms were so significantly impairing his function as 
to render him unable to perform his role.
Mr Bs employer appealed against the decision and provided MetLife with further 
information. Met Life also received a letter from Mr Bs treating clinical psychologist (who Ill 
call Dr H) and obtained a copy of a letter sent by Mr Bs GP to his employer in March 2019. 
However, after considering this further information MetLife confirmed later in June 2019 that 
it was not persuaded to change its decision about the claim.
In July 2019, Mr B complained to MetLife about its decision.
MetLife arranged for Mr B to be interviewed again by Ms M and this took place later in 
July 2019. Having received Ms Ms further report, and having considered the content of an 
email which it received directly from Mr B, MetLife became concerned that Mr Bs condition 
may have deteriorated. It therefore arranged for Mr B to undergo an independent medical 
examination by a clinical psychologist (who Ill call Dr C). MetLife still considered it had 
been correct for it to have declined Mr Bs claim until this point but it agreed to make an ex 
gratia payment, equivalent to the amount of benefit he would have received under the policy, 
from when the deferred period ended in May 2019 until the end of August 2019 (it later 
agreed to extend the ex gratia payments to cover the period to the end of October 2019).
In September 2019, Mr B underwent the independent medical examination. Dr C concluded 
that Mr B, while experiencing anxiety in relation to issues in his personal life and workplace, 
was not suffering a mental illness pervasively affecting his overall function. He therefore 
considered that while Mr B might need to find a less stressful job, he was not formally 
disabled. He considered that Mr B should be capable of returning to the workplace within 
four weeks. 
In October 2019, MetLife shared Dr Cs report with Mr B and his employer. It said that it 
considered the report supported its decision to decline the claim.
Mr B and his employer provided MetLife with further submissions from Dr H, Ms M and his 
GP.
In November 2019, Met Life issued its final response letter to the complaint. It maintained its 
decision to decline the claim as it continued to believe that Mr B did not meet the policys 
definition of incapacity.
Later in November 2019, Mr Bs employer terminated his employment by mutual consent.
Mr B was unhappy at MetLifes decision to decline his claim. He referred his complaint to us. 
He said that if MetLife had accepted his claim, his employment contract would not have 
needed to be terminated.
While the complaint was under investigation, MetLife offered to extend the ex gratia benefit 
payments until Mr Bs employment ended in mid-November 2019.
Our investigator considered that MetLife should have accepted the claim. However, he 
considered that the evidence from Dr C supported that Mr B should have been able to return 
to work by the time his employment ended in mid-November 2019. The investigator noted 
that MetLife had already agreed to pay benefit on an ex gratia basis until the end of 
October 2019. He therefore considered that MetLifes offer to extend the payment of benefit 
on an ex gratia basis to the date Mr Bs employment was terminated was a fair way to 
resolve the complaint.
Mr B didnt accept the investigators findings. He thought the evidence from Dr H, Ms M and 
his GP showed that he had been too ill to return to his own occupation from the time he 
stopped working and that he remained too ill to do so at the time his employment was 
terminated. Given that his employment wouldnt have been terminated if MetLife had 
accepted his claim, he considered it should pay him further benefit beyond the termination 
date.
In view of the continued disagreement, the matter has been passed to me for a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The policy will pay benefit if Mr B is incapacitated throughout the deferred period and 
beyond. The policy states:
an insured member is incapacitated if.. they are unable to perform, due to illness or injury, 
the material and substantial duties required of them in their own occupation which they were 
performing immediately prior to being incapacitated
MetLife didnt accept that Mr B met this definition throughout the deferred period and it 
therefore didnt accept the claim, though it agreed to pay benefit on an ex gratia basis until 
the end of October 2019. It has since offered to extend these ex gratia payments until Mr Bs 
employment was terminated in mid-November 2019.
Our investigator considered that MetLife should have accepted the claim but only until the 
date his employment ended in mid-November 2019 because he considered the evidence 
indicated that Mr B was no longer incapacitated by that date. He therefore thought MetLifes offer to extend its payment of benefit on an ex gratia to that date was fair.
I am going to start by determining whether MetLifes decision that Mr B was not 
incapacitated was a reasonable position for it to take as of the time that his employment 
ended in mid-November 2019. 
The chief supporting evidence which MetLife relied on was the report by Dr C. He noted that 
Mr B had a history of stress reactions and sick leave dating back to 2013. He stated:
In my view [Mr B] is affected by repeat acute stress reactions (ICD-10 code F43.0). I do not 
see him as affected by a formal or intrinsic mental illness that is unrelated to external 
stressors, which in his case are on the stress that arises quite naturally at work paired with 
the various stressors in his family life.
Dr C acknowledged that Mr B experienced symptoms but he considered that these were in 
reaction to events and situations rather than a formal illness. He noted that Mr B appeared to 
be able to function relatively normally outside of work. He considered that the main issue 
affecting Mr B was that he had poor stress tolerance which caused him to be sensitive to 
stress when it arose and therefore to want to avoid it. He considered that Mr B might find it 
difficult to return to work for his current employer unless something could be done to relieve 
the stress he felt he was under. However, Dr C did not consider that Mr B had functional 
limitations which prevented him from carrying out his own occupation in a less stressful 
environment. He considered that, allowing time for Mr B to plan and prepare, he should be 
able to resume working within four weeks.
The policy definition of incapacity requires Mr B to be prevented by illness from performing 
the material and substantial duties of his own occupation. I consider the test for whether 
Mr B is incapacitated is not therefore whether he is able to return to his exact same job with 
his same employer. Instead it is whether he is too ill to perform the generic duties of his 
occupation. In Dr Cs opinion, Mr B did not meet this definition when he met him in 
September 2019 and he could certainly return to work within four weeks.
Mr B considers that the other medical evidence outweighs the opinion of Dr H. I shall 
therefore consider this other evidence in relation to Mr Bs incapacity by November 2019.
I recognise that Mr Bs GP continued to certify him as unfit to work. However, I consider that 
Dr C, as a specialist in the field, is better qualified than the GP to assess the state of Mr Bs 
mental health.
Ms M saw Mr B in April 2019 and again in July 2019. She considered that at the time of the 
second meeting, his condition had deteriorated. He was less optimistic and displayed 
increased signs of anxiety and depression compared with the earlier meeting and, although 
he could still manage all the activities of independent daily living, he was struggling to 
motivate himself. Ms M noted that Mr B was continuing to receive regular counselling from 
Dr H. Ms M considered that Mr Bs continued symptoms of anxiety and depression 
prevented him from currently returning to work though she remained optimistic that, if he 
were to respond positively to treatment and his employer were to show consideration in 
respect of such matters as his workload, he was likely to be able to return in due course.
I have carefully considered Ms Ms reports. However, I dont consider that these are 
persuasive in showing that Mr B was likely to have been incapacitated at the time he met 
with Dr C in September 2019. I dont find anything in Ms Ms reports which undermines the 
conclusions which Dr C reached, particularly as Dr C is again better qualified to assess the 
state of Mr Bs mental health.This therefore leaves just the opinion of Dr H. She had counselled Mr B on and off since 
2014 and he referred back to her again in February 2019 some three months after he had 
stopped working.
Dr H has explained that she was employed as a therapist and therefore had not found it 
necessary to formally diagnose Mr Bs mental health condition. However, she considered 
that Mr B had displayed symptoms of severe depression and anxiety. She disagreed with 
Dr Cs assessment that Mr B was suffering from an acute stress reaction; instead, she 
considered his condition was better described as an adjustment disorder with mixed anxiety 
and a depressed mood. She believed that Mr B's mental health issues were more severe 
than Dr C had stated. She said that while his outside pressures were great, so were his 
occupational pressures and he had reported vast quantities of work being put into his 
department. She considered that Mr B had been unable to return to his current job at the 
time he met with Dr C and that he was unlikely to be ready to return four weeks after this. 
However, she believed that with the right support he would have been able to return 
eventually, though this was more likely to have been in a timeframe of three to four months.
I have given careful consideration to Dr Hs comments. However, I am more persuaded by 
Dr Cs opinion. In particular, I note that while Dr H thought that Mr B in September 2019 was 
unlikely to be able to return to his current job within four weeks because of the particular 
pressures associated with it, she conceded that he was likely by then to be able to return to 
a different job role without undue pressures. As I noted earlier, the test for incapacity under 
the policy is whether Mr B was too ill to perform the generic duties of his occupation. While 
Dr H thought the work pressure on Mr B in his current role would lead to further ill health if 
he were to attempt to return too soon, the fact that she thought him capable of performing a 
less stressful job role seems to support Dr Cs opinion that he did not have functional 
limitations due to mental illness which prevented from carrying out the generic duties of his 
occupation. I therefore consider MetLifes decision that Mr B was not incapacitated was a 
reasonable position for it to take as of mid-November 2019.
I should emphasise that I am not disputing that Mr B was unwell and experiencing 
distressing symptoms. However, I dont consider that by mid-November 2019 he met the 
policys definition of incapacity.
With regard to whether Mr B was entitled to benefit before this time, I note there is 
disagreement on this. The investigator thought that MetLife should have accepted the claim 
while MetLife thought otherwise. However, I do not think it would be a good use of my time 
to make a determination on this because, even if I decided that MetLife should have 
accepted the claim, I dont consider it would make any difference to the eventual outcome. 
MetLife agreed to pay benefit on an ex gratia basis until the end of October 2019. Even if it 
had accepted the claim, it would have still been entitled to arrange for the independent 
medical examination with Dr C when it did and, as I have determined, it would have been 
entitled to terminate the claim shortly afterwards.
Furthermore, in an attempt to resolve the complaint MetLife has now offered to pay benefit 
on an ex gratia basis from the end of October 2019 until the time Mr B left his employment in 
mid-November 2019. It says that this is to allow for the fact that it may have taken slightly 
longer for Mr B to resume employment than Dr C had predicted. I am satisfied this is a fair 
offer. Even if MetLife had accepted the claim from the outset, I consider that Mr B could not 
have expected to have received more benefit than this. I consider that, rather than try to 
determine whether Mr B had an eligible claim at some point, the more pragmatic approach is 
for me to formalise MetLifes offer in an award which I do below.
My final decisionFor the reasons given above, my final decision is that I uphold this complaint in part.
I require MetLife Europe d.a.c. to pay Mr B the amount of benefit he would have received 
under the policy had his claim been accepted for the period from 1 November 2019 until he 
left his employment later that month. I further require MetLife Europe d.a.c to add interest to 
this payment at the annual simple rate of 8%, calculated from the date the benefit payment 
would have been made (had the claim been accepted) to the date of settlement.*
* If MetLife considers that its required by HM Revenue & Customs to take off income tax from that 
interest, it should tell Mr B how much its taken off. It should also give Mr B a certificate showing this if 
he asks for one, so he can reclaim the tax from HM Revenue & Customs if appropriate.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 5 February 2021. 
David Poley
Ombudsman