DRN-2724801
The complaint
 Mrs E complains that AXA France IARD (AXA) mis-sold her a payment protection insurance 
(PPI) policy.
 
AXA didnt directly sell the policy; it was the insurer. But its taken responsibility for this sale 
so I shall refer to it as the seller in this decision.
What happened
Mrs E took out a store card with AXA in 1995. At the same time she bought a PPI policy 
which wouldve helped cover the repayments on her card if she couldnt work. It also offered 
purchase and price protection.
Mrs E says that she doesnt think she would have been covered by the policy because she 
was about to become self-employed when she took the policy.
The adjudicator acknowledged Mrs Es plans, and thought these would have prevented her 
wanting to take the policy.
AXA disagrees, so the case has been passed to me to make a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
 Weve set out our general approach to complaints about PPI on our website and Ive taken 
this into account when deciding this case. Having done so, Im going to uphold Mrs Es 
complaint. Ill explain why Ive reached this decision.
Mrs E took out the store card and PPI by filling in an application form. AXA has supplied a 
copy of this and I can see that theres a separate section for the PPI. Mrs E has signed to 
say that she wants the cover.
 
AXA had an obligation to make sure Mrs E had all the information she needed so she could 
make her decision. I dont think AXA did this well enough. And I dont think Mrs E wouldve 
bought the policy if shed had all the information she required. 
Theres a very brief explanation of the cover on the application form. Its a few lines long and 
doesnt include anything about the exclusions on the policy. I think this was important 
information for Mrs E to have, as the policy made it more difficult for Mrs E to claim for 
unemployment if she was self-employed than if she was an employee. 
I think it wouldve been important for Mrs E to understand this before she took the PPI. Mrs E 
says she was about to become self-employed  and says she did that within a few months of 
buying the PPI. She says she remained self-employed throughout the life of the policy. I 
dont see any reason to doubt Mrs Es recollections  shes been consistent throughout the 
complaint on this.
AXA says Mrs E would have had enough information at the time the PPI was sold to decide 
if it suited her. But I see that, although theres a section on Mrs Es application form about 
her employment status, this isnt completed. That suggests it wasnt discussed (or not 
considered important enough to record as part of the application) at the time. 
I think Mrs E wouldve viewed her planned self-employment and the limits it placed on her 
ability to claim on the policy as important, as it was one of the main benefits of the policy. So 
if AXA had made her aware that she might not be able to claim, I dont think shed have 
thought the policy offered her a useful benefit and I dont think shed have bought it.
That means I think Mrs E lost out as a result of what AXA did wrong.
Putting things right
 AXA should put Mrs E in the financial position shed be in now if she hadnt taken out PPI.
A. AXA should find out how much Mrs E would have owed when she closed her account if 
the policy hadnt been added.
So, it should remove the PPI premiums added, as well as any interest charged on those 
premiums. It should also remove any charges that were caused by the mis-sale of the 
PPI  as well as any interest added to those charges.
 
AXA should then refund the difference between what Mrs E owed when she closed her 
account and what she would have owed if she hadnt had PPI.
If Mrs E made a successful claim under the PPI policy, AXA can take off what she got 
for the claim from the amount it owes her. 
B. AXA should add simple interest on the difference between what Mrs E would have owed 
when he closed his account from when he closed it until she gets the refund. The 
interest rate should be 8% a year. 
C. If  when AXA works out what Mrs E would have owed each month without PPI  Mrs E 
paid more than enough to clear her balance, AXA should also pay simple interest on the 
extra Mrs E paid. And it should carry on paying interest until the point when Mrs E 
wouldve owed AXA something on her card. The interest rate should be 8%. 
D. AXA should tell Mrs E what its done to work out A, B and C.
E. If the lender has already repaid any commission amount to Mrs E that relates to this PPI 
sale, that sum can be deducted by AXA from the redress shown above.
 HM Revenue & Customs requires AXA to take off tax from this interest. AXA must give   
Mrs E a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if she asks for one. 
My final decision
 My decision is that I uphold Mrs Es complaint. I direct AXA France IARD to pay 
compensation as described above.  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs E to accept or 
reject my decision before 10 May 2021.
 
Susan Peters
Ombudsman