DRN-2755026
The complaint
Mrs G is unhappy that TSB Bank Plc lost items stored with them in Safe Custody while they 
were being transferred between branches.
Mrs G has a medical condition which means shes no longer able to deal with her own 
affairs. Mr K and Mrs P hold a Lasting Power of Attorney (LPoA), on a joint and several 
basis, over Mrs Gs affairs, and have brought this complaint on her behalf.
What happened
Mrs G had items of intrinsic value, contained within an envelope, and stored in Safe 
Custody with TSB since October 2003. The contents of this envelope were not required to 
be disclosed to TSB and, to the best of anyones knowledge, are only known to Mrs G. Mr K 
and Mrs P are dealing with Mrs Gs affairs under the LPoA and they say that, in July 2020, 
TSB advised them they were discontinuing their Safe Custody Service. So Mr K and Mrs P 
asked for the envelope and its contents to be sent to a branch local to them, so they could 
collect it. Unfortunately, the envelope was lost during the transfer. And, despite TSB saying 
they conducted a thorough search and investigation, the envelope hasnt been found.
TSB have paid Mr K and Mrs P £200 for the distress and inconvenience caused by the loss 
of the envelope and for the service theyd received in branch. Theyve also offered to review 
the matter again if theyre made aware of what was in the envelope. But Mr K and Mrs P 
dont know what was in the envelope. And they havent told Mrs G about the loss, so as not 
to cause her any distress. Because Mr K and Mrs P were unhappy with TSBs response, 
they brought this complaint to us for investigation.
Our investigator said TSB had tried to locate the lost envelope but have been unable to do 
so. He said TSB should compensate Mrs G for either the value of the lost contents, or the 
cost of replacing or replicating these, whichever is most appropriate. But without knowing the 
contents of the envelope, it wasnt possible to calculate the value of the loss.
Given these circumstances, he thought that the £200 TSB had paid Mr K and Mrs P, along 
with the offer to review matters when the contents of the envelope were known, was 
reasonable. He also said that, as Mrs G was unaware of the loss, she hadnt suffered any 
distress as a result. So he didnt think TSB needed to increase their compensation offer.
Mr K and Mrs P didnt agree with the investigator. They didnt think the offer of £200 was 
sufficient for the distress and inconvenience TSB had caused. They also thought that Mrs G 
had been treated unfairly as there was a focus on her illness, which was a protected 
characteristic under the Equality Act 2010  the compensation award is dependent on Mrs G 
giving information about what was in the envelope, something shes unable to do. And they 
feel that reasonable adjustments should be made as a result.
Because Mr K and Mrs P didnt agree with the investigator, this matter has been passed to 
me to make a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having reviewed the evidence I agree with the investigators findings on this complaint for 
broadly the same reasons. I can understand this is likely to come as a disappointment to Mr 
K and Mrs P, but I hope my findings go some way in explaining why Ive reached this 
decision. If I havent commented on any specific point, its because I dont believe its 
affected what I think is the right outcome. 
The facts of this case arent in dispute. Mrs Gs envelope has been lost during an internal 
mail transfer between TSB branches. And despite TSBs efforts, the envelope hasnt been 
found. The contents of this envelope werent disclosed to TSB but, according to the Safe 
Custody Agreement Mrs G signed in October 2003, the contents of the envelope were of 
intrinsic value.
Ive seen the definitions TSB use, and intrinsic value means items which can generally be 
sold for cash and/or would be extremely difficult to replace. Examples given include things 
like stamps, coins and medals, but this isnt an exhaustive list. But, as TSB define items not 
of an intrinsic value to be generally items of a documentary nature for which duplicates can 
normally be obtained, its also possible to know what sort of things wouldnt have been in 
the envelope. TSB also say that items of an intrinsic value should be insured by the 
customer before they are accepted into our Safe Custody service.
The Equality Act 2010 says that a person must not be treated less favourably because they 
have a disability, because someone else thinks they have a disability or because theyre 
connected to someone with a disability. So, when considering my decision, Ive also 
specifically considered whether Mrs G, Mr K or Mrs P have been treated less favourably by 
TSB because of Mrs Gs medical condition; or whether there were any reasonable 
adjustments that TSB couldve made but didnt.
Where items of intrinsic value stored in Safe Custody have been lost, Id expect TSB to take 
steps to trace the contents. And if those contents cant be found, Id also expect TSB to 
make a reasonable offer of compensation. However, to make a reasonable offer, TSB would 
need to ask the customer what the items stored were. Without this information, its not 
possible for TSB to adequately compensate the customer. And TSB havent treated Mrs G, 
Mr K or Mrs P less favourably than they would any other customer by asking this question.
So, in this situation, TSB did as I would expect. They attempted to trace the missing items 
and when this wasnt possible, they asked what items had gone missing. Because this 
information was unknown, TSB said they would review the matter once they knew what had 
actually gone missing. 
But I also agree with Mr K and Mrs P that TSB shouldve made reasonable adjustments 
under the Equality Act. And in these circumstances, the reasonable adjustment Id expect 
them to make is to deal with Mrs Gs authorised representatives  Mr K and Mrs P  and not 
try and deal with Mrs G direct. And, from what Ive seen, this is what TSB did. So I dont 
think that TSB failed to do something Id expect them to do in this regard.
I appreciate this situation is very frustrating for Mr K and Mrs P. Theyre unaware of what 
was in the envelope. And, given Mrs Gs medical condition, theres no guarantee that she 
would remember what the contents were if asked. But telling her about the missing envelope 
may cause her distress. And this is understandably something they want to avoid. So Mrs G 
remains unaware that the envelope is lost. However, as Mrs G was required to have the 
items she put in Safe Custody insured at the time, it may be possible to identify the missing 
contents from Mrs Gs insurance records at the time, if these still exist.When considering whats a reasonable remedy, Im looking at putting someone back in the 
position they wouldve been, where possible, had things not gone wrong. And, by offering to 
review matters once the contents of the envelope are known, this is what TSB have done. I 
cant ask TSB to pay a specified amount of compensation for what may have been in the 
envelope, as this may not be enough. Or it may be too much, and Mrs G could end up with 
betterment  shes compensated for more than the value of her loss. So, for this reason, I 
wont be asking TSB to pay a fixed amount.
But, when considering a reasonable remedy, I also need to consider any distress or 
inconvenience the service provided by TSB has caused the customer. And in this instance, 
the customer is Mrs G, not Mr K or Mrs P - even though Mr K and Mrs P are acting for her, 
its Mrs Gs property thats gone missing. And, for the reasons already explained, Mrs G 
remains unaware of the loss of the envelope and its contents. So she hasnt suffered any 
distress as a result of whats happened. So its for this reason I wont be asking TSB to 
compensate Mrs G.
I understand that Mr K and Mrs P have been inconvenienced by whats happened, as they 
are dealing with Mrs Gs affairs. But, as theyre not TSBs customers, I cant consider this 
inconvenience. But Im glad to see that TSB have recognised the inconvenience theyve 
caused Mr K and Mrs P, and have already compensated them £200.
My final decision
For the reasons explained above I dont uphold Mrs Gs complaint about TSB Bank Plc.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs G to accept or 
reject my decision before 3 June 2021.
 
Andrew Burford
Ombudsman