DRN-3904437
The complaint
Mr R has complained that Ikano Bank AB (publ) (Ikano) rejected his claim against it under 
sections 75 and 140A of the Consumer Credit Act 1974 (the Act) in relation to his purchase 
of some solar panels.
Mr R is represented by a claims management company (the CMC).
Background
Mr R bought solar panels for his home in October 2017. The purchase was funded by a ten 
year loan from Ikano, and so that business is liable under the Act for the acts and omissions 
of the installer. Mr R says the installer misled him into believing that the panels would be 
self-funding, which they werent. The CMC says that was a misrepresentation, and this 
resulted in an unfair relationship arising between Mr R and Ikano.
The CMC also says that no pre-contract information was provided to Mr R, and that no 
proper assessment of affordability was made before he was sold the loan. The CMC also 
surmised, without evidence, that commission may have been paid by the installer to Ikano.
One of our adjudicators looked into what had happened. Having considered all the 
information and evidence provided, our adjudicator didnt think that the installer had 
misrepresented the system to Mr R, and found no other reason to uphold the complaint. The 
CMC did not agree, and so the case was referred for an ombudsmans decision.
My findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Misrepresentation
Having carefully considered everything provided, I do not uphold this complaint. That is 
because the contract for the sale of the solar panels sets out the cost and the estimated 
benefit of the panels very clearly, and the benefits did not begin to approach the cost.
At the top of the page where Mr R signed, it says in bold capital letters Estimated year one 
benefit from Solar PV system only, and next to that are two figures indicating a possible 
range; the higher figure is £467.93. I think this figure is conspicuous; it is not buried in some 
fine print. Further down the same page it says that the finance amount is £8,500. Im 
satisfied that Mr R knew that this amount was payable over ten years. As Ive said, this 
document was signed by Mr R on the same page, and so I am satisfied that the installers 
salesman did bring this information to his attention.
The interest on the loan does not appear on this document, and so I think that Mr R could be 
forgiven for overlooking it. However, one tenth of the amount borrowed would clearly come 
to £850 each year. That is nearly twice the stated benefit figure for the first year. Again, 
I think this is clear. The CMC has argued that this document does not go into enough depth 
to show Mr R how the cost compares with the benefits, but I disagree.
For these reasons, I am not persuaded that the installer misled Mr R about the benefits and 
cost of the panels. It was clear that the panels would not be self-funding during the term of 
the loan, and it does not seem likely to me that the salesman told him the panels would pay 
for themselves at the same time as asking him to sign a piece of paper that said they would 
not.
Commission
There is no evidence of Ikano having been paid commission, so I cannot reasonably 
conclude that it was. Ikano denies receiving any commission, and I accept that.
Pre-contract information
Ikano has not responded to the CMCs claim that it and the installer failed to provide the 
required pre-contract information to Mr R, and so I have assumed that this allegation is true 
and proceeded on that basis. That was a breach of FCA rules.
However, I think that this error was substantially mitigated by the fact that all of the required 
information was given in the loan agreement, and that the system was not installed until after 
that was provided, so Mr R had the opportunity to read it all and to change his mind during 
the 14-day cooling-off period. For that reason, I do not think this error is serious enough to 
merit awarding compensation.
Affordability checks
Ikano says that it carried out a credit search at the time of the application for credit, and that 
it asked questions as part of the loan application, and I have no reason to doubt that. I also 
note that the Validation Sheet, signed by Mr R, has a paragraph which states:
I confirm all the information on the credit application is accurate and I am not aware 
of any change in circumstances that would affect my ability to repay this loan.
That paragraph has been initialled by Mr R. That suggests that affordability was in fact 
discussed, and that the credit application dealt with that by asking for pertinent information.
I accept that the loan repayments exceeded the financial benefits derived from the solar 
panels, but that does not mean that they were not affordable. There is also no suggestion 
that Mr R could not afford the loan repayments, and so I think there is nothing in this 
complaint point.
My final decision
My decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 February 2023.
 
Richard Wood
Ombudsman