DRN-3144936
The complaint
Mr S complains that Volkswagen Financial Services (UK) Limited trading as Audi Financial 
Services sent him arrears letters for a balance he didnt owe. Hes unhappy about the effect 
this has had on his credit file.
What happened
In September 2017 Mr S was supplied with a car and entered into a hire purchase 
agreement with VWFS. The term of the agreement was 4 years with 47 monthly payments of 
£300.97 and a final payment of £10,667.50.
In July 2020 Mr S traded the car in at a dealership. He expected his finance agreement to be 
settled and the ownership details updated with DVLA.
In November 2020 Mr S complained to VWFS because he was receiving letters about 
missed payments under the agreement. VWFS investigated and found that the dealership 
had made an error. It modified Mr Ss account to reflect settlement and amended his credit 
file.
Mr S asked VWFS to pay compensation for the problems hed experienced and the impact 
on his credit file. VWFS refused. It said it didnt think it had been at fault for the error.
Mr S brought his complaint to this service. Hes unhappy about the arrears letters and the 
impact on his credit file. Hes also unhappy about the service he received from VWFS and 
the dealership.
Our investigator didnt uphold the complaint. She said that whilst she understood that Mr S 
was unhappy about the length of time it took for the account to be settled, she didnt think 
VWFS should be held responsible for the actions of the dealership. The investigator said that 
as soon as VWFS became aware that there was an issue, it took prompt action to resolve 
things and amended Mr Ss credit file. The investigator said that VWFs had already offered 
to pay £350 compensation to Mr S, which she thought was fair and reasonable.
 Mr S didnt agree so Ive been asked to make a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Theres no dispute that the dealership made an error in settling Mr Ss account, which meant 
that the account was showing as being in arrears. VWFS investigated things with the 
dealership as soon as Mr S raised a complaint and the account was settled very soon after 
that. 
I havent seen anything to suggest that VWFs was aware of the dealerships error prior to the 
point at which Mr S complained. So, I dont think VWFS did anything wrong by issuing 
arrears letters. And Im satisfied that once the error was identified, VWFS took reasonable 
steps to make sure that the account was settled quickly.
I understand that Mr S is unhappy that it took so long for his account to be settled, but as Ive 
explained, I dont think VWFs was at fault for this. Mr S could raise a complaint directly with 
the dealership about the error and, if it isnt resolved, complain further to The Motor 
Ombudsman.
I can see that there was a further delay in correcting Mr Ss credit file. This error was, in my 
view, the responsibility of VWFS. Based on what Ive seen, Mr Ss credit file has been 
corrected now and VWFS has offered compensation of £350 to compensate Mr S for this 
and the other problems he experienced. Taking everything into account, I think this is a fair 
and reasonable amount.
I appreciate that Mr S is unhappy about some other issues, including debt collectors calling 
at his home. VWFS has said that it didnt instruct debt collectors on Mr Ss account, and Ive 
reviewed the system notes to confirm this. Mr S hasnt provided any letters from the debt 
collectors so Im not persuaded that  theres any evidence to link them to VWFS.
Based on everything Ive seen, I think VWFs has done enough to resolve the complaint by 
offering compensation of £350. I wont be asking it to do anything further.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold the complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 6 March 2022.
 
Emma Davy
Ombudsman