DRN-3755536
The complaint
Miss S complains (through a representative) that Morses Club PLC (Morses) didnt carry out 
proper affordability checks before it granted loans to her. Had it done so, Morses wouldve 
discovered she couldnt afford to repay these loans. 
What happened
Miss S took four loans from Morses between March 2016 and September 2017. A summary 
of her borrowing can be found in the table below. 
loan 
numberloan 
amountagreement 
daterepayment 
dateterm 
(weeks)weekly 
repayment
1 £200.00 02/03/2016 29/06/2016 20 £15.00
2 £300.00 29/06/2016 06/02/2017 33 £15.00
3 £300.00 06/02/2017 27/09/2017 33 £15.00
4 £300.00 27/09/2017 written off 33 £15.00
Miss S had some problems repaying her final loan, and Morses has shown that it wrote off 
the outstanding balance in January 2018. 
Following Miss Ss complaint, Morses considered it and didnt uphold it. Unhappy with this 
response, Miss Ss representative referred the complaint to the Financial Ombudsman. 
The complaint was considered by an adjudicator. She concluded Morses made a reasonable 
decision to lend loans 1  3 because proportionate checks were carried out before these 
loans were approved which showed Miss S was able to afford the repayments. For loan 4, 
she thought, perhaps Morses ought to have carried out further checks but she couldnt 
uphold the loan because Miss Ss representative hadnt provided bank statements which 
covered the right period.  
Finally, the adjudicator pointed out, that due to the write off Morses carried out, even if she 
were to uphold loan 4, there wouldnt be a refund due because Miss S hadnt paid enough to 
Morses to cover the capital borrowed. 
Morses didnt respond to or acknowledge the adjudicators assessment. 
Miss Ss representative didnt agree and explained: 
I am afraid that we do not agree with the decision made and therefore request the 
case be transferred for a Final Decision by an Ombudsman.
As no agreement has been reached, the case has been passed to me for a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about short-term lending - including all the 
relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice - on our website.
Morses had to assess the lending to check if Miss S could afford to pay back the amounts 
shed borrowed without undue difficulty. It needed to do this in a way which was 
proportionate to the circumstances. Morses checks could have taken into account a number 
of different things, such as how much was being lent, the size of the repayments, and 
Miss Ss income and expenditure. 
With this in mind, I think in the early stages of a lending relationship, less thorough checks 
might have been proportionate. But certain factors might suggest Morses should have done 
more to establish that any lending was sustainable for Miss S. These factors include:
Miss S having a low income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make any
loan repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income);
The amounts to be repaid being especially high (reflecting that it could be more
difficult to meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income);
Miss S having a large number of loans and/or having these loans over a long
period of time (reflecting the risk that repeated refinancing may signal that the
borrowing had become, or was becoming, unsustainable);
Miss S coming back for loans shortly after previous borrowing had been repaid
(also suggestive of the borrowing becoming unsustainable).
There may even come a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly 
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable for Miss S.
Morses was required to establish whether Miss S could sustainably repay the loans  not 
just whether she technically had enough money to make her repayments. Having enough 
money to make the repayments could of course be an indicator that Miss S was able to 
repay her loans sustainably. But it doesnt automatically follow that this is the case. 
Industry regulations say that payments are sustainable if they are made without undue 
difficulties and in particular, made on time, while meeting other reasonable commitments and 
without having to borrow to make them. If a lender realises, or ought reasonably to have 
realised, that a borrower wont be able to make their repayments without borrowing further, 
then it follows that it should conclude those repayments are unsustainable.
Ive considered all the arguments, evidence and information provided in this context, and
thought about what this means for Miss Ss complaint.
Loan 1
Before the loan was approved, Morses likely took details of Miss Ss income and 
expenditure. However, the information cant be provided by Morses, there could be a 
number of reasons for this. But the most likely, is that the information is no longer available 
due to the passage of time. I dont consider this to be unreasonable. 
I can see Miss S has supplied copies of her bank statements for around the time this loan 
was approved. But given this was a first loan it wouldve been disproportionate for Morses to 
have reviewed these statements.  In addition, before this loan was granted Morses also carried out a credit search and it has 
provided a copy of the results to the Financial Ombudsman Service.  
It is worth saying here that although Morses carried out a credit search there isnt a 
regulatory requirement to do one, let alone one to a specific standard. Therefore, its entirely 
possible that the information Morses received may not entirely reflect the information Miss S 
may be able to view in her own credit report or on her bank statement at the time. There 
could be for a number of reasons for this, such as Morses only asking the number of active 
credit accounts. 
But what Morses cant do is carry out a credit search and then not react to the information it 
received  if necessary.  
Having reviewed the credit check results, there is some adverse information such as Morses 
was aware of 2 County Court Judgements (CCJs). One of the CCJs was recorded in 
January 2015 and the other had been recorded more than four years before loan one was 
advanced. 
Morses was also aware Miss S had four defaults recorded on her credit file, with one of 
these defaults marked as settled. The most recent of the defaults was recorded 15 months 
prior to loan one being advanced. 
The defaults and the CCJs do indicate that in the past, Miss S had some repayment 
problems, but these defaults and the CCJs on their own wouldnt have led, in my view to 
Morses carrying out further checks. Finally, it knew there were five active credit accounts 
with Miss S owing other credit providers a total of £1,375. 
There also wasnt anything else from the results that wouldve led Morses to conclude Miss 
S was either having longer term financial difficulties or was having problems repaying other 
credit. There also wasnt any evidence that Miss S was reliant on these types of loans.
Given it was early on in the lending relationship I consider Morses made a fair decision to 
provide this loan and so I dont uphold Miss Ss complaint about it. 
Loans 2 and 3
When these loans were approved, similar checks were likely carried out as they were before 
loan 1. There isnt any information available about what Miss S likely declared to Morses 
about loan 2 but given loan one was repaid without any problems; Im inclined to conclude 
that Morses made a reasonable decision to provide this loan. 
For loan 3, Morses has the information it gathered about Miss S. She declared a weekly 
income of £251. Her outgoings were £186 which left a disposable weekly income of £65. 
The loan repayments looked affordable, given a weekly repayment of £15. 
Loan 3 was taken on the same day that loan 2 was repaid and was for the same amount. 
There also, wasnt anything else in the way Miss S repaid her earlier loans that wouldve 
indicated further checks needed to have been carried out, at this time. 
There wasnt anything else in the checks that Morses carried out before this loan which 
indicated these loans were unlikely to be affordable or that Miss S was having wider financial 
difficulties. It also hadnt yet reached the stage where I think that Morses needed to have 
verified the information Miss S had provided it.
Im therefore not upholding the complaint about these loans. Loan 4
Like the adjudicator, I do think by this loan further checks ought to have been carried out. 
This was now the third time a loan had been taken out on the same day that a previous loan 
had been repaid. 
For this loan, Morses was also aware Miss Ss income had dropped significantly. She 
declared a weekly income of £103 with £40 per week outgoings. This left £63 per week in 
disposable income to afford her repayment of £15. 
Given how long Miss S had already been indebted to Morses, the fact these loans appeared 
to be taken out consecutively and her income was now significantly reduced, compared to 
loan 3. These factors ought to have prompted it to consider whether it knew enough about 
Miss Ss actual financial position.
Overall, I dont think it was reasonable for Morses to have relied on what Miss S declared to 
it about her income and expenditure. Even though this information suggested Miss S could 
afford the loan repayments.
Instead, I think it needed to gain a full understanding of Miss Ss actual financial position to 
ensure the loan was affordable. This couldve been done in several ways, such as asking for 
evidence of her outgoings, or looking at bank statements and/or Miss Ss full credit file.
However, that isnt the end of the matter. For me to be able to uphold this loan, I have to
be satisfied that had Morses carried out a proportionate check it wouldve likely discovered 
that Miss S couldnt afford it.
While, Miss Ss representative has provided some copy bank statements, these statements 
dont cover the period of time when loan 4 was approved. Without this information from Miss 
S about her other living costs, it isnt possible for me to conclude what Morses wouldve 
likely seen had it made better checks.
So, Morses didnt carry out proportionate checks, but Im not able to conclude that further 
checks wouldve led it to conclude that this loan was unaffordable for Miss S. As this is the 
case, Im intending to not uphold Miss Ss complaint about loan 4. 
Overall, Im not upholding any of Miss Ss loans. 
My final decision
So, for the reasons Ive explained above, Im not upholding Miss Ss complaint.
 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss S to accept 
or reject my decision before 24 November 2022.
 
Robert Walker
Ombudsman