DRN-1098433
 
The complaint
Mr C complains that TSB Bank plc has closed his current account as it said hed breached 
the terms and conditions by having another current account elsewhere.  
What happened
Mr C opened a Cash account with TSB in February 2019. He told TSB that this account was 
for him to receive his benefit payments. The Cash account is an account for customers who 
arent able to have one of TSBs other current accounts  one of the criteria to be eligible for 
it was that the customer didn't have access to another current account in the UK. 
But, in July 2019, TSB wrote to Mr C to say that after a review, it had decided that it could no 
longer offer him an account, and he would need to make alternative arrangements.
Mr C complained but TSB said that it felt it had made the right decision to end its banking 
relationship with him, as the terms and conditions of his Cash account were that he couldnt 
have another current account with another provider. 
It said he hadnt used his account for benefit payments as hed said, instead he had been 
crediting his account from an external bank account  indicating he had such an account 
elsewhere. TSB also said that, as Mr C had made a number of complaints in the short time 
hed been a customer, it appeared that it was unable to provide him with the service he 
expected, and so it believed it was in both their interests to stop offering Mr C banking 
facilities.
However, Mr C said his other account wasnt a current account and that the only other 
account he had was a savings account.
One of our investigators looked into the complaint but didnt think it should be upheld. Hed 
asked Mr C to provide information about the account hed made transfers from to show that 
it was a savings account rather than a current account, but Mr C wasnt able to provide this 
as hed closed the account. So the investigator said that he didnt think TSB had acted 
unfairly or unreasonably as there wasnt enough information to show that Mr Cs other 
account wasnt a current account. The investigator said that the terms of the Cash account 
said that TSB could end the agreement if incorrect information had been given to it in the 
account application which wouldve meant the account wouldnt have been opened.
Mr C didnt accept the investigators findings and asked for his complaint to be reviewed. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done this, I find Ive reached the same conclusion as the investigator, for the same 
reasons.Ive looked at the terms and conditions of the Cash account and these include the eligibility 
criteria which says:
 You must..not have access to another current account in the UK.
And having reviewed Mr Cs account statements, the credits to his account are mostly direct 
transfers from a savings account, or Faster Payment transfers from an account with another 
bank. So I can understand why this type of incoming transfer led TSB to believe that Mr C 
did have a current account elsewhere.  I also havent seen any incoming payments of 
benefits, which Mr C told TSB was his reasoning for opening this Cash account. I think this 
could also suggest that these were being into an account elsewhere.
So without specific information to confirm that Mr C's account with the other bank was a 
savings account rather than a current account, I cant say with any certainty that Mr C didnt 
have another current account.
The terms and conditions also describe how TSB can end the agreement and close the 
account straight away if:
 you gave us incorrect information when you applied for your Cash account and if wed 
known the correct information we wouldnt have allowed you to open the account.
In the particular circumstances here, I dont think TSB acted unfairly when it reached the 
decision to end its banking relationship with Mr C.
My final decision
My decision is that I don't uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 23 April 2020.
Cathy Bovan
Ombudsman