DRN-3450121
The complaint
Mrs W has complained about repairs carried out to her car when she made a claim under 
her car insurance policy with esure Insurance Limited.
What happened
Mrs W made a claim to esure in 2018 following an incident. esure arranged for Mrs Ws car 
to be repaired by an approved repairer (AR).
In 2020 Mrs W brought her car to her preferred garage to have the air conditioning checked 
and paid for the works. A year later Mrs W returned her car to the same garage for the same 
works as she said the air conditioning wasnt working. She said shed hardly used her car 
during the year. 
Mrs W said her preferred garage told her they couldnt work on the air conditioning due to 
parts being glued and therefore damaged. Mrs W said the garage told her this damage was 
a result of poor repairs carried out in 2018. 
Mrs W brought her car back to the AR. The AR thought it was more likely that a stone had 
caused the damage. But it agreed to replace the radiator and grille  which it had done 
under the original repairs - as a goodwill gesture. 
Mrs W said esure told her it would reimburse her for the costs due to poor workmanship by 
the AR in 2018. However, esure investigated the matter and didnt agree to reimburse Mrs W 
for works done by her preferred garage. esure said the AR wasnt given the opportunity in 
2020 to look at any concerns around its previous repairs. And it said it didnt follow that Mrs 
Ws preferred garage could carry out the same works in 2020, but not 2021 if the cause was 
down to the ARs repairs in 2018. 
Mrs W remained unhappy and asked us to look at her complaint. Our Investigator didnt 
recommend it should be upheld. He thought esure had acted reasonably. 
Mrs W didnt agree and wants an ombudsman to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
esure asked the AR to provide its comments on Mrs Ws complaint that the works originally 
carried out to the air conditioning and radiator grille werent done correctly  and that this led 
to her paying another garage for air conditioning works in 2020. The AR said that it believed 
the damage had possibly been caused by a stone  but as a goodwill gesture it agreed to 
replace the radiator and grille.
On discovering Mrs Ws preferred garage had successfully recharged the air conditioning 
gas in 2020, the AR said; 
The machine pressurises the system to test it before releasing any gas due to H&S 
(Health and Safety  my insert here) regulations, IE: the machine will not let you re-
gas a system with a leak.
Mrs W says if she hadnt contacted her preferred garage about the air conditioning issue, 
she wouldnt have been made aware that the repairs werent carried out correctly. However, 
there isnt sufficient evidence to show that the ARs repair were poor. And if Mrs W was 
concerned with the repairs in 2020, I think it was reasonable for her to have contacted either 
the AR or esure to give the AR the opportunity to investigate and put things right if 
necessary. 
Im sorry to disappoint Mrs W. But based on what Ive seen, I think esure acted in a 
reasonable way. So Im not asking it to reimburse Mrs W for the works she paid for with 
another garage. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs W to accept or 
reject my decision before 2 June 2022.
 
Geraldine Newbold
Ombudsman