DRN-4210373
The complaint
Mr and Mrs H complain about delays by RAC Insurance Limited providing assistance when 
they reported a breakdown on their roadside assistance policy.
What happened
Mr and Mrs H were travelling abroad when their car broke down. They called RAC at around 
1pm to request assistance. 
The police arrived soon after they broke down and provided the co-ordinates for the location 
so the recovery vehicle would be able to locate them. A recovery vehicle was sent but the 
driver said he couldnt find them. After making a number of calls to RAC Mr and Mrs H were 
advised to call the emergency services again, as they would be able to locate them.
Eventually the police arrived with a recovery vehicle and closed the road so their car and 
caravan could be moved.
When Mr and Mrs H complained, RAC accepted there had been delays and offered 
compensation of £100 for distress and inconvenience, later increasing this offer to £150. Mr 
and Mrs H didnt accept the offer and brought the complaint to this service.
Our investigator thought the offer was fair but Mr and Mrs H disagreed and requested an 
ombudsmans decision.
After reviewing the complaint I advised RAC I was minded to increase the compensation to 
£300 and invited its comments. RAC said it had no further comments to add and would wait 
for the decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
RAC has accepted there were delays in responding to Mr and Mrs H and offered 
compensation. Mr and Mrs H didnt accept the offer and said it was too low. So the issue for 
me to decide is what would be a fair amount of compensation.
I appreciate Mr and Mrs H would have had to wait for some time before a recovery vehicle 
could get to them; RAC needed to locate a local agent who could then drive to their location. 
But they were left waiting for around nine hours. The aim of such a policy is that they will get 
assistance when they need it and they would not have expected to be stuck for that length of 
time.
The police were at the scene promptly and provided the co-ordinates so Mr and Mrs H could 
reasonably have expected someone to be there within an hour or so. After waiting several 
hours and making further calls they eventually had to call the police again. They should not 
have had to do that. In the end they were left at the side of the road for nine hours with only 
some water to drink, no food and no access to facilities such as toilets. This was initially in 
very hot conditions but later there were thunderstorms. They were not in a safe place and 
felt vulnerable, particularly once it became dark. 
They have described how the incident caused them a great deal of distress and affected the 
rest of their holiday, to the extent that they changed their plans and decided to return home 
by a different ferry route, to reduce the amount of driving they had to do.
Taking all of this into account I dont think the offer of £150 does adequately reflect how 
upsetting it was for them on the day. They also had to make numerous phone calls to RAC 
and to the local emergency services before they were given assistance. I think a payment of 
£300 would be fair, to reflect the level of distress caused and the inconvenience they were 
put to. 
My final decision
I uphold the complaint and direct RAC Insurance Limited to pay compensation of £300 to Mr 
and Mrs H.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H and Mrs H to 
accept or reject my decision before 24 July 2023.
 
Peter Whiteley
Ombudsman