DRN-1812332
complaint
Miss R says Nationwide Building Society mis-sold her a payment protection insurance (PPI) 
policy.
background
This complaint is about a monthly premium PPI policy taken in 1996 alongside Miss Rs 
mortgage. The policy cost Miss R £19.64 a month and it wouldve provided her with a benefit 
of £319 if she couldnt work due to accident, sickness or unemployment. The policy wouldve 
paid this benefit for up to 12 months.
Our adjudicator recommended the complaint be upheld. She said Nationwide shouldnt have 
sold the policy to Miss R without highlighting the significant policy exclusions relating to pre-
existing medical conditions. This was because Miss R told this Service shed suffered with 
some medical conditions which had required time off work before 1996. 
Nationwide disagreed with the adjudicator, explaining that Miss R did not disclose details of 
these conditions to Nationwide when it investigated the complaint. Nationwide has also 
asked for Miss R to provide documentary evidence to support her comments regarding her 
medical conditions. 
As no agreement could be reached, the case was passed to me  an ombudsman  for a 
final decision. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Weve set out our general approach to 
complaints about the sale of MPPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
Miss Rs complaint. 
Having done so, Ive decided to uphold this complaint. Ill explain why. 
Nationwide hasnt been able to provide any documentation from the time of sale or provide 
details of the sales process. This isnt surprising given how long ago the sale took place. So 
Ive considered what we know about sales from this time and what Miss R has said about 
her medical history and whether the exclusions within the policy wouldve been made clear 
to her at the time it was sold. 
Firstly, Im satisfied that Miss R suffered from pre-existing medical conditions. Nationwide 
says Miss R did not provide any details of these conditions during a phone call Nationwide 
had with her to discuss her complaint. It says these inconsistencies create doubt about her 
testimony. A copy of the call between Nationwide and Miss R hasnt been provided to this 
service and Miss R says that she doesnt recall being asked about existing health issues 
when she spoke to Nationwide about her complaint.  
Miss R has provided details of the medical conditions she had to this service. These include 
the time frames during which she suffered from them, the length of time she had off work and the medication she was on. So, although Miss R may not have provided details of these 
conditions to Nationwide it doesnt automatically follow that she didnt have them at the time 
she was sold the MPPI. Nationwide has also asked for documentation to support Miss Rs 
assertions about her health. However, I dont think this is necessary and Miss Rs comments 
are sufficient evidence for the purposes of this complaint. 
Nationwide says it didnt provide Miss R with advice when she took out the MPPI. This 
means Nationwide needed to ensure that the information it gave Miss R about the PPI was 
sufficiently clear and that any limitations or exclusions that might be significant to Miss R 
were pointed out so that she could make an informed choice. I dont think this information 
was sufficiently drawn to Miss Rs attention and if it had been, she would, more likely than 
not, have refused the policy. I say this because Miss R had multiple medical conditions. 
Miss R has told us that she was on medication for at least two of her conditions. Miss R has 
also confirmed that she had time off work for these conditions, ranging from four to ten 
weeks at a time. Miss Rs conditions also required long term management. In light of this, I 
think Miss R wouldve felt these conditions to be the most likely cause of her having time off 
work at that time and yet the policy would not have covered her for them. I think this 
wouldve mattered to Miss R and that if better information had been provided, she wouldn't 
have thought the policy was good value as the benefits would have been severely limited for 
her.
I dont think that Miss R wouldve purchased the MPPI policy, if she had been given 
sufficiently clear and fair information about its exclusions. So Nationwide should put things 
right.
putting things right  what Nationwide Building Society needs to do
Nationwide should put Miss R back in the position shed in now if she hadnt taken out PPI. 
Nationwide should:
Pay Miss R the amount she paid each month for the PPI.
Add simple interest to each payment from when she paid it until she gets it back. The 
rate of interest is 8% a year .
If Miss R made a successful claim under the policy, Nationwide can take off what she 
got for the claim from the amount it owes them.
 HM Revenue & Customs requires Nationwide to take off tax from this interest. Nationwide 
must give Miss R a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if she asks for one.
my final decision
For the reasons given above, Im upholding Miss Rs complaint. Nationwide Building Society 
should put things right for Miss R as set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman I ask Miss R to accept or reject my decision 
before 3 July 2020.
Chandni Green
Ombudsman