DRN-3081828
The complaint
Mr N complains about Aviva Insurance Limited (Aviva) who declined his claim under his 
home emergency policy. 
What happened
Mr N discovered a leak in his home and contacted Aviva, who sent an engineer. Aviva said 
the engineer who attended conducted an inspection, including attending the neighbours 
property above and advised Mr N that the source of the leak was probably from that 
property. The engineer advised Mr N that because the leak originated in another property, as 
per the terms and conditions of the policy, Aviva wouldnt be able to assist him further. 
Mr N raised a complaint to Aviva as he said the engineer didnt carry out a thorough enough 
inspection and failed to exclude other sources of the leak as he hadnt cut through his 
ceiling. 
Mr N said he had no choice but to instruct an independent engineer (as the leak hadnt been 
fixed) who cut out his ceiling. Once the ceiling had been cut out the engineer found that the 
leak was coming from the flat above, but he was unable to locate definitively where the 
source of the leak was. He advised Mr N to get another engineer to carry out a more 
comprehensive examination to find the leak. 
Mr N approached his neighbours and asked them to pay for the leak, as the water was 
coming from their property. They refused as it didnt affect them. So, Mr N instructed another 
engineer who attended, found the leak and repaired it. 
Mr N asked Aviva to reimburse some of the engineers costs. Aviva refused as it said that its 
engineer correctly diagnosed that the leak originated from the flat above. And under the 
policy terms this wasnt covered.  So, Mr N referred a complaint to our service. 
One of our investigators considered the complaint and didnt think it should be upheld. He 
said that Aviva had correctly identified that the leak came from the upstairs flat. And the 
terms of the policy only covered leaks that occurred in Mr Ns flat. And as there was no 
insurable peril, he couldnt ask Aviva to reimburse some of Mr Ns costs.
Aviva accepted the view Mr N did not. He asked for a decision from an ombudsman. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I wont be able to uphold this complaint. I understand that Mr N will be 
disappointed with this outcome, but I hope my findings go some way in explaining why Ive 
reached this decision.
Mr Ns policy entitled him to be returned into the position he wouldve been in had his 
property not been damaged. But it is Mr Ns obligation under the policy to show that there 
was an insured peril, which is specified in the policy. 
Aviva declined the claim based on the information it received from its engineer, who is an 
expert. I dont think it was unreasonable for Aviva to rely upon the opinion of its expert. My 
role is to determine whether Aviva reached a fair and reasonable decision, and whether 
Aviva ought to reimburse some of Mr Ns costs.  
Avivas engineer reported that: Arrived on site customer has wet patch on ceiling. ALL 
PIPE WORK IN CUSTOMERS FLAT runs on opposite side of flat NO pipe work over were 
wet patch is and above is the top floor flat. I have considered this evidence and Im 
satisfied that the engineer found Mr Ns pipework wasnt where the leak was seen. And that 
the leak was coming from the property above.
I have reviewed the terms and conditions of the policy (which covers Mr N amongst other 
things, for a variety of leaks) and it states that Aviva will only cover faults that occurred within 
Mr Ns property. Aviva found that the leak wasnt located in Mr Ns property and was coming 
from the flat above, so advised Mr N that this wasnt covered under the policy. 
Mr N instructed a third-party engineer who also found that the leak originated from his 
neighbours property. Accordingly, given the terms and conditions of the policy, Im satisfied 
that Aviva isnt liable to reimburse any costs Mr N incurred. 
Aviva explained the reasons why it wasnt liable for Mr Ns costs, and Im satisfied that those 
reasons and the decision it reached were reasonable and fair, based on the evidence 
provided. I also think Avivas decision to decline Mr Ns claim was consistent with the terms 
of the policy and was fair in all the circumstances.
I understand that Mr N believes that Aviva should reimburse some of his costs, but I dont 
think hes met his obligation to show the claim falls under an insured peril. So, I cant 
reasonably ask Aviva to settle Mr Ns claim and I wont be asking it to resolve this complaint 
further. 
My final decision
For the reasons I have given, it is my final decision that the complaint is not upheld. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr N to accept or 
reject my decision before 17 November 2021.
 
Ayisha Savage
Ombudsman