The complaint
Mr and Mrs D says Nationwide Building Society trading as Cheshire Building Society mis-
sold them a payment protection insurance (PPI) policy. For simplicity, I will refer to the 
business as Nationwide for the majority of the rest of this decision.
Background
Our adjudicator didnt uphold the complaint. Mr and Mrs D disagreed with the adjudicators 
opinion, so the complaint has been passed to me.
My findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Ive read and considered the whole file, 
but Ill confine my comments to what I think is relevant. If I dont comment on any specific 
point its not because Ive failed to consider it, but because I dont think I need to comment 
on it in order to reach what I think is the right outcome in the wider context. 
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding Mr and Mrs Ds case.
Its not straightforward trying to decide on cases when there is limited documentation 
available from the time of the sale. Thats maybe not surprising that neither party has been 
able to provide much from the time of the sale, as these events happened nearly 30 years 
ago. Where there isnt much evidence for me to consider, I need to make my decision based 
on a balance of probabilities  that is to say, Ill consider what I do have, look at what both 
sides have said, and make a decision based on what I think most likely happened. 
Having reviewed all the submissions made to me in this case, Ive decided not to uphold Mr 
and Mrs Ds complaint. l explain why I have reached that decision below. I hope my 
explanation is helpful. 
Mr and Mrs D recall taking the PPI in 1991 with a mortgage. So, it seems that Nationwide 
secured the consent of Mr and Mrs D to the policy. Ive not seen anything that clearly shows 
Nationwide didnt make Mr and Mrs D aware the PPI was optional. Considering how long 
ago the sale was in this case, I havent seen sufficient evidence to be able to uphold the 
complaint on this point. So having considered all the submissions I have received in this 
case, I think its more likely that Nationwide wouldve made Mr and Mrs D aware that the PPI 
was optional and that they chose to take it, even though they may not remember that now, 
many years later. 
DRN-1894461Nationwide didnt recommend that Mr and Mrs D take the PPI, so it didnt have to check if it 
was right for them. Instead, Nationwide had to provide information that was clear and not 
misleading so that Mr and Mrs D could decide about the policy for themselves. 
Its possible the information Nationwide gave Mr and Mrs D about the PPI wasnt as clear as 
it should have been. But based on what I know about Mr and Mrs Ds circumstances, I dont 
think better information would have stopped them from buying it.
I say this because Mr D was eligible for the policy, and whilst there were some things the 
policy wouldnt cover, it doesnt look as though any of those things applied to Mr D at the 
time the PPI was taken, such as pre-existing medical conditions. Ill discuss the policy and 
Mr Ds self-employed status a bit later on. 
I also think Mr and Mrs D could have found the policy useful. I say that because they told us 
that Mr D had no sick pay as he was self-employed. And whilst Mr and Mrs D told us they 
had some savings, I note that they chose to protect them at the time, by not using them to 
take a smaller mortgage. This policy could have paid the benefit amount for up to 12 months, 
in the event Mr D suffered from ill health and would have further protected their savings. And 
the policy would have paid out on a successful claim for up to a year if Mr D became 
unemployed. So, having thought carefully about this, and the potentially serious 
consequences of defaulting on a loan secured on your home, I think Mr and Mrs D could 
have found the policy useful. 
So I dont think that Mr and Mrs D lost out as a result of anything Na tionwide might have 
done wrong.
Mr D thinks the policy contained terms that were onerous for the self-employed. I have 
considered these terms. I note that the particular terms that caught Mr Ds eye was as 
follows,
Circumstances in which an unemployment benefit becomes payable,
A benefit will become payable under Mortgage Care if the Insured Person is dismissed from 
his employment, (or in the case of the self-employed is prevented by circumstances beyond 
his control from carrying out the running of his business), for 90 days after the 
Commencement Date and is totally unemployed as a result.
Mr D points out that the document doesnt further explain what the circumstances are that 
are beyond his control  and thinks this is a constriction of possible benefit to him.
I think that most people choosing to take cover against the risk of unemployment would 
understand that they would need to be not working at all to benefit from such cover. A self-
employed person has a greater control over the direction and operation of their business 
than the average employee has over the operation of the company they work for. And so 
many insurers include wording that says that unemployment cover pays out when someone 
has no work at all and when that has not happened as a direct choice of the self-employed 
person themselves. In the same way that policies rarely pay out for voluntary redundancy for 
the employed person. This is a reasonably standard idea in such policies.
I have looked closely at the policy and I have seen in it no terms that I would consider to be 
onerous for Mr D, such that the policy would be unsuitable for him. And so, I think that that 
better information about this aspect of the cover would not have put Mr and Mrs D off the 
PPI, most likely.So, for all the reasons given above, I do not think that better information would have put Mr 
and Mrs D off the policy. 
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr and Mrs D to 
accept or reject my decision before 31July2020.
Douglas Sayers
Ombudsman