DRN-2794866
The complaint
Mr S complains that Bamboo Limited (Bamboo) should not be allowed to charge the 
interest rate associated with his loan, and that if hed been made aware of the interest, he 
would never have agreed to the loan.
What happened
In February 2017, Mr S borrowed £5,000 from Bamboo over a loan term of 60 months, and 
at an APR of 49.7%. This meant that, in total, hed repay Bamboo about £11,800. In 
November 2017 Mr S ran into difficulties making repayments, which appear to have 
continued at least intermittently since them. Mr S has not complaint about either the granting 
of the loan itself, or Bamboos handling of his repayment difficulties.
In 2019, Mr S seems to have made some enquiries about settling his loan early, and to have 
first raised concerns about the amount of interest he was paying. After enquiring again about 
settling early, Mr S was provided with the relevant settlement amount in March 2020. 
However, it would appear that the loan remains outstanding.
Mr S formally complained about the interest rate on his loan in 2020. Bamboo rejected his 
complaint, saying that both the interest rate, and the cash amount that would equate to, were 
set out clearly in the paperwork when Mr S took out the loan. Mr S didnt accept that and 
brought his complaint to this service.
One of our investigators looked into the case and didnt think Bamboo had done anything 
wrong. However, Mr S has asked an Ombudsman to review matters.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im not upholding it, and Ill explain why.
Firstly, I am going to set out my role as an Ombudsman, which is to resolve disputes 
between businesses and their customers. I have to determine whether a mistake has been 
made by a business, which has caused a loss to a customer. It is not for me to regulate or 
punish businesses, or set the rules by which businesses must trade.
Mr S says that Bamboo didnt set out clearly the amount of interest he would be paying when 
he took out this loan. I disagree. I can see that both the loan agreement and the pre-contract 
information from February 2017 show the APR; the cash amount of interest; and the total 
that will therefore be repayable by Mr S.
Additionally, I have also listened to some call recordings of conversations that Mr S had with 
Bamboo in February 2017 in which he discusses various loan amounts, loan terms; monthly 
repayments; total amounts repayable; and amounts of interest attached. The agent confirms 
that the APR remains the same across all amounts. Im satisfied that the conversation 
demonstrates that Mr S was given both information and ample opportunity to ask questions 
to aid his understanding. Ultimately, he appears to decide on the amount and term 
mentioned at the start of this decision, fully aware of the interest payable, but with a view to 
potentially settling the loan early, in order to pay less interest. However, he does not seem to 
have been able to do that.
In short, the evidence shows that Bamboo did make the interest payable clear to Mr S, and 
he agreed to it. Whilst things may not have gone as planned in terms of settling early, Ive 
found no mistake on Bamboos part. Therefore it follows that I do not uphold this complaint.
In saying that, I will take this opportunity to remind Bamboo of its obligation to treat Mr S 
fairly in supporting him to repay the outstanding amount in the face of any financial 
difficulties he may be having.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I dont uphold this complaint, and Bamboo doesnt need to 
do anything.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 13 December 2021. 
Siobhan McBride
Ombudsman