DRN-1092036
The complaint
Mrs K is unhappy with the home insurance settlement offered by Zurich Insurance Plc 
following a burglary at her home.
What happened
Mrs K sadly lost some jewellery when her home was burgled. The items had been acquired 
over a number of years and Mrs K didn't have purchase invoices or detailed valuations for all 
of them. But she did have photographs and also provided descriptions to Zurich's valuation 
expert, having asked family members about the weights of gold involved.
Mrs K disputes the values put on her items. She believes the weight of gold in them has 
been underestimated. She provided Zurich with a third party valuation for what she's said 
are the correct weights and this has come out higher than Zurich's valuation.
Our investigator considered Mrs K's complaint but didn't think it should be upheld. He 
thought that, given the lack of evidence as to the exact weights of the items, Zurich's 
valuation and settlement offer wasn't unfair.
Mrs K didn't agree and the matter has come to me for a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mrs K will be disappointed to hear that I agree with our investigator that her complaint 
shouldn't be upheld. I'll explain why.
I was sorry to hear about the burglary which I'm sure must have been very upsetting. When 
looking at a complaint like Mrs K's, I need to assess whether Zurich has acted unreasonably 
or unfairly towards her when assessing the value of her stolen items. In this instance, Zurich 
appointed an expert to value the jewellery. Unfortunately, the evidence available to Mrs K 
and Zurich was limited, given Mrs K no longer had receipts or detailed valuations for a lot of 
the items. Those that she did have were provided to Zurich.
Mrs K obtained her own valuation from a local gold jewellery expert. This was higher than 
Zurich's. I note that Mrs K's valuation comes to just over £12,000. Whilst Zurich's settlement 
offer is for just over £7,000. The weight of gold in the items isn't the same as that estimated 
by Zurich. And the basis of valuation is also different - Zurich's is for the cost to it of 
replacing the items and Mrs K's is for the then current market resale value of the gold.
Mrs K's expert's valuation says: 'All items along with their weight mentioned above have 
been given to us by Mrs K....' So it appears this valuation was based on Mrs K's estimates of 
the weight of gold that she gave to the valuer.
Zurich's expert had been given photos of the items and receipts as far as they were 
available. But other than looking at the photos, I'm not aware of there being any independent record of the weight of each item, other than Mrs K and her family members' recollections 
and the few receipts that remained.
Zurich's experts estimated the weight from the photos and Mrs K's description. In the 
absence of evidence to the contrary, having considered both experts' reports, I'm afraid that I 
can't say that Zurich has acted unreasonably in relying on its expert's report about the 
approximate weight and value of each item.
When deciding how much it's fair for Zurich to have paid, it's also important to note that Mrs 
K's policy only requires Zurich to settle in cash the amount that it could have sourced the 
items for from its own network of suppliers. In this case, Zurich's valuation expert said that it 
could replace the majority of the items for just over £7,000, whilst it estimated their retail 
value at just over £10,000, a sum much closer to the retail valuation given by Mrs K's expert 
of nearly £12,000.
Insurers are often able to get a much better deal from suppliers than a consumer would be 
able to when buying the items in a shop. And its not unfair or unreasonable for Zurich to only 
offer Mrs K the amount that it could obtain the items for itself if it were replacing them.
I appreciate why Mrs K preferred to have a cash settlement, given her worry that she might 
be burgled again. But I don't think it's fair for me to ask Zurich to pay more for the items than 
it would have been able to replace them for itself, particularly as this is what Mrs K's policy 
says it is entitled to do.
I've also noted from Mrs K's policy that she had personal possessions cover for items she 
might take out of the home. This lists a similar set of items to those that were stolen. And the 
policy limit on those items was stated to be £5,000. So in my view that does support Zurich's 
valuation being about right, given Mrs K has clearly specified a lot of the jewellery as things 
she might take out of the home and therefore want covered.
So, overall, I don't think Zurich has acted unfairly or unreasonably in making the settlement 
offer that it has. If it hasn't already made payment, or if its cheque hasn't been presented and 
has expired, it should now make arrangements to pay Mrs K.
My final decision
I don't uphold Mrs K's complaint against Zurich Insurance Plc.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs K to accept or 
reject my decision before 14 February 2020.
James Kennard
Ombudsman