DRN-2910955
The complaint
Ms S complains that esure Insurance Limited declined her claim on her motor insurance 
policy following the theft of her car. Shes also unhappy with aspects of how it handled her 
claim. She wants an apology and compensation for her trouble and upset. 
What happened
A set of the keys to Ms Ss car was stolen one evening from her parents home. The next 
morning Ms S returned to the house and her car was stolen from outside it. esure declined 
the claim because it said Ms S didnt take sufficient steps to protect her car. The car was 
recovered, but Ms S remained unhappy with this decision. She also said that esure had 
decided this before it had received documents and CCTV footage it had asked for. And she 
was unhappy with the service provided by a call handler.
Our investigator didnt recommend that the complaint should be upheld. She thought esure 
had reasonably relied on the policy terms and conditions to decline the claim. Ms S had an 
appointment the following day to have the cars locks recoded, but she thought she should 
have called esure to see if other steps could have been taken to protect her car. 
The investigator didnt think it was unreasonable for esure to ask for documents but then to 
decide they werent needed. She thought it hadnt been able to write to Ms S using headed 
paper due to the pandemic. She thought its call handler had been direct but professional. 
Ms S replied that the policy didnt explain what reasonable steps to protect her car were. 
She said the policy didnt say she should call esure if her keys were stolen. Ms S thought 
esure hadnt investigated her claim. She thought esure had lacked empathy at a difficult 
time. Ms S asked for her complaint to be reviewed by an ombudsman, so its come to me for 
a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I was sorry to hear about the circumstances of the theft. Ms S was caring for her mother at 
the time and I can understand that the theft of her keys and then the car must have been an 
added stress at a difficult time. Ms S has provided detailed submissions for my 
consideration. Ive read these and the file provided by esure to reach my decision. 
Our approach in cases like this is to consider whether the insurers acted in line with the 
terms and conditions of the policy and fairly and reasonably.
esure said it had declined the claim as Ms S had failed to protect her car from loss. This term 
is set out under the General Conditions of the policy on page 22 of the policy booklet:
5. Taking care of your car
You must:
 take reasonable steps to protect and secure your car and its contents from loss or damage
I think this isnt an unusual condition in insurance policies and I think esure could reasonably 
rely on it to decline a claim. So Ive looked at the circumstances and whether esure has 
justified its decision that Ms S failed to take reasonable care to protect her car. 
From Ms Ss accounts, the thief entered her parents house through an unlocked door and 
took her house and car keys. Ms S reported the theft to the police. She had the locks 
changed on the houses and the next day arranged for her car keys to be recoded a further 
day later. She then returned to her parents house and parked her car outside, locking it, but 
with no additional physical safeguarding measures. 
Ms S said that her relatives were keeping an eye on the car from inside the house. But this 
didnt prevent its theft and they didnt see the thief take the car. So I cant say that this was a 
reasonable preventative measure. I think Ms S knew there was a risk that her car would be 
stolen at that same location where the keys had been stolen the previous day. But I cant 
see that she took reasonable steps to protect her car.
Ms S asked esure what else she should have done. It explained some options:
She could have called esure and it would have had the locks changed and collected the 
car immediately as it would have been classed as a high risk. 
She could have refrained from leaving the car at her parents address until the locks 
were changed. 
Or if she needed to be at her parents address, she could have blocked the car in with 
another vehicle.
Ms S said her policy didnt state that she should call esure when the keys were stolen. But I 
wouldnt expect a policy to cover every eventuality. And I think this was an example of a 
further step that Ms S could have taken to protect her car, not a policy requirement. 
So I think Ms S knew her car was at risk because her keys had been taken. I cant say that 
she then took reasonable steps to protect her car from loss. And so I think esure has justified 
its decision to decline Ms Ss claim for the theft of her car in keeping with her policy terms 
and conditions. 
Ms S thought the police should have been consulted before esure made this decision. But I 
think the circumstances of the theft were explained by Ms S. esure wouldnt be engaged in a 
criminal investigation as this is a matter for the police. 
Ms S was unhappy with a number of points in esures claims handling. She said that shed 
been asked for validation documents but esure repudiated her claim before it received these. 
I can understand that this must have been frustrating for Ms S. But I think esure reasonably 
explained that it didnt then need these documents which had been requested as they 
wouldnt affect its decision.
Ms S was unhappy that esure sent its response to her complaint on unheaded paper. But I 
think esure explained that this was due to a work-around because of the pandemic. I cant 
say that this caused any loss or inconvenience. 
Ms S was unhappy with the call handler who told her that the claim would be declined. I can 
understand that this wasnt what Ms S wanted to hear. But Ive listened to the call and I dont 
think the call handler treated Ms S unprofessionally or rudely. 
I can see that Ms S was disappointed by her claims experience. But I cant reasonably say 
that esure did anything wrong or needs to pay Ms S any compensation. 
Ms S has also complained that esure didnt remove the theft marker from the car after she 
told it that it had been recovered. But, as our investigator has explained, this isnt something 
I can consider here as its a new complaint. Ms S must first raise this concern with esure to 
give it a chance to respond. If she remains unhappy with its response, then she can bring 
her complaint to us.My final decision
For the reasons given above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms S to accept or 
reject my decision before 7 October 2021.
 
Phillip Berechree
Ombudsman