DRN-3882851
The complaint
Mr T complains that HSBC UK Bank Plc have failed to refund £150,000 he says he lost to a 
safe account scam.
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat everything 
again here. Instead, I will provide a brief summary and focus on giving the reasons for my 
decision.
Mr T says he fell victim to a scam in June 2022 after someone called him purporting to be 
from HSBC. They told him his business accounts had been compromised, such that he 
would have to move his money to a more secure location. Over the course of six days, he 
transferred money from his business accounts to his personal account with HSBC, which he 
later warned could also be compromised.
Mr T then transferred around £150,000 over six days from his personal HSBC account to his 
cryptocurrency wallet held with SwissBorg, which he had opened around a year earlier. 
From this wallet, he converted his funds to Bitcoin and sent them to a further crypto wallet. 
Mr T said he realised he had been scammed when he called HSBC asking to speak to the 
person he was in contact with and discovered they did not work for the bank. 
HSBC said it wouldnt refund the money Mr T had transferred from his personal account 
because the point of loss occurred from his SwissBorg account. Our investigator also didnt 
uphold the complaint as he didnt consider there to be enough information to establish 
whether HSBC could be said to have caused the loss. Mr T disagreed, so the matter has 
been escalated to me to determine. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the conclusions reached by the investigator for the following 
reasons.
First, I ought to make clear that this complaint is concerned only with the transactions made 
from Mr Ts personal account with HSBC. Im unable to comment on any of the transactions 
made from his company accounts within this decision, as these would form the subject of 
separate complaints brought by the relevant limited companies. 
In terms of the transactions Mr T made from his personal account, I accept there was 
unusual activity on the account, which ought reasonably to have prompted an intervention by 
HSBC. But the banks failure to intervene does not mean it is automatically liable for any loss 
that stems from its omission. The loss must have been caused by the banks failure to 
intervene, but any such loss must have also been foreseeable. Such a determination 
requires sufficient detail about the scam and the journey the funds took from the originating 
account and then into the hands of the scammer.
In this instance, I dont consider there to be enough persuasive evidence to demonstrate 
how the scam unfolded, or to adequately explain how Mr T came to transfer cryptocurrency 
from one wallet to another (as well as who had ultimate control of that wallet). There is no 
evidence of him being sent any instructions or links to another crypto wallet, for example. 
And despite being asked by this service, Mr T has not been able to provide a plausible 
explanation as to what happened to his funds and where they went from his SwissBorg 
account. Its not clear, for example, the extent to which Mr T might have owned or had any 
control over the wallet that eventually received the Bitcoin. Mr T said he felt strongly that this 
wasnt relevant and didnt provide any further details. But in the context of a safe account 
scam, it is indeed relevant as to whether his loss wouldve ultimately been foreseeable to 
HSBC. 
Mr T said he transferred his money from his personal HSBC account to his SwissBorg 
account because he considered this to be safer. There is therefore no reasonable 
explanation as to why he would then need to further convert his funds to Bitcoin within his 
SwissBorg account, and then send it to yet another crypto wallet if he already considered his 
SwissBorg account a safe place to keep his funds. Taking these further steps (which 
ultimately led to his loss) would not be reasonably foreseeable in my judgment when the 
funds had already seemingly reached a safe location within his SwissBorg account.  
There is also the matter of the time period in which Mr T says the scam occurred, which was 
over the course of six days. One of the key reasons that safe account scams are often 
successful is that the scammer creates a high-pressured environment, scaring the victim into 
thinking their money is at imminent risk of being stolen, which forces them to act in the heat 
of the moment without having any time to think. And its understandable that in the heat of 
the moment, someone may transfer their money to a scammer without thinking the risks 
through if they thought they were about to lose their money. But in Mr Ts case, the 
payments were made out of his account over the course of six days due to a payment limit of 
£25,000.  
Over such a long period of time, the high-pressured environment originally created by the 
scammer would have naturally subsided, as he was no longer having to act in the heat of the 
moment and had time to think and reflect about what was happening. After a few days had 
passed and no money had actually been stolen, it also ought to have been apparent that 
there may not have been any such risk. Mr T could have easily contacted HSBC during this 
time to check the legitimacy of what he was being asked to do, where he would have 
discovered that he was being scammed. As such, I dont think his loss would be reasonably 
foreseeable on this basis either. Therefore, while I accept there was unusual activity on 
Mr Ts account, I dont consider HSBC can fairly or reasonably be held liable for Mr Ts loss 
in these circumstances.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I do not uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr T to accept or 
reject my decision before 22 August 2023.
 
Jack Ferris
Ombudsman