DRN-3497202
The complaint
Mr C is unhappy at the amount of overdraft charges and fees applied to his account by 
HSBC UK Bank Plc (HSBC) when he went into unarranged overdraft.
What happened
Mr C complained to HSBC about the charges applied to his account when he went into 
unarranged overdraft. HSBC said all charges were applied in line with the terms and 
conditions of the account. 
One of our adjudicators looked into Mr Cs concerns and reached the conclusion HSBC 
hadnt done anything wrong or treated Mr C unfairly and so didnt recommend the complaint 
be upheld. 
Mr C disagreed, he would like a refund of the charges applied to his account. 
So the complaint was passed to an ombudsman for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having considered everything provided, Ive decided not to uphold Mr Cs complaint. Ill 
explain why in a little more detail.
Mr C has referred to the proportionality of the charges applied to his account. But before I go 
any further, I want to be clear in saying that I havent considered whether the various 
amounts HSBC charged over the years were fair and reasonable, or proportionate in 
comparison to the costs of the service provided. 
Ultimately, how much a bank charges for services is a commercial decision. And it isnt 
something for me to get involved with. That said, while Im not looking at HSBCs various 
charging structures per se, it wont have acted fairly and reasonably towards Mr C if it 
applied any interest, fees and charges to Mr Cs account in circumstances where it was 
aware, or it ought fairly and reasonably to have been aware Mr C was experiencing financial 
difficulty.
So Ive considered whether there were instances where HSBC didnt treat Mr C fairly and 
reasonably. I dont think that HSBC did treat Mr C unfairly or unreasonably here though. I 
say this because having looked at Mr Cs statements for the period in question (2016-2022), 
I can see little to suggest that HSBC ought to have realised Mr C might have been 
experiencing financial difficulties prior to it being notified of this. 
Mr Cs statements show that Mr C was in credit with mostly a healthy balance far more than 
in overdraft. And when Mr C did become overdrawn it was sporadic and usually a result of 
discretionary spending on retail, airfares and travel. 
I accept this doesnt necessarily mean that Mr C wasnt experiencing financial difficulty. But 
there isnt anything in these transactions in themselves which ought to have alerted HSBC to 
any potential financial difficulty before Mr C raised it. It is also worth noting when HSBC did 
offer assistance in November 2021 following a direct debit bouncing Mr C didnt respond.
So, in these circumstances and where charges have been applied correctly in line with the 
terms and conditions of the account, I dont think that it was unreasonable for HSBC to 
proceed with adding the interest, fees and charges that it did in light of how Mr Cs account 
was being used. And I dont think that HSBC treated Mr C unfairly or unreasonably and this 
means that Im not upholding this complaint. 
I appreciate that this will be very disappointing for Mr C. But I he understands the reasons for 
my decision and that hell at least feel his concerns have been listened to.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, Im not upholding Mr Cs complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 23 June 2022.
 
Caroline Davies
Ombudsman