DRN-2581301
The complaint
Mr B is unhappy that The Prudential Assurance Company Limited (Prudential) wont allow 
him to take his benefits from his policy with them. He believes it hasnt fairly dealt with the 
mis-sale regarding the transfer of his Rolls Royce Occupational Pension Scheme (OPS). 
And that Prudential isnt fairly applying the guarantee it made to him. 
What happened
Mr B transferred his OPS to a Section 32 pension in 1989 following advice from Prudential. 
As part of the pension review it was concluded the advice to transfer out of this scheme was 
unsuitable.
As a result, in October 1998 he was offered a guarantee of redress for any future loss 
incurred. Since then Mr B has asked to be able to transfer his benefits and then later to take 
his benefits. But Prudential has denied him this opportunity. It has explained the value of his 
plan isnt enough to provide the Guaranteed Minimum Pension which it is bound by 
legislation to pay him at age 65.
Mr B has complained to Prudential about this a number of times and he also brought a 
complaint to this service in 2010. Our investigator looked into matters but didnt think 
Prudential had done anything wrong. The complaint section set out what the investigator 
was considering and it said:
Mr B also complained in 2015 to Prudential about it not allowing him to take his benefits and 
the inflexibility of the Section 32.
More recently Mr B has complained again to Prudential and asked it to look into the 
calculations it carried out and the guarantee it made. Prudential looked into matters and ran 
calculations based on I understand potential earlier retirement and updated assumptions. It 
also looked into whether Mr B wouldve been able to take early retirement under ill-health 
had he remained in the OPS scheme.
But it found the scheme did not offer early retirement due to ill-health. And Mr B remained 
unhappy with its calculations and its explanation of the guarantee.
Prudential confirmed the pension fund is insufficient to cover the cost of the guaranteed 
minimum pension (GMP). Mr B believes under his Rolls Royce pension scheme hed have 
been able to access his benefits early.
Prudential told us it was happy for us to consider any new points Mr B wished to raise but it 
didnt give us consent to look at the matters that had previously been considered  and had 
been subject to the previous case with ourselves.
Our investigator looked into matters and explained it wouldnt be fair for us to consider any 
matter that related to Mr Bs guarantee and the lack of flexibility within the section 32. He 
said he didnt think Prudential had acted unfairly with regards to not allowing early retirement 
due to ill health. And he explained that whilst he was unhappy with its offer to pay a cash 
redress offer early, this had been calculated in-line with the regulators guidance.
Mr B remained unhappy. Hes made a number of points, which Ive read but its not 
necessary to list them all here as the majority relate to the issues considered previously. Mr 
B says that what wasnt understood in 2010 is that the mis-sale by Prudential should be 
seen as separate to the product he was put into that just happened to also be a Prudential 
Section 32. He said had it been an independent financial adviser the complaint wouldnt be 
logged with Prudential. He said the Section 32 needs to be taken out of the equation and 
only the guarantee needs to be considered  and this stands outside the Section 32 terms 
and conditions. He summarised his complaint by saying Prudential has failed to honour the 
terms of his guarantee.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
And having done so I agree with the conclusions reached by the investigator and for broadly 
the same reasons.
Im afraid we cannot look at any issues that were previously raised with this service. Both 
businesses and customers deserve finality to a complaint  we cannot fairly reinvestigate the 
same matter, many years later and give a new answer. The rules that govern this service 
say that a complaint should be dismissed without consideration of its merits if looking into it 
would seriously impair the effective operation of this service. And reconsidering complaints 
weve already dealt with falls into this category. However, the investigator was able to give 
his view on matters that werent previously raised and so the whole complaint hasnt been 
dismissed.
Mr Bs points in relation to the investigators view and what he wishes me to consider, 
essentially all relate back to his unhappiness with the Pension Review outcome, the 
guarantee made by Prudential and the limitations of his Section 32. These matters have all 
been considered previously. And so I cannot now fairly make any recommendations in 
relation to these points. Which means there isnt much I can add that hasnt already been 
said.
I do sympathise with Mr Bs position and I can see why hed be unhappy with the way the 
guarantee was explained to him. But the Pension Review wasnt a perfect system and it 
wasnt designed to be  it was a framework to draw a line under thousands of cases of 
potential mis-selling across the market. The cases were settled often some twenty years 
before a customer would reach retirement age, and much would change in that time, so it 
wasnt always going to give a perfect solution. 
Mr Bs pension with Rolls Royce included a GMP that came from him contracting-out of the 
State Earnings Related Pension Scheme (also known as the State Second Pension). The benefits coming from contracted-out contributions were designed to reflect the State Pension 
benefits given up. This is why Mr B has limitations with how his benefits can be taken in the 
Section 32. Benefits commonly cant be taken early under the State Pension either. Mr B 
says that had he remained within the Rolls Royce scheme he wouldve been able to take his 
benefits early. As Ive explained we cannot look into this matter again, and so I dont have all 
the information about the scheme but its quite possible that Mr B might have faced similar 
issues within the scheme due to the GMP in any event.
For the avoidance of doubt, and whilst Mr B hasnt focused on these points, I think 
Prudential has acted fairly when it looked into whether early retirement due to ill-health within 
could potentially allow it to release funds. Mr B was also unhappy with Prudentials offer of a 
cash sum for the loss of excess benefits, Mr B says his IFA had a similar situation and was 
offered a lot more. However, Prudential explained its offer was calculated in-line with the 
regulators guidance  which is what wed expect it to do. And it also offered to look at the 
IFAs case to explain why there might be a difference. I think this was fair and reasonable. 
Prudential has admitted it couldve dealt with Mr Bs complaint in a timelier manner, but it 
has already paid Mr B compensation for this. 
Im sorry to hear that this issue has caused Mr B such distress, but I am unable to consider 
this matter again. 
My final decision
I do not uphold this complaint and make no award.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 16 March 2022.
 
Simon Hollingshead
Ombudsman