DRN-3592690
The complaint
Mrs B complains that Lloyds Bank Insurance Services Limited (Lloyds) didnt provide some 
important information when she took a home insurance policy.
Mrs B is the policyholder, however the policy was taken out for her by her daughter, Ms B. 
Ms B is also acting as her mothers representative in this complaint, so for simplicity Ive 
referred mainly to Ms B in my decision.
What happened
In December 2020, Ms B used a price comparison website to get a home insurance quote 
for her mother. She called Lloyds  acting as insurance intermediary  to double check the 
quote and buy the policy.
Several months later, Ms B asked Lloyds about adding home emergency cover to her 
mothers policy. Lloyds told Ms B she couldnt add this to the policy mid-term and if she 
wanted to add this cover shed have to cancel her mothers current policy and set up a new 
one. Ms B was unhappy Lloyds didnt tell her this when she took out the policy.
Lloyds said Ms B declined home emergency cover at inception, so it wasnt discussed 
further. However, it agreed that in November 2021 its agent wrongly told Ms B she could add 
this at renewal. This was wrong  home emergency could only be taken out as a new policy 
 so Lloyds offered Ms B £25 to apologise for this. Ms B was unhappy with this and the time 
it had taken to resolve the matter, so she brought her complaint to this service. 
Our investigator didnt recommend that Ms Bs complaint should be upheld. She was 
satisfied that Ms B told Lloyds she didnt want home emergency cover when she took out the 
policy in December 2020. Given this, our investigator saw no reason for the Lloyds agent to 
tell Ms B she couldnt add this cover later. And our investigator thought Lloyds offer of £25 
to apologise for later giving her incorrect information was fair.
Ms B disagreed with our investigator, so the case was passed to me to make a final 
decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive listened to the original sales call in December 2020. Lloyds agent explicitly asked Ms B 
if she wanted to add home emergency cover to the policy. Ms B told the agent shed said 
no to this in her online application and was still happy with that decision. So Im satisfied 
that Ms B didnt want to include home emergency cover when she took out the policy.
Ms B says Lloyds should have told her she wouldnt be able to add this later. I disagree. Ms 
B was offered the cover and declined it. She didnt ask whether she could add it later, so I 
dont think the agent needed to discuss it further. Furthermore, Ive seen no evidence that 
Ms B would have done anything differently if shed been told she couldnt add the cover mid-
term. For example, theres no suggestion she wouldnt have bought the home insurance 
policy if she knew she couldnt add home emergency cover. So I dont see that Ms B or her 
mother have suffered any detriment.
Lloyds accepts that, on 11 November 2021, one of its agents told Ms B she could add home 
emergency cover at policy renewal. It realised this was wrong when it reviewed its 
communications with Ms B and corrected this two weeks later, before the policy was due for 
renewal. It offered Ms B £25 as an apology. Again, I dont see any evidence that this caused 
Ms B or her mother any detriment so, in the circumstances, I think the offer was reasonable.
I know Ms B is unhappy with the time its taken to resolve this matter. However, it looks like 
this was because Lloyds believed it had been resolved in June, and Ms B didnt pursue it 
further between June and November 2021. (Ms B told us this was due to her personal 
circumstances. I understand this but I dont think Lloyds can be blamed for this.) Once Ms B 
called Lloyds again in November 2021, Im satisfied that it responded reasonably quickly.
I recognise that Ms B feels very strongly about this and shell be disappointed with my 
decision. But based on everything Ive seen, I think Lloyds £25 offer is fair. I wont be asking 
it to do anything more.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold the complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs B to accept or 
reject my decision before 30 August 2022.
 
Simon Begley
Ombudsman