DRN-2499322
The complaint
This is a complaint that Lloyds Bank PLC (trading at the time as TSB) mis-sold payment 
protection insurance (PPI) to Mr S. 
What happened
This complaint is about a credit card PPI policy taken out in 1994. Lloyds sold Mr S the 
policy at the same time that he applied for the card.
Our adjudicator didnt recommend that the complaint be upheld. Mr S disagreed with the 
adjudicators opinion, so the complaint has been passed to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Weve set out our general approach to 
complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
this case. 
The sale took place about 26 years ago and so there are few documents surviving about the 
sale of the PPI  there is a credit card application form which has a section about PPI, but 
its not very clear what it says. Also, I wouldnt expect someone to recall in detail everything 
that happened so long ago; so it can be difficult to know whether its fair to rely fully on 
everything they remember. Ive borne in mind these difficulties in the evidence when 
considering the case and trying to reach a fair decision. 
Ive considered what Mr S and his representatives have said, but Ive decided the policy 
wasnt mis-sold. I will explain why.
From what weve seen of similar sales at this period, the PPI was set out as a choice in the 
documents. However, Mr S has said he was told he had to take the PPI or he would never 
get a credit card  he wasnt told it was optional. 
The problem I have, in making a decision on this, is that I couldnt know the exact words 
used by the adviser and the tone in which they were said. It isnt necessarily wrong to 
strongly set out the possible benefits of an insurance policy, even if the adviser is partly 
motivated by making a sale  as long as the policy is actually something worth having, and it 
is clear the customer still has a choice. The closer it gets to making someone feel they have 
no real sensible alternative to taking the policy, the less acceptable it is. But, as I say, I cant 
be sure exactly what was said. And it wouldnt be fair to say Lloyds did something wrong 
unless I had stronger evidence of this. 
Lloyds says it recommended the PPI. This means we would expect a higher standard of sale 
 Lloyds would have to make sure that the recommendation was suitable for Mr Ss 
circumstances and needs. But I dont see that a recommendation would have been 
unsuitable.
The PPI could have helped pay the credit card bill for a period longer than Mr Ss 
employment sick pay lasted, and it looks like he didnt have other means, such as good 
savings, to fall back on. And it would have paid out at the same time as any sick pay or 
redundancy pay, so leaving Mr S more financially secure for longer. So, overall, the PPI was 
potentially useful. It also looks like the PPI was affordable.  And I cant see any other reason 
why the recommendation would have been unsuitable.
Its difficult now to know how well Lloyds explained the PPI. Its possible the information 
Lloyds gave Mr S about the PPI wasnt as clear as it should have been. But I dont think full 
information about costs and benefits would have affected whether he took the PPI. I say this 
because, in his circumstances, its unlikely this would have made the PPI seem less useful. 
And it doesnt look like hed have been affected by any of the significant exclusions in the 
policy. 
So I dont think the PPI was mis-sold. 
This means Lloyds doesnt have to pay back all of the cost of the PPI to Mr S. But Lloyds 
has paid back some of the cost of the PPI to Mr S because: 
Lloyds got a high level of commission and profit share (more than 50% of the PPI 
premium) - so it should have told Mr S about that. Because Lloyds didnt tell Mr S, 
that was unfair. 
To put that right, Lloyds has paid back the amount of commission and profit share 
that was above 50% of the PPI premium - and I think that is fair in this case.
My final decision
The PPI policy wasnt mis-sold  so Lloyds Bank PLC does not have to pay back all of the 
cost of the PPI to Mr S.
But Lloyds Bank PLC does have to pay back to Mr S any commission and profit share it got 
that was more than 50% of the PPI premium. I understand it has already done this, and so 
Im not awarding any further compensation. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 14 March 2021.
 
Timothy Bailey
Ombudsman