DRN-4315203
The complaint
B, a company, complains about the sale of a Pre School policy it purchased from its broker, 
Morton Michel Limited in 2018 then renewed each year beyond that.
B is unhappy with the extent of the cover sold. It says Morton Michel sold it cover that didnt 
engage when it made claims against the policy.
What happened
B took out a Pre School policy with Morton Michel Limited in 2018 and renewed it annually. 
B is unhappy about the outcome of three claims it made against the policy it purchased- one 
was in relation to a stolen mobile phone, and another concerned a flood to a bathroom which 
were declined by the insurer. B feels that Morton Michel is responsible for this.
Our investigator considered Bs complaint. He said B took out the policy online in 2018 and 
in doing so opted not to select buildings insurance cover. As this was Bs decision, he felt 
that Morton Michel couldnt be responsible for the fact that B wasnt subsequently covered 
for the flood claim it made. In relation to the mobile phone claim and another claim that B 
made on the policy, the investigator said B had misunderstood Morton Michels role in 
relation to this. As insurers of the policy, Morton Michel referred the claims to Bs insurer to 
consider, which the investigator said was reasonable in the circumstances.
B doesnt agree so the matter has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I wont be upholding Bs complaint for broadly the same reasons set out by 
the investigator. Ive explained why below.
B is unhappy that Morton Michel didnt sell it buildings insurance cover when it took out the 
Pre School policy in 2018. As such it wasnt covered for losses arising from a flooded 
bathroom.
From what Ive seen the policy was sold online in 2018 then renewed each year. It was sold 
on a non-advised basis which meant that Morton Michel needed to give B enough 
information to allow it to decide whether to take out the insurance and any associated add 
ons, but it didnt need to ensure the policy was suitable for its needs and circumstances. 
That was a decision B needed to make for itself. 
Ive seen copies of the screens B selected when it took out cover. B was presented with the 
option to take out buildings cover. When asked Do you require buildings Cover, it selected 
No. I think the question was clear enough and didnt require any further elaboration. And 
Morton Michel wasnt involved in that choice, nor did it provide advice that informed that 
decision. As such Im satisfied that Morton Michel did nothing wrong.
Ive also considered what B has said about the mobile phone claim and another claim B has 
made on the Pre School policy which have been declined by the underwriter. I understand 
that B feels Morton Michel are responsible for this. 
As the investigator explained, Morton Michel sold B the cover but theyre not responsible for 
considering the claims on behalf of the insurer- thats a decision for the insurer alone. Nor 
are Morton Michel responsible for putting the claims to the insurer or settling them. Their 
responsibility was to sell B a policy by providing it with enough information to allow it to 
decide whether to take it out. 
I dont know what basis the claims were turned down on so I cant determine whether B 
would have done something differently and sought alternative policies had the information 
about the terms that prevented them from making successful claims been made clear to 
them. Based on what B has said, I dont think their complaint is that the policy was mis-sold- 
rather its the fact that Morton Michel didnt accept their claims. Given Morton Michel werent 
responsible for this, I cant say theyve done anything wrong. What they did instead was refer 
B to the insurer, which is what Id expect to happen in these circumstances.
If B remains unhappy with the outcome of the claims, it can pursue a separate complaint 
with the insurer of the policy it took out. 
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold Bs complaint against Morton Michel Limited
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask B to accept or 
reject my decision before 20 September 2023.
 
Lale Hussein-Venn
Ombudsman