DRN-1479567
The complaint
Mr J is unhappy Acromas Insurance Company Limited hasnt covered a claim he made on 
his legal expenses insurance policy.
Any reference to Acromas includes its agents and claims handlers. 
What happened
Mr J has legal expenses cover with Acromas. In April 2016 he suffered an injury at work. In 
August he contacted Acromas. He recalls being told his policy didnt cover personal injury 
claims.  Acromass notes say he called to discuss a separate repetitive strain injury (RSI) 
hed sustained at work. He was advised there was no cover for this type of claim as the 
policy excludes illness or injury not caused by a sudden or specific accident or that happens 
gradually. 
Mr J pursued his personal injury claim through solicitors. In 2018 he instructed new solicitors 
through a no win no fee agreement. He contacted Acromas again in April 2019 and said 
hed been wrongly advised in 2016 this claim wasnt covered. Acromas requested full details 
of the claim but this wasnt received until July 2019. By that time, the claim had been settled. 
Mr J was charged a success fee of £3,000 by his solicitor. He asked Acromas to pay it.
Acromas didnt agree to that and said under the terms of his policy theres no cover for legal 
fees incurred prior to the acceptance of a claim. It said it wasnt aware of the claim until 2019 
and it didnt have the full details until after it was settled. As a result it didnt have the 
opportunity to assess and accept the claim prior to legal fees being incurred.
Our investigator didnt uphold the complaint. She didnt think Acromas knew about the 
personal injury claim until 2019 and didnt receive full details of this until after it had been 
settled. So she didnt think it had done anything wrong by not covering the success fee Mr J 
was charged. 
Mr J didnt agree. He said he did contact Acromas about an RSI claim. But he also 
mentioned his other injury claim at the same time. He argued its logical he would have done 
so as both claims were ongoing. And if Acromas had kept proper notes or been able to 
provide a call recording it would show this. So I need to reach a final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As theres no recording of Mr Js call to Acromas in August 2016 I cant be sure what was 
said. So Ive looked at the available evidence to decide what I think is most likely to have 
happened.
The notes Acromas has provided of his call to its helpline say:PH seeking cover for PI  repetitive strain injury caused by lifting at work  I advised that we 
do not cover claims relating to: illness or injury not caused by a sudden or specific accident 
or that happens gradually. 
Given that reflects the wording of the policy terms it seems plausible thats what Mr J would 
have been told. Theres no mention of a second claim in the notes. And while Mr J has said 
he had two claims ongoing at that time and so would logically have mentioned them both I 
note Mr J only appears to have received information from the Health and Safety Executive 
about his personal injury claim the following month - after hed spoken to Acromas. 
Furthermore, I think its likely that if Mr J had mentioned the second claim, and Acromas said 
there was no cover for gradually caused injuries, this wouldve prompted Mr J to say that his 
second injury wasnt gradual. And that it was a sudden and specific injury. It isnt clear to me 
why Mr J would accept Acromas rejection if he knew he had, and had spoken about, a 
second claim that wasnt caught by the exclusion.
Of course its possible he may have misunderstood what the advisor said in relation to the 
RSI claim and thought that meant personal injury claims werent covered at all. But based on 
the evidence Ive seen I cant say thats because of something Acromas got wrong. 
Ive also thought about whether Acromas did enough in 2019 to get cover in place. Ive 
reviewed the correspondence and I can see Mr J got back in contact with Acromas in early 
April 2019. He was emailed a claim form which he returned in early May. Acromas then 
contacted Mr Js solicitor to request information including about the prospects of success of 
the claim. The solicitors said they couldnt provide this without Mr Js authority. 
Acromas asked Mr J for this but despite a number of chasers he wasnt able to provide this 
until July (hes referenced some health issues that affected him). Once Acromas was able to 
obtain information from his solicitors they confirmed on 19 July the claim had settled. They 
also said Mr J didnt advise he had a legal expenses insurance policy prior to entering into a 
no win no fee agreement with them. So hed be charged a success fee, deducted from his 
compensation award, in line with the agreement. 
I think Acromas acted promptly when it found out about the second claim in 2019 and told Mr 
J and his solicitors what information it needed to put cover in place. And it chased Mr J 
several times when it didnt hear from him. Whilst I appreciate the health problems Mr J was 
experiencing, Acromas couldnt put funding in place for the claim until it had enough 
information to show the policy terms and conditions were satisfied. And it only got a 
response from Mr Js solicitors after the claim was settled and the success fee had been 
incurred. 
Mr Js policy, like most other legal expenses policies, doesnt cover legal costs incurred prior 
to the acceptance of the claim. And given this claim was settled without Acromas having any 
involvement with the proceedings  meaning it had no opportunity to assess the prospects of 
success or have any say over how the case was run - I dont think it would be fair to expect it 
to pay the costs Mr J has incurred in this case. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, Ive decided not to uphold this complaint. Under the rules of 
the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr J to accept or reject my decision 
before 24 May 2020.
James Park
Ombudsman