DRN-3901045
The complaint
Mr and Mrs K complain that Barclays Bank UK PLC added a debt marker to their account.
What happened
Mr K says he was unable to renew his Barclays travel insurance due to a debt marker 
applied to a mortgage account. He says that must have affected his credit rating and meant 
that he and Mrs K didnt have travel insurance for a planned holiday. Mr K says he also lost 
out on other travel benefits and would like appropriate compensation for those losses as well 
as an explanation about what took place. He says his other mortgage account was in credit 
in any event.
Barclays says the mortgage account was in arrears in April 2020 and it wrote to Mr K about 
it. It says it added an internal debt marker as a result which its entitled to do. Barclays says 
it cant move money from the other mortgage account as Mr K suggests but accepts it didnt 
remove the marker as agreed and accepts it didnt call Mr K as promised. It has offered £200 
compensation for that part of the complaint and says Mr and Mrs K can apply for travel 
insurance.
Mr and Mrs K brought their complaint to us, and our investigator thought the compensation 
offer appropriate. The investigator thought Mr and Mrs K had chosen not to take out the 
Barclays travel insurance due to entirely different reasons related to Mrs Ks pre-existing 
issue. The investigator didnt think there any evidence of an impact to Mr and Mrs Ks credit 
rating.
Mr and Mrs K do not accept that view and say that the compensation offer does not cover 
the loss of account benefits. They question why the marker was placed on the account and 
say there may have been an impact on their credit score.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I have come to the overall view that Barclays has made a fair and 
reasonable compensation offer in respect of the late removal of the marker and the failure to 
call Mr K. But I dont require it to compensate Mr and Mrs K for the loss of the travel 
insurance or its benefits as I find it was Mr and Mrs Ks decision not to renew the policy for 
entirely unrelated reasons.
I appreciate Mr K says his mortgage account had been overpaid and Barclays could have 
transferred money to the other account. But Im satisfied it was up to Mr and Mrs K to ensure 
the other mortgage account did not fall into arrears and their responsibility to manage it. It 
follows that I dont think Barclays made a mistake or acted unfairly by applying a debt 
marker.
I appreciate Mr and Mrs K question if that marker affected their credit score. I cant see that 
either of them has provided a copy of their credit file and have not seen any evidence the 
marker did affect their credit score. In any event Im satisfied that even if a credit score had 
been affected then I couldnt fairly hold Barclays responsible for that, for the reasons I have 
explained. I think it likely the marker was an internal marker in any event.
There is no dispute here that Barclays ought to have removed the marker from its systems 
earlier than it did and ought to have called Mr K as agreed. Im satisfied that Barclays has 
fairly apologised for that and offered what I think is a fair and reasonable compensation offer. 
I dont think Mr and Mrs K suffered any financial loss as a result of those two mistakes and 
dont think their impact was significant to justify further compensation.
The main part of this complaint is about the loss of the travel insurance and its associated 
benefits. Im satisfied that Barclays has made clear that Mr and Mrs K could apply for travel 
insurance, but they chose not to do so due to cover issues. Im satisfied that was Mr and Mrs 
Ks choice and has nothing to do with the debt marker. It follows that I cant fairly order 
Barclays pay compensation to Mr and Mrs K for the loss of the travel benefits when they 
chose not to take out Barclays policy. I make clear to Mr and Mrs K that I cant consider any 
complaint here about the cover issues and the change in policy requirements.
Overall, Im satisfied Barclays has made a fair and reasonable compensation offer for part of 
this complaint.
Putting things right
Barclays should pay the £200 compensation it has fairly agreed to pay if Mr and Mrs K 
accept this decision.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint in part and order Barclays Bank UK PLC to 
pay Mr and Mrs K £200 compensation.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs K and Mr K to 
accept or reject my decision before 18 March 2023.
 
David Singh
Ombudsman