DRN-3292640
The complaint
This complaint is about an application Ms B and Mr C made to National Westminster Bank 
Plc (NatWest) for a buy-to-let mortgage. NatWest turned them down after carrying out a 
credit search. Ms B and Mrs C checked and found information on their credit files that was 
incorrect and took steps to amend it, but are unhappy that NatWest turned them down. Our 
investigator didnt recommend the complaint be upheld.
What happened
The broad circumstances of this complaint are known to Ms B and Mr C and NatWest Im 
also aware that the investigator issued a detailed response to the complaint, which has been 
shared with all parties, and so I dont need to repeat the details here. 
Our decisions are published, and its important that I dont include any information that might 
result in Ms B and Mr C being identified. Instead Ill focus on giving the reasons for my 
decision. If I dont mention something, it wont be because Ive ignored it. Itll be because I 
didnt think it was material to the outcome of the complaint. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ill start with some general observations. Were not the regulator of financial businesses, and 
we dont police their internal processes or how they operate generally. Thats the job of the 
Financial Conduct Authority (FCA). We deal with individual disputes between businesses 
and their customers. In doing that, we dont replicate the work of the courts. 
Were impartial, and we dont take either sides instructions on how we investigate a 
complaint. We conduct our investigations and reach our conclusions without interference 
from anyone else. But in doing so, we have to work within the rules of the ombudsman 
service, and the remit those rules give us.
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As a starting point, no one is entitled to borrow money; what they are entitled to is for their 
application for lending to be assessed fairly in accordance with the banks lending criteria. 
Lenders criteria are commercially sensitive and not generally made public. Also, generally 
speaking, its not the role of an ombudsman to interfere with a lenders commercial 
judgement on how much it will lend, and I see no reason to depart from that position here. 
The use of a credit search is entirely in line with what Id expect a prudent lender to do when 
applying its lending criteria, and there are no grounds for me to second-guess or otherwise 
interfere with the decision NatWest made in reliance on what the search revealed. Ms B and 
Mr C may regard that as impersonal and unfair, but its normal practice amongst most 
lenders, and regarded as such by the FCA. That the information the search revealed turned 
out to be incorrect doesnt in any way invalidate or undermine NatWests decision. 
I realise Ms B and Mr C think differently but I dont find there to be a case for ordering 
re-imbursement of the costs theyve incurred in connection with the attempted property 
purchase. I say that not least because Ms B and Mr C have told us they have succeeded in 
getting the mortgage from a different provider. But the fact that a different lender was willing 
to lend to them doesnt mean NatWest was wrong to say no. Each lender has its  own 
lending criteria and appetite for risk.  As I said earlier, no one is entitled to borrow money, 
and NatWests assessment of Ms B and Mr Cs application wasnt in any way unfair.
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint. My final decision concludes this services consideration of this 
complaint, which means Ill not be engaging in any further consideration or discussion of the 
merits of it.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms B and Mr C to 
accept or reject my decision before 6 April 2022. 
Jeff Parrington
Ombudsman