DRN-3547140
The complaint
Mr A is unhappy that Bank of Scotland plc, trading as Halifax, charged interest to his credit 
account during a time when he was making repayments in line with a payment plan that had 
been arranged by a debt charity on his behalf.
What happened
Mr A found himself in financial difficulty and approached a debt charity which assessed how 
much Mr A could afford to repay and which then made offers of monthly payment to Mr As 
creditors  including Halifax  on Mr As behalf. Halifax agreed to the monthly repayment 
amount that the debt charity proposed, and Mr A understood that interest had been frozen 
on the Halifax account while the agreed repayment plan was in place.
However, a few years later, as the payment plan with Halifax approached its scheduled end, 
Mr A noticed that Halifax had been applying interest to the balance of his account during the 
payment plan period. This meant Mr A had a higher balance remaining with Halifax than he 
felt should be the case. Mr A wasnt happy about this, so he raised a complaint.
Halifax looked at Mr As complaint. But they didnt feel that theyd acted unfairly towards     
Mr A by applying the interest to the credit account as they had, and so they didnt uphold Mr 
As complaint.
Mr A wasnt satisfied with Halifaxs response, so he referred his complaint to this service. 
One of our investigators looked at this complaint. But they also didnt feel that Halifax had 
acted unfairly towards Mr A in how theyd managed the situation, and so they also didnt 
uphold the complaint. Mr A remained dissatisfied, so the matter was escalated to an 
ombudsman for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I can appreciate how Mr A might have believed that Halifax would have suspended the 
accrual of interest on his credit account during the time that he was in the payment 
arrangement negotiated by the debt charity on his behalf. And this is especially the case 
given that Halifax did suspend interest on the account for a short period of time following 
their agreeing to the proposed payment arrangement.
However, its evident from the letters that Halifax sent to Mr A and the debt charity, dated 16 
October 2018, that this was because Halifax believed that their acceptance of the payment 
plan would result in Mr As account falling into arrears and subsequently being defaulted for 
not maintaining the minimum payments required on the account. Indeed, to that effect I note 
that Halifaxs letters to the debt charity and Mr A confirmed the following:
As agreed, due to our customers financial situation, we are passing this account to 
our Recoveries team.
Agreed payment
While this happens, we confirm that we will temporarily accept monthly payment of 
£144.66, starting on 1 November 2018.
This payment concession is not contractually binding. This means that despite our 
concession, the terms of our customers card agreement to make full monthly 
payments when they are due remain in full force.
This will also not stop a default being registered against our customer with the Credit 
Reference Agencies that we subscribe to.
Interest and charges on the account
Whilst we pass the account to our Recoveries team, as a temporary concession we 
will not charge any further interest on the outstanding balance. This does not affect 
any interest charges that have already been accrued.
When the account is passed to our Recoveries team no further fees, interest or 
charges will be applied.
In consideration of these letters, Im satisfied that Halifax did initially indicate to both Mr A 
and the debt charity that they intended to accept the payment plan proposed by the debt 
charity, but that the acceptance of this payment plan wouldnt impact the contractual 
requirement for Mr A to make monthly payments towards the account to at least the level of 
the minimum monthly payments that were required, and that the account would fall into a 
position of arrears if this wasnt the case.
Additionally, Im also satisfied that Halifax initially indicated to Mr A and the debt charity that, 
because it was anticipated that the monthly payment amount proposed by the debt charity 
would result in Mr A not making monthly repayments in line with the minimum monthly 
payments required on the account, Halifax intended to default the account at the earliest 
opportunity as allowed by industry practice and regulations.
Halifaxs position here seems reasonable to me, and in circumstances where its felt that a 
customers account will fall into arrears, and where its believed that that customer wont be 
able to clear those arrears and recover the position of the account in a reasonable period of 
time, its generally accepted that defaulting the account at the earliest opportunity  rather 
than allow the account to remain in a position of arrears for an indeterminable amount of 
time  is in the best interests of that customer. 
However, its also notable that Halifax changed their position on this matter, and that they 
informed both Mr A and the debt charity of their change of position in letters dated 2 
November 2018. These letters confirmed that:
To give you a fresh start, well no longer treat your missed payments as arrears 
This means that your account will no longer show as being in arrears and we wont 
demand immediate payment of the arrears amount.
If you miss any future payments, well treat these as arrears on the account.
The letters also confirmed that Halifax would accept the proposed monthly payments of 
£144.65 from 1 December 2018 to 1 May 2019, and that at the end of that payment 
arrangement the required payment amount would revert to the minimum monthly payment 
as contractually required on the account. Finally, the letters also confirmed that Halifax would stop the accrual of interest on the 
account from 1 December 2018 to 1 May 2019.
Halifax have confirmed that the reason they changed their position on Mr As account was 
because, upon review, the offer of a monthly payment of £144.65 made by the debt charity 
on Mr As behalf was more than the contractual monthly minimum payment required on the 
account at that time  which was approximately £75 at a time when the account balance was 
close to the agreed credit limit, and which would reduce as the account balance was repaid.
This meant that it wasnt the case that Mr As account would fall into arrears as a result of 
Halifax accepting the monthly payment proposed by the debt charity. And because the 
account wouldnt fall into arrears, there was no need for Halifax to begin the process of 
defaulting the account by transferring the account to their Recoveries team.
And while Halifax did agree to freeze the accrual of interest on the account for a six month 
period, until 1 May 2019, I dont feel that there was any requirement or obligation for Halifax 
to freeze the accrual of interest on the account for longer than this period. 
I say this because the long term freezing of interest is usually applied when a customer cant 
make the minimum monthly payment required on the account, so that the continuing 
application of interest doesnt lead to the overall balance of the account increasing each 
month  which can happen when the monthly interest amount is greater than the amount 
that the customer can afford to repay. 
In this instance the monthly payment offered by the debt charity was almost twice as much 
as the minimum monthly payment that was contractually required on the account, and given 
that interest would reasonably be applied to the account if Mr A had made the minimum 
contractual monthly payments, I see no reason why interest shouldnt be fairly applied to the 
account following a period of time where Mr A had been able to make approximately twice 
the monthly minimum payments required on the account, and while he continued to make 
payments at the same rate, which Mr A did for many months after May 2019.
Im also satisfied that, as per the letters issued to Mr A and the debt charity by Halifax on     
2 November 2018, that Halifax did give Mr A and the debt charity notice of how they would 
administer the account moving forwards. And I also note that the monthly account 
statements provided to Mr A by Halifax showed that the accrual of interest on the account 
had begun again from May 2019 onwards.
All of which means I find it difficult to conclude that Halifax have acted unfairly towards Mr A 
in the manner which he contends here. This is because Mr A was paying considerably more 
than the minimum payment required on the account such that Im satisfied it was reasonable 
for Halifax to resume charging interest on the account when they did. And because Im 
satisfied that Halifax gave clear notice of when the intended to begin charging interest on the 
account to both Mr A and the debt charity. 
I also feel that it would be very difficult to consider instructing Halifax to reimburse the 
interest charged to the account as Mr A would like when the monthly payments that Mr A 
has made demonstrate that he could afford to pay more than the minimum monthly payment 
contractually required on the account over a substantial period of time.
Mr A has explained that he didnt review the statements sent to him by Halifax, but instead 
depended on the statements he received from the debt charity, which continued to suggest 
that no interest was being accrued on the account. 
However, I remain satisfied that the debt charity was informed by Halifax that interest would resume being incurred on the account from May 2019 onwards (as was Mr A himself), and 
so I wouldnt hold Halifax accountable for the debt charity not recognising this point. I also 
feel that it was incumbent on Mr A, as the account holder, to have monitored the ongoing 
status of his Halifax account directly, and I wouldnt consider Halifax to be at fault for the 
consequences of Mr A not doing so.
Finally, even had Mr A or the debt charity approached Halifax when interest began to be 
charged again on the account after May 2019, I dont feel that Halifax should in all likelihood 
have frozen the interest again at that time. This is because, as explained above, Im satisfied 
that Mr A had demonstrated that he could afford to make payments towards the account that 
were more than the contractual monthly minimum payment required, such that it seems fair 
to me that the contractual terms of the account  including the accrual of interest  would be 
applied.
I realise this might not be the outcome that Mr A was wanting, but it follows from all the 
above that I wont be upholding this complaint or instructing Halifax to take any further 
action. I hope that Mr A will understand, given all that Ive explained, why Ive made the final 
decision that I have.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision before 3 October 2022.
 
Paul Cooper
Ombudsman