DRN-3462531
The complaint
Mr and Mrs S complain that AXA Insurance UK Plc (AXA) have declined their escape of 
water claim on the basis of fraud.
Any reference to AXA includes its agents.
What happened
Below is a summary of what happened and does not therefore include a full timeline or list of 
every point that has been made. 
Mr and Mrs S took out a home insurance policy with AXA in December 2018. 
In January 2019 they made an insurance claim following an escape of water in their home. A 
flexi-hose in the bathroom burst which, they say, caused flooding to both the bathroom and 
kitchen. The water also damaged parts of the lounge. 
Mr and Mrs S say when they reported the claim to AXA it declined it. It said the claim was 
the responsibility of their previous insurer, and not its responsibility. 
AXA also declined the claim as they felt Mr and Mrs S had breached the fraud condition of 
their policy. In the FRL AXA said, you have dishonestly presented or exaggerated your 
claim and/or provided false information and false statements in support of the claim. Mr and 
Mrs S are unhappy with this.
AXA said it hadnt seen any evidence of the failure of the flexi hose or its repair. It said the 
photographs of the water damaged ceiling following the failure of the flexi hose show the 
water didnt penetrate the ceiling. So, it was concerned the loss hadnt happened as Mr and 
Mrs S described, and that items below the ceiling werent damaged by the loss. 
AXA arranged for a surveyor to attend to provide their expert opinion. The surveyor said the 
condition of the kitchen wasnt consistent with it having been caused by  the escape of water 
reported by Mr and Mrs S. AXA said on balance the damage caused to the kitchen and its 
contents was more likely as a result of an earlier and ongoing escape of water. And so, Mr 
and Mrs S were likely claiming for things that werent covered by the policy.
So it declined the claim on the basis of fraud as set out in its terms and conditions. AXA 
terminated the policy from the date of the claim and retained the premiums paid. 
Mr and Mrs S didnt think this was fair. They felt they had provided AXA with the evidence it 
had requested and the claim had been unfairly declined. 
Mr and Mrs S referred their complaint to this service and an investigator looked into things 
for them. He said based on the evidence he thought AXA had fairly considered the claim 
before declining it. And so he didnt think AXA acted unreasonably. Mr and Mrs S remained 
dissatisfied and so the complaint has been passed to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Both parties have provided a large amount of documentation and its not my intention to go 
through each document or each point raised. I have looked at the main crux of the complaint 
and detailed my findings below. 
Where the evidence is incomplete, or inconsistent, as it is here, I make my decision based 
on the balance of probabilities, that is, what I think more likely than not happened. 
Having considered all the evidence Im not upholding the complaint. I appreciate Mr and Mrs 
S have been through a difficult time and I know this isnt the answer they wanted. So I will 
explain my decision below. 
The relevant industry rules say an insurer should handle claims promptly and fairly, and it 
shouldnt unreasonably reject a claim. So, Ive thought about whether AXA acted in line with 
this. The fraud condition in Mr and Mrs Ss policy states, if you or anyone acting on your 
behalf makes any claim or statement knowing it to be false or fraudulent as regards, amount 
or otherwisewe will not pay the claim and all cover under this policy will cease and you will 
lose all premiums you have paid. 
The policy goes on to say, If dishonesty or exaggeration is used by you, your family, or 
anyone acting on behalf of you or your family, to obtain a claims payment under your policy, 
or cover for which you do not qualify, or cover at a reduced premium, all benefits under this 
policy will be lost, the policy may be invalid, you may not be entitled to a refund of premium. 
In relying on the condition quoted above the onus falls to AXA to show that it applies. Its 
important to note that it isnt my role to decide whether Mr and Mrs S have been fraudulent 
or not. Rather, Ive needed to think about whether AXA came to a fair and reasonable 
conclusion that Mr and Mrs S breached the fraud condition, based on its investigation and 
evidence. And Im satisfied it came to a fair and reasonable conclusion in this instance.
AXA has provided notes from its investigations and I can see it has looked into things 
thoroughly. Where there were inconsistencies in what Mr and Mrs S had told it, it has raised 
these concerns, and sought for explanations from Mr and Mrs S, which I think was 
reasonable. AXA believed the damage being claimed for was as a result of an earlier escape 
of water in November 2018 when Mr and Mrs S held cover with a different insurer. It also 
said the items being claimed for appeared to be inflated. And based on the evidence Ive 
been provided with, I think AXA assessed the matter fairly, and came to a reasonable 
conclusion that the fraud condition had been breached. Mr S reported the escape of water in 
January 2019. At the time Mr S reported the leak Mr and Mrs S said the issue hadnt been 
ongoing for a prolonged period of time and the water had since been shut off. He claimed 
there was damage to kitchen appliances, the ceiling, cupboard units, and the kitchen flooring 
had been destroyed. Food in the kitchen cupboards was also reported as being damaged. 
AXA appointed a loss adjuster to validate the claim.  I think this is reasonable since AXA had 
concerns the leak was prior to inception of the insurance policy. These concerns were 
because Mr and Mrs S property had suffered a previous leak, where the details of both 
leaks were similar. The previous leak had apparently caused a hole in the kitchen ceiling. 
And a leak had been ongoing even after that claim had been made. Mr and Mrs S then 
withdrew this original claim and cancelled their policy. A month after, they took out a policy 
with AXA. And a month following that, they raised a claim for an escape of water, with the 
above damage. The loss adjustor attended on 8 February 2019 and 4 April 2019. At both visits the adjustor 
noted there was little damage to the ceiling in the kitchen which they say indicates there 
hadnt been a recent significant escape of water. AXA said the damage sustained was not 
consistent with the described leak in January 2019. The suggestion being the claim was 
likely exaggerated, with some of the damage being caused by the previous leak instead. I 
think it was reasonable for AXA to rely on the evidence provided to it by the loss adjustor in 
this regard. 
AXA also contacted Mr and Mrs Ss plasterer who attended the property prior to inception of 
the policy. He confirmed a leak was ongoing between 9 December and 15 December 2018, 
a week before the AXA policy was taken out. So, this also supported the information 
provided by the loss adjuster  around concerns the leak was something that happened 
before the policy was taken out. And therefore, AXAs concerns that Mr and Mrs S were 
knowingly claiming for something the policy didnt cover.
I think it was fair AXA to consider there was likely a breach of the fraud condition, given the 
above, and some concerns AXA had about the items claimed for. 
AXA have also said Mr and Mrs S exaggerated their claim. AXA received Mr and Mrs Ss list 
of contents being claimed for. In the early discussions of the complaint the list of contents 
being claimed for was around 20. And by the end of January the list was over 100 items, 
which hadnt been mentioned when the claim was first notified. There are number of items 
AXA mentioned when explaining why they were applying the exclusion to Mr and Mrs Ss 
claim. When thinking about whether AXA acted fairly here, I dont need to be satisfied that it 
reasonably found each and every item was dishonestly notified to them as part of the claim. 
If just one item was added to the claim, that AXA fairly concluded wasnt damaged by the 
escape of water, that is sufficient to conclude the claim is likely to have been exaggerated. 
And rely on the breach of the fraud condition. 
AXA noted some of the contents being claimed for were plastic items and clothes which are 
usually considered to be salvageable. So AXA asked Mr and Mrs S for an explanation of 
how these items were damaged together with photographs of the items. AXA wasnt satisfied 
with the explanation of how the items were damaged, or with the evidence provided. AXA is 
entitled to satisfy itself that all aspects of the claim are as they have been presented. 
Mr and Mrs S made a claim for flooring in the living room. AXA queried this since in the initial 
call notifying it of the claim in January 2019 the only rooms reported to be affected by the 
escape of water were the kitchen and bathroom. Mr S explained the escape of water had 
gone through into the lounge and ruined the flooring. The damage to the lounge wasnt 
reported until 24 August 2020, around seven months after the claim was reported.  The 
damage to the lounge wasnt noted during either of the inspections. And AXA said this 
damage should have been apparent much earlier  if it was caused by a covered escape of 
water. And therefore, in addition to its other concerns, felt this evidenced the fraud condition 
being breached.
Mr and Mrs S asked AXA about alternative accommodation. I can see from the notes AXA 
said it would be willing to consider this. Mr S explained the costs would be around £4,000 a 
month to rent a family members home. A tenancy agreement was subsequently provided 
which detailed rent at £1,224, and I cant see rent was ever paid to the family member. AXA 
explained since Mr and Mrs S were staying with family it would only pay a disturbance 
allowance. 
In order for an insurer to fairly invoke the fraud condition in an insurance policy the insurer 
needs to show it is more likely than not that the condition was breached. Having reviewed the information provided in this case Im satisfied AXA conducted a fair and reasonable 
review of the claim and didnt act unreasonably in light of the evidence received. Overall, I 
think it assessed the information fairly, and came to a fair conclusion that the fraud condition 
was breached. The fraud condition in Mr and Mrs Ss policy allows for AXA to void Mr and 
Mrs Ss policy, keep their premiums and decline the claim. So, Im satisfied it acted fairly in 
taking these steps.
I know my answer will be disappointing for Mr and Mrs S but having carefully considered the 
complaint I think AXA acted fairly and within the terms of the policy. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs S and Mr S to 
accept or reject my decision before 14 September 2022.
 
Kiran Clair
Ombudsman