DRN-2423327
The complaint
Mr N has complained about his insurance provider, One Call Insurance Services Limited as 
he thought it had added extra cover he hadnt agreed to, and when he tried to cancel it, he 
was told it was too late to do so.
What happened
Mr N arranged a policy online on 10 June 2020. He wanted paper documents but couldnt 
get hold of One Call on the phone, so he travelled to their offices on 18 June 2020. On 
19 June 2020 Mr N emailed One Call, querying the cover and charges, and asking for the 
extra charges to be refunded.
One Call told Mr N hed contacted the wrong department and he needed to complete a live 
chat online to progress his enquiry. Mr N emailed One Call again as he was having difficulty 
making contact. On 25 June 2020 One Call emailed Mr N, and told him that whilst he had 
now asked to cancel, he was out of time  the cooling off period for the extra cover having 
ended on 24 June 2020.
Mr N complained to us. One Call told us that Mr N had been told how he could progress his 
enquiry, and he hadnt done so. It felt that as he hadnt followed the correct procedure it  
shouldnt have to refund the charges.
Our investigator felt Mr N had agreed to the extra cover but that it was fair to consider that 
he had tried to cancel that within the cooling off period allowed by the policy. She felt Mr Ns 
email of 19 June 2020 was his first notification of cancellation. She noted One call had been 
affected by the pandemic and so was operating with limited forms of contact. But she didnt 
think it was fair for Mr N to lose out on the opportunity to cancel as a result of that, merely 
because he hadnt been able to make contact in the way One Call had wanted him to. 
One Call didnt agree. It said there was no reason Mr N couldnt have used the live chat 
service, or he could have driven to its offices again. One Call said its hands were tied as only 
certain departments could action cancellations and Mr N had not got in touch with the correct 
department. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im satisfied Mr N did select the extra cover when he arranged his policy. But he was always 
entitled to change his mind about what he had purchased.
Theres no doubt things have been difficult during the pandemic and all businesses have had 
to adapt and change the ways in which they work. That has caused some difficulties for 
consumers. But here Mr N did contact One Call, within the cooling off period allowed by the 
policy. And I can see no good reason why one department within One Call (even working 
remotely as I assume they were) couldnt speak to the other. And there is also no good 
reason why  having been made aware that Mr N had contacted, with a view to cancelling 
cover, within the correct timeframe, One Call couldnt have accepted that and tabled the 
cancellation to complete at a time when Mr N could speak to or communicate with the 
correct department. Mr N acted within the time limit agreed to in the policy and One Call 
must honour that and refund his money, plus interest and compensation as Ive no doubt he 
was frustrated and inconvenienced by its unfair action
Putting things right
I require One Call to pay Mr N:
£67.85 as a refund of his premium for extra cover, plus interest* from 19 June 2020 until 
settlement is made.
£50 compensation for the distress and inconvenience caused.
*Interest is at a rate of 8% simple per year and paid on the amounts specified and from/to 
the dates stated. If One Call considers that its required by HM Revenue & Customs to take 
off income tax from any interest due to Mr N, it should tell him how much its taken off. It 
should also give Mr N a certificate showing this if he asks for one, so he can reclaim the tax 
from HM Revenue & Customs if appropriate.
My final decision
I uphold this complaint. I require One Call Insurance Services Limited to provide the redress 
set out above at Putting things right.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr N to accept or 
reject my decision before 3 August 2021. 
Fiona Robinson
Ombudsman