DRN-2257370
The complaint
Mr and Mrs C complained about the settlement and delays with their claim under their rental 
property insurance policy with Royal & Sun Alliance Insurance plc (RSA) for damage to 
their property.  
What happened
Mr and Mrs C experienced damage to the ground floor of their rental property following a 
storm in August 2019. Due to the condition of the property, the tenant and her child moved 
out once their tenancy agreement ended. Mr and Mrs C said this led to a loss of rental 
income due to delays in the reinstatement of their property which stopped them re-renting 
the property.
Following the storm, Mr and Mrs C said, the rainwater drained towards the property due to 
insufficient drainage put in by the neighbouring property when they carried out renovation 
works. RSA accepted the claim as storm damage, but Mr and Mrs C remained unhappy with 
the settlement offered and they said they experienced delays in receiving their payment 
which increased the amount of lost rental income.
Mr and Mrs C did raise the drainage issue with the owner of the neighbouring property and 
they said they would put in some temporary measures to prevent further flooding from the 
ineffective drains, but were awaiting planning permission before permanent improvements to 
the drainage could be put in.
RSA arranged for a loss adjustor to assess the damage and a drying company was brought 
in to dry out the ground floor in September 2019. Mr and Mrs C said they continued to 
experience damp in their dining room. This was re-assessed by RSA. It said the damp 
issues were not related to the storm but due to the drainage from the neighbouring property. 
Mr and Mrs C said there were delays in them receiving their settlement which pushed back 
the reinstatement works to their home and delayed them re-renting out their property. RSA 
paid for the building works that they said were related to the storm and compensated them 
with two months lost rental income. They were also paid for some utility costs and council 
tax for the two-month period.
Mr and Mrs C didnt think this fairly compensated them for the lost income caused by the 
storm damage. They said as they were unable to re-instate the property until the settlement 
was paid they had to continue paying for facilities, mortgage and council tax without the 
possibility of receiving rental income. They said the Covid situation has meant the property 
has remained unlet.
RSA compensated Mr and Mrs C £150 for the trouble and upset that the delays had caused.
Our investigator recommended the complaint be upheld as she thought RSA had not fairly 
settled the claim for all the damage caused by the storm. She thought the delay in settlement 
and subsequent repairs caused a loss of rental income and she recommended RSA to:
Pay for the cost of any repairs to the dining room.
Pay loss of rent from November to 17 February 2020 (settlement date for building 
repairs).
Pay a further 4 weeks loss of rent for the amount of time the property took to repair in
April to get it back into a lettable condition.
Pay council tax for the above periods.
Mr and Mrs C accepted the view, but RSA have not responded so the case has been 
referred to an ombudsman.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
RSA has settled the claim in respect to the building works where they attributed the repairs 
to storm damage. However, the case notes show that RSA did not provide a settlement for 
the damage to the dining room. I dont think RSA has provided a compelling argument to 
why the damp to the dining room wasnt caused by the storm. They argued it had been 
caused by the neighbouring property. That maybe so but I think it was only one factor. I think 
the storm was the significant contributory factor in causing that area to getting saturated with 
rainwater. This may have continued for a period of time, but as Mr and Mrs C had escalated 
the issue to the neighbouring property owner, I am not sure what else they could have done. 
I think its reasonable for RSA to pay Mr and Mrs C for the repairs to this area too on 
production of valid receipts, as well as 8% simple interest as she has been without this 
money.
Mr and Mrs C said the delay in receipt of the payment for storm damage had a knock-on 
impact to them completing the reinstatement works to their property. This meant they were 
unable to rent out their property and subsequently lost rental income.
RSA recognised the storm damage contributed to the tenant moving out and compensated 
Mr and Mrs C for two months lost rent, from when the tenant moved out to when they 
advised the repairs wouldve been completed had the additional damp issues in the dining 
room not have happened. 
However, a further two and half months passed until Mr and Mrs C received the settlement 
in mid-February 2020. Mr and Mrs C decided not to start the works until April 2020, which 
took around four weeks to complete. I think it is fair that RSA also compensate for Mr and 
Mrs C for the loss rental income to mid-March (4 weeks after the settlement date, which is 
how long the actual works took). Had Mr and Mrs C commenced the works immediately in 
mid-February, I think there may have been reason to extend the compensation as it may 
have been difficult to re-rent the property as the Covid lockdown commenced on 23 March 
2020. However, the delay to me suggests that Mr and Mrs C were not prioritising the works 
and more recently they have expressed an interest in selling the property. Therefore, I dont 
think it is reasonable to ask RSA to extend the period of compensation past mid-March. 
However, I will ask them to add 8% simple interest for the time Mr and Mrs C have been 
without the use of the money. I also expect RSA to compensate Mr and Mrs C for the council 
tax costs for this extended period, as normally the tenant would pay these, so this is a further 
impact to them of the storm damage. I will also ask that 8% interest is added to this as well.
RSA has already compensated Mr and Mrs C for the delays. RSA did add to the duration of 
the claim by not dealing with it efficiently. However, I do think there were some complications 
with their claim, so Mr and Mrs C should have expected some level of inconvenience. So, I think the £150 RSA has already paid for compensation is fair and I will not be asking them to 
increase this.
In summary, I uphold this complaint. I think RSA were slow to react to the damp in the dining 
room and they should have treated it as part of the storm damage. For the delays, I think 
they should compensate the owners for lost rental income and council tax costs.
  
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint.
I require Royal & Sun Alliance Insurance plc to:
Pay for the cost of repairs to the dining room relating to the storm damage (on 
production of valid receipts) plus 8% simple interest* from the date of the receipt to 
date of settlement.
Pay for the loss of rent from 1 November 2019 to 16 March 2020 plus 8% simple 
interest* from 1 November 2019 to date of settlement.
Pay council tax from 1 November to 2019 to 16 March 2020 plus 8% simple interest* 
from 1 November to date of settlement. 
*HM Revenue and Customs requires Royal & Sun Alliance Insurance plc to take off tax from 
this interest. RSA must give a certificate showing how much tax its taken off it if Mr and Mrs 
C ask for one.
  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C and Mrs C to 
accept or reject my decision before 1 April 2021.
 
Pete Averill
Ombudsman