DRN-2979272
The complaint
Mr E is unhappy with the level of service provided to him Al Rayan Bank PLC, including that 
he was given conflicting information about a transaction and that Al Rayan wouldnt accept a 
request to close his account sent by email.
What happened
Mr E asked Al Rayan to cancel an incoming payment but Al Rayans staff werent initially 
clear as to whether they could cancel an incoming payment or not and they didnt effectively 
manage Mr Es expectations regarding when Al Rayan would be able to confirm whether the 
incoming payment could be cancelled.
Mr E wasnt happy about this, or that hed had issues trying to use Al Rayans online banking 
facility. Mr E was also unhappy that Al Rayan wouldnt accept an email or secure message 
request to close his account, and that Al Rayan were insisting that such a request be made 
either in person in branch or by written letter. So, he raised a complaint.
Al Rayan looked at Mr Es complaint, but they felt that theyd provided Mr E with the correct 
information regarding the matter of the incoming payment and the reasons why Mr E was 
having difficulty using their online system. Al Rayan also reiterated that the terms of the 
account stipulate that a request to close the account must be provided in writing, and they 
didnt accept that they hadnt managed Mr Es expectation responsibly. So, they didnt 
uphold the complaint.
Mr E wasnt satisfied with Al Rayans response, so he referred his complaint to this service. 
One of our investigators looked at this complaint, but they also felt that Al Rayan hadnt, for 
the most part, acted unfairly or unreasonably toward Mr E. However, as a result of our 
investigators correspondence with Al Rayan, the bank acknowledged that it had provided 
incorrect information to Mr E regarding the difficulty hed experienced using their online 
platform. Because of this, Al Rayan offered a payment of £25 to Mr E to compensate him for 
any inconvenience caused  an offer our investigator thought was fair.
Mr E remained dissatisfied, so the matter was escalated to an ombudsman for a final 
decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I can appreciate how it must have been frustrating for Mr E to have discovered that the 
representatives of Al Rayan that he first spoke with were uncertain as to whether they could 
cancel incoming payments or not. However, Im satisfied that the information that was 
ultimately provided to Mr E here  that it was the responsibility of the company sending the 
money to cancel the payment if it could and that Al Rayan could only act if or once the sent 
money was received into the account  was the correct information.
I note that Mr E has confirmed that one of the reasons for his enquiry was because the 
sending company had incorrectly advised that Al Rayan could cancel the payment before it 
was received by them. Additionally, while its evident that there some hesitation on Al 
Rayans part when Mr E first approached them about this, its also evident from the recorded 
phone calls that I have listened to that Al Rayans representatives wanted to ensure that Mr 
E was given the correct information.
Having listened to the recorded telephone calls, Im also not convinced that Mr Es 
expectations werent managed in a reasonable manner. And I say this because, while the Al 
Rayan representative that Mr E spoke with clearly appreciated that this was a matter Mr E 
was keen to resolve quickly, she did clearly inform Mr E that she had to escalate his 
questions to another department and that she was unable to provide a definite timescale as 
to when Mr Es questions would be answered by that department  although she did 
encourage Mr E to call in and chase the answer, given Mr Es aforementioned desire to 
resolve the issue. And this approach feels reasonable to me, given the circumstances.
Mr E is also unhappy that Al Rayan wouldnt accept a request to cancel his account by either 
email of secure message and that they were instead insisting that Mr E either visit branch or 
send a written letter. And Im aware that one reason for Mr Es displeasure here is because, 
he was, at the time he wanted to close the account, shielding during the Covid-19 pandemic 
and didnt want to leave his house.
I can appreciate Mr Es position here, but the terms of the Al-Rayan account stipulate that a 
request to close the account must be provided in writing. This stipulation is not uncommon 
and Its often the case that it refers to a need for a wet signature, such as can only be 
provided on a written letter or in person  and which cant be provided via electronic 
communication  and Al Rayan have confirmed that this is the case in this instance. 
As such, while I can appreciate that Mr E might feel this stipulation to be unnecessary, I cant 
fairly say that Al Rayan were acting unreasonably by insisting that Mr E abide by the terms 
of the account, and while I can appreciate that going into branch would have been out of the 
question given Mr Es circumstances, I dont feel that asking Mr E to post a written letter, or 
for Mr E to arrange for someone else to post a letter written by him on his behalf, can be 
considered as an unreasonable request by Al Rayan.
Mr E has also complained that Al Rayan refused to log a complaint with regard issues he 
was having using their online banking system. Ive listened to a recording of the telephone 
call in question and while it was the case that Al Rayans representative sought to find a way 
to resolve the issue, rather than raising a complaint as Mr E requested, it was the case that 
the complaint was ultimately raised on Mr Es behalf, and I dont feel that any form of 
compensation is merited in regard to this matter.
Im also aware that Mr E is unhappy with how Al Ratan handled Mr Es complaint after it was 
raised. However, its not within the remit of this service  as laid out in the Dispute 
Resolution (DISP) section of the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA ) Handbook - to 
investigate complaints about how a complaint has been handled, and so Im unable to 
consider this aspect of Mr Es complaint further. 
Finally, with regard the difficulties that Mr E faced when trying to use Al Rayans online 
banking system, Al Rayan have acknowledged that they provided incorrect information to Mr 
E when looking into this matter for him and that Mr E was inconvenienced by the receipt of 
tis incorrect information. As such, Al Rayan offered to make a payment of £25 to Mr E to 
compensate him for his inconvenience.
Matters of compensation can be subjective, with an offer considered as being fair and reasonable by one party not being considered as such by someone else. However, while I 
understand that Mr E may disagree with my position here, the £25 offered by Al Rayan in 
this regard does feel fair to me, and I can confirm that its commensurate with what this 
service would expect, given the circumstances.
I realise that this wont be the outcome that Mr E wanted, but it follows that Ill be upholding 
this complaint against Al Rayan on the basis of the incorrect information given to Mr E 
regarding his online banking difficulties only, and that Ill be instructing Al Rayan to make a 
payment to Mr E of £25 as compensation for this  as Al Rayan have already agreed to do.
I hope that Mr E will understand, given what Ive explained above, why Ive made the final 
decision that I have. 
Putting things right
Al Rayan must make a payment of £25 to Mr E.  
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint against Al Rayan Bank PLC on the basis 
explained above.  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr E to accept or 
reject my decision before 14 September 2021.
 
Paul Cooper
Ombudsman