DRN-4199867
The complaint
Mr B complains that Tesco Personal Finance PLC, trading as Tesco Bank, failed to inform 
him that a promotional rate on his credit card was due to expire. 
What happened
Mr B holds a credit card with Tesco. The card was taken out in September 2021 with a 
promotional offer. The offer meant Mr B would not be charged interest for the first 15 months 
on any purchases, or any balance transfers that were moved across within the first 90 days. 
In February 2023, Mr B received a statement showing that he was being charged interest on 
his balance, so he complained. He said that Tesco had not made it clear that the 
promotional interest rate was expiring, and he said would not have used the card had he 
realised. 
Tesco responded. They said that the 0% offer ran for 15 months, and was taken out in 
September 2021. So, they said that they had correctly charged interest in January 2023 in 
line with the terms of the account following the expiry of the promotional offer. They did 
explain that they would normally add a reminder to any statements that were produced 
which would show if a promotional rate was ending. But they said in Mr Bs case, statements 
were not being sent, as his balance had been at zero in the lead up to the rate expiring and 
his account was not being used regularly. They did however, as a goodwill gesture, refund 
£15.26 in interest that was charged in the March 2023 statement. But Mr B remained 
unhappy, so he brought his complaint to our service.
An investigator considered Mr Bs complaint, but didnt recommend it was upheld. She said 
she was satisfied that interest had been applied to the account correctly. She was also 
satisfied that there was no requirement for Tesco to send Mr B statements in the lead up to 
the rate expiring, as his account had a zero balance and wasnt being regularly used. She 
was also satisfied that the statements that were sent in early 2023, clearly set out the 
interest that was being charged and when payments needed to be made by. So, she thought 
Tesco had treated Mr B fairly. 
But Mr B remained unhappy, and provided copies of new promotional rate offers which he 
feels supports his case, so the case has been passed to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The promotional rate on Mr Bs account was due to run for 15 months and was arranged on 
the 22 September 2021, this does not seem to be in dispute. Tesco have told us that this 0% 
rate was in place up until it expired on 22 December 2022. So, Im satisfied the 15 month 
rate reduction was applied correctly, and Ive been provided no evidence to show that any 
interest was charged between these dates. 
Ive also looked at the terms of the credit card that Mr B held, and I cant see anything to 
show that there was any requirement on Tescos part to inform Mr B that his promotional 
rate was coming to an end. There is a paragraph in the introductory rates section that says 
that Tesco will always write to a customer to let them know if a rate is being withdrawn. But 
the specific paragraph states:
Your introductory rates will be withdrawn if we don't receive at least the minimum payment 
by your payment due date. We'll always write to you to let you know that the introductory 
rates have been withdrawn, and from what date the standard rates will apply.
I am satisfied, however (having reviewed further correspondence from Tesco), that an 
introductory rate being withdrawn, is not the same as a rate expiring. And the above term 
talks specifically about writing to the customer following a rate being withdrawn, and gives an 
example of a rate withdrawal as a consequence of a customer failing to make their minimum 
payment. So, on balance, Im not persuaded that this applies to Mr Bs circumstances.
Tesco have also informed us that they will add a reminder onto customers statements two 
months prior to an introductory rate expiring, to let customers know that their introductory 
rate was coming to an end. But the terms of Mr Bs account also state that:
We'll send you a statement in any month where you have a balance on your account or 
there has been any activity on your account. This will show the balance on your account on 
your statement date, any payments you've made to us, and any charges we've made since 
your last statement.
Given there was no activity or active balance on Mr Bs account in the lead up to the rates 
expiry, I dont think it unreasonable that Tesco were not sending Mr B statements. And 
therefore, I dont think it unreasonable that he did not receive the notification.
In response to the investigators opinion, Mr B has said that he received a promotional offer 
about new rates from Tesco recently, and he feels that this contradicts the investigators 
findings that Tesco sends these updates in a statement. But these offers are not providing 
Mr B with information on when his specific deal expires, and is rather a wider mailshot, 
offering new balance transfer rates to customers. So, this has not led to me altering my 
opinion on the matter, and my findings still stand. 
So, while I appreciate this may come as a disappointment to Mr B, Im satisfied that Tescos 
goodwill gesture was a satisfactory resolution to Mr Bs complaint, and I wont be asking 
them to do anything further in response to his complaint. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold Mr Bs complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 21 September 2023.
 
Brad McIlquham
Ombudsman