DRN-2459738
The complaint
Ms H is being represented by Mr B in her complaint about Ageas Insurance Limiteds 
(Ageas) decision to settle a third party claim under her car insurance policy. Ms H wants 
Ageas to decline the claim or to reimburse her for the additional premium she will need to 
pay in the future as a result of this claim.  
What happened
Ageas received notification from a third-party insurer (TPI) claiming that Ms H had hit into 
their insureds parked and unattended car. Having carried out enquiries Ageas agreed to 
settle the third partys claim. 
Ms H complained and Ageas responded and said they had taken into account a number of 
factors including an engineers report and witness evidence. And, the evidence supported 
the third partys claim. Ageas didnt uphold the complaint.    
 
Our investigator looked into things for Ms H. She thought Ageas hadnt acted unfairly in 
settling the claim. Mr B disagreed so the matter has come to me for a decision.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided not to uphold the complaint. I understand Ms H will be 
disappointed by this but Ill explain why I have made this decision. 
My starting point is Ms Hs car insurance policy document. This sets out the terms and 
conditions and says she is covered for damage to a third partys car. It also says, under the 
heading Accidents and claims, The insurer is entitled under the policy to; Take over and 
conduct the defence and settlement of any claim in your name. 
So, I dont think it was unreasonable for Ageas to make a decision on the claim as the policy 
allows them to take such steps. That said, the reason why they settled it was because they 
felt there wasnt a strong defence to the claim. So, I will now consider whether Ageas acted 
fairly and reasonably in taking this view. 
I can see Ageas do originally dispute liability on the basis Ms H confirms she wasnt involved 
in any incident. Ageas then make enquiries to establish whether there is any potential 
defence to a claim.
Insurers often appoint engineers experienced in this type of work to look at the damage, and 
thats what Ageas did. I think its a fair thing to do  and its reasonable for Ageas to rely on 
the engineers comments when deciding how to deal with the claim. Ageas instructed an 
engineer to carry out a full inspection of Ms Hs car. The engineers report and photos show 
damage to Ms Hs car. Ageas also ask the TPI to confirm the area where they believe Ms 
Hs car has been damaged following the incident. The TPI then describe the damage. And, I 
can see the area they describe is consistent with the area of damage identified by the 
engineer. I can see Ms H says the damage the engineer identified happened six years 
earlier so she sends photos to Ageas who agree to look into this. 
I can see Ageas then instruct an engineer to prepare a consistency report and provide 
information from Ms H and evidence they have received from the TPI. Ive looked at the 
consistency report and note the engineer says hes inspected Ms Hs car and also looked at 
an estimate and photos of the third partys car. The engineer describes the damage to the 
third partys car and notes theres an independent witness. He finds the damage to the third 
partys car is consistent with a tyre marking. The engineer says, The bumper paint damage 
is in the same area as the wheel damage and it would be very hard to prove that a rubbing 
of the tyre didnt cause the paint to peel off; it is unlikely but Im not able to prove either way. 
He concludes Due to the consistencies in the circumstances, the positions of the vehicle, 
the witness statement I cannot support that the policy holder in that [sic] the vehicles did not 
touch and cause the damage being claimed for. 
   
An engineer is qualified to comment on damage to a car so it was reasonable for Ageas to 
take into account the engineers findings to assist their decision on whether to settle the 
claim. The report from the engineer shows they inspected Ms Hs car and also considered 
the information relating to the damage to the third partys car. I think the information theyve 
considered is relevant to carry out an assessment and to then form an opinion. So, taking 
this into account, I cant say Ageas have acted unfairly in relying on the engineers findings 
to assess whether they have a strong defence to the claim. I note Mr B has raised a number 
of points questioning the engineers findings. I have considered those comments but nothing 
I have seen challenges, or otherwise leads me to doubt, the opinion of the engineer provided 
by Ageas. 
I understand Ms H has explained to Ageas that she feels the incident was a scam and Mr B 
makes this point also. I note this is why Mr B feels Ageas shouldve arranged for the 
engineer to look at the type of tyre which caused the damage. I can see Mr B feels a forensic 
specialist or another suitable expert couldve provided more certainty in the case. I have 
taken this into account but I dont think it was unreasonable for Ageas to base their decision 
on the information which was available. The evidence they have taken into account supports 
their decision to settle the claim so I dont think theyve acted unfairly in not taking any steps 
beyond those they have when considering the claim. 
Ive seen the witness statement and this sets out the accident circumstances and holds Ms 
H responsible for the incident. The witness says she doesnt know either of the parties 
involved in the incident. So, I dont think it was unreasonable for Ageas to treat this witness 
statement as being independent. I can see Mr B feels Ageas shouldve taken steps to 
question the witnesss credibility. I feel this would be reasonable in a case where there are 
comments in a statement which show clear inconsistencies with other evidence. I cant see 
thats the case here. I note Mr B queries whether the witness comments on the area of 
impact involving Ms Hs car and whether this is consistent with the findings of the engineer. 
The witness statement doesnt specifically ask the witness to comment on the area of Ms Hs 
car which caused the damage. 
The witness has however drawn a sketch of the incident showing Ms Hs car and the third 
partys car and how the impact occurred. While the sketch doesnt appear to show the exact 
area where the engineer found Ms Hs car to be damaged, Im not persuaded this 
demonstrates Ageas have acted unreasonably. The sketch shows the position of the two cars and Ms Hs direction of travel and I think it was reasonable for Ageas to view this as 
being consistent with the damage the engineer finds on Ms Hs car.      
Despite the TPI holding Ms H responsible, she told Ageas that she wasnt involved. 
Situations like this do arise so its important for any insurer, when faced with this, to carry out 
detailed investigations to find out what happened and look for any independent evidence 
when forming a view. The witness statement does provide independent evidence which 
supports the TPIs claim. I dont feel it was therefore unreasonable for Ageas to take this into 
consideration when forming their view on responsibility.   
So, I think Ageas reached their decision on the claim in a fair and reasonable manner. I dont 
think it was unfair for them to accept fault for the claim given the evidence they took into 
consideration. 
My final decision
For the reasons I have given, it is my final decision that the complaint is not upheld. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms H to accept or 
reject my decision before 23 April 2021.
 
Paviter Dhaddy
Ombudsman