DRN-3299830
The complaint
Mr S complains that Jarvis Investment Management Limited failed to update his 
shareholding. He says its error meant he couldnt sell the shares and he wants Jarvis to 
compensate him for the loss he made.
What happened
Mr S had a holding of shares, which Ill refer to as B in his share dealing account and in his 
ISA account. In October 2020, B announced a corporate action  for every share held, Mr S 
would receive 30 shares in a company Ill call W. Mr S said he should have received the 
new shares on 9 November 2020, but he checked his accounts and they hadnt been 
updated. They showed his original B shares valued at a large loss.
He phoned Jarvis and it updated his accounts whilst he was on the phone to show the 
correct allocation of W shares. It said the price feed would update overnight and offered to 
transfer him to its dealing desk if he wanted to know the current price. Unfortunately, the call 
cut out before he was able to speak to the dealing desk.
Mr S says the price was still showing incorrectly for around three days. He wants 
compensation for not being able to sell the shares on 9 November.
Jarvis said W shares werent delivered to it until 10 November, when they were then 
available to trade.
Our investigator didnt recommend that the complaint should be upheld. He concluded that 
the delay in updating Mr Ss accounts was outside of Jarviss control.
Mr S disagreed saying, in summary, that:
The valuation of his shares on 9 November 2020 was grossly incorrect, showing a 95 to 
100% loss.
The prices over the next few days were incorrect.
He couldnt sell the shares on 9 November.
The clause from the terms and conditions used by the investigator isnt applicable in his 
circumstances.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I find I have come to the same overall conclusion as the investigator for the 
following reasons:
The agreed terms and conditions say:
We will notify you as soon as practically possible of any changes to any investment 
held in your Account resulting from a takeover or other offer or scheme of 
arrangement or where rights or similar benefits arise. (7.4)
And:
Without prejudice to clauses 16.1 and 16.3, we shall not be responsible for any loss 
or damage or depreciation in value of the Account resulting from matters beyond our 
reasonable control including, but not limited to, the failure, malfunction or breakdown 
of telecommunications, the internet, computer systems (internally and externally) or 
our website, equipment or software used by us, any clearing or settlement system 
used in connection with the Services provided under this Agreement, or the action or 
inaction of any third party. (16.4)
The corporate action announcement said it would be effective from 9 November 2020. But 
Jarvis has provided evidence to show that it didnt receive Mr Ss new W shares until 
10 November 2020. The receipt of the new shares was outside of its control  and the delay 
wasnt long enough for me to reasonably have expected Jarvis to chase the third party 
responsible for delivering the shares, or to contact Mr S to explain there was a delay. I say 
this particularly bearing in mind the shares were issued in the US, so the time difference of 
the market opening hours will have most likely led to some delay.
Mr S called Jarvis on 9 November to find out why his accounts hadnt been updated and why 
his shares were showing an apparent loss. Jarvis was able to update his accounts while he 
was on the phone to show the new W shares. So I think it acted in line with its terms by 
updating Mr Ss account as soon as practically possible, taking into account that the receipt 
of the new shares was outside of its control.
During the 9 November phone call, Mr S didnt say that he wanted to sell the shares. He did 
agree to be put through to the dealing desk, but this was so he could find out the live price. 
Unfortunately, the call cut out before he was able to speak to the dealing desk.
Jarvis has confirmed Mr S would have been able to sell the shares from 9am on 
10 November. I dont find it is responsible for Mr S not being able to trade on 9 November 
and I dont find Mr S was prevented from dealing from 10 November onwards.
During the call on 9 November, Jarvis said that the price would not update until the close of 
business. Mr S says the price did not show correctly on his accounts for three days. I can 
see from the emails Jarvis sent Mr S that there was a problem with the price feed. On 
11 November it apologised that the price of W shares was showing as a static price. Later 
the same day it told him that It told him that, Our third party provider of the price feed are 
experiencing technical difficulties with their service and are working swiftly to rectify the 
situation and it apologised for the inconvenience. 
Whilst I appreciate this would have been frustrating for Mr S, Jarvis wasnt responsible for 
errors or problems with the price feed, as outlined in clause 16.4 of its terms. And it 
apologised to Mr S for the inconvenience this was causing him. I dont find that it reasonably 
could have done any more.
The investigator referred to clause 8.16 which is about settlement dates following a sale or 
purchase. I agree with Mr S that this isnt relevant here and Ive made reference to the terms that I find are relevant.
I have listened to the calls Mr S made to Jarvis. And its easy to hear how worried he was 
when he logged into his accounts and saw the apparent loss in value. But, for the reasons 
Ive explained, I dont think Jarvis treated him unreasonably or unfairly so I dont find it needs 
to compensate him.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 21 March 2022.
 
Elizabeth Dawes
Ombudsman