DRN-2757230
The complaint
Mr F complains that Wyelands Bank Plc (Wyelands) didnt send prior notification that his 
Fixed Term account was due to mature. As a result, the matured funds were transferred into 
an Easy Access account and earned minimal interest.  
What happened
In July 2018 Mr F opened a 12-month Fixed Term account. The account matured in July 
2019, but Mr F says he was unaware and did not receive any notification about the account 
maturity.
Mr F complained to Wyelands in August 2020 when he became aware. An email from 
Wyelands confirmed the funds were in an Easy Access account which Mr F has said 
attracted minimal interest. He also said, as a result of the lack of communication he has lost 
interest on his funds of around £300. 
Wyelands looked into Mr Fs concerns but didnt think it had done anything wrong. It said it 
had followed its terms and conditions and its records show it had sent Mr F several email 
notifications in July 2019. It also said it sent a follow up maturity letter but later apologised for 
its error in saying this as the letter was not sent. 
Mr F remained unhappy and so referred his complaint to our service. One of our 
investigators considered the complaint and didnt uphold it. She said she was satisfied 
Wyelands did send email notifications as it said it had. Mr F didnt agree because he said he 
didnt receive any notification and Wyelands should have sent him a letter about the account 
maturity. 
The complaint has been passed to me to make a final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive reviewed the terms and conditions of Mr Fs Fixed Term account. The terms say: 
We will contact you at least 25 days prior to the maturity of your product together with 
details on the options available to select online on Wyelands Savings Service. We will also 
send you a reminder at 14 days prior to maturity. If you fail to provide instructions, we will 
transfer your capital and any interest earned into your Nominated Bank Account or an Easy 
Access account.
Mr F has concerns that Wyelands has been unable to provide hard copies of the email 
notifications. But banks and building societies are not required to keep hard copies of 
correspondence sent to its account holders. I would expect Wyelands to provide evidence 
that email notifications were sent, and it has. I have been provided with internal screenshots 
from Wyelands which show a notification email was sent on 1 July 2019, more than 25 days 
before the account matured. And on 15 July 2019 which was 14 days prior to maturity. 
Having considered the above term alongside the evidence I have, Im satisfied that 
Wyelands acted inline with the account terms. I note Mr F thinks Wyelands should have sent 
notifications as a hard copy i.e. by letter. But I dont agree. The terms only require Wyelands 
to notify its customer 25 days prior to maturity and a reminder at 14 days prior to maturity. 
They dont specify that notification should be sent in any particular format. And Ive not seen 
anything that would make me think Mr F asked Wyelands to only communicate by post. 
I think Wyelands did what it needed to do to notify Mr F about the account maturity and didnt 
do anything wrong sending emails rather than postal letters. I appreciate Mr F says he did 
not receive notification, but I havent seen any evidence to show why emails would not have 
been received, on balance I am satisfied they were sent. 
The terms of Mr Fs account explain that if maturity instructions arent received the balance 
will be transferred to an Easy Access account, which does attract a much lower rate of 
interest. I appreciate Mr F is disappointed that his funds only attracted a low interest rate 
after maturity. But Im satisfied Wyelands didnt do anything wrong in the absence of his 
maturity instructions.  
Mr F was told that Wyelands had sent a follow up letter to notify him about the account 
maturity which Mr F disputed receiving. Wyelands investigated this and apologised for its 
error in telling Mr F a postal letter had been sent when it had not. Whilst I understand this 
would cause further doubt to Mr F about the email notifications sent, for reasons I have 
explained I think it is more likely than not that notifications were sent to Mr F in line with the 
account terms.
I understand why Mr F feels strongly about whats happened and I want to reassure him that 
Ive carefully read all the information thats been provided. I recognise this wasnt the 
outcome Mr F was hoping for, but I think Wyelands did enough to let Mr F know that his 
Fixed Term account was due to mature.  
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint about Wyelands Bank Plc.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr F to accept or 
reject my decision before 4 August 2021.
 
Rajvinder Pnaiser
Ombudsman