DRN-2619864
The complaint
Mr F brings this complaint on behalf of Y (a company) in his capacity as director of that 
company. Y complains that Lloyds Bank PLC (Lloyds) sent out correspondence to Ys 
address without naming Y, or Mr F, so it wasnt clear who it was addressed to.
What happened
Lloyds sent Y correspondence without naming Mr F or Y as the addressee. This resulted in 
Mr Fs flatmate opening one of the letters, as it was simply addressed to the property. The 
correspondence contained Ys account number and sort code, and details of service 
charges.
Mr Fs flatmate made sarcastic comments when he saw the level of transactions on the 
account, and this resulted in friction between Mr F and his flatmate.
Mr F complained to Lloyds on behalf of Y, seeking compensation for breach of contract, and 
poor customer service. 
Lloyds has been unable to confirm exactly how this occurred, but it believes that it may have 
started when the mailing address was updated in December 2019. Lloyds has said this has 
since been corrected by adding the business name as an additional line to the address.
Lloyds has apologised for the error and paid compensation of £250 into Ys account in 
recognition of the mistake. Lloyds noted that Y had not said it had suffered any specific 
financial loss as a result of its error and paid this amount to compensate Y for the 
inconvenience suffered.  Mr F was not satisfied with this outcome and brought the case to 
this service.
Our investigator acknowledged that Mr F had suffered distress as a result of Lloyds error. 
But he explained that as Mr F brings this complaint on behalf of Y, he could only consider 
loss or inconvenience suffered by Y, rather than by Mr F himself.  He thought that £250 was 
enough to compensate for the inconvenience suffered by Y. He said he wasnt able to take 
account of the impact the issue had on Mr F directly.
Mr F was unhappy with this and asked for the case to be considered by an Ombudsman, so 
the case has come to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ill start by saying that I can see that its frustrating for Mr F to hear that our service isnt able 
to consider the inconvenience that hes suffered personally. But it is Y who is Lloyds 
customer, and the complainant here. As a limited company, Y is a separate legal entity from 
Mr F. As a result, this service can only consider loss or inconvenience suffered by Y, and a 
company cannot suffer distress.
Lloyds sent out letters without naming the addressee. As this quite naturally led to persons 
other than Y or Mr F opening correspondence, this was a breach of Lloyds duty of 
confidentiality (though not a breach of data protection law, as that applies only to living 
individuals). 
Mr Fs flatmate was able to see Ys bank details and details of Ys service charges. 
However, Y does not say that it has suffered any direct financial loss as a result of this, and 
Lloyds has since rectified the issue 
 
Lloyds has accepted it made an error and paid £250 compensation to Y. As there is no 
evidence to suggest that the information disclosed has caused Y any loss, and the cause of 
the error has been put right, I am satisfied that £250 is reasonable compensation for the 
inconvenience caused to Y.
I know Mr F will be disappointed to hear this, but I will not be asking Lloyds to do anymore.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont require Lloyds Bank PLC to do anything more to resolve this 
complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Y to accept or 
reject my decision before 12 April 2021.
 
Rosemary Campbell
Ombudsman