DRN-3268267
The complaint
Mr H complains that Metro Bank PLC failed to provide account statements which affected his 
mortgage applications.
What happened
Mr H says he needed his account statements for his mortgage application in early 2021. He 
says they were not provided and so he was unable to proceed with his purchase. Mr H says 
he then made a second application on a different property and asked Metro for the 
statements. He says they were not provided due to a problem Metro had with its systems 
and were later provided in a format not accepted by his mortgage provider. Mr H says he 
took time off work to sort matters out and made numerous telephone calls to Metro about the 
issue. He says he didnt receive promised call backs and would like appropriate 
compensation.
Metro accepts it had a problem producing the documents but says it provided industry wide 
acceptable alternatives such as certified documents confirming income. It has offered £100 
compensation and has apologised for what took place.
Mr H brought his complaint to us and our investigator upheld the complaint. The investigator 
thought Mr H was trying to buy his first property and would have been caused distress and 
inconvenience as a result of what took place. The investigator thought Metro could have 
done more to help Mr H and recommended it pay a total of £350 compensation as the effect 
of the problem was greater on him than someone not in his position of trying to obtain a 
mortgage.
Mr H doesnt accept that view and says the compensation should be about £700.
Metro doesnt accept that view and maintains the compensation is appropriate and says 
there is no evidence the information it provided was the reason for the mortgage rejection.
I asked both sides for further information. Mr H has provided a letter from his mortgage 
broker but hasnt provided evidence of loss or work or details of the first mortgage 
application.
Metro has provided its account notes but hasnt commented on the questions I asked about 
Mr H attending a branch or about missed call backs.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I have come to the overall view that I uphold this complaint and agree with 
the compensation recommended by the investigator. I appreciate Mr H will be disappointed 
by my decision.
I appreciate Mr H says the first property he tried to buy fell through due to problems 
providing his account statements. But I have not been given any evidence of that and so it 
would be unfair for me to conclude in those circumstances that the statement issue was the 
cause of that.
There is no issue here that Mr H asked Metro for account statements, but it was unable to 
provide them in the usual form. I can see that Metro accepts it provided poor service to Mr H 
and has fairly apologised for what took place. So, the only real issue for me to decide is the 
level of compensation as Metro accepts its systems caused the problem here.
Im satisfied that Mr H was trying to buy a property which I accept can be a stressful process. 
I have looked carefully at the e-mail Mr Hs mortgage broker sent to Metro about the 
statements and am satisfied that the mortgage provider would not accept the documents 
provided by Metro. So, I accept Mr H was caused distress and inconvenience and would 
have been concerned about the possibility of the purchase falling through. I appreciate Metro 
says the solution it provided was an industry wide acceptable solution but Im satisfied that 
Mr Hs mortgage provider didnt agree, and, in any event, Metro accepts it couldnt provide 
an appropriate service to Mr H.
I have also looked carefully at Metros records and can see that Mr H made a number of 
telephone calls to it about the problem. And that Metro was given the e-mail about the 
position and possibility of the sale falling through from Mr Hs mortgage broker. I think it clear 
from those records that Mr H was expecting call backs from Metro that he didnt seem to 
receive, and which Metro hasnt clarified despite my request.
Overall, Im satisfied that Mr H was caused a significant level of distress and inconvenience 
about a situation that was not really resolved. I accept Metro did provide certified documents 
to Mr H which appear to have been acceptable to the mortgage provider, but I think the 
situation took some time to sort out. Im satisfied that the impact on Mr H was clearly greater 
than on for example a customer wanting statements for record keeping, as he was in the 
process of trying to obtain a mortgage. 
I cant fairly award compensation for Mr Hs lost work in the circumstances as I do not have 
sufficient information. I appreciate Mr H no longer works for his employer at the time and so 
cant provide such evidence but that is not something I can fairly hold Metro responsible for. I 
cant see any evidence that Mr H suffered a financial loss and can see he was able to buy 
the property. 
Putting things right
I think Metro should pay £350 compensation in total which I find fair and reasonable and in 
line with the type of award we would make for this type of impact and complaint. It is not 
clear if Metro did pay the £100 compensation it initially offered and no doubt it will deduct 
that amount from the award if it has done so.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint and order Metro Bank PLC to pay Mr H a 
total of £350 compensation.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 31 August 2022.
 
David Singh
Ombudsman