DRN-3699881
The complaint
Mr W, through his representative, complains that AvantCredit of UK, LLC lent to him 
irresponsibly.
What happened
Mr W applied for and was approved for one loan in March 2016. It was for £5,000, the 
interest added on was £5,626.93 and so the total of £10,626.93 was to be repaid over three 
years  36 payments of just over £295 each.
Mr Ws representative complained to Avant Credit in April 2022 and said that the loan 
repayments were unsustainable,
because our client was paying o multiple loans and credit agreements within the 
same period yours was taken. Prior to granting our client the said loan, [Mr W] was 
already in nancial diculty with other lenders as shown on his credit le.This 
could have been avoided had your business made further credit checks and rejected 
further lending to our client.
After Mr W had complained and after AvantCredit had explained why it did not uphold his 
complaint, Mr W referred it to the Financial Ombudsman Service. One of our adjudicators 
looked at the complaint and thought that, using the information AvantCredit had about Mr W, 
then the total of all his credit commitments would have been a high percentage of his 
monthly net income.
AvantCredit disagreed and gave detailed reasons as to why.
Some discussion has taken place in email correspondence between our adjudicator and 
AvantCredit over the fact that the £2,500 a month declared income used to assess the 
affordability of the loan was in fact the joint income of both Mr W and his partner. I address 
this is more detail in the main part of the decision.
The unresolved complaint was passed to me to decide. I issued a provisional decision on 
17 October 2022 giving reasons why I did not think that Mr Ws complaint should be upheld. 
That provisional decision is duplicated (in smaller type to differentiate it) later in this final 
decision. 
Both parties have responded and I address their points later. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
We have set out our general approach to complaints about unaffordable/irresponsible 
lending - including all the relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice - on our 
website.
Taking into account the relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice, I think I need to 
consider in deciding whats fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint are 
whether AvantCredit completed reasonable and proportionate checks to satisfy itself that
Mr W would be able to repay in a sustainable way? And, if not, would those checks have 
shown that Mr W wouldve been able to do so?
If I determine that AvantCredit did not act fairly and reasonably in its dealings with Mr W and 
that he has lost out as a result, I will go on to consider what is fair compensation.
The checks had to be borrower focused  so AvantCredit had to think about whether 
repaying the loan would be sustainable. In practice this meant that the business had to 
ensure that making the repayments on the loan wouldnt cause Mr W undue difficulty or 
significant adverse consequences. 
That means he should have been able to meet repayments out of normal income without 
having to borrow to meet the repayments, without failing to make any other payments he had 
a contractual or statutory obligation to make and without the repayments having a significant 
adverse impact on his financial situation.
In other words, it wasnt enough for AvantCredit to approach the loan application from the 
perspective of the likelihood of getting its money back. AvantCredit had to consider the 
impact of the loan repayments on Mr W. Checks also had to be proportionate to the specific 
circumstances of the loan application.
In general, what constitutes a proportionate affordability check will be dependent upon a 
number of factors including  but not limited to  the particular circumstances of the 
consumer (e.g. their financial history, current situation and outlook, and any indications of 
vulnerability or financial difficulty) and the amount/type/cost of credit they are seeking. Even 
for the same customer, a proportionate check could look different for different applications.
I think that a reasonable and proportionate check ought generally to have been more 
thorough:
the lower a consumers income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make any 
loan repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income);
the higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income);
the greater the number and frequency of loans, and the longer the period of time 
during which a customer has been given loans (reflecting the risk that repeated 
refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, 
unsustainable).
my provisional decision findings from 17 October 2022.
Ive carefully considered all the arguments, evidence and information provided in this context and 
what this all means for Mr Ws complaint. 
I do not know why Mr W applied for a loan using a combined monthly income figure of £2,500. But 
from information we have on file from Mr W (his bank account statements sent to us by Mr W) it does 
appear to be the case that for February 2016 his net salary was about £1,279 a month and his wifes 
salary was about £1,249 a month. So, the joint income was a little over at £2,528. And some months it 
was more. So, Mr Ws presentation of an income of about £2,500 was broadly correct for the 
household  not him personally.
In the application form Mr W declared the expenses to have been £1,440 and had said that the loan 
was for home improvements.The £5,000 loan was paid into the joint account and reviewing the bank statements Mr W has sent to 
us for the weeks following that credit from AvantCredit it does seem that the £5,000 was used for 
items for the benefit of them both. I say that because of the sorts of items on which the money 
appears to have been spent, it cleared the joint overdraft and there were no transfers out from that 
account to another account or to clear a debt that may have been Mr Ws alone.
And although AvantCredit did not drill into the detail of the £1,440 declared expenditure, our 
adjudicator did, using the bank account statements Mr W had sent to us. I can see that the general 
living expenses and household bills all came from the same account and the nature of those were for 
their joint benefit and were about £1,440. And what I mean by the nature of those is that they were 
for such things as rent, food, insurances, TV licence and TV packages, utilities, telephones, petrol and 
cash withdrawals. I am satisfied that the expenses figure of around £1,440 was broadly correct.
Before lending, AvantCredit had carried out a credit search and the search results were sent to us. 
I have duplicated some of that information here in a brief table. Some other entries AvantCredit had 
obtained I have not duplicated here as many of the accounts had closed. Some we been closed for 
some time and so not relevant.
Type of account Start date Balance payment Default date and 
values
Loan/instalment credit 8 November
2013£293 £16 pcm £377 on 10
July 2015
Bank Current account 12/8/2013
Bank Current account 15/8/2013 £579 on a credit 
limit of
£500-
Bank Current account 23/10/2014
Hire Purchase/Loan and 
instalment credit23/4/2014 £13,741 £355
Using the recent credit file from Mr W dated March 2022, then I have been able to cross-reference 
some of these items.
The Hire Purchase (HP) loan was with a high street bank and had a satisfactory payment record up to 
and beyond the point at which Mr W applied for this loan with AvantCredit. The payments coming out 
of the current account bank statements Mr W sent to us show it was £400 a month and sometimes 
£355. It did become a default account later but that was in February 2017 and so some time after 
taking the loan about which this complaint relates.
The default AvantCredit knew about does not appear on the credit file Mr W has sent to us as these 
items are removed automatically after six years. What I do say about that default is that it was for a 
relatively modest sum and was several months before Mr W applied for the AvantCredit loan. So, on 
its own Id not consider that to have been enough for Mr Ws application to be refused. 
But I do think that it might have prompted AvantCredit to have made additional checks. And that might 
have been done by asking to review some bank statements which I have been able to do as Mr W 
has sent them in to us.
It seems that Mr W may have had two other bank accounts as well as the joint one with his wife, but 
reviewing the bank statements sent by Mr W, I cannot see any transfers between that joint account 
and any others  either in or out  and so I have received the impression that mainly he used the joint 
account. And that was the one that had the overdraft facility.
It seems that at least three payments of £700 on 17 March 2016, £260 on 29 February 2016 and 
£200 on1 February 2016 were made to a travel agent and so I think that some of the money may 
have been for a holiday of some kind. And so even if AvantCredit had looked at Mr Ws bank statements, it would not likely to have thought Mr W to have been in financial difficulties in 
February 2016.
Ive looked at the calculated percentages of what the joint repayments for the credit agreements 
would have been as a percentage of the joint income and I dont consider that to be a persuasive 
argument in this case. I think that the £5,000 loan would have paid off the overdraft simply because it 
was credited to that account which had the overdraft. And so there would not have been the 
payments to make on that sum.
So I think that the joint liability for the joint account for this loan which appears to have been for their 
joint benefit was going to be £295 a month, plus the HP payment of £400 (sometimes it was £355) 
plus the one default account of £16. (That last one likely would not have lasted for long and in fact it 
may have been settled by Mr W using some of this loan money.)
That comes to £711 a month. And although that may be about 28% of the net income of £2,500, there 
were some months where each of the parties brought home a slightly higher salary and some months 
the HP payment was £45 a month less at £355 as opposed to £400.
So, taking an overall approach having seen the copy bank statements from Mr W, and reviewing his 
credit file as well as the credit search results AvantCredit did, I think that AvantCredit carried out 
proportionate checks and the loan was affordable at the time.
It seems that later Mr W may have overstretched himself as I can see that his credit file deteriorated in 
the years that followed. And I am sorry for that but at the time he applied to AvantCredit I do not think 
that the loan was unaffordable.
And I am not persuaded that what Mr Ws representative said was correct, that he was already in 
nancial diculty with other lenders as shown on his credit le.
I plan not to uphold Mr Ws complaint.
How did both parties respond? 
AvantCredit acknowledged my provisional decision and had no more to add.
Mr Ws representative has said that it had sent a copy of the provisional decision to Mr W but 
he did not provide additional information or documents.
As both parties have responded before the 31 October 2022 reply date, and considering the 
nature of their responses, I feel its a suitable time to issue a final decision.
As no further submissions or evidence have been sent to me, then I see no reason to depart 
from the findings I made in my provisional decision. Those are repeated here and for the 
same reasons I do not uphold Mr Ws complaint.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold Mr Ws complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 22 November 2022.
 
Rachael Williams
Ombudsman