DRN-2232661
The complaint
Mr B complains about the handling of the repairs to his home following a subsidence claim 
he made under his building insurance policy with AXA Insurance UK Plc.
What happened
Mr B claimed to AXA in 2016 with whom hed insured his home from June 2016, until June 
2017. He was concerned his back door and internal door wouldnt close and said there were 
large cracks growing in both door areas and in rooms upstairs. AXA sent its loss adjusters to 
investigate and this led to a tree being cut down and repairs to the main drain outlet.
The internal repairs started in January and were completed at the end of March 2018. They 
included repair of the doors and frames and of cracks to the surrounding walls. Mr B said 
that two weeks later cracks appeared again in the same areas and the internal door wouldnt 
shut. Mr B contacted his insurers builders who made some adjustments, but Mr B said he 
cant use his back door as it wouldnt close properly, and he was concerned about security.
Mr B contacted his next insurer who contacted AXA about the damage, who said this would 
be a new claim as the tree causing the original issue had been removed. It said the cause of 
the new damage was due to different trees and to the hot weather. AXA said that if it was 
confirmed to be a continuation of the previous claim then it would look into it. 
 
Mr B complained and AXAs loss adjusters told him these were new issues unrelated to the 
repairs. A Subsidence Consultant inspected Mr Bs home in November 2018 and said the 
problems were minor and due to new causes. Mr B was directed to his new insurer, but he 
said the problems were due to poor quality work and insufficient investigation. Mr B thought 
the repairs should be made under the builders warranty and he wanted a thorough 
investigation to ascertain the cause of the damage.
Although Mr B said the damage should be repaired under the warranty he said that if it was 
deemed to be a new claim due to new damage the cause of the new damage needed to be 
addressed. Mr B said he couldnt make progress with AXA and brought his complaint to our 
service.
Our investigator didnt recommend that the complaint be upheld. He said the subsidence 
damage was properly investigated by two experts on AXAs behalf and the conclusions 
concerning a nearby tree were acted upon. He didnt think any cause of damage had been 
missed and said there was a nine-month gap between removal of the tree and reappearance 
of damage and so it was extremely unlikely to be due to the tree in question. 
Mr B disagreed with the investigator. He said the new cracks appeared soon after repairs 
were completed and so either the investigation or the repairs were inadequate. He said if 
vegetation was a likely future issue AXA should have addressed this at the time. And said 
further that the dry summer occurred after the movement started again.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
When the parties to an insurance claim dispute the cause of damage, or dispute whether or 
not the damage is covered by the policy, we are guided by the available expert evidence. 
AXAs loss adjusters are experts in assessing property damage. 
Ive considered the reports AXA relied upon to assess the nature of the repairs required, and 
after Mr B raised further problems. The reports show what was required  the removal of a 
tree and drainage repairs  in order to deal with the subsidence damage to Mr Bs home. 
The later evidence points to the subsequent damage in Mr Bs home as due to a new 
episode of ground movement. 
In order for me to require AXA to carry out further repairs I would need some evidence that 
the movement was a continuation of the previous movement and then I would consider 
whether or not AXA had carried out proper investigations or had carried out inadequate 
repairs. I havent seen anything to show that either of these applies. 
Some months after the repairs were completed in the Spring of 2018 there was a very dry 
summer that has led to widespread subsidence damage across the UK. From the records it 
appears Mr B alerted AXAs loss adjusters to the damage to his home in September 2018 
although I understand he had concerns before this. AXAs loss adjusters said that new 
ground movement causing further damage at Mr Bs home was likely to be due to the recent 
dry weather which it said had encouraged new vegetation growth. 
From what Ive seen Im satisfied that the movement at Mr Bs home that he is complaining 
about was new and occurred after his policy with AXA had expired. I dont think its an issue 
to do with AXAs investigations or the quality of the repairs AXAs contractors carried out. 
From the reports the movement appears to have arisen from a different cause and so 
wouldnt be the responsibility of AXA from the time when Mr B was on cover. 
I sympathise with Mr B for the recurrence of the damage to his home. But there is no 
evidence to suggest that his position on the damage is correct. As Mr B acknowledges, AXA 
has followed the works recommended by the experts and I dont think it wouldnt be fair to 
require it to do more. If he hasnt already, Mr B should consider making a claim for the 
damage at his home with his new insurer.
My final decision
For the reasons I have given above it is my final decision that the complaint is not upheld. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 7 May 2021.
 
Andrew Fraser
Ombudsman