DRN-3434626
The complaint
Miss R complains that National Westminster Bank Plc (NatWest) closed her account and 
didnt allow her switch application.
What happened
Miss R says she tried to switch her NatWest account. She says the Switch process stopped 
when NatWest closed her account. Miss R says as a result, direct debit payments were not 
made, and she incurred late payment charges on her credit card account. She says there 
was possible adverse information reported on her credit file and would like compensation for 
what took place as well as for the health issues NatWests actions had upon her.
NatWest says it was entitled in line with account terms and conditions to close Miss Rs 
account without notice. It says it provided 14 days notice to her and provided a list of the 
types of reasons that it uses to close an account in these circumstances.
Miss R brought her complaint to us and our investigator didnt uphold it. The investigator 
thought it was up to NatWest to decide with whom it had a banking relationship and thought 
it had given Miss R required notice to close the account. 
Miss R says her evidence has been ignored and doesnt accept that view.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I have come to the overall view that I dont uphold this complaint. I make 
clear that I have also listened to Miss Rs telephone call to us about her complaint.
I have looked carefully at Miss Rs account terms and conditions which Im satisfied she 
would have agreed to when the account was opened. Those terms and conditions set out 
when NatWest may close an account and I can see that it has provided a copy of them to 
Miss R. I appreciate Miss R may wish to know the exact reason why NatWest closed the 
account, but Im satisfied that it isnt obliged to do so in line with those terms and conditions. 
So, Im satisfied NatWest was entitled in these circumstances having looked at its closure 
reasons to close Miss Rs account without notice.
I can see that NatWest did fairly provide Miss R with 14 days notice of the closure which I 
dont think it was obliged to do. And Im satisfied that Miss R would have had a reasonable 
time period to make alternative arrangements for paying any direct debits. I have looked at 
Miss Rs account statements and I cant see that the account in question did have a direct 
debit set up for Miss Rs credit card provider in any event.
I appreciate Miss R says NatWests actions affected her health and credit file. I am sorry to 
read about those issues but am satisfied that I cant fairly hold NatWest responsible for those 
issues in circumstances where Im satisfied it was entitled to close an account. I have not 
seen any evidence of any information reported on Miss Rs credit file in any event.
Overall, Im satisfied NatWest was entitled to close Miss Rs account without notice. I cant 
fairly order it reinstate that account or pay compensation. I appreciate Miss R will be 
disappointed by my decision, but Im satisfied this now brings an end to what we in trying to 
resolve this dispute informally can do.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss R to accept 
or reject my decision before 26 July 2022.
 
David Singh
Ombudsman