DRN-2665844
The complaint
Mr S complaints about the way Nationwide Building Society (Nationwide) handled his 
request to remove his ex-wife from his joint accounts. 
What happened
Mr S says that when he agreed to start divorce proceedings, he felt his wife wasnt to be 
trusted with money so sought to remove her from the joint accounts he held with her at 
Nationwide. Mr S says that in March 2019 he went in to branch and was advised to complete 
a form and get the joint account holder to also sign it. This would remove his ex-wife from all 
joint accounts. Over a year later though, Mr S found out that his ex-wife had been removed 
from the joint current account but not the joint savings account. Mr S was unhappy and 
complained to Nationwide. He removed the funds from the savings account.
Nationwide responded to Mr Ss complaint and said that to remove a joint account holder it 
required a separate form for each account. Given the time that had elapsed since Mr S went 
in to branch staff were unable to recall exactly what was discussed at the time of Mr Ss visit. 
As Nationwide was unable to evidence it wasnt at fault it upheld Mr Ss complaint and 
credited his account with £75. Nationwide said Mr S could provide a signed form in respect 
of the joint savings account or close it. 
Mr S was unhappy with Nationwides response. He said the amount offered by Nationwide 
was insulting for such a serious mistake and referred to the fact he can no longer use the 
savings account in case his ex-wife accesses funds. 
The investigator didnt uphold the complaint. She noted that Mr S felt his money had been 
left exposed and also that, given the passage of time, there were no records available to 
show what was discussed in branch. But the investigator said that as there was no evidence 
Mr Ss ex-wife had removed any funds from his account, Mr S hadnt suffered a loss and the 
compensation Nationwide offered was reasonable.
Mr S didnt agree with the investigator. He said the investigator had totally missed the main 
point of his complaint  which was that by giving him the wrong advice in only asking him to 
complete one form Nationwide had left his account at risk. Mr S also said he felt he should 
receive more compensation as he was shaken up by the incident and he has mental health 
issues. As Mr S was unhappy with the investigators findings his complaint has been passed 
to me to consider
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
There is no evidence to confirm whether Nationwide made a mistake when Mr S went in to 
branch in March 2019. But as Nationwide cant evidence it provided Mr S with the correct 
advice it upheld his complaint and agreed to pay compensation for the stress and 
inconvenience he suffered. In doing so, I think Nationwide has acted reasonably and will 
explain why. 
Firstly, its not clear that Nationwide actually made a mistake. Nationwide has established 
that current staff know the correct procedure and that a form is needed per account. But 
even if I accept that Nationwide did make a mistake, I consider the award made by 
Nationwide is reasonable. My role isnt to assess how serious a mistake is and fine a 
financial business on this basis. Instead, I look at the impact on the individual concerned. 
In this case I agree that Mr Ss ex-wife could have removed funds from the joint savings 
account at any point until the problem was identified and Mr S moved the funds out of the 
account. But the fact remains that she didnt. And Mr S wasnt stressed about the safety of 
the funds in the period between the branch visit and finding out his ex-wife hadnt been 
removed from the savings account  because he was unaware himself. I have no doubt that 
Mr S was shocked when he found out his ex-wife hadnt been removed, but the stress he 
suffered before he removed the funds was short-lived. Mr S also has the inconvenience of 
either getting a new form completed or closing the savings account and opening another in 
his sole name. But I consider £75 a reasonable amount to compensate Mr S for this stress 
and inconvenience and so am not awarding any more.
My final decision
I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 29 April 2021.
 
Jay Hadfield
Ombudsman