DRN-4114519
The complaint
Mr G complains that Ageas Insurance Limited badly handled a flood claim under his home 
insurance policy.
Ageas used a third party company to handle Mr Gs claim and most of his correspondence 
has been with this company rather than directly with Ageas. For the avoidance of doubt, any 
reference to Ageas includes its agents, including the claims handling company.
What happened
Mr G had home insurance with Ageas, bought through an insurance intermediary. In 
September 2022, his home was flooded. According to Ageas report, heavy rainfall backed 
up a downstairs toilet, and sewage flooded his kitchen, hall, and basement. This damaged 
carpets and flooring and caused a terrible smell in his home.
Ageas contractor attended Mr Gs home six days later and drained the flood water. It later 
cleaned and sanitised the affected areas and removed damaged carpet and floor coverings 
and began the drying process. It told Mr G it couldnt complete a full clean until the toilet was 
removed. This wasnt done until more than two months later.
Mr G recently told us that Ageas offered him a cash settlement in April 2023 which he 
accepted. Hes since been able to arrange his own repair works and these have now been 
completed. I understand that Ageas paid the settlement in May 2023.
Mr G is unhappy with the delays by Ageas contractor. He believes Ageas should have 
attended his home sooner. It took the contractor three weeks to carry out its initial clean and 
tile/carpet removal and then didnt return to remove the toilet or complete repairs for several 
months. This caused a fly infestation and later a vermin infestation. Hes also unhappy with 
the quality of work carried out and with the lack of communication from Ageas during his 
claim.
Ageas partly upheld Mr Gs complaint. It said:
It didnt arrange emergency help as his policy isnt an emergency insurance policy.
Its contractor attended within a week but couldnt complete a full clean because the 
toilet had to be removed.
It asked a second contractor to do this. This contractor failed to do this in a 
reasonable time, leading to the fly infestation.
The only way it could dry the basement safely was to leave the external door open. 
However, this wouldnt have caused the vermin infestation, so it didnt accept this 
was its fault.
Ageas offered Mr G £500 to apologise for its contractors delays. Mr G didnt think this was 
good enough, so he brought his complaint to this service.
Our investigator recommended that Mr Gs complaint should be upheld. He found that Ageas 
hadnt begun the outstanding repairs by April 2023 and hadnt given Mr G a reasonable 
explanation for this. He didnt think it was fair that Mr G had restricted use of his home for 
over six months. Our investigator was also satisfied that the vermin infestation and related 
damage was Ageas responsibility. He recommended Ageas pay Mr G an additional £1,150 
on top of its £500 offer (a total of £1,650) to reflect its poor handling of the claim. He also 
recommended that Ageas refund Mr Gs other related expenses, for example his gardening 
costs and replacement furniture. 
Ageas disagreed with our investigator, so the case was passed to me to make a final 
decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr Gs policy documents show that home emergency cover is an optional extra on his policy. 
His policy schedule shows he didnt take out this option. His policy booklet provides a phone 
number for emergency help for policyholders without emergency cover. Ageas contractor 
attended Mr Gs home on 13 September 2022, six days after he reported the flood. While I 
understand why Mr G thinks Ageas response was too slow, I accept Ageas statement that 
its contractor attended in line with the policy terms.
An internal email dated 16 December 2022 says Ageas approved repair costs on 30 October 
but more than three weeks later, on 23 November, its contractor advised that it couldnt carry 
out work before Christmas. The email concluded: The delay in booking the works is not 
acceptable. It also described Mr G as being very reasonable and understanding, but 
understandably very frustrated and upset. I agree with both statements. 
I also note that the same email said work was scheduled for January 2023. This didnt 
happen so its disappointing that it took Ageas until April 2023 to offer Mr G a cash 
settlement. Given its contractors inability to schedule repairs promptly, I think Ageas might 
reasonably have offered Mr G this type of settlement sooner. 
I think the time it took Ageas to settle Mr Gs claim was unreasonable. I disagree with Ageas 
statement that its suppliers have all acted fairly and reasonably. I think Ageas should 
compensate Mr G for this.
While Ageas accepted its delays carrying out repairs led to the fly infestation, I think its 
unfair for Ageas to argue that it shouldnt be responsible for the vermin infestation. Mr G has 
provided photos showing the mice in his home as well as the traps he had to set and the 
damage to his furniture. 
Ageas says mice only need a gap the diameter of a biro to enter any property. While that 
may be true, I think its too much of a coincidence that the infestation happened while Mr Gs 
basement door was left open. Hed been instructed to do this by Ageas contractors to help 
the drying process. I think its reasonable to conclude this infestation wouldnt have 
happened if Ageas contractors had acted more quickly. As such, I think Ageas should 
refund Mr G the cost of replacing his damaged furniture. 
I also think Ageas should refund Mr G other expenses related to the flood. For example:
£300 gardening costs because Mr G couldnt access his gardening tools from his 
basement.
£250 to the plumber who removed the toilet and other bathroom units.Im conscious this might not be a full list. If he hasnt done so already, Mr G should send 
Ageas a full list of these costs and Ageas should refund these, plus interest.
Finally, I think the combination of Mr Gs personal circumstances and the unsanitary living 
conditions that resulted from the flood mean he might reasonably have been considered a 
vulnerable customer. The impact on Mr G was greater than it might otherwise have been for 
another policyholder. Hes described the impact the situation has had on him, including 
being unable to have family visit his home. I think this makes Ageas delays resolving his 
claim even more unacceptable.
In my opinion, Ageas poor handling of his claim has caused Mr G substantial distress and 
inconvenience. I agree with Mr G that Ageas £500 offer isnt enough. As our investigator 
explained, this isnt in line with our redress guidelines. Instead, I think the award proposed by 
our investigator is fair.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold the complaint and require Ageas Insurance Limited to:
Pay Mr G £1,650 to reflect the distress and inconvenience it caused him. It can 
deduct the £500 it has already paid him.
If it hasnt already done so, refund Mr G any other expenses related to the flood 
damage and vermin infestation. This includes  but is not limited to  his gardening 
costs (£300) and the cost of his replacement furniture (£1,257.98).
Ageas should add interest to these refunds at 8% simple per year from the date of 
payment to the date of settlement.* 
*If Ageas considers that its required by HM Revenue & Customs to deduct income tax from 
that interest, it should tell Mr G how much its taken off. It should also give Mr G a certificate 
showing this if he asks for one, so he can reclaim the tax from HM Revenue & Customs if 
appropriate.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision before 13 October 2023.
 
Simon Begley
Ombudsman