DRN-3609297
The complaint
Miss C is unhappy that Vanquis Bank Limited didnt default her account following the 
issuance of default notices to her.
What happened
Miss C took out a Vanquis credit account in 2011. In October 2014, Miss C fell into arrears 
on the account. Vanquis issued a notice to Miss C in December 2014 which explained that 
they might default the account if Miss C didnt take steps to address the arrears on the 
account in a timely manner. Similar default notices were issued to Miss C by Vanquis in 
August 2015 and November 2017.
Miss C was able to avoid the defaulting of the account on all three occasions and made 
payments to reduce the balance of the account until the balance was brought to zero in 
January 2019, at which time the account was closed. However, Miss C noted that Vanquis 
reporting of the account to the credit reference agencies included the arrears that had 
accrued on her account at various times. 
Miss C wasnt happy about this, and felt that had Vanquis defaulted the account when theyd 
first said they might do, in 2014, the adverse reporting for that default would have dropped 
off her credit file after six years, meaning that her credit file was presently in a worse position 
than would have been the case had the account been defaulted. So, she raised a complaint. 
Vanquis looked at Miss Cs complaint. They confirmed that Miss Cs account hadnt been 
defaulted at any time because Miss C had always taken steps to address the arrears present 
on the account so as to avoid the account being defaulted. As such, Vanquis didnt feel that 
theyd unfairly towards Miss C by not defaulting the account.
Miss C wasnt satisfied with Vanquis position, so she referred her complaint to this service. 
One of our investigators looked at this complaint. But they also didnt feel that Vanquis had 
acted unfairly towards Miss C, and so they also didnt uphold the complaint. 
Miss C remained dissatisfied, so the matter was escalated to an ombudsman for a final 
decision.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The Information Commissioners Office (ICO) issues guidance on when a credit provider 
such as Vanquis should consider defaulting a credit account for the non-payment of account 
arrears. This guidance includes that a credit provider should generally provide a notice to an 
account holder that their account may be defaulted when that account has fallen into around 
three months of arrears, and that an account should be defaulted preferably before an 
account falls into more than six months of arrears.
Vanquis have confirmed that their own policies sit in accordance with the ICO guidance, and 
that they look to issue a notice of default before an account falls more than three months into 
arrears and to then default an account if the account holder hasnt taken any steps to 
address those arrears to Vanquis satisfaction before that account falls into more than six 
months of arrears. And, given that Vanquis policy here is in line with the guidance issued by 
the ICO, that policy seems reasonable to me.
Importantly, in this instance, on all three occasions that Miss C was issued a default notice 
by Vanquis, she took steps to address the arrears on her account before her account 
reached a point where Vanquis would look to default the account as per their own policies.
For instance, following the issuance of the default notice in December 2014, Miss C 
contacted Vanquis the following month and made an arrangement with them. And after the 
August 2015 default notice was issued, Miss C made a payment that addressed the arrears 
on her account that same month. Finally, when the November 2017 default notice was 
issued, Miss C entered into a payment plan in February 2018, just in time to avoid the 
account being defaulted.
It also must be noted the defaulting of an account is generally something which credit 
account holders are keen to avoid, often because account holders dont want a default 
reported to their credit file, as this would have a significant effect on their ability to obtain 
credit at a favourable rate during the six-year period that the default would remain visible on 
their credit file. And, as explained above, Miss C did take steps on all occasions that she 
received a default notice to address the arrears on her account and to avoid having her 
account defaulted.
Accordingly, I dont feel that Vanquis have acted unfairly or unreasonably towards Miss C by 
giving her the opportunities to avoid the defaulting of her account, and then by not defaulting 
Miss Cs account when she took those opportunities.
While I can appreciate that Miss C may be unhappy that her Vanquis account continues to 
be reported to her credit file at this time, credit providers such as Vanquis have an obligation 
to make accurate reports to the credit reference agencies, and so I dont feel that its 
unreasonable or unfair for Vanquis to be reporting this account as they are  given that it 
does provide an accurate portrayal of how Miss C administered the account.  
And, while Miss C may feel that her credit file is in a worse position now than it would have 
been had Vanquis defaulted the account in 2014, not only is it the case that she took 
effective steps to avoid a default in early 2015, as explained above, but it also must be 
remembered that Miss C has benefited from her credit file being in a better position for the 
six-years after that default notice was issued  given that her account wasnt defaulted  
than would have been the case had her account been defaulted at that time.
Finally, I note that Miss C also feels that because she received a reimbursement of some 
account interest by Vanquis that this means the balance and arrears information present on 
the default notices and reported to the credit reference agencies by Vanquis is incorrect, and 
that the account should be deleted from her credit file as a result.
But the payment that Miss C received from Vanquis took place because Vanquis were 
instructed by the Financial Conduct Authority to compensate customers due to concerns 
about a repayment option plan offered by Vanquis on their accounts. As such, Im satisfied 
that this reimbursement shouldnt fairly retrospectively affect the validity of the account and 
arrears balances, including how those balances are reported to the credit reference 
agencies, as Miss C believes should be the case here.All of which means that I dont feel that Vanquis have acted unfairly or unreasonably towards 
Miss C here, and it follows from this that I wont be upholding this complaint or instructing 
Vanquis to take any further action. 
I realise this wont be the outcome Miss C was wanting, but I trust shell understand, given all 
that Ive explained, why Ive made the final decision that I have. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss C to accept 
or reject my decision before 21 October 2022.
 
Paul Cooper
Ombudsman