DRN-1145046
 
The complaint
Mr and Mrs K have complained about the service received from Sabre Insurance Company 
Limited when Mrs K made a claim under her car insurance policy.
What happened
In July 2018 Mrs K reported an incident to her insurer, Sabre which she said wasnt her fault. 
Sabre passed Mrs Ks claim to a credit hire and repair company to deal with the repairs to 
her car.
In October 2018 Mr K complained on behalf of Mrs K. In summary he was unhappy with the 
lack of progress in arranging repairs to Mrs Ks car. 
Sabre said that the credit hire company and repairer had attempted to contact Mrs K many 
times but didnt get a reply. By October 2018, the third party involved in the incident didnt 
agree they had caused the incident. So the credit hire company stopped dealing with the 
claim to prevent Mrs K from incurring charges. This meant Mrs Ks claim would be dealt with 
under her insurance policy and the excess would need to be paid for any repairs. Sabre 
booked Mrs Ks car with one of its approved repairers in November 2018.
Mr K said Sabre hadnt answered his complaint properly. In December 2018 Sabre provided 
a detailed reply to the complaints. In summary it said it had acted reasonably. Any delay 
wasnt due to it or its agents. It said the repairer had attempted to arrange a date to book 
Mrs Ks car for repairs but hadnt heard from Mr or Mrs K. 
In June 2019 Mr K contacted us to look at Mrs Ks complaint. He said he had to arrange 
repairs - which he said were minor - due to Sabres delays dealing with the claim. He wanted 
Sabre to compensate him for the inconvenience and time wasted in calls. 
Our investigator didnt recommend Mrs Ks complaint should be upheld. He found that Sabre 
and its agents had regularly contacted Mrs and Mr K to progress the claim but hadnt 
received a reply. 
Mr K said he disagrees and wants an ombudsman to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I dont think Sabre has acted unreasonably. Sabre and its agents have provided a 
chronology showing times and dates in which they regularly contacted Mrs and Mr K by 
phone and text to arrange repairs to Mrs Ks car. On occasion when they spoke to Mrs K, 
she said she would arrange for Mr K to call back.  But they didnt receive a reply. 
There isnt any evidence that Sabre caused undue delay in dealing with Mrs Ks claim for 
repairs. In January 2019 Mr K called Sabre for an update about the liability dispute. He 
explained that the car only required repainting and as the excess under the policy was £150, 
Mrs K didnt intend to claim for the repairs.
Based on what Ive seen, I think Sabre dealt with Mr and Mrs Ks complaint reasonably. So 
Im not asking it to do any more. 
  
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr K and Mrs K to 
accept or reject my decision before 24 August 2020.
 
Geraldine Newbold
Ombudsman