DRN-1561585
The complaint
Mr B complains that The Mortgage Business Plc (TMB) acted unfairly and unreasonably 
when dealing with the sale of his repossessed property. He wants matters put right.
What happened
Mr B had a buy to let mortgage with TMB. The leasehold property became worth less than 
the money owed and Mr B fell into arrears with the mortgage. The property was taken over 
by TMB and later sold. Mr B felt that the property had been marketed and sold for too little 
(£67,500), when hed previously found buyers who were willing to offer £85,000.
Mr B complained to TMB. It said the propertys value wasnt just affected by market 
conditions, but due to issues with its title and lease. TMB said that it was satisfied that the 
marketing of the property was reasonable; it wasnt persuaded that non-binding agreements 
Mr B had regarding the freehold was relevant as it didnt change the legal position. It 
reminded Mr B that he was liable for any shortfall between the sale proceeds and the money 
owed under the mortgage, even if he lost his job. TMB later explained in more detail that the 
professional advice it relied upon had warned that the problems with the propertys lease 
was due to the ground rent being able to increase to over £250, which now wasnt 
acceptable for some mainstream lenders; this meant only cash buyers would be interested 
and reduced the value.
Mr B complained to us. The investigators view was that the complaint shouldnt be upheld. 
She said TMB was under a duty to take reasonable care when selling the property, but it had 
got two professional valuations, and it was reasonable for it to rely on those. The investigator 
pointed out that the valuations changed after legal advice was received about the lease and 
ground rent, which led to the valuers and agents to advise that the property was likely to sell 
for about £65,000. More was obtained in the end  the investigator said that the marketing 
and the sale price was fair and reasonable.
Mr B disagreed. He asked for an ombudsmans decision and was unhappy that the fact he 
had got the tenant to leave so TMB would consider letting him sell the property himself had 
been overlooked.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im not able to consider Mr Bs complaint about TMB and the decision he made in asking his 
tenant to leave  this issue has been previously considered by this service and TMB was 
found not to be at fault. I will look at the core of Mr Bs complaint, which is about the 
marketing and sale price of the property.
Lenders selling repossessed properties must take reasonable care when selling. The 
evidence available to me shows that the value of the property, according to the independent 
professional valuers and estate agents advising TMB, was between £60,000 - £70,000, once 
all the relevant factors were taken into account. The non-binding agreements Mr B said hed 
reached about the freehold couldnt change this as they werent legally binding. It was in my 
view fair and reasonable for TMB to rely on the professional advice it received about the 
value of the property.
TMB was further advised that due to the ground rent issue, it would be highly unlikely 
anyone other than a cash buyer would be able to buy the property. This advice isnt 
obviously incorrect; in fact it matches the experience of this service  if the ground rent isnt 
capped, mainstream lenders are unwilling to lend at the current time. Again, I cant say that 
TMB acted unfairly by relying on this advice or by marketing the property as it did. Mr B has 
said that he had previously found a buyer willing to pay £85,000, but the evidence shows 
that the buyer pulled out, though I dont know whether the problem with the ground rent was 
the reason why the buyer didnt proceed.
Im not persuaded that TMB failed to comply with its duties when selling Mr Bs property, or 
that it acted unfairly or unreasonably in selling the property.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold the complaint. Under the rules of the Financial 
Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or reject my decision before 
9 November 2020.
 
Claire Sharp
Ombudsman