DRN-2396952
The complaint
 Mr Ws complaint is about the amount of compensation AXA France IARD has paid him for 
the mis-sale of a payment protection insurance (PPI) policy on a store card.
This complaint isnt against the policy seller directly because the sale took place before it, or 
its predecessor-in-title, was regulated by the then Financial Services Authority (FSA) for 
insurance intermediation activities, or otherwise covered by our jurisdiction.
The party that at the time of the sale was the policy insurer, has accepted that the seller was 
acting as its agent at the time  so it accepted responsibility for the sale. Following a transfer 
of business, AXA France IARD (AXA) has taken on that responsibility. To keep things 
simple, Ill only refer to AXA in this decision, rather than any other business.
What happened
 Mr H took out his store card in 1992. AXA cant say whether he was sold a PPI policy to 
protect his card repayments at that time. But a statement provided by Mr W shows there was 
a PPI policy attached to his account in July 2006.
In 2019, Mr W complained to AXA that hed been mis-sold the PPI. And, after Mr W had 
provided his account statement evidence, AXA agreed to uphold his complaint. It offered him 
£5.81 in compensation for this mis-sale. This amount was calculated by assuming that the 
balance on his account in July 2006 was paid off by April 2007 and that he was only charged 
for PPI during this period.
Mr H wasnt happy with the amount offered by AXA. He thought that hed used his store card 
for a number of comparatively large purchases whilst the account was open and so would 
have been charged more for PPI than AXA had assumed.
Mr W referred his complaint to this service. Our adjudicator thought the complaint should be 
upheld.
The adjudicator didnt think all the assumptions AXA had used to calculate its offer were fair. 
She accepted that AXA didnt know the monthly balances on Mr Ws store card account 
whilst it had been open, or the PPI hed been charged on these balances. But in these 
circumstances, the adjudicator thought it would be fair for AXA to apply the PPI shown on 
the July 2006 statement for the whole duration of his account.
AXA didnt agree. It still thought that the compensation calculation should only assume that 
PPI was paid from the date of the statement provided until it was assumed that the balance 
on that statement would have been paid off in full some 9-months later.
As AXA didnt agree with the adjudicators view, the case has been passed to me for a final 
decision.
 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
 As AXA has already agreed to uphold Mr Ws complaint about the PPI being mis-sold, in 
this decision Im not looking at how the policy came to be sold. Im only looking at whether 
the offer AXA has made is fair.
When PPI has been mis-sold, we would expect the consumer, as far as is possible, to be put 
back in the position they would have been in if the sale hadnt taken place. So, for PPI on a 
store card account, wed expect the business to refund all the PPI premiums the consumer 
had paid, together with any interest charged on those premiums. Wed also expect the 
business to pay the consumer 8% simple interest (15% before 1 April 1993) for any time 
theyd been out of pocket because of the PPI they were charged.
However, in this case, we dont know the spending or month end balances on Mr Ws 
account except in the month July 2006. But Mr W has told us that he used his card quite 
regularly and for some quite large purchases. And Ive no information that would lead me to 
doubt Mr Ws recollection of how he used his card account. So, in these circumstances, I 
think its reasonable to assume that Mr W was, on average, charged the same amount of 
PPI which is shown to have been charged on his July 2006 statement for the time it can 
reasonably be assumed that PPI was being applied to the account. 
I also think that, in the absence of any other information to the contrary, it is reasonable to 
assume that Mr W was sold the PPI policy when he opened the account in 1992 and that 
PPI was charged to this account throughout its life. I dont think it would be fair to assume, 
as AXA has done, that PPI was first charged from July 2006 and no further PPI was charged 
after the outstanding balance on that months statement was assumed to have been fully 
paid off in April 2007.
Unfortunately, AXA hasnt been able to provide any information to show when Mr Ws store 
card was closed and/or the PPI policy ceased. So, for the purposes of calculating the 
compensation due to Mr W, I think it would be fair for AXA to use the earliest date at which it 
has evidence to show the card account was no longer open, or in use, as the end date for 
the account. And unless it has evidence to show an earlier date when PPI ceased being 
charged on accounts like Mr Ws, it should also use this date as the end date for Mr Ws PPI 
policy. 
Putting things right
 AXA should put Mr W in the financial position hed be in now if he hadnt taken out PPI. In 
doing so, AXA should use the above assumptions which I have said I think would be fair.
So AXA should assume that Mr W was charged the same amount for PPI that he is shown to 
have been charged on his July 2006 statement for every month from when the account was 
opened until the date when it is known by AXA for sure that the PPI policy wouldnt still be 
being charged on Mr Ws store card account, or that the account had been closed.
AXA should refund to Mr W the PPI he was charged each month using these assumptions. 
AXA will also need to apply simple interest to each of these monthly charges. The interest 
rate should be 15% before 1 April 1993 and 8% a year from then on. 
 HM Revenue & Customs requires AXA to take off tax from this interest. AXA must give Mr W a 
certificate showing how much tax its taken off if he asks for one.
My final decision For the reasons Ive explained Im upholding this complaint against AXA France IARD and 
instruct it to put things right by paying Mr W compensation in line with the above. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 30 June 2021.
 
Simon Furse
Ombudsman