DRN-4275758
The complaint
Mr S and Miss W have complained about the handling of a claim under their home buildings
insurance policy with Accredited Insurance (Europe) Ltd (AIE).
AIE are the underwriters of this policy i.e. the insurer. Part of this complaint concerns the
actions of the agents it uses to deal with claims on its behalf. As AIE has accepted it is
accountable for the actions of the agent, in my decision, any reference to AIE includes the
actions of the agents.
What happened
Mr S and Miss W have a home insurance policy with AIE. Mr S and Miss W contacted AIE
on 3 January 2023 to make a claim under the policy, as there was a water leak from their
bathroom, which had caused damage to the ceiling below. AIE sent a surveyor to assess
the damage, who attended on 6 January 2023. He confirmed there was cover under the
policy for the repairs as this fell within the escape of water section of the home insurance
policy. AIE therefore agreed to cover replacing the wall tiles and plaster board that had
to be removed to access the leaking pipes and to apply stain blocker and paint the ceiling
below.
Mr S and Miss W say the surveyor said that AIE could make cash settlement of £1,071. Mr S
and Miss W said they had not been provided with a proper schedule of the works required
and no basis for this figure. Mr S and Miss W asked AIE what the alternatives to a cash
settlement would be and AIE confirmed it would arrange contractors to do the repair work
but it would be a delay of at least two months if they wanted this. In response, on 10 January
2023, Mr S and Miss W messaged to say please instruct your contactors to do the work.
There were further communications between Mr S and Miss W and AIE, including regarding
their increased water bill and the cost of carpet cleaning, which AIE agreed to reimburse. 
However, the request to arrange contractors was not actioned until the end January 2023.
Mr S and Miss W were very unhappy with the progress of the claim and that the repairs had
not been done, so they brought the complaint to this service at end January 2023. Mr S and
Miss W said they had been unable to use their shower, which was particularly difficult as
they have a young baby and Mr S has a manual job. While they have a bath, it is
inconvenient not to be able to shower.
AIEs response to the complaint said it had made a cash settlement offer of £2,106.96 (plus
VAT if they are charged VAT) being the same amount that its contractors would charge to do
the work, or it could arrange the works to be done by its contractors.
One of our Investigators looked into the matter. She thought it was clear Mr S and Miss W
wanted AIE to appoint its contractors to do the repair work but it had not progressed this.
The Investigator also said any cash settlement should be what Mr S and Miss W could get
the work done for, given that AIE could not provide contractors in a reasonable time. The
Investigator therefore recommended that Mr S and Miss W should be given the option of a
cash value of the cheapest of three quotes provided by Mr S and Miss W; and that AIE pay
£500 compensation for the distress and inconvenience caused by the handling of the claim.
Mr S and Miss W accepted the Investigators assessment.
AIE did not accept the Investigators assessment. It said there was a delay in being able to
do the works itself, due to a surge in claims and it is not fair to disregard that. It has a limit of
liability which is the amount its contractors would do the work for, so it offered Mr S and
Miss W a reasonable alternative cash settlement rather than waiting for its contractors. AIE
said it had actioned this on 30 January 2023 and therefore the only delay it is responsible for
is the three weeks at the beginning of the claim. The £500 compensation proposed for this is
therefore excessive, especially as Mr S and Miss W had a bath and so were not without
washing facilities. AIE said that £250 compensation would be more appropriate.
As the Investigator was unable to resolve the complaint, it was passed to me. In the 
meantime, I asked both parties for an update on the claim. Both parties confirm AIEs
contractors attended on 24 April 2023, to do the repair work and this was completed to Mr S
and Miss Ws satisfaction on 7 May 2023.
I issued a provisional decision on the matter in July 2023, in which I set out my provisional 
findings copied below; 
Mr S and Miss Ws policy does not cover for the emergency repair required to stop 
the actual leak but will cover the cost of repairing the damage done to the buildings 
by the escaping water. The policy says:
Escape of water or oil
We will cover loss or damage caused by:
a) Escape of water from any fixed water installation
We will also pay up to £10,000 per incident for reasonable and necessary 
costs to remove any part of the building to find the source of damage  
The policy terms also set out how AIE will settle any such claim:
How much we will pay
When settling your claim, if we decide we can offer rebuilding work, repairs or
replacements, we will ask you to choose one of the following options:
a. We will choose a contractor (our preferred contractor) and instruct them to
carry out the rebuilding work, repairs or replacements.
b. We will pay you a cash settlement for the same amount it would have cost 
us to use our preferred contractor.
If we cannot offer rebuilding work, repairs or replacements (as defined by us) 
through our preferred contractor, we will pay you:
a. Fair and reasonable costs to have the work carried out by your chosen
supplier; or
b. The amount by which the buildings have gone down in value as a result of 
the damage; whichever is lower.
AIE offered a cash settlement of the amount it said it would cost for it to pay for the 
work to be done. Ive not seen any independent evidence that the cash settlement offered (£2,106.96, plus VAT) was unreasonable for the work that was required. And 
as far as I am aware, Mr S and Miss W have not provided us with any quotes they 
obtained.
However, Mr S and Miss W wanted AIE to arrange the repair works and made that 
clear in a message to AIE on 10 January 2023. AIE didnt action this but warned Mr S 
and Mrs W there would be some delay in its contractors doing any repairs. In their 
complaint message dated 23 January 2023, Mr S and Miss W said due to the delay it 
was appropriate that they get the work done themselves and be reimbursed.
In any case, by end January 2023, it seems AIE did arrange its contractors to do the 
work but this could not start until late April 2023. It took around three and a half 
months in total for the repairs to be completed. I think this was longer than most 
people would consider reasonable.
AIE also says that Mr S and Miss W knew there was going to be a delay if they got 
their contractors to do the work and they could have accepted a cash settlement 
instead. Therefore the delay it caused was only the initial three weeks (from 10 
January to 30 January 2023). 
Mr S and Miss W bought this policy for peace of mind and so they didnt have to find 
contractors in the event of issues like this occurring. While I am satisfied the cash 
settlement offered was not unreasonable, they were entitled to ask for the work to be 
done by AIEs contractors. So while I can understand a surge in claims caused AIE 
difficulties, this still resulted in a longer than reasonable wait by Mr S and Miss W for 
the repairs.
The repairs have now been completed satisfactorily, so I now only have to determine
whether any compensation is warranted for the trouble caused in waiting for AIE to 
complete the repairs. Mr S and Miss W did have a bath, so were not without bathing 
facilities but there would have been some upheaval and inconvenience still, as the 
bathroom was in a state of disrepair for longer than it should have been.
Having considered everything, I agree that the compensation of £500 recommended 
by the Investigator is reasonable to reflect the trouble caused.
I invited both parties to respond to my provisional decision with any further information they 
wanted considered before I issue my final decision. 
Mr S and Miss W have provided evidence of the quotes they obtained for the repair work 
(£2,082 and £1,179 for the carpets). They also say they were never offered £2,106.96 by 
AIE. They say they were offered £1,071, which they declined and later were offered a cash 
settlement of £1,255.94, which included metered water loss and carpet cleaning.  
AIE has also responded to my provisional decision. It says again that it thinks £500 
compensation is excessive for a three week delay. AIE says the fact that Mr S and Miss W 
were without shower facilities was a result of the insurance claim and not because of 
anything it did wrong, so this should not be part of the consideration for compensation. 
AIE also says that Mr S and Miss W were told on 10 January 2023 that there would be a 
delay of two months or more for its contractors to do the work. This was partly due to the 
weather conditions at the time, which affected all insurers and the demand for contractors 
was increased. So it is not reasonable for me to state that it took three and a half months in 
total for the repairs to be completed and that this was longer than most people would 
consider reasonable. AIE says again that £250 compensation would be more reasonable. What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
AIE says that because Mr S and Miss W were told thered be a long wait for contractors to 
start work compensation for the total time taken to complete the repairs (other than the three 
weeks it took to act on their request initially) is not warranted. While we would take account 
of all the circumstances when considering any case, and I acknowledge that there would 
have been increased demand for contractors at the time, Mr S and Miss W were apparently 
able to find contractors available. 
In addition, at the time Mr S and Miss W asked AIE to do the repairs they were not satisfied 
with the cash settlement offered. I can understand why. It was considerably less than the 
repairs actually cost and the scope of works included was not complete. It was only later that 
the cash offer increased and it is not clear exactly when the amount of £2,106.96 was 
offered to Mr S and Miss W (they say it never was). 
I also consider that AIE would have been obliged to make a cash settlement in the amount it 
would have cost Mr S and Miss W to do the work, as AIE was not able to complete the 
repairs within a reasonable time. It was therefore not reasonable to insist on the cash 
settlement being the amount it would have cost AIE to have the work done. When I issued 
my provisional decision, I had no evidence to suggest the amount of £2,106.96 was not 
reasonable to cover the costs of the repairs, but Mr S and Miss W have provided estimates 
which show it would have cost them more than this. Mr S and Miss W were concerned about 
the costs and that they were being offered less than they would have been able to get the 
work done for. They therefore understandably opted for AIE to complete the repairs. This 
does not mean that the wait for AIEs contractors to start was reasonable, just because they 
took this option knowing thered be a wait.  
Having considered all the evidence again, and the points raised in response to my 
provisional decision, I therefore remain of the opinion that AIE did cause additional delay and 
the claim should reasonably have been concluded sooner than it was. 
In my provisional decision I took account of the lack of a shower but also noted that Mr S 
and Miss W did have a bath, so were not without washing facilities. I also considered that 
there would have been some upheaval and inconvenience, as the bathroom was in a state 
of disrepair for longer than it should have been. I remain of the opinion that AIE should pay 
Mr S and Miss W the sum of £500 compensation for the distress and inconvenience caused 
by its handling of the claim. 
My final decision
I uphold this complaint and require Accredited Insurance (Europe) Ltd to pay Mr S
and Miss W the sum of £500 compensation for the distress and inconvenience caused by its
handling of this matter.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S and Miss W 
to accept or reject my decision before 27 September 2023.
 
Harriet McCarthy
Ombudsman