DRN-4164186
The complaint
Ms P complains that Santander UK Plc gave her incorrect information about interest on the 
account she opened with them.
What happened
Ms P says that she contacted Santander to open a Limited Edition eSaver over the phone. 
She says she was told she could deposit up to £1 million. Ms P says that she deposited all of 
her money into the account, and she received £1,339.63 in interest in November 2022, but 
despite her not making any transfers out of the account, she only received £731.32 interest 
in December 2022. Ms P contacted Santander and she spoke to a manager who listened to 
the original call she had with them, and he told Ms P the call handler told her that she could 
receive interest on up to £250,000, but she could deposit up to £1 million in the account. Ms 
P says this does not explain the difference in interest. Ms P made a complaint to Santander.
Santander did not uphold Ms Ps complaint. They said the call handler told Ms P on three 
separate occasions that interest was payable on balances up to £250,000. They said during 
the call Ms P told them that the initial deposit would be approximately £100,000, and at no 
point Ms P mentioned about depositing any further funds. They said on review of her 
account, she had received more interest than she was entitled to as it appears an error in 
their system had not capped the balance of £250,000 for interest to be received and as a 
result of this she had been credited more interest than she should have been by 
approximately £1,000. They said now this issue has been identified, they will work to ensure 
all future interest payments correctly reflect the cap in place on the account. Ms P brought 
her complaint to our service. 
Our investigator did not uphold Ms Ps complaint. She said she didnt have a copy of the 
initial call Ms P made to Santander, so she cant be certain what was discussed. But she 
said information about the account demonstrates interest will only be earned on balances up 
to £250,000. So Ms P had been put in a position of betterment as they paid her interest on 
the whole balance instead of £250,000.
Ms P asked for an ombudsman to review her complaint. She made a number of points. In 
summary, she said the amount of interest on the internet is for currently available accounts 
showing interest up to £250,000, but this is not the account she opened, and the details are 
different. She asked why Santander paid her the correct interest rate in the first month, but 
they subsequently reduced the interest in the second month even though it was a fixed rate 
account. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I asked Santander for a copy of the call recording when Ms P opened her account. While 
they previously couldnt locate this call, they have now been able to. The call handler goes 
through the application process. She tells Ms P so the e-Saver Limited Edition Issue 1 is an 
instant access account, paying a variable rate of 2.75% AER gross. The interest is paid on 
balances up to £250,000 only. So Im satisfied that Ms P was told the correct information 
here. But this wasnt the only time the call handler mentioned this. The call handler said you 
can save from £1, interest is paid up to £250,000 only.
The call handler asks Ms P how much she thinks shed be putting into the account initially 
and she says about £100,000. At the end of the call, the call handler says so thats open 
now, so you can start using it immediately, and youll get interest up to 250,000 of the 2.75. 
Ms P replies thats great, okay, thank you very much.
So after listening to this call Im satisfied the call handler clearly told Ms P on three separate 
occasions that the interest would be paid up to £250,000. Apart from Ms P indicating that 
she may be depositing around £100,000, Ms P didnt at any point of the account opening call 
indicate she would be depositing more than £250,000 into the account in the future. And she 
was not told on this call she could deposit £1 million.
I have looked at the specific Key Facts Document for the account that Ms P opened. I can 
confirm to Ms P that this was not a fixed rate account, as this document shows that the 
interest rate was variable. This also confirms that the 2.72% monthly interest is paid on 
balances between £1 and £250,000. While the document doesnt show a maximum balance, 
it does specifically state Interest is paid up to £250,000 only. So Im satisfied that this was 
clear that the maximum balance to earn interest was £250,000.
Ms P has commented on what the Santander website says now as opposed to when she 
applied for the account. Santander have managed to send me an extract from their website 
from 14 October 2022 regarding the account she opened  the same date her account was 
opened. This includes the wording Interest is paid on balances up to £250,000 only. So Im 
satisfied that the wording was clear that they would only pay interest up to £250,000.
Ive considered what Ms P has said about the monetary value of her interest falling. This is 
because when her account was opened, Santander had a system error which did not cap 
the interest at £250,000. As a result of this, her higher balance resulted in her being paid 
interest which she shouldnt have been paid (as she should have only been paid interest up 
to £250,000). Ms Ps monetary value of her interest fell as a result of Santander realising the 
interest cap wasnt on her account, so when they applied this  which should have been in 
force from the account opening  she was paid the interest on her balance up to £250,000. 
Santander have also said they sent out proactive communications to customers who had 
balances of over £250,000 when they realised the error. They sent me a template copy of 
this communication. This contains the text Weve noticed that you have over £250,000 in 
your e-Saver Limited Edition. While we pay interest on your balance below this amount, 
youre not earning any interest on the portion of your balance above £250,000. So Im 
satisfied that Santander made Ms P aware that the maximum balance they would pay 
interest on was £250,000. 
From the account opening phone call I listened to, Ms P told the call handler her concerns 
about fraudulent emails that were allegedly sent from Santander about charges and these 
contained weblinks. So it may be that Ms P did not open this communication as she was 
concerned it may not be legitimately from Santander. But even if Ms P did not open this 
communication, Im satisfied that she shouldve been aware of the maximum balance they 
would pay interest on based on the website information, the product fact sheet information 
and the telephone call she had with Santander.
As Santander made this error, they have not looked to recoup the overpaid interest that Ms 
P has benefitted from (which they estimate to be around £1,000 more than she should have received). And I think this is fair. But Im not persuaded that just because Santander had 
made an error by not applying the interest cap on the account originally, that this means they 
should let Ms P benefit from this after they have realised the mistake. This is because she 
was told on three occasions during the opening of her account (and the information was 
displayed on their website at the time, and the Key Facts Document) that the interest was 
payable on the account up to £250,000, and not over this amount. So it follows I dont 
require Santander to do anything further here.
My final decision
I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms P to accept or 
reject my decision before 3 November 2023.
 
Gregory Sloanes
Ombudsman