DRN-3744052
The complaint
Mr M complains that he was unable to sign up to a new cashback rewards scheme offered 
by Barclays Bank UK PLC trading as Barclaycard. Hes also unhappy that when he tried to 
contact the bank using the messaging service, he was told it was unavailable. His complaint 
has been brought on his behalf by a family member, but Ill refer mainly to Mr M. 
What happened
In August 2021, Mr M tried to sign up to a new reward scheme offered by Barclaycard which 
would provide cashback of up to 15% if purchases were made at selected retailers. When he 
tried to register his card, it couldnt be verified. He tried to contact Barclaycard using its 
messaging service but was told it was unavailable, so he complained. 
Barclaycard acknowledged Mr Ms complaint. It said it was aware some customers were 
unable to sign up to the new scheme. It said it had closed the messaging service pending a 
new version being introduced. Barclaycard said it could be contacted by phone and contact 
facilities on mobile banking. It apologised to Mr M for the problems hed experienced and 
said it was working hard to try to fix the system problem with the new scheme for those 
affected.
Mr M was unhappy with Barclaycards response. He said he felt he was being discriminated 
against as he was unable to earn cashback under the new scheme. He was also aware that 
some customers had been awarded compensation for being unable to sign up to it, but he 
hadnt. He referred his complaint to us.
One of our investigators looked into Mr Ms complaint. He didnt believe the inconvenience 
suffered by Mr M warranted compensation. He said Barclaycard had confirmed there had 
been no financial loss to Mr M as hed not used his card at any of the retailers covered by 
the new scheme. He set out a workaround that Barclaycard had provided to allow customers 
to sign up for the scheme if theyd been affected by the system problem.
Mr M disagreed with our investigator as he said Barclaycard had set a legal precedent by 
paying compensation to other customers. As there was no agreement, the complaint has 
been passed to me for a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Barclaycard has acknowledged that Mr M was initially unable to sign up for the new 
cashback offer. It apologised for this and has been able to put a workaround in place to allow 
Mr M to do so. Its not clear whether the workaround has enabled him to sign up, but if it 
hasnt, his best course of action would be to contact Barclaycard for further assistance.
Barclaycard said it had taken down its messaging service as it was being replaced. There 
were other contact options available to Mr M to use if needed. Its not for our service to tell a 
business what methods of contact it should provide to customers, but Im satisfied there 
were options available to him.
I dont agree with Mr Ms claim that he has been discriminated against. While some card 
holders were unable to sign up to the new scheme, Ive seen nothing that indicates it was a 
discriminatory action, simply a system failure. To put things right, Barclaycard apologised to 
Mr M and provided a workaround to enable him to join the scheme. I think thats reasonable.
Mr M has said a legal precedent was set by Barclays paying compensation to some other 
customers. Legal precedent can only be set by the Courts  not by Barclaycard or indeed 
our service. If Barclaycard wishes to pay compensation to people affected by a situation, that 
does not, in my view, constitute a legal precedent. All customers circumstances are different 
so the level of inconvenience will be different. It is for Barclaycard to decide when it 
compensates a customer and when it doesnt. The rules that govern our service also allow 
us to instruct Barclaycard to do so in some circumstances.
The rules are set out in the Handbook of the Financial Conduct Authority, specifically the 
Dispute Resolution section (DISP). DISP 3.7 sets out the circumstances in which we can 
make an award  including for distress and inconvenience - as a result of a mistake caused 
by a business. DISP 2.7.1R says an eligible complainant is one who meets a number of 
tests. The relevant tests in this complaint are that Mr M is a consumer (as defined by DISP) 
who is a customer of the respondent business (Barclaycard) for the purpose of the event 
complained of.
So Mr M is the eligible complainant in the complaint under our rules. We can only make an 
award for distress and inconvenience caused to the eligible complainant if the businesss 
mistake has resulted in adverse consequences for them. Using a business wont always be 
easy or hassle free, so just because a system problem has arisen it doesnt automatically 
follow that we would make an award.
Barclaycard has told us that it has not provided compensation to all customers who were 
subject of its system problem. Ive thought carefully about whether the system problem 
warrants an award to Mr M in the circumstances. Ive read the correspondence between the 
bank and Mr M (and his representative) to do so. Having done that, I dont think I can make 
an award here.
Mr M tried to sign up for a scheme which he was eligible to join but couldnt do so. But hes 
suffered no financial loss as prior to being given the workaround, he hadnt used his card to 
make purchases from retailers covered by the scheme. A family member complained to 
Barclaycard on his behalf. So the majority of the inconvenience will have been suffered by 
the family member who brought the complaint to Barclaycard and our service, and Mr M has 
been shielded from that inconvenience.
Taking all that into account, I dont think Mr M has suffered distress and inconvenience 
sufficient to warrant financial compensation. I have no power to make an award to his 
representative as they are not the eligible complainant in this case. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold Mr Ms complaint about Barclays Bank UK PLC 
trading as Barclaycard.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 18 November 2022. 
Richard HaleOmbudsman