DRN-3970467
The complaint
Ms W complains that Santander UK Plc (Santander) have failed to refund £189,199 she 
lost to an investment scam.
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, and the investigator has 
previously set out a comprehensive overview, so I wont repeat everything again here. 
Instead, I will provide a brief summary and focus on giving the reasons for my decision.
Ms W fell victim to a cryptocurrency investment scam in March 2021. She was encouraged 
to open multiple cryptocurrency wallets by scammers purporting to be investment brokers. 
Over the next six months, Ms W made multiple large payments to her crypto wallets 
collectively totalling over £290,000, where her funds were subsequently transferred on to the 
scammers. 
Santander chose to refund £103,500 to Ms W under the Contingent Reimbursement Model 
(CRM) Code but said it would not refund the payments she paid to Binance and Crypto.com, 
totalling £189,199. The bank said it had warned Ms W of the risks associated with fraud and 
scams when it questioned her about the payments and didnt think it could have done 
anything more to have stopped the fraud. 
Our investigator didnt uphold the complaint. He considered the extent to which Santander 
questioned Ms W about the payments she was making and didnt think it couldve done 
anything further to have prevented her loss. Ms W disagreed, so the matter has been 
escalated to me to determine.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the conclusions reached by the investigator and have decided 
not to uphold it. Ill explain why.
Ms Ws representative has made a considerable number of submissions about her 
complaint, and Id like to assure all parties that I have read and considered everything 
theyve sent in. However, I dont intend to respond in similar detail. I have set out the 
reasons for my decision in the paragraphs below, but if I dont mention a particular point or 
piece of evidence, it isnt because I havent seen it or thought about it. Instead, its just that I 
dont feel the need to reference it in order to explain my decision. This isnt intended as a 
discourtesy  its just a reflection of the informal nature of our service.
First, Santander has already agreed to refund seven of the fifteen disputed payments Ms W 
made as part of the scam. As such, the focus of my decision will be on the remaining 
payments Ms W made to both Binance and Crypto.com that Santander has chosen not to 
refund. In terms of these payments, its worth noting that Santander are under no obligation 
to refund them under the CRM Code, as the Code does not apply to payments which the 
payer has effectively made to themselves (which would have been the case here given they 
were made to Ms Ws own crypto wallets before being moved on to the scammer). However, 
Ive considered whether there is any other basis for Santander to be held liable for Ms Ws 
remaining loss.
It isnt in dispute that Ms W has fallen victim to a scam here, nor that she authorised the 
disputed payments she made to her crypto wallets from her Santander account (where her 
funds were subsequently transferred on to the scammers from those crypto wallets). The 
payments were requested by her using her legitimate security credentials provided by 
Santander, and the starting position is that banks ought to follow the instructions given by 
their customers in order for legitimate payments to be made as instructed.
However, Ive considered whether Santander should have done more to prevent Ms W from 
falling victim to the scam, as there are some situations in which a bank should reasonably 
have had a closer look at the circumstances surrounding a particular transfer. For example, 
if it was particularly out of character. 
It isnt in dispute that some of the payments Ms W made were unusual given that they did 
trigger Santanders fraud prevention systems and were automatically blocked pending 
further enquiry  such as the £25,000 payment made on 18 August 2021, as well as the 
£30,000 payment she made on 24 August 2021. Accordingly, its just a question of whether 
the bank went far enough in all the circumstances with its intervention.
When Santander spoke to Ms W on 18 August 2021, she said that she was buying furniture 
with cryptocurrency, but she refused to disclose the name of the company she was dealing 
with. She didnt disclose that she was being advised by a third-party when asked, and 
neither did she say she was making an investment. Santander proceeded to warn Ms W that 
fraudsters were posing as brokers who would encourage victims to open cryptocurrency 
wallets, which they would take control of. It also asked if anyone had helped set up her 
crypto wallets, to which she said they hadnt. Santander also asked Ms W if anyone had told 
her what to say if she was questioned about the payment, to which she also said they hadnt. 
Ms W gave similar answers when she spoke to Santander again on 24 August 2021.
Having considered the questions Santander asked during their interventions  as well as the 
responses given by Ms W  Im not persuaded there was anything further the bank could 
have done to prevent her falling victim to the scam. Ms W said that she had not been 
assisted by a third party in opening her crypto wallets, and that no one had told her to 
mislead the bank, despite this being the precise scenario she was in. I can see that she also 
expressed frustration to the bank about not being able to spend her money in the way she 
wanted, and assured it that she was happy to proceed with the payment. 
Santander gave Ms W clear warnings that were relevant to the scam she was falling victim 
to. I think it asked appropriate questions of her, which were ultimately led by the answers 
she gave. If she had answered the questions accurately and said she was in contact with a 
third-party broker that had encouraged her to open crypto wallets, then I accept it would 
have been incumbent on Santander to maintain suspicion about the payments and to probe 
further into the circumstances. But seeing as Ms W was not forthcoming with these details, I 
dont think there was any failing on Santanders part to probe any further or to have stopped 
the payments altogether. Ms W confirmed on more than one occasion that no other third-
party was helping her or involved in the transactions and said that no one had told her to 
mislead the bank. Santander also told her where to check online to see if she was potentially 
being scammed, but Ms W still insisted on proceeding with the payment. 
Accordingly, there was no other significant reason for Santander to stop Ms W from 
spending her money in the way she wanted. I appreciate Ms W says she was vulnerable at 
the time, as she was suffering with her mental health. Im sorry to hear about the difficult time Ms W has gone though. But I cant see that Santander had been given prior notice of 
any vulnerabilities, or that there was any suggestion that she might have lacked capacity to 
make her own financial decisions at the time. As such, it wouldnt have been reasonable for 
Santander to refuse a payment mandate given by Ms W after she had assured it that she 
knew what she was doing, and that she wasnt falling for a scam.
Therefore, even if I were to accept that Santander should have intervened earlier, I dont 
consider it would have made any difference here. Im not persuaded Ms W would have been 
upfront about what she was doing, as she wasnt when Santander spoke to her on all other 
occasions. So, theres no plausible basis on which to say the bank could have reasonably 
prevented or got to the bottom of the scam in such circumstances.  
I appreciate this will likely come as a disappointment to Ms W, and Im sorry to hear she has 
been the victim of a cruel scam. However, Im not persuaded that Santander can fairly or 
reasonably be held liable for her outstanding loss in these circumstances, as the evidence 
suggests that it wouldnt have been able to uncover or prevent the scam. 
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I do not uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms W to accept or 
reject my decision before 21 August 2023.
 
Jack Ferris
Ombudsman