DRN-4346197
The complaint
Mr C has complained that Gain Credit LLC trading as Lending Stream incorrectly recorded a 
hard search on his credit file. 
What happened
Lending Stream contacted Mr C in January 2023 to say it had incorrectly recorded a hard 
search on his credit file instead of a soft search when hed applied for credit in February 
2021. It said it would remove the search. Mr C was unhappy and said he was lied to by 
Lending Stream. He said this negatively affected his credit rating for nearly two years and 
hed been refused credit which caused him a lot of stress and struggle. Mr C requested an 
apology by way of £5,000 compensation. 
Lending Stream said its more than just a credit score that will influence a lenders decision 
to grant credit. It said when it identified the issue it asked the credit reference agencies to tell 
it what the impact of a single hard search would have on a persons credit file. It said the 
credit reference agencies told it that a single search, in isolation, is unlikely to have an 
adverse impact. But multiple searches within a short space of time could impact a persons 
credit score. It didnt think the hard search it recorded had a noticeable negative impact on 
Mr Cs ability to obtain credit. 
Lending Stream said it removed the search to make sure the information it recorded was 
accurate. It also apologised and said it changed the way it carried out searches so it wouldnt 
happen again. 
Mr C wasnt happy with the response and asked the Financial Ombudsman to investigate. 
One of our investigators looked into things and noted Lending Stream had apologised. She 
also said Mr C hadnt supplied evidence of the impact on him of the hard search, or that hed 
been refused credit as a result of it. She said Mr C would have to supply evidence of the 
impact and without that she didnt think Lending Stream needed to pay compensation. 
Mr C didnt agree. He said a hard search only lasts for two years and Lending Stream 
contacted him after one year and eleven months. He said Lending Stream has committed a 
crime against him. And that the investigator was encouraging foul play with no 
repercussions. 
As things werent resolved, the complaint has been passed to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I want to acknowledge Ive summarised the events of the complaint. I dont intend any 
discourtesy by this  it just reflects the informal nature of our service. Im required to decide 
matters quickly and with minimum formality. But I want to assure Mr C and Lending Stream 
that Ive reviewed everything on file. And if I dont comment on something, its not because I 
havent considered it. Its because Ive concentrated on what I think are the key issues. Our 
powers allow me to do this. 
I also want to set out that its not my role to fine or punish financial businesses. Thats the 
job of the regulator. 
I dont have as much information as Id like about the original application, but Im going to 
assume Mr C applied for a regulated credit agreement. And I find we have the power to 
investigate Lending Streams decision to record a hard search in relation to the credit 
agreement on his credit file.
Just because something has gone wrong for a customer, it doesnt automatically mean were 
going to direct the business to pay compensation. Any award we make should recognise the 
impact a business mistake has had on the complainant. 
In this case, from what I can see Lending Stream recorded a hard search when it was meant 
to record a soft search when Mr C applied for credit in February 2021. And in January 2023 
it wrote to Mr C to say it was updating his credit file to remove the search. Mr C hasnt shown 
us any evidence the hard search had a material impact on him or caused any applications 
for credit to be declined. Without supporting evidence, Ive not got the grounds to say he was 
caused any detriment by Lending Streams mistake.
I appreciate Lending Stream noticed the mistake when the search was about to drop off his 
credit file in any event. So I can understand why Mr C may have thought it was too little, too 
late. But as Lending Stream pointed out, the hard search in isolation wouldnt have likely had 
a notable impact on his credit score, or credit applications, even while it was on his credit 
file. 
All things considered, I appreciate Mr C has been put to the trouble of raising his complaint. 
But there will always be a level of inconvenience caused when complaining. Having 
considered everything, I think Lending Streams apology is fair in the circumstances. Without 
evidence of any detriment caused as a result of the search, Im not going to direct Lending 
Stream to take any further action. 
Mr C is free of course to pursue the complaint by other means, such as through the courts, 
as hes indicated. My final decision
Gain Credit LLC trading as Lending Stream has apologised to Mr C for the mistake. In all the 
circumstances I think this is fair and reasonable. I make no further directions. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 30 November 2023.
 
Simon Wingfield
Ombudsman