DRN-3428173
The complaint
Miss G complains (through a representative) that Morses Club PLC (Morses) gave her loans
that she couldnt afford to repay.
What happened
Our adjudicator partly upheld Miss Gs complaint. Miss G didnt agree with the adjudicators 
assessment. The complaint was then passed to me. 
I issued my provisional decision explaining the reasons why I was also partially upholding 
Miss Gs complaint. A copy of the background to the complaint and my provisional findings 
follow this in italics and a smaller font and form part of this final decision.
What I said in my first provisional decision
Miss G took six home collected loans between June 2018 and May 2019 Ive included some
of the information weve received about these loans in the table below.
loan 
numberloan 
amountagreement 
dateloan 
repayment 
dateterm 
(weeks)weekly 
repayment
1 £100.00 13/06/2018 14/09/2018 20 £7.50
2 £200.00 14/09/2018 20/11/2018 20 £15.00
3 £600.00 20/11/2018 14/05/2019 33 £30.00
4 £200.00 20/02/2019 sold 33 £10.00
5 £500.00 22/03/2019 sold 52 £17.50
6 £600.00 14/05/2019 sold 33 £30.00
The statement of account provided to the Financial Ombudsman Service from Morses shows
that Miss G had problems repaying her final three loans and it sold the balances to a third-party 
collection agency in March 2021.
The weekly repayment column is the cost per week per loan, so where loans overlapped
the cost per week will be more. For example, when loans 3 and 4 were running Miss Gs
weekly commitment was £40.
Morses considered Miss Gs complaint and issued its final response letter in May 2021.
Morses investigated the complaint and concluded it hadnt made an error when it approved
these loans for Miss G.
Miss G didnt agree with the outcome reached by Morses and her representative referred the
complaint to our Service in August 2021.
The complaint was then considered by an adjudicator who didnt think it was wrong for
Morses to have granted loans 1 - 5. But the adjudicator thought that by loan 6 the lending
was now harmful for Miss G and Morses shouldnt have advanced this loan.
Morses agreed with the adjudicators assessment. It explained that it would arrange for the
third party to reduce the amount that Miss G owed towards loan six from £903.90 to £513.90
 which is the outstanding principal owed. Morses also agreed to remove the loan from 
Miss Gs credit file but only after it has been fully repaid.
The adjudicator contacted Miss Gs representative to let them know Morses had agreed with
the assessment. Miss G didnt agree, through her representative she told us;
We have discussed the offer with [Miss Gs full name] and she has advised that she
is not happy to accept the offer.
[Miss G] will be sending us additional information for your consideration. As soon as
we have received this we will forward it to you.
The adjudicator chased Miss Gs representative for the further information she said she
would send. But to date nothing further has been received.
As no agreement has been reached, the case has been passed to me for a decision.
What Ive provisionally decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about short-term lending - including all the
relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice - on our website.
Morses had to assess the lending to check if Miss G could afford to pay back the amounts
shed borrowed without undue difficulty. It needed to do this in a way which was
proportionate to the circumstances. Morses checks could have taken into account a number
of different things, such as how much was being lent, the size of the repayments, and Miss
Gs income and expenditure.
With this in mind, I think in the early stages of a lending relationship, less thorough checks
might have been proportionate. But certain factors might suggest Morses should have done
more to establish that any lending was sustainable for Miss G. These factors include:
Miss G having a low income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make any loan 
repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income);
The amounts to be repaid being especially high (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income);
Miss G having a large number of loans and/or having these loans over a long period of time 
(reflecting the risk that repeated refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become, or 
was becoming, unsustainable);
Miss G coming back for loans shortly after previous borrowing had been repaid (also 
suggestive of the borrowing becoming unsustainable).
There may even come a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable for Miss G.
Morses was required to establish whether Miss G could sustainably repay the loans  not
just whether she technically had enough money to make repayments. Having enough
money to make the repayments could of course be an indicator that Miss G was able to
repay her loans sustainably. But it doesnt automatically follow that this is the case.
Industry regulations say that payments are sustainable if they are made without undue
difficulties and in particular, made on time, while meeting other reasonable commitments and
without having to borrow to make them. If a lender realises, or ought reasonably to have
realised, that a borrower wont be able to make their repayments without borrowing further,
then it follows that it should conclude those repayments are unsustainable.
Ive considered all the arguments, evidence and information provided in this context, andthought about what this means for Miss Gs complaint.
I wont make a finding about loan 6, because Morses has already agreed that something
went wrong when this loan was advanced. For completeness, Ive included what Morses
needs to do to put things right for Miss G in relation to loan 6 at the end of this decision.
I appreciate Miss G says shes not happy with the outcome of her complaint, but she hasnt
provided any details as to why.
Loans 1  3
Miss G says she was unhappy with the offer but she hasnt told the us exactly what she was
unhappy with and why.
The adjudicator didnt uphold Miss Gs complaint about these loans, and I agree with him,
based on the evidence that Ive seen from both Morses and Miss G.
For these loans Miss G declared she had a weekly income of between £326 and £412, with
declared weekly expenditure of between £172 and £240. It also looks like that for at least
loans two and three Morses was able to verify her income through some sort of credit check.
For loan one a credit search was also carried out, at the time Morses was aware of two
active Country Court Judgements (CCJs) recorded against Miss G, but the most recent had
been recorded over three years before. These CCJs werent a sign that Miss G was having
immediate financial difficulties - this is especially so when the rest of the report didnt
highlight anything further of concern. Overall, I dont think it was unreasonable to have lent
these loans based on the credit report.
Based on the information Miss G declared Morses couldve been confident she was in a
position to afford the contractual repayments she was due to make for these loans. Given
this was in the early part of the lending relationship; I think the checks that Morses did were
proportionate and it didnt need to do any further checks before agreeing to these loans.
As this is the case, Im not upholding Miss Gs complaint about loans 1 - 3.
Loans 4 and 5
When loan 4 was granted, loan 3 was still outstanding. So, while Miss Gs weekly
commitment solely for loan 4 was £10 her actual contractual repayments due to Morses was
£40 per week.
Morses has told us for loan 4 Miss G declared her weekly income as being £277 with
outgoings of £194.50. This left disposable weekly income of around £82 per week
Its worth adding here that it isnt clear whether Miss Gs disposable income figure included
the repayments for loan 3. So, did the £82 need to cover the weekly repayments of £40 or
£10. But I dont think I need an answer to this question in order to reach a fair outcome.
But regardless as to whether the £82 needed to cover the sole payment for loan 4, or the
combined payment I still dont think these checks went far enough even though, the
information suggested that Miss G was likely to be able to afford the repayments she was
committed to making.
I do think by this point Morses needed to do more. She had been indebted to
Morses for around eight months and was coming back for further borrowing extending her
indebtedness by at least another 30 weeks.
There had also been a pattern of new loans being taken out on the same day that a previous
loan had been repaid, which could suggest there was an ongoing need to have funds in
order to cover a short fall in her finances, and this was now the first time that loans had
overlapped and had significantly increased her weekly commitment to Morses by 30%.
These factors ought to have led Morses to have carried out further checks before loan fourwas granted. It couldve done this a number of ways, for example it couldve asked to see a
copy of her credit report and it couldve checked her expenditure either through asking for
bank statements or perhaps asking to see copies of the bills that she had declared. Either
way, its clear from the information Morses has provided that it didnt do either of these
things.
Miss G has provided the Financial Ombudsman with a copy of her full credit report. This was
produced in 2021, but it covers the time period for when Miss G was borrowing from Morses.
So, I dont think it is unreasonable to see what, if anything the credit report can tell me about
Miss Gs wider financial situation at the time this loan was advanced.
Morses, from the credit checks it carried out at loan one knew that Miss G had 2 CCJS on
her credit file, by now the most recent one had been reported four years before this loan. But
her full credit report shows a further two CCJS being recorded one in September 2018 and
one in October 2018. So Morses, ought to have been aware at this point that not only where
there 4 CCJS on Miss Gs credit file, but that two of them had been reported within the last
five months.
These two CCJS are in my view close enough to the advancing of this loan to show that
Miss G must have been having current financial difficulties and had problems repaying her
outstanding debts.
In addition to this her credit file shows that she was in arrears with a utility company and had
recently had adverse information reported on her credit file about her current account,
indicating that Miss G was likely using an unarranged overdraft. Which I think is a sign that
someone may be struggling.
Overall, for loan 4, Miss Gs credit file shows a deterioration in her financial position which
Morses wouldve likely been aware of had it carried out a proportionate check, so Im
intending to uphold her complaint about this loan because I dont think the repayments were
sustainable.
For the same reasons as above, further checks needed to be carried out before loan five
was advanced. While the weekly disposable income for loan five again suggested that Miss
G could afford her weekly commitment of £57.50 (owing to loans 3 and 4 still running).
For the same reasons as loan 4, I also dont think Morses could be confident that Miss G
was in a position to sustainably repay this loan given what a proportionate check wouldve
likely highlighted about her current financial position.
Indeed, by this point, Miss Gs credit file shows further arrears on the utility and current
account, indicating that Miss G wasnt able to service these debts, so it isnt clear why
Morses may have felt that further lending was sustainable.
Overall, Im also intending to uphold Miss Gs complaint about loans 4 and 5.
Loan 6
As I said at the start of the decision, I wont comment further on whether Morses was right or
wrong to approve this loan because it has already accepted that something did go wrong
when it was advanced. Morses has agreed to settle this loan in line with the well-established
approach the Financial Ombudsman takes when resolving cases. So, there is nothing further
for me to decide in relation to this loan.
Miss G says further information would be provided but despite the adjudicator chasing to see
whether she had anything further - no further evidence has been provided.
Response to the provisional decision
Both Miss G and Morses were asked to provide any further comments, evidence or 
information for consideration by the Financial Ombudsman no later than 6 April 2022. Neither Miss Gs representative nor Morses provide anything further for me to consider. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As neither party has provided any further information, they wanted me to consider, I see no 
reason to depart from the findings I reached in the provisional decision. 
I still think, Morses needed to have carried out further checks when loans four and five were 
advanced. Had it done so, Morses wouldve likely discovered that Miss G was having long 
term financial difficulties given the fact that two CCJS had recently been recorded against 
her. So, Im upholding Miss Gs complaint about these loans. 
Morses had already accepted the adjudicators assessment about loan six, so I say no more 
about this loan. 
Ive outlined below what Morses needs to do in order to put things right. 
Putting things right
In deciding what redress Morses should fairly pay in this case Ive thought about what might
have happened had it stopped lending to Miss G from loan four, as Im satisfied it ought to
have. Clearly there are a great many possible, and all hypothetical, answers to that question.
For example, having been declined this lending Miss G may have simply left matters there,
not attempting to obtain the funds from elsewhere  particularly as a relationship existed
between them and this particular lender which they may not have had with others. If this
wasnt a viable option, they may have looked to borrow the funds from a friend or relative 
assuming that was even possible.
Or, they may have decided to approach a third-party lender with the same application, or
indeed a different application (i.e. for more or less borrowing). But even if they had done
that, the information that would have been available to such a lender and how they would (or
ought to have) treated an application which may or may not have been the same is
impossible to now accurately reconstruct. From what Ive seen in this case, I certainly dont
think I can fairly conclude there was a real and substantial chance that a new lender would
have been able to lend to Miss G in a compliant way at this time.
Having thought about all of these possibilities, Im not persuaded it would be fair or
reasonable to conclude that Miss G would more likely than not have taken up any one of
these options. So, it wouldnt be fair to now reduce Morsess liability in this case for what Im
satisfied it has done wrong and should put right.
Morses has already accepted that loan 6 shouldnt have been provided but I also dont think
that loans 4 or 5 shouldve been provided either. So, Ive outlined below what it needs to do
in total in order to put things right for Miss G.
If Morses have sold the outstanding debts it should buy these back if it is able to do so and
then take the following steps. If Morses is not able to buy the debts back then it should liaise
with the new debt owner to achieve the results outlined below.
A. Morses should remove all interest, fees and charges from the balance on loans 4 - 6, and treat any repayments made by Miss G as though they had been repayments of 
the principal on these loans. If this results in Miss G having made overpayments then 
Morses should refund these overpayments with 8% simple interest* calculated on the 
overpayments, from the date the overpayments would have arisen, to the date the 
complaint is settled.
B. If there is still an outstanding balance then any overpayments calculated in A can 
be used to repay any balance remaining on outstanding loans and any principal 
Morses may have already written-off. If this results in a surplus then the surplus 
should be paid to Miss G. However, if there is still an outstanding balance then 
Morses should try to agree an affordable repayment plan with Miss G. Morses 
shouldnt pursue outstanding balances made up of principal it has already written-off.
C. Morses should remove any adverse information recorded on Miss Gs credit file in 
relation to loans 4 and 5. The overall pattern of Miss Gs borrowing for loan 6 means 
any information recorded about it is adverse, so Morses should remove this loan 
entirely from Miss Gs credit file. Morses doesnt have to remove loan 6 from 
Miss Gs credit file until it has been repaid, but Morses should still remove any 
adverse information recorded about it.
*HM Revenue & Customs requires Morses to deduct tax from this interest. Morses should 
give Miss G a certificate showing how much tax it deducted if she asks for one.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained above and in the provisional decision, Im upholding Miss Gs 
complaint in part.
Morses Club PLC should put things right for Miss G as outlined above. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss G to accept 
or reject my decision before 12 May 2022.
 
Robert Walker
Ombudsman