DRN-3320113
The complaint
Miss K complains about the information Omni Capital Retail Finance Limited recorded on her 
credit reference file. Miss K also complains the business sent her another customers 
personal information by mistake. 
What happened
Miss K took out a loan with Omni in 2017. The amount of credit plus interest was £3,988.78 
to be paid over 36 months. The initial payment was £106.73 and the remainder of the 
payments were £106.63. 
Miss K says in 2018 she agreed with Omni to make reduced payments on her personal loan 
due to a change in her personal circumstances. 
Miss K says she noticed the reduced payments were not reflected on her credit reference 
file.  Miss K says Omni told her the reduced payments would reflect in the balance but she 
says the remaining balance fluctuates. Miss K says Omni told her the interest on her account 
has been frozen but the credit report doesnt reflect this. 
Miss K says when she made a complaint to Omni she was issued a complaint response for 
someones elses account which was sent to her email address. Miss K says Omni later sent 
her the correct letter and in that it didnt uphold her complaint. 
Omni said each time a reduced payment is made it is taken off the overall balance. It said 
since Miss Ks contractual monthly instalments werent being met they will show on the credit 
report as being behind and missed. Omni said since the information held on the credit file is 
correct it would not amend it. Omni said it had an obligation to accurately report to the credit 
reference agencies and it was unable to remove the markers applied.
When Omni didnt uphold her complaint she contacted the credit reference agency. Miss K 
says the agency raised a dispute and have since contacted her to say Omni are reporting a 
payment arrangement. Miss K says this isnt visible to her and she would like it investigated. 
Miss K wants to be compensated for the data breach, and for the inconvenience of having to 
contact Omni and the credit reference agency in order to resolve the matter. Miss K would 
also like compensation because of the adverse effect an incorrect credit file may have had to 
other lenders. So she referred her complaint to this service. 
Our investigator looked into things for Miss K and did not uphold the complaint. She said 
Omni had acted in line with the credit agreement when charging Miss K interest for missed 
payments and for placing the account in arrears when it was unable to contact Miss K to 
discuss the arrangement. The investigator said she thought Omni had acted fairly and in 
accordance with the terms and conditions of the credit agreement, and so she would not ask 
Omni to take any further action to resolve the complaint. 
Miss K wasnt happy with the response received from the investigator. Miss K maintains she 
was not told that she needed to contact the business every three months or the account 
would be placed in arrears. And so the complaint has been passed to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I think Omni have acted reasonably here. I know this will come as a 
disappointment to Miss K. I dont doubt how difficult the matter has been for her and I 
acknowledge how strongly she feels about events. 
When looking at complaints like these I look at the terms and conditions of the credit 
agreement as well as whether Omni has acted fairly in reporting information to the credit 
reference agencies. 
GDPR 
Omni told us its Data Protection Officer was dealing with the data breach which occurred 
when the handler was working from home due to the pandemic and had to issue letters via 
email. Omni have said its staff are now back in the office and so letters will be sent by post 
which should ensure it wont happen again. 
Omni told Miss K if her own personal data had been breached a member of the Data 
Protection team would have contacted her to let her know. As far as I am aware Miss K has 
not been contacted in this regard. I acknowledge Miss K may have been concerned to 
receive information about another customer but theres no evidence to suggest Miss Ks data 
has been shared incorrectly. 
Reduced payment agreement 
Miss K arranged a payment plan with Omni where she would pay £1 per month following 
financial difficulties she was facing. The payment plan was set up for three months at a time. 
At the end of each three-month period Omni and Miss K were to discuss the arrangement to 
see if it was still suitable. If it was suitable the payment plan was reset for a further three 
months. Omni said if it was not able to speak with the customer the account is then placed 
into arrears and so interest is added as per the original credit agreement. Miss K says she 
was never informed that the reduced payment agreement was only in place for three months 
at a time. 
As part of my review I have looked at the contact made with Miss K throughout the life of the 
loan. In May 2018 Miss K contacted Omni to say she wasnt working and at that stage wasnt 
sure what action she wanted to take in respect of the loan. The notes of that call say nothing 
was agreed. In September 2018 Miss K told Omni she may be able to afford £1 a month, 
which was agreed in October. In January 2019 Omni attempted to contact Miss K. She 
called back the following day and confirmed there had been no change in circumstances and 
the notes record agreed to review in 3 months. I wont detail the content of each call or 
attempt to contact Miss K, but I can see that Omni attempted to contact Miss K every three 
months to discuss her circumstances. And when contact was made the notes reflect the 
payment agreement being for a three-month period. So I think Miss K would have known 
that Omni was checking her circumstances regularly with a view to increasing her payments 
when appropriate.  
I have listened to the telephone calls sent to me by Omni has part of the complaint. I have 
heard the customer service advisors tell Miss K the arrangement was for three months. But I 
do think they could have been more explicit in their explanation of the arrangement and the 
consequences of not making contact every three months. Omni accept it could have been clearer when communicating with Miss K and as a gesture 
of goodwill it removed the interest that had been added since Miss K first entered into the 
reduced payment plan in September 2018 which was £110.61. Omni also offered to reduce 
Miss Ks outstanding balance by £150 and I think this offer is fair in the circumstances of the 
complaint.
Reporting to Credit Reference Agency
A reduced payment plan was agreed with Miss K in September 2018. In February 2019 
Omni were informed by Miss Ks bank that the direct debit had been cancelled and in the 
absence of any contact with Miss K, the account was moved to arrears and interest was 
added in line with the original credit agreement. Miss K contacted Omni towards the end of 
the month and made a card payment and reset the reduced payment agreement. But in the 
meantime Omni reported the removal of the reduced plan to the credit reference agency. 
Omni continued to report missed payments where Miss K had not paid the agreed £1. 
The credit agreement set out monthly payments of approximately £106 per month. Since 
Miss K was not making those payments the arrears on the account continued to accrue. I 
can see Omni explained to Miss K that since the account was in arrears it was likely that this 
would affect her credit file. Omni explained each time a reduced payment is made it comes 
off the overall balance. But since the contracted monthly instalment isnt being paid it may 
show as being behind and missed. I know Miss K is unhappy that a reduced payment plan 
should impact her credit file but since Omni reported the correct information to the agency I 
cant say it has done anything wrong here.
I can appreciate Miss K may have been keen to avoid her credit file being impacted at a time 
that she was struggling to make payments towards her loan. And she may feel aggrieved 
that a payment plan was in place but Omni continued to report to the credit reference 
agency. Omni, like all credit providers, have an obligation to report accurate information to 
credit reference agencies. Omni appear to have been doing that here. I can understand Miss 
K may have been dismayed to see that missed payments were being reported to her credit 
file by Omni during the period that she was in arrears and when Omni had placed a hold on 
her account. But Im satisfied that Omnis actions in reporting in this way were fair and 
reasonable and in line with its obligations as a credit provider. 
Omni explained it does not have any control over the level of impact its reporting will have on 
a credit report. It sends the data to the agency on a monthly basis and the reporting is the 
responsibility and at the discretion of the individual credit reference agency. So I cant say 
Omni have acted unfairly or unreasonably here. 
I can see Omni have removed the interest from the account from the point the payment plan 
was first entered into. It has also offered Miss K £150 reduction from the overall balance of 
the loan. I think the offer is fair and reasonable in the circumstances of the complaint. 
My final decision
Omni Capital Retail Finance Limited has already made an offer to reduce Miss Ks account 
by £150 to settle the complaint and I think this offer is fair in all the circumstances. 
Omni should now reduce Miss Ks account accordingly. Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss K to accept 
or reject my decision before 17 May 2022.
 
Kiran Clair
Ombudsman