DRN-3940250
The complaint
Mr D complains that Tymit Ltd wont refund payments he didnt make with his credit card.
What happened
Mr D says he lost his credit card. And so, he disputes the three payments which came to 
£1,413.10 that were made after this. He is unhappy that Tymit wont refund them.
Tymit said that it wouldnt be refunding the money. The payments were made when the chip 
on the card was read, and the correct PIN entered. Mr D had told it that hed kept a record of 
the PIN with the card in his wallet. And although hed taken action to disguise this hed not 
acted vigilantly, and this allowed his security information to be exposed to a third party.
Our investigator recommended that the payments be refunded together with any interest, 
fees and charges. She said that it wasnt in dispute that these payments were unauthorised 
as Tymit was saying that Mr D had been grossly negligent with his security information. But 
these were credit transactions and Section 83 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974 meant that a 
consumer isnt liable for any loss arising from the use of a credit facility in these 
circumstances. 
Tymit didnt agree and wanted an ombudsman to review the complaint. It referred to its 
terms and conditions requiring Mr D to keep his security information safe. And it said that 
this Mr D had effectively disclosed his PIN.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I need to take account of the Payment Services Regulations 2017. And to think about 
whether Mr D authorised the payments from his account. And where credit is involved as 
here on credit cards, the Consumer Credit Act 1974 applies, and it states that a consumer 
wouldnt be liable for an unauthorised payment unless they consented to someone else 
having possession of that credit card.
Ive seen the information provided by Tymit showing that the payments were made when the 
chip on the card was read, and the correct PIN entered. And so were authenticated. Mr Ds 
explanation about the loss of his card isnt disputed by Tymit. So, Ive no reasonable basis to 
find that the payments were authorised. He provided details of how hed disguised the PIN 
within a phone number and said that he didnt use the card very often. I cant see evidence 
that he intended that someone else have possession of the card and PIN and use it in this 
way.
While I appreciate that the terms and conditions of the account required Mr D to keep his 
card and security information safe they also state (in condition 13) that:
If you allow someone else to use your Card, you will be liable for all Purchases they make 
until you tell us that the Card may have been misused. You will not be liable for (and we will 
refund) any other Purchases not authorised by you.
And for the reasons Ive given I dont find that Mr D consented to someone else having 
possession of his card and then using it. 
I agree with the refund recommended by our investigator. And also, I add that putting Mr D in 
the position he ought now to be in will require any related adverse credit information to be 
removed from his credit file.
My final decision
My decision is that I uphold this complaint and I require Tymit Ltd to:
1) Refund these disputed payments and rework the account to remove any related 
interest, fees or charges.
2) Ensure that no adverse credit information about Mr D in relation to these payments is 
reported to third parties including to credit reference agencies.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision before 11 April 2023.
 
Michael Crewe
Ombudsman