DRN-3571633
The complaint
Ms K complains that her mortgage lender Santander UK Plc unfairly recorded a payment
holiday on her credit file despite previous assurances that this wouldnt be the case. Ms K 
says she wouldnt have taken the payment holiday if shed realised the adverse impact this 
would have on her credit score.
Ms K also complains that Santander hasnt given her adequate financial support since she
lost her job and became seriously unwell in 2020. Ms K says Santanders actions have both
caused her financial loss and severely impacted her state of health. Ms K has said what she
wants Santander to do to put things right, including considering writing off the balance of her 
mortgage.
What happened
Ms K has a capital repayment mortgage with Santander. The outstanding mortgage balance
is currently around £38,000.
In March 2020 Ms K asked Santander for a six month payment deferral under the special
arrangements to support mortgage customers who were impacted by the covid-19
pandemic. This covered Ms Ks mortgage repayments from April to September 2020.
In July 2020 Ms K lost her job. Soon after she was diagnosed with a serious health
condition.
In October 2020 Ms K asked Santander for further help as she was struggling to make her
mortgage repayments. Ms K says Santander initially said there was nothing it could do to 
help her. But, having complained, Ms K was then contacted and offered a three-month 
payment plan where Santander agreed she didnt need to make any mortgage repayment for 
three months. Ms K says she asked at the time if there would be an impact on her credit file. 
She was told that there wouldnt be.
In April 2021 Ms K says she noticed her credit score was being affected by the arrangement. 
Ms K complained that she had been given conflicting information about whether her payment 
arrangement would be recorded on her credit file. Ms K was also upset by how Santander 
had handled the matter when she queried what shed been told.
In early April 2021 Santander issued a final response letter to Ms Ks complaint. It confirmed
Ms Ks payment arrangement was still in place and that no payment would be due until 28
April 2021. The letter also said that the arrangement would be reported on Ms Ks credit file
and apologised that Santander had not made this clear enough before. Santander credited
Ms Ks account with £50 and said she should contact the credit reference agency directly
and ask them to put a note on her file which explains the reason behind the payment
arrangement.
Ms K was unhappy with this reply and escalated the matter. In August 2021 Ms K received a
further final response letter. Santander apologised for any upset caused by its handling of
Ms Ks mortgage and her subsequent complaint. Santander found that Ms K hadnt been
advised of the specific consequences of agreeing to a payment arrangement in December
2020 and said it would clear all adverse data from Ms Ks credit file due to this arrangement
for the period from December 2020 to July 2021.
In addition, Santander offered Ms K £500 of compensation for the upset caused by its
actions. Santander also explained that Ms Ks interest rate product of 2.19% was soon to
expire in October 2021 and it set out what alternate rates would be available going forward
to prevent Ms Ks mortgage repayments going up once the mortgage reverted to its follow on
rate.
Ms K didnt accept that offer. On 12 August 2021 Ms K brought her complaint to us.
Since then, Santander has issued a further final response to Ms K on 21 September 2021.
This letter gave a detailed response to eleven points that Ms K had raised about the way a
particular member of staff had acted and occasions when she felt its service had fallen short.
Santander upheld Ms Ks complaint and increased its offer of compensation to her.
In September 2021 Santander offered:
- a further £1,000 of compensation to Ms K; taking total compensation to £1,500 for the
upset caused by its poor customer service on a number of occasions since Ms K requested
help following the end of the initial six-month covid payment deferral;
- confirmed that adverse data on Ms Ks credit file has been cleared from December 2020 to
July 2021;
- agreed to clear Ms Ks credit card balance, and the fees and interest that had accrued,
which included the amount Ms K had used to repay her mortgage arrears in July 2021.
Santander also sent Ms K a letter on 30 September 2021 following discussions she had had
with a financial care specialist to explore her wider financial situation and how it could
support Ms K in her financial difficulties. Santander set out three options to try to help Ms K
decide what steps to take going forward with her mortgage.
Our investigator looked into what had happened. She thought that Santanders offer was fair
and reasonable to put things right. Ms K disagreed and asked that an ombudsman reach a
final decision on the matter.
My provisional decision
I issued a provisional decision dated 13 July 2022 in which I set out my initial thoughts about 
this complaint. In summary, I considered that Santanders final response, dated 21 
September 2021, in which it upheld Ms Ks complaint, had given a detailed assessment of 
the shortcomings in the service it had provided. I was pleased to see that Santander
had apologised for its poor service and recognised where it had fallen short on a number of
separate occasions. 
I gave detailed reasons as to why I thought Santander had now made a comprehensive offer 
of redress to try and put things right. And I agreed with our investigator, that its latest offer 
was fair and reasonable to resolve the complaint. 
I didnt think any further payments were required to settle the associated fees and charges 
on Ms Ks credit card. Santander had said it had refunded all amounts due in relation to this- 
either writing off the balance of the card or by way of a separate refund to Ms Ks current 
account on 1 October 2021.I explained why I didnt think it was reasonable to direct Santander to reinstate the credit 
card and overdraft that Santander had withdrawn. I said that, while I appreciated the 
arguments put forward by Ms K, my provisional decision was that Santander was able to 
cancel these facilities as shown in the terms and conditions of the credit card and overdraft 
shared with us. 
I also considered that Santander had acted fairly and reasonably cancelling these facilities 
when it did. Im persuaded that it did this acting upon information shared by Ms K about her 
financial position. I also dont think the only reason that Santander reviewed Ms Ks income 
and expenditure was because of the complaint. I was persuaded that Santander was acting 
upon Ms Ks request for support and help in her financial difficulties. I thought it reasonable 
that when it became apparent to Santander that Ms K had a significant income deficit each 
month, according to the information that she had given it about her position, it had a duty to 
take this information into account and to lend responsibly. 
I said I was encouraged to hear that Ms Ks financial position seemed to have improved 
since she last completed an income and expenditure assessment with Santander. And I 
thought that this should bring her more financial flexibility with other lenders. I said it may be 
that Santander will now reconsider, due to her improved financial position, whether it will 
make a credit card and overdraft facility available to Ms K. But that I would leave that for 
Santander and Ms K to discuss between them.
Santander accepted my provisional decision. 
Ms K replied to my provisional decision to say, in summary: 
- Santander gave her support through the covid pandemic. It was once she became 
unwell that Ms K says she struggled to get ongoing support from her lender;
- Santander didnt advise her to use her credit card to repay her mortgage arrears. In 
fact, Santander told Ms K it wouldnt accept a credit card payment towards the 
mortgage. Ms K says she took it upon herself to choose the lesser of two evils; 
- Ms K doesnt think Santander has reimbursed her with all the fees, interest and the 
balance that had built up on Ms Ks credit card over the entire period;
- Ms K referred her complaint to us to try to change the way Santander communicates 
with vulnerable customers. And she would like some enforcement action to be taken 
to enable every vulnerable Santander customer to be properly advised in writing 
about their payment arrangements and to be told to take advice from another party to 
make sure they know what theyre getting into.   
 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive thought carefully about the detailed additional comments made by Ms K in response to 
my provisional decision. I can see why Ms K feels strongly about her own recent experience 
and the impact the issues with her mortgage lender have had on her at an already difficult 
time. I understand why Ms K looks to us to try to change Santanders processes going 
forward. 
I should point out that our role is distinct from that of the regulator, the Financial Conduct 
Authority. I appreciate Ms K thinks change is needed by her lender in its treatment of 
vulnerable customers. She asks that the ombudsman should enforce such changes to 
Santanders working practices. This isnt something that we are able to make Santander do.We look at individual complaints brought to us and we seek to resolve those disputes 
between financial businesses and their customers informally. Its not for me to tell Santander 
how to run its mortgage operations, or to make sure that its running its mortgage operations 
in line with regulation. However, I should say that I have taken mortgage regulation into 
account when deciding whats fair and reasonable in the specific circumstances of this 
complaint.
Having thought carefully about everything Ms K has added, Im not persuaded to depart from 
my earlier provisional findings. In summary, Santander has accepted its shortcomings in 
customer service. It has now investigated this matter thoroughly, responded fully to Ms Ks 
concerns and accepted responsibility for its failings. 
Ive set out in detail why I consider the redress proposed to be reasonable to put things right 
in my provisional decision. I remain of the opinion that the offer now made by Santander, 
following this complaint having been brought to our service, is fair to put things right. 
Ms K has made various arguments as to why she considers the compensation should be 
higher. I dont consider any further reimbursement of credit card interest is required by 
Santander at this point to settle this complaint. Ms K has calculated that there are some 
costs on her credit card which havent been reimbursed by Santander. Im conscious Ms K 
has pointed out that Santander didnt tell her to use a credit card transfer to repay her 
mortgage arrears. She chose to take that course of action as the lesser of two evils as she 
wanted to protect her credit file. 
There are financial consequences of the steps Ms K chose. Santander has offered to 
reimburse the significant majority of those costs. However, a relatively small amount remains 
disputed by Ms K. I think the offer Santander has made to be reasonable to resolve this part 
of the complaint. I say this having taken it into account that it was Ms Ks decision to use 
another credit card to repay her mortgage arrears.
Ms K has also replied to say she hasnt asked for Santander to write off the remaining 
balance of her mortgage. She merely wanted it to consider this. Santander has considered 
how to put things right in this complaint and having done so, it has chosen not to offer to 
write off the mortgage balance to resolve this complaint. 
As I explained in my provisional decision, where theres been a mistake or wrongdoing by a 
financial business, our service looks to put consumers back in the position they would have 
been in but for the mistake. Ms K doesnt have a mortgage balance today because of the 
events of this complaint. There is no alleged mis-sale or irresponsible lending. So, I dont 
consider it would be reasonable for me to ask Santander to write off the mortgage to settle 
this dispute. 
I hope that Ms K is now able to put this matter behind her. 
Putting things right
Santander UK Plc has made the following offer to settle this complaint. This offer was made 
after this complaint was referred to our service. Santander has now agreed to:
-pay Ms K total compensation of £1,500 for the upset caused by its poor customer service;
- clear Ms Ks credit card balance;- ensure that all adverse data recorded by Santander is removed from Ms Ks credit file from 
December 2020 to July 2021, and provide Ms K with a letter that she can show her creditors 
which confirms the situation.
My final decision is that this offer is fair to settle this complaint. I make no further award. 
My final decision
My final decision is that this complaint against Santander UK Plc should be upheld.
Santander UK Plc has made an offer to settle this complaint while this complaint has been 
investigated by us. I consider this offer is fair in all the circumstances. If Santander has not 
yet made all parts of its offer available to Ms K, it should do so now.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms K to accept or 
reject my decision before 1 September 2022.
 
Emma Peters
Ombudsman