DRN-2213679
The complaint
Mr A is unhappy with the way British Gas Services Limited have administered his HomeCare 
Two insurance policy. He says they didnt make enough effort to notify him that his annual 
service, booked for 3 March 2020, had to be rearranged.
What happened
Mr A has had an insurance policy administered by British Gas for some years. As part of this 
policy hes entitled to an annual service. Mr A had booked his annual service for 3 March 
2020 and he taken the day off work. He waited for an engineer to arrive, but they didnt. Mr A 
called British Gas and was told theyd tried to call him on 28 February 2020, to notify him 
that theyd had to change his appointment. They hadnt been able to speak to him, but theyd 
left a voicemail telling him his appointment had been changed. Mr A told British Gas he 
doesnt check his voicemails and they should have sent him an email, or a text. 
During the call Mr A checked his British Gas app and was able to rebook his service for 30 
March 2020. The person he was speaking to wasnt able to see this appointment and said 
their system showed the earliest available appointment was on 5 May 2020. The service 
arranged for 30 March 2020 had to be cancelled because of the national lockdown.
Mr A complained to British Gas who didnt uphold his complaint. They said the terms and 
conditions of his policy make it clear that sometimes annual service appointments have to be 
rearranged, and theyd called him and left a message notifying him his appointment had 
been rearranged on 28 February 2020. They offered him £20 as a goodwill gesture. Mr A 
told British Gas he didnt accept this, and he wanted £80 to cover his loss of earnings. He 
was told his policy made it clear they didnt cover loss of earnings. Mr A told them that if he 
needed to bring his complaint to our service, hed want £100 compensation.
Mr A then complained to our service. Our investigator considered the case and said Mr As 
policy terms and conditions make it clear that British Gas may have to delay, or rearrange 
annual service appointments, if theres a high demand for their services. Given the time of 
year he felt that demand was likely to have been high, and annual services would be 
regarded as non-essential.
And our investigator felt British Gas had met their obligation to notify Mr A that his 
appointment had been changed. As theyd tried to call him and had left a message when 
they werent able to speak to him. And while the terms and conditions of the policy said 
British Gas wouldnt pay anything for loss of earnings, theyd offered Mr A £20 which our 
investigator thought was fair.
Our investigator said that Mr As policy makes it clear that annual services may be more than 
12 months apart. And British Gas have told us that Mr As annual service was carried out on 
8 June 2020 when they attended at his property to carry out repairs to his boiler. So our 
investigator felt British Gas had acted fairly and didnt ask them to do anything
Mr A didnt accept our investigators opinion so the case has come to me for a decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr As policy with British Gas clearly states that in times of high demand they prioritise 
breakdowns and, because of this, annual services may have to be rearranged. From what 
Mr A has told us he received a call from British Gas in the morning of 28 February 2020, to 
remind him to book his annual service. He told them this was already booked, for 3 March 
2020, and says they didnt give him any indication that the appointment wouldnt go ahead.
I can understand that as hed spoken to British Gas about his annual service Mr A then 
assumed it would go ahead as planned. But the need to prioritise appointments can change 
over a working day, and British Gas called Mr A for a second time to let him know theyd had 
to change his appointment. When they couldnt speak to him, they left him a message. As 
British Gas had been able to speak to Mr A earlier that day, I dont think it was unreasonable 
for them to think hed receive the message they left. And I dont think they also needed to 
send him a text, or an email. If someone has a voicemail facility on their phone, I think its 
reasonable to expect that theyll check their messages. 
Had Mr A listened to the message British Gas left for him, then hed have known on 28 
February 2020 that his annual service wouldnt be going ahead on 3 March 2020. And Ive 
said I think it was reasonable for British Gas to leave him a message. 
Mr A has said that although British Gas told him they dont pay compensation for loss of 
earnings, they offered him £20. While he didnt accept this amount, he felt it was an 
acknowledgement that theyd done something wrong. I dont agree. British Gas described 
the £20 as a goodwill payment, and I think this is what it was. While British Gas didnt think 
theyd done anything wrong, Mr A had been with them for some years, they acknowledged 
that he was unhappy, and wanted to offer him something. I think this was fair in the 
circumstances.
Despite his annual service being rearranged Mr A still had the benefit of his policy with 
British Gas. He was able to make a claim under his cover when his boiler needed repairs in 
June 2020, and British Gas have told us his service was completed then.
So I dont think British Gas did anything wrong and I wont be asking them to take any action.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above my final decision is that I dont uphold Mr As complaint about 
British Gas Services Limited.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision before 22 February 2021.
 
Patricia O'Leary
Ombudsman