DRN-4054542
The complaint
Mr J complained that the residual funds under his Flexible Lifetime Annuity (FLA) with the
Prudential Assurance Company Limited have more than doubled and he is 12 years older,
yet he was projected to receive virtually no increase in income. Prudential had
miscalculated the income limits at the last four triennial reviews. He believes that he has
either been mis-sold a product that has not delivered on its promise, or he has been a victim
of Prudentials serious financial mismanagement.
What happened
In November 2008 Mr J was advised by his financial adviser (then acting as an appointed 
representative of another firm) to take out the Prudential FLA. He was aged 50. At around 
the same time he also bought a conventional annuity with Legal & General. He specifically 
chose Prudentials FLA because it allowed him to draw less income in the years before his 
wife retired (which she subsequently did in late 2020 aged 60), and he was then expecting it 
to maximise his income thereafter. The initial amount invested into the FLA was £233,438 
after an initial fee paid to his adviser. 
Mr J initially selected a self-managed strategy involving a 50/50 split between the Invesco 
Perpetual Managed fund and M&G Managed Growth fund. He was required to select an 
income between a minimum and maximum level, which was recalculated by Prudential every 
three years. On the initial quotation, the minimum income was exactly 50% of the maximum 
income. 100% of the annuity was to be payable to his wife if he predeceased her.
Mr J withdrew the minimum income in ten of the first twelve years, the only exceptions being 
at the outset when he moved house and when he incurred care home costs for his mother in 
2018). The past income history is as follows (all the figures in this decision omit pence):
November 2009 £14,592  (first payment annually in arrears, at maximum)
November 2010 £  7,296  (minimum)
November 2011 £  7,296 
November 2012 £  9,400  (recalculated minimum)
November 2013 £  9,400 
November 2014 £  9,400 
November 2015 £11,053  (recalculated minimum)
November 2016 £11,053 
November 2017 £11,053 
November 2018 £13,500  (chosen level, above recalculated minimum)
November 2019 £11,819  (recalculated minimum)
November 2020 £11,819
Over this period, in 2010 Mr J had switched from his original investment funds into three new 
funds: Invesco Distribution, Janus Henderson Cautious Managed and Blackrock Absolute 
Alpha. And in 2013 he consolidated the Blackrock investment into the other two funds. 
Prudential adds 0.25%pa of new units into the plan on an monthly basis for the advisers 
give-up of ongoing commission, as well as lifetime bonuses to reflect the mortality cross-
subsidy from other annuitants dying early with funds that arent used for dependants.
Mr J started to see problems with his FLA when Prudential gave the outcome of the triennial 
review with a new minimum income of £6,894 in late October 2020. Whereas this minimum 
had dropped 41% from the last minimum, the maximum  which Mr J had been most 
interested in  had only dropped by 16%. This was at a time when there had only been a 
10% fall in the value of the policy since the last triennial review.
After making several phone calls, Mr Js IFA raised concerns with Prudential on 7 December 
2020. They made the point that taking the mid-point of the two income limits, Mr J would 
need to live to more than age 100 to recoup the current value of the plan  even assuming 
zero investment growth. The IFA had sight of a leaflet Prudential had provided which set out 
the factors it took into account in its income limits calculations:
Client's age [& dependants age]
Value of the investment
Expected investment returns (Prudential's assumptions on what we think investment 
returns will be during the rest of your client's lifetime and their dependant's lifetime if 
they chose the joint-life option. If they invest in funds that have a higher yearly fund 
charge we will set a lower maximum income limit. This is because investment growth 
will be reduced by these higher charges.)
Current conventional annuity rates, which allowed for:
Gross interest rate (determined and set by Prudential taking into account market 
conditions at the time of our calculation. This rate is reviewed monthly, with a 
higher rate resulting in a higher maximum income limit.)
Mortality assumptions (Prudential's current experience of mortality and our 
assessment of general life expectancy, i.e. how long we expect your client [or 
dependant] to live.)
What provision is chosen for a dependant on death 
Mr J and his IFA were concerned because the leaflet also said Mr Js policy incorporated a 
clause that meant he might be converted to a conventional annuity if the level of income that 
was deemed sustainable fell to 50% of the maximum income when the annuity started.
Prudential responded on 8 February 2021 that of the above factors, the two main drivers 
were the fund size and current annuity rates; as in effect the maximum income was set as 
the annuity that could be bought using the fund value at the review date. And there had 
generally been a decrease in annuity rates over the past few years  at that time fund values 
needed to increase by 5-6% per year just to offset the impact of falling annuity rates.
However Prudential did become concerned that the minimum income on Mr Js plan should 
usually be 50% of the maximum (taking into account a statutory minimum), and as that had 
not been the case at any of the 2011, 2014 or 2017 triennial reviews it asked its actuarial 
team to investigate. It observed that if the minimum income limit in these years should have 
been lower, Mr J had in effect taken more income than he needed and this would have 
lowered todays fund value more than necessary.
As Mr J didnt hear further from Prudential, he wrote to its CEO on 13 April 2021 reiterating 
many of his previous points. He noted that his wifes standard life expectancy was 87 years, 
not the 100 years Prudential had assumed (with zero growth on his plan). If that was correct 
he was now projected to receive less income than if he had taken out a conventional annuity 
at the outset  with the L&G annuity hed bought in 2008 as proof of this.
Whilst Prudential acknowledged Mr Js message it doesnt appear the CEOs office 
responded until 11 June 2021, by which time it had recalculated the past income limits on  
his policy. The new minimum incomes were all exactly 50% of the maximum incomes. Prudential further advised that it had based these limits on a recalculation of the fund values 
(which it also supplied) as if Mr J had taken the lower minimum income  rather than the 
actual amounts he took each year. The figure it gave in its table for the 2020 fund value had 
a typographical error, reading £438,881.93 instead of the figure Prudential had actually 
calculated of £438,811.93. (It has since clarified that the latter figure, which appears on 
Mr Js reissued annual statement, is correct.)
Its evident that Mr J became very anxious at Prudentials inability to explain why its 
previously quoted income limits had been wrong and why the recalculated maximum income 
still appeared to be too low considering his wifes life expectancy. Hes referred to an email 
he sent on 7 July which I havent seen but to which evidently he didnt receive a response. 
This led him to email the CEOs office at 4am on 18 August saying, amongst other things:
this should be treated with the same seriousness as a mis-selling complaint that I 
believe it to beThe product I bought has failed me and I am even forced to consider 
whether I will need to switch to a more straightforward product unless I can have renewed 
confidence that Prudential/M&G should not continue to make repeated errors.
Prudential brought all the issues Mr J had raised together in one final response which it 
issued on 25 August 2021. In summary:
- It accepted that it hadnt resolved matters within a reasonable timescale. 
- To ensure he had not been disadvantaged, it had now retrospectively added extra 
units to his policy, at the point immediately before his most recent triennial review 
was carried out (23 October 2020).
- The value of those extra units at that time was £18,622 and ensured the fund value 
was what it would have been had he taken the correctly calculated minimum income 
following previous triennial reviews. 
- It meant that the probability of Mr J needing to transfer to a fixed annuity at a later 
review point hadnt been increased.
- The new minimum income was £7,556 (slightly more than at the outset in 2008). It 
said Mr J would receive his first payment of that amount in the current triennial period 
(because they are annually in arrears) in November 2021. 
- The new maximum income was £15,113 (again slightly more than at outset). 
- It was not aware there would be any tax implications from these actions and asked 
Mr J to provide evidence if he disagreed.
- There were occasions when Mr J hadnt been able to get through to the right person 
on the phone, so Prudential offered him £500 for the upset this had caused. 
In respect of the mis-selling aspect to Mr Js complaint, Prudential commented, we are 
unable to comment on your choice to purchase a Flexible Annuity with Prudential. However, 
if you evidence to show this was not the case, please send this in and this can be reviewed.
Whilst I would have to note this is a very unclear statement, Mr J has told this service that he 
also spoke to Prudential and it offered to open up a separate complaint for him about the 
mis-selling of the annuity. Hes said, After the unacceptable delays of the original complaint 
(which in my view clearly included mis-selling) I had no wish to delay resolution even further 
but I believe my communication has always made it clear that this comprised a mis-selling 
complaint
Mr J told Prudential that he had no more a basis for accepting its new calculations than he 
should have trusted the old valuations. He exemplified this by the increase in the fund value 
from 2008-2011 being 50% but the new increase in income limits only 13%. And from 2011-
2014 the fund value increased by 19% but the income limits only 6%. He didnt think 
worsening annuity rates adequately explained this disparity. He considered Prudentials £500 offer for distress and inconvenience derisory. He thought 
the tax implications of these issues meant he was expected to bear the risk of complications 
arising with his Lifetime Allowance which might also affect the other pensions he gets. He'd 
referred to an email from his tax consultant which hed already forwarded to Prudential but 
which Prudential hasnt subsequently commented on (and which hasnt been provided to this 
service by either party).
For reference, Im aware that Mr Js IFA requested a conventional annuity quote from 
Prudential in October 2021 (on the same basis as his FLA), which was £15,630pa  i.e. in 
the region of his current maximum income.
In late 2021, Prudential also wrote to Mr J to inform him that they were no longer allowing 
either of the two externally managed funds he was using. As he didnt choose anything else, 
Prudential informed him he would be switched into the two closest Prudential choices (Risk 
Managed Active 3 and Risk Managed Active 2). 
On 8 November 2021, Prudential notified Mr J that he was going to receive a payment of 
£6,984 later that month, which he then received  this hadnt been corrected to the new 
minimum payment. He had to contact Prudential again to tell them this. The 2020-21 annual 
statement he then received erroneously showed £16,654 as the income hed received that 
yeas when it should have been £11,819. He also had to tell Prudential about this.
Our investigator didnt uphold Mr Js complaint, but as a result of Mr J highlighting these 
ongoing errors, another investigator obtained Prudentials agreement that it would arrange 
for a one-off payment of £572 before tax to be sent to Mr J in respect of the underpaid 
November 2021 minimum payment, and ensure the November 2022 payment is reset to the 
correct level.
On 14 December Prudential wrote to Mr J about the additional income of £4,835 reported on 
his 2020-21 annual statement that he hadnt received. The income falling in this statement 
period had been determined under the previous triennial review period where the minimum 
income level of £11,819 (which Mr J received) has now been determined to be £4,835 too 
much. From what I can see Prudential had tried to re-code what Mr J had received on its 
system as the correct minimum income plus an extra £4,835, unaware that the system was 
still treating it as the old minimum income plus £4,835. Recalculated 2020-21 and 2021-22 
annual statements were then sent to Mr J and I confirmed with him that the figures were as 
expected (notwithstanding his other concerns at how income limits are determined).
Mr J disagreed with the investigator and clarified his points further in other exchanges with 
me. They fell broadly into the category of the FLA not being fit for purpose, and whether the 
compensation is adequate.
Not fit for purpose
- Prudential sold him the FLA through the literature it provided and shouldnt be 
passing the buck on this. 
- As he and his wife have aged 12 years since 2008, this should have produced a more 
than 20% uplift in the annuity rate. The KFD (which says as a retail client he will be 
given information in a more straightforward way than a large financial services 
company doesnt say he will be at the mercy of declining annuity rates in the market.
- The product performed in a way which is totally at odds with the 2008 illustration at the 
9% growth rate (which happens to correspond to his fund value in 2022). He believes 
the income he can now expect to receive should be in line with that illustration.
- The promising growth he achieved in the past may not be repeated now Prudential has 
removed both his choices of externally managed fund from its selection, contrary to the KFD originally promising a range of funds [which] enables you to spread your 
investment risk between different fund management houses and styles.
- He understands the law and structure of annuities means they are not transferable, but 
the FLA is no longer fit for purpose. Prudential had likely taken £50,000 in charges.
Whether compensation is adequate
- Prudential had already told him no calculations were available for him to check. The 
burden of proof should be on Prudential to demonstrate unequivocally that its 
calculations are correct, and it has not done that either for him or this service.
- The unilateral payment of further funds into his FLA without prior consultation with him 
was unacceptable and denied him the opportunity to negotiate. It was unclear if the 
higher investment returns he should have had were taken into account.
- The point that Prudential allowed him to retain the excess income taken should be 
discounted, as there was not a basis in law for it to request those sums back. The fact 
the errors lay unnoticed just meant he had a greater shock in 2020.
- He expected a significantly higher payment for the huge amount of time and stress 
involved in identifying Prudentials mistakes over the last 2+ years. They would never 
have been discovered without his personal intervention. 
- I should listen to all his phone conversations with Prudential. Its complaint handling 
had also been poor.
Before I issued my Provisional Decision, Prudential also clarified the following:
A full unit transaction history for Mr Js policy since outset. I then checked with Mr J 
that the gross income paid and fund switches correspond with his records. It also 
shows that Prudential has treated the policy as if it still paid out the incorrect minimum 
income levels, but added £18,622 back to his policy as at 23 October 2020 to 
compensate for this. 
Prudential is unable to provide this service with the raw data for assumed future 
investment returns, interest rates and mortality assumptions used in setting the 
maximum triennial income level as these are classed as sensitive actuarial 
calculations. However, its confirmed that once these assumptions are used to set the 
maximum income level, the minimum income level is then set at 50% of this. 
There is a further check to ensure that the income limits comply with the Registered 
Pension Schemes (Prescribed Manner of Determining Amount of Annuities) 
Regulations 2006. Under those regulations, Prudential has to ensure that the 
maximum is no higher than 120%, and the minimum no lower than 50%, of any level 
annuity available for purchase on the open market from Prudential with the same 
features as Mr Js (or otherwise, the average of three current market rates). But it is 
not otherwise bound by these other limits.
My Provisional Decision of 10 March 2023 addressed Mr Js concerns as follows:
Not fit for purpose
Mr Js mis-selling argument has evolved into this following my earlier comments to him that 
because the FLA was a complex product I would normally expect to find that there was an 
advisory relationship between the customer and the IFA. Prudential's role at the time would 
have been limited to making available the terms and conditions, key features document 
(KFD) and illustration (all of which Mr J has been able to provide me with) for the IFA's use 
in the sales process. The adviser would ultimately bear responsibility for any deficiencies in the sales process  whether that was in the advice and/or explanations provided as to how 
the product worked. 
However, Ive carefully considered all of Mr Js points about whether the product has been 
working in the way Prudential said it would at the point of sale. Im going to refer to the KFD 
which Prudential was expected by the regulator to produce to give straightforward 
information to retail clients. However I do still have to take into account that Mr J had an 
adviser, whose obligations to ensure that Mr J understood how the product worked werent 
limited to simply passing on the KFD or going through it with him.
The adviser would have been expected to review all of the available information, including 
the longer policy document, to fulfil their responsibility to explain how the product works, 
what risks are involved and as a result, whether they think it is suitable for their client. 
However if they were satisfied of that, they would typically draw Mr Js attention mainly to the 
KFD as its designed to be accessible to the customer. And it would be reasonable not to 
expect key information to be missing from this document (as its name suggests).
Mr J says that neither the KFD nor the illustration properly explained the key point that 
annuity rates (or the interest rates underpinning them) could change in future in a way that 
reduced his long-term income. However, there are two lists of factors in the KFD: 
- One entitled What affects the value of my annuity investment? lists: the income taken, 
investment performance, what lifetime bonuses are added, what charges are taken, 
and the investment strategy. I think its reasonably clear that this is explaining what 
determines the fund value of the FLA at any given point.
- The second list entitled How will my income be affected by the 3-yearly reviews? lists: 
the fund value, What we think investment returns will be during the rest of your lifetime 
(and your dependant's if you choose the joint life option) and How long we expect you 
to live (and your dependant if you choose the joint life option). 
I consider investment returns is referring to both the anticipated returns of the funds Mr J is 
investing in, as well as on the government bonds (gilts) which underpin the guaranteed 
income Mr Js FLA will eventually become at age 90 at the latest. The broad nature of the 
statement makes it unnecessary to distinguish between the two. Funds and gilts are both  
investments. As Mr J couldnt be in investment funds by age 90, it couldnt just be a 
reference to those funds. And the final factor above is referring to the changes in mortality 
experience which is the other key element of annuity rates. 
The KFD also makes clear that Once your annuity starts, you are committed to receiving an 
income from Prudential for the rest of your life. You will not be able to exchange your annuity 
for a different one with us, or anyone else. I appreciate Mr J hasnt suggested otherwise, but 
I refer to this to underline the point that the very situation hes concerned about  the 
inflexibility of being subject to interest rate and mortality changes in future  wasnt 
concealed from investors or their advisers. 
It is essentially the same risk that applies to anyone who is deferring the ultimate purchase 
of an annuity. I note the KFD mentions that Prudential offers a drawdown option, which 
would retain access to the whole of the annuity market at a later date. But this product 
worked in a different way, and it was in the remit of Mr Js adviser to consider which option 
was preferable for him.
The illustration itself includes a reference to mortality on page 1: Final benefits: They could 
be higher or lower than our examples depending on investment conditions at the time you 
actually invest, the investment returns made by your chosen funds, our charges, rates oftaxation and any changes in our mortality basis. And in the Important information on 
page 7, with my emphasis: The amount of guaranteed income we pay you will depend on 
actual annuity rates at the time we convert your investment-linked income to a guaranteed 
income.
Im not persuaded that there was any overall impression given by these documents that 
market conditions couldnt move against in Mr J in future. Or that if his fund achieved the 
growth at one particular projection rate, resulting in the income limits steadily increasing, this 
would ensure that the annuity eventually payable would be able to continue at those high 
rates. A high fund growth illustration will have involved making a similarly optimistic 
assumption of future gilt returns. Both these assumptions were set by the regulator, but 
werent guaranteed to move in tandem in future.
The conventional annuity Mr J bought at the same time from a similar purchase price locked 
into Legal & Generals annuity interest rates and mortality experience in 2008. So it was 
never directly comparable with the ongoing performance of the FLA. I gather Mr J has used 
the Moneyhelper website to arrive at the conclusion that a 12 year age increase should 
increase the annuity rate by 20%, but this is comparing two rates for two differently aged 
people on the same day. Interest rates and mortality experience now are not the same as 
they were in 2008. 
Mr J says that what he is looking for from this complaint is conversion into fixed annuity 
equivalent to what would have been offered in 2008 with compensation for all the loss of 
income from my drawings on the Prudential flexible annuity. That is why Ive said to him that 
he should look to the adviser who sold him the annuity if he was given the impression that it 
would perform in the same way as the conventional annuity he bought for a similar amount 
at that time. I havent changed my view on that matter.
Ive also looked into Mr Js concerns about the fund selection available. I take his point that 
the KFD did emphasize that the Self-Managed Investment Strategy offers a wide range of 
different investment funds, and that it allowed access to different fund managers. I dont 
think Prudential has broken that commitment, as according to its website amongst 37 funds 
in total the FLA currently offers:
- Two Artemis funds -  One JP Morgan fund
- Three Blackrock funds -  One Schroder fund
- Three Invesco funds -  One Stewart investors fund
- One Janus Henderson fund -  One Wellington fund
When Prudential removed some of Mr Js fund choices it said it did so when our confidence 
in how consistent returns will be produced in the future is reduced or where we have other 
similar funds available. Clause 1.3 of the funds appendix to the policy document gives 
Prudential the right to close any of the funds, including those linked to external managers, 
and unless instructed otherwise switch the units to another fund with the most similar 
investment objectives. It goes on to say:
We will only change, close or wind up a Fund for important legal or commercial reasons 
and we will aim to be fair and reasonable in the way that we do so, having regard to our 
duty to protect both the interests of other policyholders and, if applicable, the solvency of 
the Fund.
That is what Prudential has done here, having given Mr J notice and the option to choose an 
alternative. In my view the reasons given at the time for removing these funds fall within the 
scope of having commercial reasons to do so, and it has treated Mr J fairly given that there 
remains a broad enough range of alternative choices, including externally managed funds. The charges for this product are taken as part of the declared unit price of the funds Mr J 
invests in  but reduced by a 0.25%pa rebate which is showing monthly on the transaction 
statements and on Mr Js annual statement. The charges for each fund were shown on the 
original illustration and as part of the literature available on Prudentials website. So, I 
havent found evidence that the charges taken werent as agreed at outset, or that it isnt fair 
for Prudential to continue to collect those charges up to such point as Mr J has converted to 
a guaranteed income.
Whether compensation is adequate
Prudential has accepted that it made repeated errors in calculating Mr Js maximum and 
minimum income limits. I share Mr Js astonishment that the errors went on for so long and 
his concern that had it not been for his and his advisers questions in 2020, they might have 
continued to go undiscovered. But I wont be considering what the wider impact of this might 
have been on other customers in this decision as that is the role of the regulator. Im 
considering the impact of Prudentials actions on Mr J.
There is something important to point out here, which is that even though Mr J did take too 
much income overall as a result of Prudentials errors, every unit in his policy is still 
accounted for  not only in terms of the actual income he has benefited from, but also an  
£18,622 injection of units into the policy as of 23 October 2020 to put matters right.
When the investigator said Mr J had received £6,338 too much income, it looks to me that he 
was only counting the triennial review years and not the interim years in which Mr J also 
received the extra income. So the total amount of income Mr J didnt want to receive, but 
Prudential is allowing him to keep, is much more than £6,338. Ill assume that Prudential has 
taken into account that Mr J did need the amount of £13,500 for care home costs in 
November 2018, but that still leaves the following excess income:
November 2012-4 £  9,400 instead of £8,410 gives £   990 x 3 = £  2,970
November 2015-7 £11,053 instead of £8,909 gives £2,144 x 3 = £  6,432
November 2019-20 £11,819 instead of £8,615 gives £3,204 x 2 = £  6,408 
£15,810
Prudential says this translated into a fall in the policy value of £18,622. As Prudential would 
have run a hypothetical policy value with these different deductions through its systems, 
buying and selling different numbers of units to determine the difference, it would be a 
difficult calculation for it to provide, and its unfortunate the investigator didnt appreciate this. 
However as an informal dispute resolution service, we wouldnt automatically look to check 
every calculation a business carries out, even if it could be provided. We would look to see 
whether the calculation was plausible, and if there was a reason for it to be investigated.
The above overpayments will have experienced lost growth within Mr Js funds between 
November 2012 and November 2020, a period of eight years. For almost all of that period he 
in the Invesco Distribution and Janus Henderson Cautious Managed funds. For both of those 
funds the main years their unit prices were markedly lower on the date the income was taken 
out of the fund, compared with when Prudential put it back into the fund in October 2020, 
were during 2012-16. Most of the overpayments (by value) happened after that point. 
So the overpayments didnt cause much extra loss of investment growth to the fund  my 
rough estimate is that they made another £1,000 difference to the basic total of £15,810 I 
arrived at above. So as well as taking the higher investment returns into account, I suspect 
Prudential may have treated part of Mr Js £13,500 income in 2018 as an overpayment too. I 
appreciate Mr J is upset that Prudential didnt discuss the amount with him before applying it. 
However I cant see that there is any realistic possibility of concluding that Prudential hasnt 
topped Mr Js policy up by enough. Ive considered Mr Js point that there is no basis in law for Prudential to request the 
overpaid income from him. But the law doesnt always allow the beneficiary of a mistake to 
keep the benefit. For this strictly to apply Mr J would need to have a change of position 
defence, which essentially means that he had already spent the erroneously high level of 
minimum income in such a way that his financial position was irretrievably worsened as a 
result. I think thats unlikely to apply in a case where Mr J had set out to take the minimum 
level of income and a main tenet of his complaint is that he would have wanted to take less 
(except in two years), because that was always the plan while his wife was still working. 
In any event, the law is only one of the things I must take into account. I must also decide 
what I think to be fair and reasonable in the circumstances of the case, even if (in the event 
that Im wrong on the above) it involves departing from the law. The usual approach of this 
service is to put the complainant back into the position they would have been in, but for the 
respondents errors. As Mr J wouldnt have wanted to take most of the extra income, 
resolving this complaint could reasonably have involved Mr J paying that back, in order for 
Prudential to then correct the value of the policy. 
Im saying this before commenting on the wider impact of Prudentials actions on Mr J 
personally, which would separately need to be addressed. But Prudentials choice was to 
address that wider impact by allowing Mr J to retain the extra income, which otherwise it 
wouldnt have been unreasonable for it to ask to be repaid. So Im not approaching this 
complaint on the basis that Prudential hasnt done anything by way of compensation. In 
being fair and reasonable I cant ignore the fact that Mr J is £15,810 better off (before tax) 
than if Prudential hadnt made that gesture at all.
Mr J previously mentioned that there might be tax implications. As his FLA is a type of 
annuity, one test was made against the Lifetime Allowance  when he bought it in 2008. As 
far as Im aware, only drawdown arrangements have any further tests against the Lifetime 
Allowance. My understanding is also that Prudential is able to amend the value of the policy 
to correct an administrative error without any tax implications. The overpayment it made to 
Mr J in error is also treated by legislation as an authorised payment1.
Im next going to consider Mr Js concern that he cant now be confident that even 
Prudentials recalculations of his income limits are correct. The detail of those calculations 
wont normally be provided to each customer at the time of the triennial review as they 
involve the judgement of Prudentials actuaries on future investment conditions.
In light of Prudentials reply to this service Ive decided whether its necessary for me to 
expect Prudential to provide me with more information in the circumstances of Mr Js case. I 
appreciate that the judgements actuaries make on individual data are to some degree 
commercially sensitive, and Im already approaching this case from the position that Mr J is 
significantly better off financially from the gesture Prudential has made.
Ive decided to take a step back and look at how the recalculated maximum income 
Prudential has set for each triennial period compares with the Government Actuarys 
Department (GAD) published rates for maximum income from a capped drawdown plan:
- These rates vary monthly with UK gilt yields
- GAD says theyre designed to provide a measure of the annual amount of lifetime 
annuity income that the drawdown pension fund could generate
-[This] will generally be related to the members age and to the yields available on 
gilts (UK government bonds), which are the main investments usually used by 
insurance companies which sell lifetime annuities
1 https://www.gov.uk/hmrc-internal-manuals/pensions-tax-manual/ptm062800- They assume a level income with no guarantee or dependants provision, with the 
current tables in use based on mortality (with projected improvements) from 2011
- They make a 4% assumption for the insurance companys expenses (but dont dictate 
what actual annuity rates might be offered on the open market).
What I found was that despite Mr Js increasing age, gilt yields fell progressively (and 
substantially) from outset to the 2020 triennial review. (There may be some better news for 
Mr J this year as gilt yields have currently improved to 3.75%.) The extent to which gilt yields 
have fallen have outweighed the improvement in the GAD rate which would otherwise 
happen with age. And in fact, the drop in the maximum income Prudential has quoted for 
Mr J has broadly followed the same trend (comparing the two bold columns):
Date Fund Max income RateMr Js age Gilt yieldGAD rate
Nov-2008 £236,993 £14,9526.31%50 4.75%6.72%(120%2)
Nov-2011 £357,330 £16,8214.71%53 3.00%4.6%(100%)
Nov-2014 £424,584 £17,8184.20%56 2.25%4.4%   
Nov-2017 £467,065 £17,2313.69%59 1.75%4.4%          
Nov-2020 £438,881 £15,1133.44%62 0.50%4%   
Im not therefore persuaded that I need to scrutinise Prudentials calculations any further. 
Given the discretion its actuaries have I cant say on the evidence here that they have 
unreasonably used that discretion. And in any event, what Mr J doesnt take out of his fund 
is left to grow. So the critical calculation (which Prudential hasnt needed to carry out yet) is 
what rate it uses to convert Mr Js fund to a guaranteed income, if that happens.
What Im left with deciding therefore, is whether Prudential letting Mr J keep £15,810 of 
overpaid income, having adequately topped up the value of his plan, and offering a further 
payment to him of £500, is fair and reasonable compensation for all the distress and 
inconvenience its actions have caused. I dont underestimate how upset Mr J will have been, 
and clearly has evidenced he was through his written correspondence with Prudential. 
I think it took Prudential longer than it could have done to get back to Mr J with details of how 
it should put things right, although Im mindful that this was not a typical complaint with a 
straightforward solution. That can be seen from Prudential not properly anticipating that the 
solution it had put into place would cause a knock-on effect with two of Mr Js income 
payments. It isnt always possible for members of staff who didnt design a computer system 
to anticipate how it will behave when its retrospectively altered. But this, and the 
typographical errors Prudential made, added to Mr Js distress  and I can see why it caused 
him to doubt the seriousness with which it should have been treating his problem.
Mr J asked me to listen to the phone calls he had with Prudential, and I can see from 
everything hes said  both to Prudential at the time and me now  how upset he was about 
things. However the difficulty I have is that however long I now spend looking into the 
complaint, the awards this service typically makes even for considerable distress and 
inconvenience arent anything like as much as the amount by which Prudential is allowing 
Mr J to benefit overall. Our awards arent designed as a punishment or fine on the 
respondent business, as we dont carry out the same function as the industry regulator.
We give case studies of payments for distress and inconvenience on our website3, and I 
hope Mr J will be able to see from this that Prudential has still been generous overall in 
putting this matter right for him. I dont know the extent to which Prudential weighed this up 
at the time, so I appreciate it might just seem convenient to Mr J that this has happened. But 
that doesnt change that it wouldnt be fair or reasonable for me to expect Prudential to do 
2 Before the GAD tables were rewritten in 2011, the maximum had been 120% of the GAD rate
3 https://www.financial-ombudsman.org.uk/businesses/resolving-complaint/understanding-
compensation/compensation-for-distress-or-inconvenienceanything more.
Responses to my Provisional Decision
Prudential accepted my findings. Mr J asked for it to provide a quote for conversion to a 
conventional annuity, which its also since provided. He also confirmed he had already 
received Prudentials £500 payment for the distress and inconvenience caused.
In summary, Mr Js main comments in response to the Provisional Decision were as follows:
 
- The two key issues for him were, firstly, that my interpretation of the law of mistake 
was incorrect, given the special circumstances of this case which involved repeated 
errors over ten years. I am not able to depart from the law in deciding what is fair and 
reasonable.
- Secondly, that Prudential originally promised to review its limits and provide a written 
explanation. It did the former and not the latter. He has never received a written 
explanation of how the new limits have been determined.
- The process in reaching the Provisional Decision was flawed because, after asking 
Prudential to provide an explanation in understandable terms I had also allowed 
Prudential to wriggle out of answering that key question.
- His KFD says that he is entitled to straightforward explanations as a retail client.
- Prudential told him it fully understood his reluctance to accept the new calculations, so 
it is still for Prudential to justify the fairness of its multiple corrections. It cannot hide 
behind a commercial sensitivity excuse.
- My attempt to do Prudentials work for it in looking at how the GAD limits changed, has 
only exposed that Prudential was calculating lower income levels than those limits.
- Did Prudentials original figures actually comply with the Registered Pension Schemes 
(Prescribed Manner of Determining Amount of Annuities) Regulations 2006, or were 
they operating contrary to the regulations?
- Whether he has benefited by Prudential allowing him to keep the extra income is 
irrelevant in terms of whether the calculations can be said to be fair and reasonable.
- He included these in his annual tax returns, so it would disingenuous to suggest that 
Prudential would have any legal basis whatsoever for reclaiming them, or even 
recalculating them. 
- The only reason he is having to consider conversion to a fixed annuity is because of all 
Prudentials errors, which might persist in future. He would have to give up the 
flexibility this offers (which he has paid for through voluntarily taking less income to 
date) and the compensation should take that into account.
- Although he understood annuity rate movements (i.e. gilt yields) would have some 
impact on triennial reviews, this was not due to Prudentials KFD which made no 
prominent mention of these, only referring to investment returns in general.
- It was outrageous that the higher investment growth projections from 2008 also 
involved higher assumptions of future gilt yields.
- Although annuity rates have reduced over the long-term, so has mortality by about six 
months.
- His IFA never gave the impression that the FLA would perform like a conventional 
annuity  he is not looking to be put back into the position as if he had the latter.
- The real motivation for Prudential closing externally-managed funds which were 
performing well in Mr Js view, was to capture more in house business.
- I had given insufficient weight to how time consuming it has been for Mr J to grapple 
with the multiple mistakes Prudential has made and the mental impact this has had.
- The number of changes of investigator hes had, has impacted the outcome of his 
case.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I appreciate the way Mr J has clearly set out why he disagrees with my Provisional Decision, 
but I havent found a reason in what hes said to revise my opinion on this complaint. I also 
dont agree that the changes in investigator has had any bearing on the outcome, as Im not 
bound by anything any investigator has said. I also reviewed the entire complaint afresh and 
issued a Provisional Decision to allow Mr J a full opportunity to comment. Ill look first of all at 
the two main reasons Mr J has for disagreement.
On the law of mistake, I need to make very clear here that the Financial Ombudsman 
Service is not bound by the law to the exclusion of all other considerations. The way I 
consider complaints is set out at DISP 3.6.4R in the FCA handbook (available online). This 
says I will consider the law (amongst a number of other factors) as part of determining what 
is fair and reasonable. For an answer that was determined solely by the law, Mr J would 
have needed to take his dispute to court.
However I should also point out that this is not a dispute where Prudential is seeking to 
recover past overpayments of income such that Im required to determine whether it is 
entitled to do so. Its made clear that it wont be doing that. What Im looking at is slightly 
different here. In determining whats fair and reasonable, I think it is right to take into account 
that Prudentials method of ensuring that all future income calculations from Mr Js FLA are 
based on the right fund value, has involved injecting a sum of some £18,622 into his plan  
even though hes benefited from the income that reduced his plans value by that amount. 
I appreciate that this was probably the only way of ensuring Prudential wont keep running 
into problems in the future (without repeated manual calculations having to be done)  and 
that income calculations wont fall foul of the Registered Pension Schemes (Prescribed 
Manner of Determining Amount of Annuities) Regulations 2006, because the fund value on 
which the income is based would otherwise be too low. 
Like Mr J, I can see why it would have been counter-productive for Prudential to try to ask for 
that money back, given it resulted from a series of compounded errors. But I dont think the 
fact that Mr J had already paid tax on the income necessarily matters, as the fact that he has 
nonetheless received a net benefit can be taken into account when reaching a fair and 
reasonable conclusion.
I also understand Mr Js second main point that he has still not had the detailed explanation 
about what was wrong with the income limits, and how Prudential can ensure that this has 
been rectified. On the original limits applying to his plan, the minimum income was more 
than 50% of the maximum income at the 2011, 2014 and 2017 reviews. So, it looks to me 
that Prudentials interpretation of the above-mentioned legislation at the time of those 
reviews was that the maximum and minimum income limits needed to be moved closer 
together. 
In its recalculated figures, the minimum income is exactly 50% of the maximum, so that 
suggests to me that Prudential is now taking a less cautious approach to how the legislation 
impacts his plan. So that in turn makes it unlikely in my view that Prudential allowed Mr J to 
draw income in the past that fell outside the legal limits  if anything, it was the other way 
around. But I do understand that this might now invite the question of whether, if Mr J now 
intends to draw the maximum income in the future and this is higher, what confidence can he 
have that Prudential is still observing the legislation correctly. 
I appreciate Mr J may well be concerned because of the errors Prudential made in the past. 
But, a suspicion on Mr Js part still does not give me a basis for saying that Prudentials 
calculations are still wrong. The standard income limits and the further legislative restrictions 
that apply to these are, in the end, both determined by Prudentials view of what income Mr Js plan can support in the future  either as a flexible income or (in terms of the legislative 
limits) an open market annuity. So as I expect Prudential to already be determining its 
income limits prudently, if its acting as a responsible provider in the way I would expect, Im 
not particularly surprised if the legislative restrictions have no further impact. 
This service does not generally provide a checking service for each and every calculation a 
business carries out - and thats especially true for calculations that depend heavily on  
commercial judgement. As Ive already observed that the changes in income limits on Mr Js 
plan have been following the market trend, I dont have a basis for substituting Prudentials 
view of a sustainable level of income with my own. Im not satisfied a suspicion that because 
Prudential made mistakes in the past it will do so again, gives me a reasonable basis for 
disbelieving the judgement of Prudentials actuaries  who on becoming aware there was a 
problem, have now re-checked what the correct limits should be on Mr Js plan. 
I think I can usefully reiterate two points I made in the Provisional Decision here. Firstly, in 
terms of him potentially suffering an overall financial loss while the FLA is operating, I cant 
reasonably say that will happen as every penny in Mr Js plan is accounted for  if he takes 
more income his fund value reduces more, and vice versa. And secondly, if Prudential 
overpays income because of a genuine mistake then it doesnt amount to an unauthorised 
payment under the tax rules. 
It's a generally accepted market practice with reviewable plans like the FLA, or a drawdown 
plan, that whilst the provider sets the income limits these will act as an opportunity for 
discussion between the client and their IFA. The IFA can advise Mr J on how much income 
to withdraw (if both parties wish that to happen), whereas Prudential cannot do so. Mr J may 
therefore find it helpful to review the level of income he should be taking with his IFA. Even 
where it is calculated correctly Prudential cannot guarantee that taking the maximum income 
level (for example) will be sustainable if its assumptions are not borne out in reality. And Mr J 
or his IFA may legitimately take a more cautious view of the future than Prudential has done.
Mr J was promised straightforward explanations in his KFD, but I dont think this equates to a 
breakdown of each triennial review calculation. Prudential did explain in the KFD and 
another factsheet Mr Js IFA received what factors go into setting the income limits, which I 
think is more aligned with a straightforward explanation. Given that these are ultimately a 
matter of actuarial opinion, and even though I invited Prudential to share any further 
explanation it was wiling to give to satisfy Mr Js greater needs, Im not persuaded that 
Prudential is bound to provide the explanation hes seeking.
I take Mr Js point that the wording in the KFD could have been improved. However I cant 
say that its reference to future investment returns in general, either fell foul of providing a 
reasonable explanation, or that it ultimately impacted Mr J - who says he had anticipated that 
gilt yields would have an impact on income limits. The 2008 projections used assumed 
investment returns and annuity interest rates that were both prescribed by the regulator. 
Whilst Prudential had no alternative, I also cant agree with Mr J that they are irrational. 
When interest rates are higher, long-term stock market returns also tend to be higher. So I 
think it would have been more problematic for a projection which used a variety of assumed 
returns on stock markets, to stick to a single assumption for the annuity interest rate.
The purpose of providing the GAD figures in my Provisional Decision was not to suggest that 
Prudential's income limits have to correspond exactly to these figures. I was using the 
drawdown limits, which are set differently, to illustrate the overall trend in the marketplace. It 
is still possible to deplete a drawdown pot too rapidly in an ill-advised fashion by over-relying 
on the max GAD rate. So, I'm not surprised if Prudential set more conservative limits for the 
FLA, not least because drawing an excessive income could then trigger inbuilt provisions to 
restrict the policyholder's options to a with-profits investment or fixed annuity if the income dropped below a certain level. Prudential had a responsibility to manage the product with 
that restriction (which doesnt apply to drawdown) in mind.
I understand Mr Js comments about the externally-managed funds closing when he thought 
they were doing well. Ultimately Im not able to dictate which external managers Prudential 
should use and as I indicated in my Provisional Decision, I think there would only be a 
problem on which I would have to comment, if Prudential significantly reduced access to 
external funds (of any provider). I havent found that has happened in this case. 
The rate implied by the fixed annuity conversion quote has increased significantly from the 
last quote Mr J received. The slight improvement in mortality hes mentioned may well be 
taken into account, but I have to acknowledge that the exact rate Prudentials willing to grant 
is a matter for its commercial judgement. I appreciate the nature of the product means that 
Mr J is tied to Prudential for providing the annuity, but he does not have to accept this quote. 
He can continue with a flexible income that exploits the maximum limit if he wishes to do so.
Should Prudential make errors in future, I would expect these to be corrected as they have 
been here. Whilst I would very much hope that this doesnt happen, Im not able to give an 
absolute guarantee that it wont, just as it would be unwise for Prudential to do so. The 
Financial Ombudsman Service stands ready to assist if Mr J isnt able to resolve any future 
dispute with Prudential. So, I dont agree Mr J is being forced by this complaint into taking a 
fixed annuity that he otherwise might not want. 
My final decision
I uphold Mr Js complaint on the basis that Prudential did make errors (including whilst the 
complaint was with our service) that it has had to correct. But Im now sufficiently persuaded 
that Prudential has taken appropriate steps to put Mr Js plan back into the position it should 
have been in at the present time, if it had not made those errors. This has included allowing 
Mr J to keep the benefit of at least £15,810 of additional gross income, which Ive also taken 
into account when deciding if its reasonable to expect Prudential to provide further redress.
Prudential sent Mr J £500 to compensate him for the distress and inconvenience it caused. 
Ive thought again about what Mr J has said about the mental impact and time hes had to 
spend making Prudential put these issues right. But in the round, Im still persuaded that 
Prudential has done enough given the past income Mr J has benefited from and the fact he 
received another £500 in his pocket. I referred Mr J to the typical awards this service makes 
for distress and inconvenience in my Provisional Decision, and Im not persuaded that there 
are grounds for me to increase that award.
I know Mr J is disappointed by this, but I wont be requiring Prudential to do anything further 
than it has already done to put things right for him. Under the rules of the Financial 
Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr J to accept or reject my decision before 
26 April 2023.
 
Gideon Moore
Ombudsman