DRN-4229769
The complaint
Mr M and Ms Y complain that Monzo Bank Ltd refused their application for a joint bank 
account and wouldnt explain it reasons for doing so. They want to know why Monzo failed to 
respond to their request for more information for 77 days. I have just referred to Mr M here.
What happened
Mr M set up an account with Monzo with the intention of setting up a joint account with Ms Y 
(who already had a Monzo account), but Monzo declined their application. Mr M tried to gain 
information about this but said Monzo told him he didnt have the right to use Article 22 of the 
General Data Protection Regulations (GDPR) to do so. 
Mr M said Monzo delayed its response and relied on invalid exemptions and didnt refer him 
to the Information Commissioners Office (ICO). He said Monzos marketing material made 
the process look easy, and didnt mention extra eligibility checks for joint accounts and its 
refusal leaves an unwanted bank account. Mr M complained that Monzos staff repeatedly 
undermined his rights under Article 22 of GDPR, and delayed its response to his request. 
Monzo responded that it had followed correct procedures and on the available information it 
wouldnt offer a joint account and isnt required to provide the specific rationale or go into 
further detail about the eligibility criteria. Monzo offered to review its decision. Monzo said, 
when Mr M queried its rejection, his message was read and not replied to appropriately and 
so he had to call back the next day. Monzo apologised and paid Mr M £25 compensation. 
Concerning Mr Ms subject access request, Monzo said it sent the transcript of the chat, but 
not information based on its internal decisions. Mr M said Monzo hadnt addressed his 
complaint about its marketing material, or why staff repeatedly prevented him exercising his 
rights and used an invalid exemption. Mr M referred his complaint to our service. 
Our investigator didnt recommend the complaint be upheld. He said Monzo reviewed the 
application in line with its criteria and reached a commercial decision with which we wouldnt 
interfere. He said banks can decide the criteria for their assessments. The investigator said 
when Mr M first asked about Monzos decision there was no mention of a subject access 
request  and in any event this wouldnt have provided any more information as to why the 
account was refused. He said Monzo responded to the complaint within a reasonable 
amount of time and had told Mr M it could review his application manually.
Mr M requested an ombudsman review his complaint. He said hed raised the matter with 
the ICO, but it wouldnt give individual redress. He said he hadnt sought an apology from 
Monzo, but an explanation of its decision, which it hadnt provided.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Monzo reviewed the decision to decline Mr M and Ms Ys application manually and 
maintained its decline. Mr M seeks information about its reasons. He said Monzo hasnt 
fulfilled its legal obligations under GDPR as business sensitive or commercial reasons 
dont constitute a valid exemptions under the regulations nor align with the ICOs expectation 
for Monzo to be as transparent as possible. 
I realise that the decline of Mr Ms application for an account is no longer the subject of his 
complaint, but it is worth reiterating that banks arent required to open an account for a 
customer. Im satisfied Monzo considered Mr M and Ms Ys application in line with its criteria. 
I havent found Monzos marketing material to be particularly misleading about applications.
Mr M raised his complaint with the ICO. The ICO can decide if a business has failed to 
respond properly to a request for information and what it should do to put things right and 
has the power to tell a business to release information. And so this is the correct place for Mr 
M to have raised his complaint about Monzos refusal to provide him with the information he 
has sought. In this respect, the ICO did not require Monzo to release the information Mr M 
requested, it only went so far as to ask Monzo to reconsider its decision about this. 
Monzo has said it hasnt relied on a specific exemption to not share this information and has 
explained to Mr M that this is a business decision and under data protection law it isnt 
required to explain business decisions in further detail. As the information is business 
sensitive, in that it relates to Monzos internal criteria, I think Monzo is entitled to maintain 
confidentiality about this. Im unable to provide Mr M with this information or the specific 
reasons why his application was refused and its not for us to determine if theres been a 
breach of the privacy laws. I agree with the investigator that Monzo hasnt treated Mr M and 
Ms Y differently to other customers, in similar circumstances. 
Monzo has said it would consider a fresh application from Mr M and Ms Y in a few months 
time, and it may be in a position to offer the account they have sought, so it may be worth a 
further application if they wish. In the meantime, I think Monzo could have responded more 
quickly to Mr M and Ms Ys requests, but I havent found that it acted in error in its handling 
of their application or requests for information. As I dont think it was unfair or unreasonable 
for Monzo to have declined to provide Mr M and Ms Y with the information they requested, I 
cant require it to do anything further. 
My final decision
For the reasons I have given it is my final decision that the complaint is not upheld.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M and Ms Y to 
accept or reject my decision before 19 September 2023.
 
Andrew Fraser
Ombudsman