DRN-3785486
The complaint
This complaint is about an interest-only mortgage which Ms G holds with Bank of Scotland 
plc (BOS). The crux of the complaint is that Ms G is unhappy with her treatment by BOS 
when she asked for a new fixed rate. Theres less than two years left on the mortgage term, 
and Ms G is ineligible for a term extension because she has no means of repaying the 
mortgage capital other than selling the mortgaged property. Ms G is represented here by 
Mr P.
What happened
Ms Gs mortgage has been on a variable rate since 2011; another part of the complaint is 
that Ms G believes BOS should have actively informed her of better rates from time to time. 
Our investigator explained that because of the time limits on our rules, we could only 
consider the extent to which BOS had done that since 2016. When he did that, the 
investigator wasnt persuaded BOS had treated Ms G unfairly on that point, or on the other 
aspects of the case as summarised above. 
On Ms Gs behalf, Mr P has asked for an ombudsman to review the case. In doing so, Mr P 
has raised a new issue about BOS complaint-handler not having a mortgage advice 
qualification.
What Ive decided  and why
Ill start with some general observations. Were not the regulator of financial businesses, and 
we dont police their internal processes or how they operate generally. Thats the job of the 
Financial Conduct Authority (FCA). We deal with individual disputes between businesses 
and their customers. In doing that, we dont replicate the work of the courts. 
Were impartial, and we dont take either sides instructions on how we investigate a 
complaint. We conduct our investigations and reach our conclusions without interference 
from anyone else. But in doing so, we have to work within the rules of the ombudsman 
service, and the remit those rules give us.
Our rules dont allow us to look into a complaint before the business has had an opportunity 
to do so first. Mr Ps comments about the complaint handler not being a qualified mortgage 
advisor constitute a new complaint, so cant form part of my final decision here. Ms G (or 
Mr P on her behalf) would need to raise it with BOS first. If they did, and werent happy with 
the response, they could then refer it here as a new complaint. We would then assess 
whether the new complaint was something we had the power under our rules to consider. 
I make that latter observation because on face value, the new issue seems to be a complaint 
about complaint-handling, and complaint-handling isnt a regulated activity covered by our 
scheme rules. Ultimately, we could only decide if a new complaint fell within our jurisdiction 
once it was referred to us, so nothing I say here should be taken as pre-empting what would 
happen if a new complaint was referred to us. I just wish to make sure Ms G and Mr P are in 
an informed position when deciding whether they wish to pursue further the issue of BOS 
complaint-handler not being a mortgage advisor. 
I now turn to the matter in hand. We revisit jurisdiction at every stage of our complaint 
investigation process. Mr P, on Ms Gs behalf, hasnt challenged the investigator opinion that 
we can only consider what has happened during the six years immediately preceding the 
start of the complaint; that is since 2016. But for completeness, I agree that our rules dont 
allow us to look at what happened earlier than 2016.
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ms G borrowed money from BOS in 2008, and under the term of her agreement with BOS, is 
due to repay it by November 2023. As a starting point, no one is entitled to borrow money; 
and even when theyve borrowed before; theyre not automatically entitled to more time to 
repay the debt after it has fallen due. 
But a lender must treat customers fairly. In the context of an application for a term extension 
or a new interest rate, that means assessing it fairly in accordance with the banks lending 
criteria and being mindful of what mortgage regulation requires of it. Lenders criteria are 
commercially sensitive and not generally made public. 
On the point as to whether BOS should have actively encouraged Ms G to ask for a new rate 
(after 2016) Im satisfied BOS did all that the regulator required of it from time to time. From 
the information given in the annual mortgage statements, I consider that Ms G was in a 
position to know what rate she was paying, and could have contacted BOS if she wanted to 
ask about changing the rate.
The difficulty Ms G faced when she did ask for a new rate is that by the time a deal could 
have been put in place, her mortgage would have less than two years left before it was due 
to be repaid. Meanwhile, the shortest fixed rate deal BOS offers is two years. Its not alone in 
that; two years is pretty much universal amongst mortgage lenders as being the minimum 
duration of a fixed rate deal. Its for lenders commercial judgement to decide the deals they 
offer, and not up to me to say BOS should offer fixed rates with shorter durations than two 
years. 
Its normal for fixed rate deals to come with an early repayment charge (ERC) in the event 
the mortgage is repaid during the product term. So it wouldnt be right for BOS to give Ms G 
a new two-year deal knowing shed be forced to incur an ERC on repaying the mortgage 
when it became due. That then begs the question; should BOS have agreed to extend the 
mortgage term beyond its current expiry date in order to facilitate the provision of a two-year 
fixed rate? 
Its not BOSs policy to do so; its lending criteria doesnt provide for term extensions on 
interest-only loans where theres no prepayment vehicle other than selling the mortgaged 
property. That too is a matter for BOSs commercial judgement. That said, I consider it was 
perfectly reasonable of BOS to have invited Ms G to contact it to go through a review of her 
circumstances. Aside from the opportunity it may have given for both sides to learn 
something new, its something the FCA expects lenders to do. 
I agree it would have been courteous if BOS had replied to Ms Gs letter asking it what the 
point of a review was; for the lack of courtesy, I consider the £50 BOS offered Ms G is a 
proportionate response. Given the circumstances, I think it unlikely that Ms G has suffered 
detriment as a result of the failure to answer her letter. Ultimately, it was Ms Gs choice not 
to engage with BOS in a review of her financial situation, and nothing in the evidence Ive 
been asked to review gives me any reason to think Ms G would most likely have agreed to a 
review if BOS had replied to her letter. The obligation to treat consumers fairly doesnt simply mean giving them what they want. 
Here, the obstacle for Ms G is that to find that BOS should have given her what she wanted 
requires me to second guess BOSs judgment (and impose my own judgement in its place) 
on two elements of its lending policy. In the circumstances, that would not be appropriate.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. My final decision concludes this 
services consideration of this complaint, which means Ill not be engaging in any further 
consideration or discussion of the merits of it.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms G to accept or 
reject my decision before 22 March 2023. 
Jeff Parrington
Ombudsman