DRN-3423846
Complaint
Mr W has complained about a loan AvantCredit of UK, LLC (Avant Credit) provided to him. 
He says the loan was unaffordable.
Background
Avant Credit provided Mr W with a loan for £4,750.00 in April 2017. This loan was due to be 
repaid in 36 monthly instalments of just over £217.36. One of our adjudicators reviewed     
Mr Ws complaint and he thought Avant Credit shouldnt have provided Mr W with his loan. 
Avant Credit disagreed, so the case was passed to an ombudsman for a final decision.
My findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve explained how we handle complaints about unaffordable and irresponsible lending on
our website. And Ive used this approach to help me decide Mr Ws complaint. Having 
carefully considered everything Ive decided to uphold Mr Ws complaint. Ill explain why in a 
little more detail.
Avant Credit needed to make sure it didnt lend irresponsibly. In practice, what this means is 
Avant Credit needed to carry out proportionate checks to be able to understand whether    
Mr W could afford to repay any credit it provided. 
Our website sets out what we typically think about when deciding whether a lenders checks 
were proportionate. Generally, we think its reasonable for a lenders checks to be less 
thorough  in terms of how much information it gathers and what it does to verify it  in the 
early stages of a lending relationship.
But we might think it needed to do more if, for example, a borrowers income was low or the
amount lent was high. And the longer the lending relationship goes on, the greater the risk of
it becoming unsustainable and the borrower experiencing financial difficulty. So wed expect
a lender to be able to show that it didnt continue to lend to a customer irresponsibly.
The credit check Avant Credit carried out before providing this loan to Mr W showed that he 
was heavily indebted and had a history of payday loans. In these circumstances, I think that 
Avant Credit needed to carry out further checks in order to ensure the monthly payments 
were affordable before lending to Mr W.
I think further checks would more likely than not have extended into finding out more about 
Mr Ws expenditure. And if Avant Credit had done this here, Im persuaded that it would have 
seen that Mr W was already in a difficult financial position at the time and also seen why this 
was the case. Im also satisfied that reasonable and proportionate checks would more likely 
than not have shown Avant Credit that Mr Ws existing precarious financial position was 
because he was struggling. 
So Im persuaded by what Mr W has said about already being in a difficult financial position 
at the time. And as reasonable and proportionate checks should have extended into finding 
out about Mr Ws income and expenditure, Im satisfied that they would more like than not 
have shown Avant Credit that it shouldnt have provided this loan to Mr W. As Avant Credit 
provided Mr W with this loan, notwithstanding this, Im satisfied it failed to act fairly and 
reasonably towards him. 
Mr W ended up paying interest, fees and charges on a loan he shouldnt have been provided 
with in the first place. So Im satisfied that Mr W lost out because of what Avant Credit did 
wrong and that it should put things right.
Fair compensation  what Avant Credit needs to do to put things right for Mr W
Having thought about everything, Avant Credit should put things right for Mr W by:
refunding all interest, fees and charges Mr W paid on this loan;
adding interest at 8% per year simple on any refunded amounts from the date they 
were paid by Mr W to the date of settlement;
removing any adverse information recorded on Mr Ws credit file as a result of this 
loan.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, Im upholding Mr Ws complaint. AvantCredit of UK, LLC 
should put things right in the way Ive set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 17 May 2022.
 
Jeshen Narayanan
Ombudsman