DRN-3814002
The complaint
Mr R is unhappy that Monzo Bank Ltd wont refund the money he lost after he fell victim to 
an authorised push payment (APP) scam.
What happened
The background to this complaint is well-known to both parties, so I wont repeat it all here. 
But briefly, and based on the submissions of both parties, I understand it to be as follows.
Mr R saw a car for sale, on a well-known social media online marketplace, that he was 
interested in buying. He contacted the seller, by way of messages, and asked if the car was 
still available. Mr R has said at the time he saw two other cars (of the same make and 
model) for sale, one that was priced higher and one that was a lower price. 
Interested in buying the car Mr R has told us he carried out a MOT check on the car and 
checked the details on a car-checker website, and everything matched up. Mr R has told us 
that hed bought from the same marketplace before and had no issues. Hes said the seller 
had a number of other cars for sale, which reassured him.
The car was too far away for Mr R to go and look at it. But believing everything to be 
genuine, on 27 May 2022, Mr R made a payment for £100, through his mobile app, by way 
of a deposit (with the seller agreeing to accept the balance, of £400, on delivery). But after 
making the payment, the car wasnt delivered, and Mr R found he was blocked when he tried 
to message the seller. Unknown to him at the time, Mr R had been dealing with a fraudster 
and had sent his payment to an account controlled by the fraudster. 
Mr R raised the matter with Monzo. It didnt dispute that he had been the victim of a scam, 
but it said that the price of the car was too good to be true and Mr R didnt take enough steps 
when making the purchase. It added that it had provided a warning when Mr R was making 
the payment. Monzo tried to recover the money Mr R lost from the beneficiary bank (the 
bank to which the money was sent) but was unable to recover any money. 
Monzo has committed to follow the Lending Standards Board Contingent Reimbursement 
Model (CRM) Code (although it isnt a signatory) which requires firms to reimburse 
customers who have been the victims of APP scams like this in all but a limited number of 
circumstances. Monzo says one or more of those exceptions applies in this case.
Monzo issued its final response to Mr R on 14 June 2022, not upholding his complaint. In 
summary it said there had been no errors made in handling Mr Rs claim. It added that it 
hadnt been able to recover the money Mr R lost and it didnt feel Mr R had taken enough 
steps to check who he was paying and that it had given a warning. Monzo did apologise to 
Mr R for confusing matters surrounding this complaint, with an issue Mr R had with some 
disputed transactions on a joint account he holds. Monzo credited Mr Rs account with £20 in 
recognition of this. 
Unhappy with Monzos response, Mr R then brought his complaint to this service. One of our 
investigators looked into things and thought the complaint should be upheld and that Monzo 
should refund Mr R the money he lost, along with interest. In summary, our investigator 
didnt think Monzo had established that it shouldnt reimburse Mr R on the basis that he had 
ignored an effective warning, nor had it established that Mr R didnt have a reasonable basis 
for believing he was making a legitimate payment. Our investigator recommended Monzo 
should refund Mr R the money he lost, along with interest. 
Monzo didnt agree with our investigators view and maintained its position. As agreement 
couldnt be reached, the complaint has been passed to me for a decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I am satisfied that:
- Under the terms of the CRM Code, Monzo should have refunded Mr R the money he 
lost. I am not persuaded any of the permitted exceptions to reimbursement apply in 
the circumstances of this case.
- In the circumstances Monzo should fairly and reasonably refund the money Mr R 
lost.
- The money was taken from Mr Rs current account. It is not clear how Mr R would 
have used the money if Monzo had refunded it when it should have done, so Monzo 
should also pay interest on the money it should have refunded at 8% simple per year, 
from the date Monzo decided not to refund Mr R under the CRM Code to the date of 
payment.
Did Mr R have a reasonable basis for belief when making the payment?
Ive carefully considered Monzos representations about whether Mr R had a reasonable 
basis for believing the purchase was genuine. Weighing everything up, I dont think it would 
have been evident to Mr R that there was a risk with this purchase, Ill explain why.
Monzo argue that although Mr R had used the marketplace before, this didnt amount to a 
reasonable basis for belief. It added that no evidence had been seen of the other cars Mr R 
said he had looked at, but even if he did see the two other cars, they may also have been 
scams, as the price isnt reflective of what Monzo has seen on other websites. 
Monzo added that Mr R carrying out a MOT check only proves that the car had a MOT, it 
didnt prove ownership or possession of the vehicle. And it added that a customer is less 
likely to send the full payment for a car they hadnt seen, and its not uncommon for 
scammers to ask for smaller payments in the hope it will be sent. Overall Monzo has said  
Mr R was not diligent, the price was too good to be true and, without seeing it, there was no 
way of knowing if the car existed. 
I agree that none of the evidence Mr R obtained provided conclusive proof that the seller 
was legitimate, or that the car existed - nor could it. But that is not the test required under the 
CRM Code. Monzo, if it wishes not to reimburse Mr R under the provisions of the CRM 
Code, must establish he made the payment without a reasonable basis for believing this was 
legitimate, in all the circumstances. And while none of the steps he took gave conclusive 
proof, Im satisfied the evidence indicates that Mr R had taken reasonable and proportionate 
steps given the nature and value of the purchase amongst the other circumstances.The evidence Ive seen from motor trade guides, indicates a price range for the vehicle Mr R 
was looking at to be between c. £890 - £1400.  Given this, while the price Mr R was paying 
was under this, I dont consider, in the circumstances of this case that it can be considered 
too good to be true. It isnt so implausible that a car of this age and mileage could be 
available at a cheaper price. Indeed Mr R has said himself he had seen another car, of the 
same make/model, for cheaper. Ive got no reason to doubt what Mr R has told us. I 
understand Monzo has said there is no evidence of the other cars Mr R looked at, but nor 
would I expect there to be. Mr R didnt know he was being scammed and I dont think its 
reasonable or proportionate to expect a customer to keep copies of all of the research they 
do, prior to making a payment for £100.
Mr R is not an expert in all matters relating to fraud and scams, nor about how they work or 
can play out. The fact that the bank, as a professional in these matters, can think of 
additional things Mr R could have done does not mean that he did not do enough. There was 
nothing specific here that I consider should have been a glaring red flag that all might not 
have been as it seemed. 
Mr R has explained hes used the marketplace before and was reassured that the seller had 
other vehicles for sale. Its both understandable and reasonable that somebody who has not 
been scammed previously and who has successfully used a marketplace before, would have 
gained a degree of comfort from their previous experiences. Mr R also carried out a MOT 
check and checked the car through an online vehicle checker too. 
People dont want or expect to be scammed and I think overall Mr R took reasonable, 
appropriate, and proportionate steps to try and protect himself. I dont consider he had any 
reason to think the seller would not keep to their side of that bargain. 
Monzo has said the warnings it provided to Mr R before he made the payment were 
effective. Im not persuaded the payment Mr R made to the fraudsters was so remarkable or 
unusual that I would have expected Monzo to have identified a scam risk. So Im satisfied it 
neednt have identified a scam risk and in turn did not need to provide effective warnings or 
question the payment before processing it.
But given Monzo has argued it provided an effective warning, Ive considered this. While the 
warnings, in part, intend to warn customers about potential scams they may be at risk of, I 
find that they dont meet the definition of an effective warning as set out by the CRM Code. 
The warnings highlight multiple potential scams. But they dont bring to life what the type of 
scam Mr R was falling victim to looks like, or highlight the common features of these types of 
scam. 
All things considered, I think it fair and reasonable that Mr R thought he was dealing with a 
legitimate seller for a legitimate item when making the payment. Im satisfied Mr R took 
proportionate steps to try and mitigate any risk and that it wasnt unreasonable for him to 
proceed in making the payment he did. Overall and on balance, Im not persuaded that 
Monzo has shown that Mr R lacked a reasonable basis of belief for making the payment, or 
that he ignored an effective warning. 
I can see that Monzo did send Mr R £20 in recognition of confusion caused when looking 
into some disputed transactions on a joint account Mr R holds. As the matter Im deciding 
relates to the sole account Mr R holds  I will not make any comment on any dispute about 
his joint account as part of this decision.
Putting things right
For the reasons outlined above, Monzo Bank Ltd should now;- Refund Mr R the £100 he lost as a result of this scam.
- Pay 8% simple interest per year on that amount calculated from the date Monzo 
Bank Ltd originally declined Mr Rs claim until the date of settlement.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint against Monzo Bank Ltd.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision before 3 January 2023.
 
Stephen Wise
Ombudsman