DRN-3797339
The complaint
Mr M complains because Astrenska Insurance Limited hasnt paid a claim for a cancelled 
holiday under his travel insurance policy. 
All references to Astrenska include the agents it has appointed to handle claims on its 
behalf. 
What happened
Mr M held an annual travel insurance policy provided by Astrenska, which ran from
September 2019 to September 2020. When the policy renewed in September 2020, an
endorsement for claims arising from Covid-19 was added to the policy schedule.
Mr M had booked a holiday abroad in February 2020. He was originally due to travel in April
2020. Unfortunately, due to the circumstances surrounding Covid-19, the holiday was
rescheduled, first to January 2021 and then to April 2021. The holiday was ultimately
cancelled around February 2021, and Mr M made a claim under his policy with Astrenska for
his non-refundable costs.
Astrenska said Mr Ms policy didnt cover claims arising from Covid-19. Mr M disputed this
and said the policy which was in force at the time the holiday was booked had no such
restrictions. Mr M also said he shouldnt be penalised for attempting to reschedule his
holiday. Astrenska maintained its decision to decline the claim but paid Mr M £50
compensation in recognition of shortcomings in the level of service provided.
As Mr M remained unhappy, he brought his complaint to the attention of our service. One of
our investigators looked into what had happened and said he thought it would be fair and
reasonable in the circumstances for Astrenska to accept Mr Ms claim under the policy terms
and conditions which ran from September 2019 to September 2020. Mr M agreed with our
investigators conclusions, but Astrenska didnt. So, the complaint was referred to me.
I made my provisional decision about Mr Ms complaint in October 2022. In it, I said:
Industry rules set out by the regulator (the Financial Conduct Authority) say insurers must 
handle claims fairly and shouldnt unreasonably reject a claim. Ive taken these rules into 
account when making my provisional decision about Mr Ms complaint.
I understand Mr M feels that his cancellation claim should be covered under the terms and
conditions of the insurance policy that was in force at the time the trip was originally booked.
But that isnt how annual travel insurance policies work. Whats relevant is the date the claim
arises, and not the date the booking was made.
The terms and conditions of Mr Ms insurance contract which ran from September 2019 to
September 2020 say that cover for cancellation under an annual policy ends on the
commencement of the trip or the expiry of the period of cover (whichever occurs first). The
policy expired on 20 September 2020, so Mr M no longer had any cover for cancellation of a
holiday under the terms and conditions of this policy after this date  regardless of when the
holiday was booked.
When the policy renewed in September 2020, it did so subject to different terms. Astrenska
was entitled to decide what risks it was prepared to insure at renewal, and so it included the
following on Mr Ms September 2020 policy schedule.
ENDORSEMENTS
*This policy does not cover any claim arising directly, or indirectly, from any
coronavirus disease (including but not limited to Covid-19) or any related or mutated
form of the virus, except from Section 4, Emergency Medical Expenses and
Repatriation. This includes the fear or threat of catching coronavirus, and the advice,
or action, of any government not to travel or preventing travel.
Mr Ms holiday was cancelled during the September 2020  September 2021 policy year.
This was because Foreign, Commonwealth & Development Office advice due to Covid-19
and/or restrictions in force at the intended destination due to Covid-19 meant that Mr M
couldnt travel on the rescheduled dates. Mr M says he couldnt reschedule for after April
2021 because of his personal circumstances. I think the cancellation of the rescheduled trip
in April 2021 arose from Covid-19, and this means that Mr Ms claim isnt covered under the
policy terms and conditions which were in force at the time.
I appreciate Mr Ms argument that he shouldnt be prejudiced for not cancelling the original
holiday and making a claim immediately under the terms of the September 2019 
September 2020 policy. And, I understand that if Mr M had chosen to do this then his claim
may well have been covered. But this isnt what happened here. We consider complaints
based on the individual circumstances as they occurred, and not on hypothetical situations.
It wouldnt be fair or reasonable to ask an insurer to pay claims based on what might have
happened if a policyholder had acted differently.
Mr Ms insurance covering his original trip  for which hed paid a premium based on the risk
which Astrenska was prepared to accept in September 2019  expired in September 2020.
When Mr Ms policy renewed in September 2020, Covid-19 was a known and foreseeable
risk. In my experience of dealing with complaints of this type, many travel insurers were
limiting the level of Covid-19 cover being offered at this time. Astrenska was entitled to
exclude cancellation cover for Covid-19 from the policies it was offering and, based on the
information Ive seen, this was made clear to Mr M at policy renewal.
Our investigator concluded that the risk which was insured under both policies (the risk of
cancelling due to a government directive prohibiting travel) was the same. But the risk that
was insured under the September 2019  September 2020 policy was based on events as
they were in September 2019. Astrenska is entitled to amend the risk it accepts annually
under a policy like this, and it didnt agree to accept the same risk in September 2020  it
chose to exclude cancellation for claims arising for Covid-19. So, the premium which Mr M
paid in September 2020 didnt include cover for this.
I can understand why Mr M feels that Astrenskas position is unfair but, in making an
independent and impartial decision, I must be fair to both parties. Im sorry to disappoint Mr
M, but I dont think it would be fair or reasonable to direct Astrenska to depart from general
insurance principles or from a strict interpretation of the policy terms and conditions and
accept a claim in these circumstances. I dont think there are any reasonable grounds upon
which I could fairly direct Astrenska to pay a claim for a holiday which was cancelled several
months after the September 2019  September 2020 policy terms had already expired under
those previous policy terms.I accept Mr Ms point that neither of the policies make provision for the postponement of a
holiday, but I wouldnt necessarily expect them to. The postponement of a holiday doesnt
generally lead to the policyholder incurring financial loss at the point of postponement. And,
it wouldnt be reasonable to expect Astrenska to provide ongoing cover, indefinitely, for the
postponement of a holiday subject to the original policy terms.
Overall, this means I dont think Astrenska acted unfairly or unreasonably by turning down
Mr Ms claim.
Ive also considered Mr Ms complaint as it relates to the level of service provided by
Astrenska. It appears that Mr M was repeatedly promised call-backs which didnt happen.
Astrenska has also acknowledged that Mr M was asked to provide information which wasnt
required. Im satisfied that the £50 which Astrenska has already paid to Mr M fairly and
reasonably compensates him for the impact of these errors.
I understand that Mr M is also seeking a refund of the premiums which he paid for these
policies. But Mr M had the benefit of cover for listed, insured events under multiple sections
of the policies during the period these policies were in force, regardless of whether any
successful claims were made. Generally, an insurer is entitled to keep the benefit of the
premiums for the risks which it did cover.
So, I dont currently intend to direct Astrenska to do anything further.
Astrenska replied to my provisional decision and said it had nothing further to add. Mr M 
responded with additional comments. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I understand that Mr M is disappointed with my provisional findings. Ive considered his 
comments that his holiday effectively became uninsurable from the start of the Covid-19 
pandemic and, therefore, he was afforded no protection. It may be the case that his holiday 
was uninsurable, particularly in the initial stages of the pandemic  but neither Astrenska nor 
any other travel insurer was or is obliged to offer cover to policyholders on any particular 
terms. Insurers operate as commercial enterprises, rather than fulfilling a consumer 
protection role. And, the potential consequences to the tourism industry of all consumers 
cancelling all holidays immediately isnt something thats relevant to whether Astrenska has 
acted unfairly or unreasonably in declining Mr Ms claim. 
I dont agree that any lack of cover for postponing a holiday erodes the value of Mr Ms 
policy. Mr M had cover in place if his holiday was cancelled for any listed, insured reason 
and his policy also provided cover for other insured eventualities under different sections of 
the terms and conditions. 
I appreciate that Astrenskas decision to exclude cover for Covid-19 in its September 2020  
September 2021 policies means that Mr M has lost out financially, but it wouldnt be fair or 
reasonable for me to direct Astrenska to accept a claim in these particular circumstances.
This means I wont be changing my provisional decision. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold Mr Ms complaint. Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 7 December 2022.
 
Leah Nagle
Ombudsman