DRN-2009995
The complaint
Mr H complains that 3J Finance Limited will not let him out of an arrangement to pay for an 
educational course for his children.
  
What happened
In May 2019 Mr H says he was sold a cancel within twelve months direct debit agreement 
for an online education course for his children by a course provider. 3J Finance says he took 
out a Fixed Sum Loan Agreement over three years with it to pay for this online educational 
course supplied by the course provider.
In November 2019 he wrote to the course provider stating when they entered the 
arrangement he understood that he was setting up a direct debit agreement. He says he 
didnt understand hed been signed up to a loan agreement. Mr H wants out of the 
agreement with nothing else to pay but 3J Finance say hes responsible for the total amount 
of credit (which was just over two thousand four hundred pounds at the time the agreement 
was signed in 2019).
Mr H contacted Citizens Advice and complained to the course provider. 3J Finance saw that 
Mr H wasnt making payments started writing to him about his arrears. So he complained. 
But no agreement was reached. 3J Finance say its done nothing wrong. So Mr H brought 
his complaint here.
Our Investigator upheld Mr Hs complaint, but 3J Finance didnt agree and pointed to the 
paperwork from the sale. So the complaint has been passed to me to decide. 
  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr H says that having learned about the educational course he expressed an interest in 
learning more about this, and a representative visited his home in May 2019. By the end of 
this meeting Mr H had purchased an educational course for children. It appears the 
representative was acting for both the course provider and 3J Finance during the sales 
process. The total price of the course was £2490 of which £2410 was paid for with a loan 
from 3J Finance which was arranged by the representative. The loan was interest free and 
was to run over the following three years. 
Mr H has been very clear and consistent in his representations that during the meeting with 
the representative they understood the situation was that they had a service which could be 
cancelled anytime within the first twelve months. He also makes clear from the start that he 
understood he was setting up a monthly direct debit arrangement and not anything else. He 
says that during the sale that the representative was completing forms on a laptop and that 
he did not show us the screen at any point.
Repeatedly Mr H has said that he didnt understand that they were entering a loan 
agreement and that he didnt sign anything. Mr H does agree he entered an arrangement but 
believed it was monthly direct debit type arrangement.
3J Finance didnt sell Mr H the course or the loan, but it has some responsibilities to Mr H 
due to certain protections afforded to consumers by the Consumer Credit Act 1974. The loan 
Mr H entered with 3J Finance is regulated by this Act, and there are two sections of the Act 
which provide his with some protection namely section 56 and section 75. 
In summary section 56 has the effect of making the representative who sold the loan the 
agent of 3J Finance during the antecedent negotiations leading up to Mr H entering into the 
loan agreement, beginning with the first contact he had with the course provider. In essence 
this means 3J Finance can be held responsible for the things that were done or said during 
the sales process. Section 75 has the effect of allowing Mr H to hold 3J Finance liable for 
breaches of contract by the course provider, or misrepresentations made during the sales 
process.
3J Finance has pointed to a number of documents which were electronically signed by Mr H 
on the day in question. 3J Finances position essentially is that the documentary evidence 
from the point of sale is overwhelming and is, in short, the end of the matter as Mr H agreed 
to everything in those documents. But I dont agree that position is a complete or fair 
appreciation of what happened here. What was said by the representative is also important 
as the discussion will have started before the paperwork was signed. And Mr H would have 
considered what the representative said in his decision making during the sale.
Mr H has been consistent in what he says about believing he could cancel in the first twelve 
months. He says he believed this because this is what the representative told him. And 
events do support this as it is clear that within a couple of months Mr H was trying to speak 
to the representative and then the course provider in order to withdraw from what he 
believed to be a month to month arrangement.
I think a particularly important issue here is the reliance Mr H placed on what the 
representative told him. Mr H says that English isnt his first language and so what he was 
told verbally would be important to him.
As for the broader context of this sale Im also aware that the Financial Conduct Authority 
(FCA) wrote to credit brokers outlining some key risks for them to consider and act upon. 
The FCA said it had found firms brokering credit agreements with third party finance 
providers had poor oversight of staff, leaving sales practices unchecked and potentially 
increasing the risk of mis-selling, fraud or other poor consumer outcomes. It highlighted in 
particular brokers which sell products in consumers homes as presenting a higher risk of 
consumer harm, especially where sales took place without appropriate oversight and on a 
commission-basis. The FCA did not name individual firms, but Im mindful of the fact that the 
sale here does, at least, fit some of the criteria the FCA identified as presenting a high risk of 
mis-selling.
Importantly I also need to consider that this service has seen a number of cases about the 
course provider involved here and it using credit providers such as 3J Finance. These 
include the common theme of people understanding that they could cancel at any time or 
outside the stated terms. I havent seen anything that connects these complainants other 
than they were sold courses such as this by this particular course provider and often took 
finance to pay for it. That doesnt mean that the representatives always provided misleading 
or untrue information. But it does show that there was a significant risk that such 
representatives either were unclear on the arrangement being entered into or that unscrupulous or incompetent representatives may have presented the situation differently to 
that articulated in the documentation.
This service has also received information that the course provider sometimes operated 
informally a longer cancellation period than the fourteen days set out in its contracts. I can 
see the existence of official and unofficial cancellation periods of different lengths being a 
potential source of confusion during the sales process, and this again leads me towards a 
conclusion that misunderstandings were not uncommon.
Ive considered what Mr H has said very carefully. And taking everything into account Im 
persuaded on balance that Mr H was told a different story by the representative regarding 
the operation of the agreement to that set out in the documentation provided by 3J Finance. I 
think it likely he was told that he could cancel in the first year. And it was on this basis he 
entered into the agreement. And similarly I think it is on this basis things should be put right. 
And as Ive described due to the operation of sections 56 and 75 of the Consumer Credit Act 
1974, Mr H can hold 3J Finance liable for the incorrect information provided by the 
representative in this case. So 3J Finance needs to do something to put things right.
In response to the views of the Investigator 3J Finance has said that reliance on one partys 
recollections when compared to its tangible and credible documentary evidence would isnt 
fair. I disagree. Firstly Mr H doesnt dispute he agreed to take the course but that he didnt 
understand the agreement to pay for it. But importantly the key issue here is what was said 
to Mr H before and whilst he entered the agreement and what he relied on in deciding to 
sign. Secondly and more importantly 3J Finance has only described what it considers what 
would have been said and done by its representative not what was actually said. In 
essence it is relying on the representative describing the matters accurately. However it 
hasnt provided commentary from the representative in this case in support of its position. Mr 
H was there in person and heard what was actually said and I find his comments persuasive 
in light of what we already know. And along with what Ive already said with regards to sales 
such as this more broadly and considering what this service knows of sales such as this, 
means I consider it fair on balance that 3J Finance put things right in this particular case.
3J Finance has continued to say that the paperwork it has is decisive but hasnt engaged 
specifically with Mr Hs comments on what happened in his specific case or with his 
comments about what he was told. However this service has seen a significant number of 
cases as Ive described which correspond with the issues the FCA has set out. And I note 
that 3J hasnt persuasively engaged here on why these complaints about such sales keep 
arising and coming to our service. All in all Im persuaded by what Mr H says did happen 
here rather than what 3J Finance said would or should have happened in his case. So I think 
Mr Hs complaint is successful.
  
Putting things right
I direct 3J Finance to take the following actions:
Cap Mr Hs liability for the loan at the sum of the repayments which were due as of
the date he first contacted either the course provider or 3J Finance to cancel. 
Anything above this amount must be written off and no longer pursued.
If Mr H has paid more than this capped liability, then any overpayments must be
refunded to him, along with 8% simple interest per year* calculated from the date he
made each overpayment, to the date he receives a refund.
If Mr H has paid less than this capped liability then an affordable repayment plan 
must be arranged for the outstanding balance up to the cap.Remove any negative information relating to the loan from Mr Hs credit file and mark 
it as settled from the first date he contacted either the course provider or 3J Finance 
to cancel. If Mr H has not paid up to this capped liability then 3J Finance does not 
need to mark the loan as settled until he has paid up to the cap.
Arrange with Mr H for the return of any course materials, DVDs and anything else he 
received under the contract, and the ending of any other services supplied under the 
contract. 
*HM Revenue & Customs requires 3J Finance to take tax off this interest. 3J Finance must
give Mr H a certificate showing how much tax its taken off, if Mr H asks for one.
  
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I uphold the complaint against 3J Finance Limited and direct 
it to put things right as I have set out above.
 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 July 2021.
 
Rod Glyn-Thomas
Ombudsman