DRN-1428776
 
The complaint
Mr D complains that Advantage Insurance Company Limited settled a third party claim for 
damage to a vehicle which he says he didn't cause. 
What happened
Mr D has a car insurance policy with Advantage.
The insurer for a third party contacted Advantage and asked them to pay £700 for damage 
caused to their customer's car in a supermarket car park. The third party alleged the damage 
was caused when Mr D's car was parked.
Advantage accepted liability and paid for the damage. Mr D says he wasn't involved in any 
collision with the third party's car and didn't cause the damage.
He says Advantage shouldn't have accepted liability. He thinks they should have consulted 
him first and taken his version of events into account. He also thinks they have insufficient 
evidence that he was at fault. He says they have no photographic evidence of the damage 
and didn't inspect the third party's car.
Mr D also says Advantage's claim handling was slow, disjointed and lacking transparency. 
He says their accepting liability without proper justification has affected his premiums and his 
no claims discount, which has been reduced from 9 to 4 years. He thinks they should have 
refused to accept liability and made the cause in court if necessary. 
Mr D complained to Advantage. They accepted they ought to have notified Mr D about the 
claim and offered him £50 in compensation for the fact he hadn't had "a chance to react to 
their decision".   
Mr D wasn't happy with this outcome and complained to us. Our investigator looked into it 
and didn't think Advantage had done anything wrong. 
Mr D disagreed and asked for a final decision from an ombudsman.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Section 1 of Mr D's policy booklet has a sub-section entitled "How your claims are settled". 
On page 32, it says:
"Your insurer shall be entitled to conduct the defence or settlement of any claim and to 
instruct the solicitors of their choice to act for you in any proceedings. In 
circumstances where it is considered appropriate your insurer will be entitled to admit liability... on behalf of you or any person claiming indemnity under the policy. Such 
admissions may be made prior to or after the commencement of proceedings." 
So, it's clear the policy terms explicitly allow Advantage to settle a third party claim as they 
think appropriate, without needing Mr D's permission to do so.
This clause is not hidden in the small print of the policy documents. It would have been 
apparent to Mr D when he bought the policy, assuming he read the terms and conditions.
It's not an unusual clause. And it's not inherently unfair - I don't think there's any strong 
argument to suggest insurers should be obliged to spend their money defending claims 
when the chance of success is slim, even if the customer wants them to do so.
So, given that Advantage are entitled to accept liability if they wish according to the policy 
terms, my decision can only be about whether it was reasonable for them to do so in this 
particular case.
Mr D is adamant that his car wasn't in collision with the third party vehicle. He says his car 
has some damage to the front number plate, but this already there when he bought the car.
Advantage couldn't inspect the third party vehicle. The third party insurer informed them 
it had already been repaired by the time Advantage were made aware of the claim. That's 
not Advantage's fault and I can't say they've acted unreasonably by not inspecting the 
vehicle when that option was never open to them.
In my view, their obligation at that point was to collect whatever evidence was available and 
make a reasonable judgement about liability based on that evidence.
Mr D is willing to admit that it's likely he was in the supermarket car park at the relevant time. 
Advantage asked Mr D to provide photographs of his car - presumably to establish whether it 
had any damage which could have been caused by the alleged collision. If not, I imagine 
they may have defended the claim.
Mr D couldn't provide photographs in a format Advantage could view, so they 
commissioned an independent inspection of Mr D's car. 
This concluded that Mr D's car had damage which was consistent with a light impact at low 
speed. This damage was around the left-hand rear door and wing of the car. There was no 
reference to Mr D's damaged number plate.
It's not for me to determine whether Mr D's car was in fact involved in the alleged accident. 
In any case, I'm not sure anyone could do that with any certainty now. I have to decide 
whether Advantage have acted reasonably and fairly in light of the evidence available to 
them.
I know Mr D thinks the third party could - and should - have acted differently if and when they 
discovered any damage to their car. He says they could have asked the supermarket to 
make an announcement to ask driver of the car to identify themselves and exchange 
insurance details, for example. But I don't think the third party's actions necessarily 
demonstrate that their claim was fraudulent, as Mr D suggests, or mistaken.  
And I don't think it's unreasonable for Advantage to conclude, in light of the independent 
inspection report, that they should accept liability rather than fight the claim in court. As I say, 
they are entitled to make that judgement according to the terms of the policy.I'd also ask Mr D to bear in mind that it's not to Advantage's advantage to accept liability and 
settle a claim if they thought it could be defended. They have no interest in doing that given 
that it's their money which is being paid out. 
Advantage have admitted some failings in the customer service they provided to Mr D and 
offered him £50 in compensation. They didn't inform him in a timely manner about the third 
party claim. They ought to have done so, but I'm satisfied it would ultimately have made no 
difference to their decision about liability. And I'm satisfied that £50 is adequate 
compensation for Advantage's poor customer service. 
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I don't uphold Mr D's complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision before 18 February 2020.
Neil Marshall
Ombudsman