DRN-3124799
The complaint
Miss K complains that Oakam Ltd was irresponsible in its lending to her.
What happened
Miss K was provided with nine loans by Oakam between May 2012 and September 2016. 
The loan amounts varied, and multiple loans were refinanced throughout Miss Ks borrowing. 
The table below sets out details including the loans that were rolled into new loans (referred 
to as transfer) and those that were repaid without being rolled into new lending.
Loan Date Transfer / Repaid Total credit (£)
1 May-12 Transfer 235.00
2 Oct-12 repaid 28 Apr 2013 339.06
3 Dec-13 Transfer 235.00
4 Feb-14 Transfer 336.77
5 May-14 Transfer 465.24
6 Aug-14 Transfer 637.92
7 Nov-14 repaid 13 Nov 2015 867.41
8 Feb-16 transfer 801.00
9 Sep-16 1233.58
Miss K says that adequate affordability assessments werent carried out before the loans 
were provided.
Oakam issued a final response letter dated May 2020. It said that it provided instalment 
loans not payday loans and that all loans were subject to rigorous affordability checks. It 
noted that some of the loans were provided more than six years before Miss K raised her 
complaint.
Regarding the loans provided to Miss K, Oakam said that it gathered information about 
Miss Ks income and expenses and validated the information received against bank 
statements and credit reports. It carried out credit checks which didnt raise concerns and 
said that Miss K didnt show signs of financial difficulties throughout the duration of the 
lending.
Oakam explained that having reviewed Miss Ks loans, it found that three loans  loans 
signed on 10 October 2012, 2 December 2012 and 23 September 2016  were completed 
outside of its accepted terms. Therefore, it upheld Miss Ks complaint regarding these loans 
and offered to refund all interest amounts paid (along with interest) on these loans.
Our adjudicator noted Oakams offer regarding loans 2, 3 and 9. She thought that the offer 
regarding loans 2 and 3 was enough and so didnt include these loans as part of the 
assessment. She didnt think she had enough to say that loans 1,4 and 5 shouldnt have 
been provided. But thought that by loans 6 to 9 shouldnt have been provided.
My provisional conclusions
I issued a provisional decision on this complaint. I concluded in summary:
Miss K was provided with nine loans which fell into two lending chains. The first 
including loans 1 and 2. The second including loans 3 to 9.
Considering the information gathered before the first loan was provided, while I noted 
that there was some adverse credit information recorded, I didnt find that I had 
enough to say that this loan shouldnt have been provided.
Oakam upheld the second and third loans and offered redress in line with what we 
would expect and so I didnt consider these loans further.
Regarding loans 4 and 5, having considered the information gathered before these 
loans were provided, the repayment amounts compared to Miss Ks declared income, 
and that these were the second and third loans in the lending chain, I thought the 
checks were proportionate. As these suggested the loans were affordable I didnt 
think I could say these two loans shouldnt have been provided.
Loan 6 was provided in August 2014. At this point, Miss K had a total outstanding 
credit amount of £637. She had refinanced each of her previous loans in this lending 
chain and was adding additional borrowing with each loan. I noted Oakams 
comments about its product and that it didnt provide payday loans, however it does 
provide short term high interest loans and I thought by this stage, as Miss K had 
refinanced each of her previous three loans, Oakam should have been concerned 
that she may be experiencing problems managing her money. Because of this I 
thought it should have carried out further checks to ensure that lending to Miss K was 
sustainably affordable.
The information provided showed that Miss K had two accounts defaulted in May 
2014. Given this was within three months of loan 6 being provided, I thought that 
Oakam should have been concerned that Miss K was struggling to manage her 
money and that providing this, and subsequent loans, wasnt sustainably affordable.
By loan 8, I thought that Oakam should have been concerned that Miss K had 
become persistently reliant on the lending. This was the sixth loan in the lending 
chain with each loan being refinanced and Miss Ks total amount of debt increasing.
Overall, I noted that Oakam had said that loans 2 and 3 shouldnt have been provided and 
offered redress in line with what we would expect so these loans werent considered as part 
of this decision. Regarding the other loans, I didnt think that loans 6 to 9 should have been 
provided.
Neither party provided any additional information in response to my provisional decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
We've set out our general approach to complaints about short-term lending - including all of 
the relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice - on our website. I have considered 
these when making my decision on this complaint.As I set out in my provisional decision:
Oakam made offers on loans 2 and 3 in line with what we would expect and so I 
havent considered these in my decision. 
I dont find that I have enough to say that the first loan shouldnt have been provided.
The checks carried out before loans 4 and 5 were provided were proportionate and 
suggested the loans were affordable.
By loan 6, Oakam should have been concerned that Miss K was experiencing 
problems managing her money and that providing further lending wasnt affordable.
By loan 8, Oakam should have been concerned that Miss K had become reliant on 
the lending.
As no further information was provided in response to my provisional decision my 
conclusions remain that Oakam shouldnt have provided Miss K with loans 6 to 9.
Putting things right
In deciding what redress Oakam Ltd should fairly pay in this case Ive thought about what 
might have happened if it hadnt lent loans 6 onwards to Miss K.
Clearly there are a great many possible, and all hypothetical, answers to that question.
For example, having been declined this lending Miss K may have simply left matters there, 
not attempting to obtain the funds from elsewhere  particularly as a relationship existed 
between her and this particular lender which she may not have had with others. If this wasnt 
a viable option, she may have looked to borrow the funds from a friend or relative  
assuming that was even possible.
Or, she may have decided to approach a third-party lender with the same application, or 
indeed a different application (i.e. for more or less borrowing). But even if she had done that, 
the information that would have been available to such a lender and how they would (or 
ought to have) treated an application which may or may not have been the same is 
impossible to now accurately reconstruct. From what Ive seen in this case, I certainly dont 
think I can fairly conclude there was a real and substantial chance that a new lender would 
have been able to lend to Miss K in a compliant way at this time.
Having thought about all of these possibilities, Im not persuaded it would be fair or 
reasonable to conclude that Miss K would more likely than not have taken up any one of 
these options. So, it wouldnt be fair to now reduce Oakam Ltds liability in this case for what 
Im satisfied it has done wrong and should put right.
As stated above, Oakam made an offer in regard to loans 2 and 3 in line with what we would 
expect and so these havent been considered further. I am upholding this complaint in regard 
to loans 6 to 9, and find that Oakam Ltd should:
refund all interest and charges that Miss K paid on loans 6 to 9 along with 8% interest 
simple a year on all refunds from the date of payment to the date of settlement*. This 
will result in Miss K only being liable for repayment of the capital amount she 
borrowed;
remove any adverse information recorded on Miss Ks credit file in regard to loans 6 
and 7;the number of loans taken from loan 8 means any information recorded about them is 
adverse. So, all entries about loans 8 and 9 should be removed from Miss K's credit 
file.
*HM Revenue & Customs requires Oakam Ltd to take off tax from this interest. Oakam Ltd 
must give Miss K a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if she asks for one.
My final decision
My final decision is that I partially uphold this complaint. Oakam Ltd should take the actions 
set out above in resolution to this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss K to accept 
or reject my decision before 2 December 2021.
 
Jane Archer
Ombudsman