DRN-3188290
The complaint
Ms R complains about the advice she was given by Zurich Assurance Ltd (Zurich) to 
contract out of the State Earnings Related Pension Scheme (SERPS) in 1993. She says 
shes disappointed with the current value of the plan and wasnt told its value was unit 
linked and not guaranteed.
What happened
Ms R met with Zurich in 1993 and completed an application form, dated 25 January 1993, to 
contract out of SERPS using a protected rights only personal pension plan (PPP). It was 
noted that she wasnt adding this PPP to another plan with same provider and that her total 
yearly remuneration was £12,000. The contributions were to be invested into the managed 
fund.
 
Following the plans inception, rebated contributions were made to the plan until 2001. 
Zurich says it received a total of £6,063.15 during that time. From 2002 no further 
contributions were received. 
In 2020, having reached age 55, Ms R was provided with a valuation of the PPP. She was 
disappointed with the value and felt it hadnt provided the benefits she was promised, so in 
July 2020 Ms R contacted Zurich to register a complaint. She said she couldnt recall asking 
the adviser at the time to contract out of SERPS and was disappointed with the value of the 
plan she now holds. She said the adviser that came to see her said the proceeds of plan 
would pay for her daughters further education amongst other things.
Zurich didnt uphold the complaint. It said it was satisfied that its advice was suitable and that 
it explained the risks of the plans and the fluctuating nature of the funds the contributions 
were invested into. It said there was no evidence to show it had told Ms R that she would 
receive a guaranteed level of funds or income or that it would act as an additional source of 
funds to pay for Ms Rs daughters education. 
Ms R was unhappy with this outcome so she brought her complaint to us where one of our 
investigators said it shouldnt be upheld. He said, given Ms Rs circumstances at the time, 
contracting out of SERPS appeared to have a reasonable prospect of providing greater 
benefits at retirement age. He also thought Zurich would have explained the purpose of the 
pension plan at the time of the advice. 
Ms R said she didnt agree with the outcome. She says she was only 23 years old at the 
time of the advice and is sure she wasnt properly advised at that time. She wanted her 
complaint to be referred to an ombudsman  so its been passed to me to review. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
And having done so Ive reached the same conclusion as the investigator. I know this 
outcome will disappoint Ms R and Ive some sympathy for the position she finds herself in 
here, but I havent seen anything that makes me think the advice she was given about 
contracting out was unsuitable for her at the time; and I dont intend to recommend that 
Zurich needs to do anything here.
In her complaint Ms R raised two issues. These were the suitability of the advice she was 
given to contract out of SERPS and also to take out a term assurance policy around the 
same time. I dont think weve fully investigated the matter of the term assurance policy and 
therefore Im not in a position to make a decision about that issue. So weve made Ms R 
aware of the situation around that complaint point and agreed to set up a new complaint 
which another investigator will consider separately. 
For clarity what Im considering here is simply Ms Rs complaint about the suitability of the 
advice she received to contract out of SERPS.
The suitability of the advice to contract out of SERPS
First of all, I think its worth setting out the background of what SERPS was and why 
providers might have recommended that eligible consumers should consider contracting 
out of it.
SERPS was a top-up to the basic state pension payable at state pension age. This meant 
that in an addition to their basic state pension consumers would also receive a SERPS 
pension at retirement. 
Consumers could choose to opt out of SERPS, also known as contracting-out. So rather 
than building up an additional state pension, they could build up benefits by redirecting some 
of their national insurance (NI) contributions to a PPP or by joining an occupational pension 
scheme (OPS) that was contracted-out. This was an on-going choice, so people could 
contract in or out of SERPS from tax-year to tax-year. In order to do this, the consumer and 
employer continued to pay the normal level of NI contributions. But, once a year, the state 
paid (rebated) part of these contributions into a PPP. 
When the government decided to allow individuals to contract-out of SERPS, incentives
were offered to encourage them to do so. No guidance was given on who should be advised
to remain in SERPS or on the type of person it was expected that contracting-out would be
beneficial for. So pension providers actuaries carried out comparisons of the projected
benefits from SERPS with those from alternative personal pension arrangements. The
calculations were based on what were felt to be conservative assumptions of future
investment returns at the time.
And in the absence of any government guidance around contracting out providers 
generally took four main factors into account when considering whether to advice someone 
to contract out or not. These were:
The age at which the provider thought it reasonable to assume a consumer would 
benefit from contracting out  usually termed the pivotal age.
The consumers remuneration and whether it was above any minimum earning 
requirement the provider had set.
Whether the consumer could accept some risk in any new PPP.
Whether there was an OPS available to join.So, in order to consider the suitability of the advice Ms R was given, Ive looked at the 
information available to see if these factors were met.
In this case there was no suggestion that Ms R belonged to an OPS and the declaration with 
the application form to contract out stated that, I am not a member of an occupational 
pension scheme (other than one providing only death benefits). Ms R signed this 
declaration, so I think Zurich was entitled to rely on that as confirmation there was no OPS 
available. I also note Ms R hasnt raised the question of OPS eligibility in her complaint. 
The ages where advice changed about whether to contract-out or not were called pivotal 
ages. At the time of the advice Zurichs own rules noted that it had a maximum age 43 for 
females for contracting out of SERPS. Ms R, being age 23. was significantly below the 
pivotal age for women at the time and, based on the conservative assumptions used, it was 
thought in broad terms that women beneath the pivotal age would be better off to contract- 
out of SERPS. There was a substantial time remaining until it was likely Ms R would retire.
Another factor used to determine whether someone was likely to be better off contracting-out
of SERPS was their amount of earnings. Zurich had no minimum salary requirement at the 
time, although it provided an illustration to demonstrate that contracting out wasnt effective 
using lower salaries. But Ms Rs earnings at the time were above the lower earnings limit to 
contract-out of SERPS, and this lower limit was the level of earnings considered to be 
enough to ensure that rebates forwarded by the government would cover plan charges 
(including any commission payable).
Ive also seen that Ms Rs contributions were made into the managed fund which would 
have been invested across a variety of asset classes according to a medium investment risk 
strategy  which considering her age and relatively long term likely investment horizon 
doesnt seem an inappropriate fund to be invested in. In any case Ms R would have had the 
opportunity to revisit the investment strategy over term of the plan  especially if she felt the 
fund was too high a risk for her - but theres no evidence to show that she subsequently tried 
to do that. 
I have taken the circumstances at the time into consideration, but as Ms R met the criteria at 
the time where there was a reasonable prospect that contracting- out could be beneficial, I 
dont think the advice from Zurich for her to contract out of SERPS was unsuitable.
Was Ms R made aware that she was contracting out of SERPS?
Ms R has no recollection of telling the adviser that she wanted to contract out of SERPS at 
the time.  She says none of the risks and features of the plan were explained to her. 
Due to the passage of time its difficult to know what would have been discussed between 
the adviser and Ms R, but in order to complete the application form the adviser would have 
needed to ask Ms R for some information about her circumstances and she was asked to 
confirm that information by signing an application form. The form itself also made reference 
to SERPS and protected rights contributions.
I accept these terms might not have been obvious to Ms R at the time and that she might not 
have understood their significance, but Im satisfied that, from the documents Ive seen, the 
information provided was clear enough. And I think it would have been reasonable to have 
expected Ms R to ask any questions she had at the time; or make it clear if there was 
anything she didnt understand.Ultimately though I think the advice to contract out was reasonable at the time and Ms R was 
eligible to do so if Zurich thought she would reasonably have benefitted from such an action. 
So, even if Ms R wasnt entirely aware of the transaction which had occurred, I dont think 
Zurich did anything wrong in applying for her to contract out of SERPS.
The performance of the plan
I understand Ms R is disappointed that she might now receive less than she had anticipated. 
She said the adviser at the time told her the plan would be sufficient to fund her daughters 
future education needs. 
Given the plan was arranged a number of years ago, its impossible to know exactly what
was said to Ms R. But looking at some documents from the time I think its clear there were 
no guarantees that contracting out of SERPS would lead to a higher pension income at 
retirement and that returns couldnt be predicted with certainty. I say that because the 
declaration within the application form said that, I understand that the benefits I can get from 
the SERPS will be reduced because of these payments of minimum contributions.
And the notes that accompanied Ms Rs original illustration of benefits confirmed that, the 
figures quoted in these illustrations comply with the rates of return and other factors as set 
out in the LAUTRO bases. These two amounts do not represent the upper and lower limits of 
the possible amount of the benefit. What is actually payable will depend on the future 
movement in unit prices (which can go down as well as up) the effect of the charges 
applicable to your plan and, for pension plans, the terms ruling at retirement for converting 
cash into an annuity. 
 
The fact that anticipated higher investment returns and so better retirement benefits for 
Ms R at retirement have not transpired can only be judged with the benefit of hindsight, but 
in any case, I havent seen anything which makes me think Ms R was mis-led by Zurich or 
that she was provided with any guarantees. The amount paid into the PPP was invested in 
the hope it would grow sufficiently and the future benefits would be more than Ms R wouldve 
received from SERPS, this depended on the growth achieved and annuity rates at 
retirement. 
I also think its reasonable to take into account that Zurich only received rebates of just 
over £6,000 until 2001 on Ms Rs behalf, but I understand a recent valuation of the PPP to 
have been around £26,000. So, even if this amount isnt able to fulfil Ms Rs expectations, 
its difficult to conclude the plan has performed poorly. 
But even if I am wrong about what Ms R may have been told at the time of the advice, we 
wouldnt normally uphold a complaint about poor performance alone due to the very nature 
of investments  unless there was an issue with the suitability of the advice. But as Ive 
already stated I dont think the original advice here was unsuitable and has to
be considered in light of what was thought reasonable at the time. 
My final decision
For the reasons that Ive given I dont uphold Ms Rs complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms R to accept or 
reject my decision before 25 May 2022.
 
Keith Lawrence
Ombudsman