DRN-1637507
Complaint
Mr E says he was mis-sold a payment protection insurance (PPI) policy with a new credit 
card he got from Barclays Bank UK PLC in January 2000.
Background
The PPI included cover for accident, sickness and unemployment. It also included life cover. 
Our adjudicator who looked at this case said the complaint shouldnt be upheld. Mr E 
disagreed and asked for an ombudsmans final decision.
My findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Weve set out our general approach to 
complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
this case.
Having done this, Ive decided not to uphold Mr Es complaint.
Mr E says he didnt really want the PPI but only applied for it so he could get the card. He 
also says it was never explained to him.
Ive seen that Mr E applied for the card by post. I was sent a copy of his credit card 
application and I can see the form gave him a choice to either have, or not have, the PPI. Mr 
E ticked the box to add the PPI policy and he signed the form. I dont think there was 
anything to suggest that he had to buy the policy. And he could fill out the form in his own 
time and think about whether he wanted to cover. It was also open to him to cancel the 
policy after hed been accepted for the card if he considered hed been forced into taking it, 
although I havent seen anything to make me think this was the case. 
So I think its clear he agreed to the policy.
This was a postal application and not an advised sale. So Barclays didnt need to make 
sure the policy was suitable for him. The decision about buying the cover was for Mr E to 
make and he would have made his way through the postal form without any intervention 
from Barclays. As such, I think he would have been able to take his time to think about what 
he wanted to do.
From what Ive seen Mr E was eligible for the cover and not caught by any of the main 
exclusions we tend to see in these types of policy. Mr E told us that he wouldnt have 
received any help from his employer if he couldnt work, although he had some savings he 
could have used. But the PPI he bought would have paid out 10% of his outstanding credit 
card balance for up to a year if hed needed to claim. This wouldve been in addition to any 
other means he had at that time and meant he wouldnt have had to dig into his savings. So I 
think this policy was of use.So, whilst I accept there may have been some shortcomings in how the policy was sold, I am 
not persuaded Mr E would have decided against taking it out if he had been properly 
informed and fully understood the position. Rather, it seems more likely to me that given his 
then circumstances he would have decided the policy provided potentially valuable 
protection and still gone ahead with it.
Im sorry to disappoint Mr E but Im not upholding his complaint.
my final decision
The PPI policy wasnt mis-sold so Barclays Bank UK PLC doesnt have to pay anything.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr E to accept or 
reject my decision before 3 June 2020.
Michael Goldberg
Ombudsman