DRN-1135507
The complaint
Mr and Mrs F complain that Bank of Scotland plc trading as Halifax(Halifax) mis-sold them 
a monthly premium payment protection insurance (PPI) policy taken out in 2000 when they 
applied for a joint loan.
What happened
Mr and Mrs F complained to this Service. Our adjudicator thought the complaint shouldn't be 
upheld. Mr and Mrs F disagreed with our adjudicators view and asked for the matter to be 
looked at again.
Mr and Mrs F added they were never aware they had insurance because it wasnt made 
clear to them they were buying it; and also that Mr F was entitled to sick pay from his 
employer. 
I will consider their points in more detail below, but I should say here that the policy only 
covered Mr F  so Ill sometimes refer only to him. And sometimes Ill refer to Mr and Mrs F 
wherever its appropriate.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding this case.
Having done that, Ive decided not to uphold Mr and Mrs Fs complaint. I know this will be a 
disappointment to both of them, so Ill explain why. 
Mr and Mrs F specifically complained they were not aware theyd bought PPI because it 
wasnt made clear to them they were buying it. So I looked into this part of the complaint in 
some more detail.
I dont know what was said to them during the sale meeting and Mr and Mrs F havent given 
me any detail about the conversations they had that day. So Ive looked at the paper 
evidence which Halifax sent to this Service. Ive been given a copy of Mr and Mrs Fs loan 
agreement which they both signed in 2000. On it there are the words Do you want Personal 
Loan Repayments Insurance? and next to that, two clear tick boxes marked Yes and No. 
On Mr and Mrs Fs form, the Yes box has been crossed  its clear they could also have 
said no to PPI by crossing the No box. So because they had that choice, I think there is 
enough here to show that PPI was an optional product. As Mr and Mrs F both signed the 
form, I can assume they would have seen the tick boxes and should have been reasonably 
aware of the final choice. So I think its more likely they were aware they had PPI, that it was 
optional and that they chose to have it. I also noted Mr F was the only person covered by the PPI policy. So I think its more likely 
there must have been some discussion about PPI, because Mr and Mrs F most likely 
decided that only Mr F needed the cover. So I think its reasonable to think they probably 
decided they needed PPI if Mr F lost his job through accident, sickness or unemployment. 
Mr and Mrs F couldnt remember if the sale was advised or non-advised. Halifax said the 
sale was advised. As there is a higher evidential standard for Halifax to reach on an advised 
sale, Ill assume the sale was advised. For such sales, Halifax had to make sure the policy 
was suitable for Mr and Mrs Fs needs. I think it was suitable because: 
 
Mr F was eligible to buy it  so the policy only covered him;
Mr F wasnt affected by the main things not covered in the policy (the exclusions);
the policy seemed affordable for them at the time of the PPI sale.
 
Mr F told us he would get sick pay from his employer. But I think they still would have had a 
benefit from the PPI which could probably pay out for longer than and in addition to his 
employee benefits. So I dont think Mr Fs sick pay made the policy any less suitable for their 
needs.
For advised sales, Halifax also had to give Mr and Mrs F enough information which was 
clear, fair and not misleading. So I checked to see if Halifax gave Mr and Mrs F enough clear 
information about the main features of the policy  like the cost and the exclusions.
I saw the monthly PPI premium was set out clearly on their loan agreement. And it was set 
out separately from the monthly loan repayment. So I think the costs were fairly clear for Mr 
and Mrs F. And - having already decided they wanted PPI and chose to have it - I dont think 
theyd have been put off from buying it if theyd been given clearer cost information.
I dont know how Halifax explained the exclusions to Mr F but none of the main ones 
affected him. So even if hed been given a full list of them, I dont think he would have been 
put off from buying PPI.
Taking everything into account, Im not going to uphold this complaint. Im sorry to disappoint 
Mr and Mrs F.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr F and Mrs F to 
accept or reject my decision before 28 January 2020.
Amrit Mangra
Ombudsman