DRN-3046382
The complaint
Mr and Mrs B complain about incorrect information and poor service from Allied International
Credit (UK) Ltd (Allied) in relation to a loan account it administers for another business.  
What happened
The background to this complaint and my initial conclusions were set out in my provisional 
decision. In my provisional decision I said: 
Mr and Mrs B took out a loan with another business for around £15,000. In 2011 the lender 
appointed Allied, a firm of debt collectors, to manage the account. NatWest wrote to 
confirm the new arrangements.
Mr and Mrs B made regular payments of £100 towards the debt but last year contacted 
Allied as the balance didnt seem to be reducing as expected. Mr and Mrs B complained 
and asked for clarification of the outstanding balance and evidence to show Allied was 
authorised to act on the original lenders behalf.
Allied looked at the debt and found it had been applying payments Mr and Mrs B had 
been making to the joint loan debt to another account it held in one of their names. Allied 
apologised and arranged for the payments Mr and Mrs B had made to be applied to their 
joint loan account. Allied said the original debt was around £24,000 and had reduced to 
around £12,000 following payments made by Mr and Mrs B.
Mr and Mrs B referred their complaint to this service and it was passed to an investigator. 
Mr and Mrs B also contacted the original lender and received information concerning the 
original loan balance. The investigator upheld Mr and Mrs Bs complaint and asked Allied 
to pay them £75 for the trouble and upset caused by the way it had allocated payments.
Allied accepted the investigators view but Mr and Mrs B asked to appeal and said the 
business had failed to provide information theyd asked for in a reasonable timeframe. As 
Mr and Mrs B have asked to appeal, their complaint has been passed to me to make a 
decision.
What Ive provisionally decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I can see Mr and Mrs B asked for clarification of the payments made to their joint loan debt 
last year. Mr and Mrs B said they thought the original outstanding debt was much lower 
than Allied claimed and asked why the debt hadnt reduced as expected. Allied accepts it 
had been receiving regular monthly payments from Mr and Mrs B over the years but had 
applied them to a separate debt held in one of their sole names. I agree there was an error 
by Allied in the way it administered Mr and Mrs Bs payments.
In response to Mr and Mrs Bs contact, Allied reallocated the incorrectly applied payments 
which means the debt balance is now in the correct position. Mr and Mrs B say theyve 
also obtained confirmation concerning the original balance from the lender. Ive looked at 
the payments Allied has applied to the joint loan debt and Im satisfied its mistake has 
been corrected and the outstanding balance is now right. Whilst there was a mistake, it 
hasnt led to a financial loss for Mr and Mrs B.
Mr and Mrs B said they wanted to appeal because Allied has failed to answer all their 
questions or provide all the information they wanted. I appreciate Mr and Mrs B feel Allied 
shouldve provided a more comprehensive response after their queries were made. Allied 
was subsequently able to forward a copy of the original lenders instruction from 2011 
which the investigator has forwarded to Mr and Mrs B.
Whilst I understand Mr and Mrs B want further evidence that Allied is authorised to collect 
payments on the original lenders behalf, Im satisfied the information provided does that. 
Mr and Mrs B have also been in touch with the original lender directly. Had the original 
lender not given authority for Allied to act on its behalf, I think it wouldve told Mr and Mrs B 
that. And the 2011 letter confirms Allieds role in acting as debt collectors for the lender.
Ive looked at the account reconstruction provided by Allied and Im satisfied it shows how 
the payments Mr and Mrs B have made over time have reduced the outstanding balance. I 
havent seen anything that indicates the balance Allied says Mr and Mrs B owe is wrong.
There were also issues with letters not being sent to Mr and Mrs Bs current address. 
Allied says Mr and Mrs B failed to update their address when they moved which meant 
some correspondence wasnt sent to the right place. But when Allied updated Mr and Mrs 
Bs address it made an error so the final response was sent to a neighbouring property. 
Allied subsequently corrected the address it holds.
I agree that there have been service issues in this case. I think Allied couldve asked the 
original lender for evidence it was authorised to act sooner. And I agree there were issues 
updating Mr and Mrs Bs address. Its also clear Allied wasnt applying Mr and Mrs Bs 
payments to the correct debt for an extended period. I can see the situation has caused Mr 
and Mrs B a reasonable level of trouble and upset and that they dont agree £75 covers 
that.
I agree with Mr and Mrs B that £75 doesnt reflect the full circumstances of their concerns 
but I havent been persuaded to increase the award to the £500 figure theyve requested. In 
my view, a figure of £200 more fairly reflects the impact of the issues caused on Mr and Mrs 
B. So I intend to uphold their complaint and tell Allied to pay them a total of £200 in reflection 
of the trouble and upset caused in this case.
I invited both parties to respond with any comments or information they wanted me to 
consider before I made my final decision. 
Allied responded and confirmed it accepted the provisional decision. Mr and Ms B 
responded and said they thought the settlement should be increased. Mr and Mrs B said the 
incorrectly addressed mail contained very personal information and are concerned it was 
read by someone else. To resolve the complaint, Mr and Mrs B have told us they would like 
compensation to be increased to take into account the stress and worry caused by Allieds 
actions and time taken to deal with their complaint. Mr and Mrs B also want us to 
acknowledge that Allies is unfit to securely handled personal information. 
What Ive decided  and whyIve considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Id like to thank both parties for responding. Mr and Mrs B have responded in detail and Ive 
summarised their comments above. Id like to assure them Ive read and considered 
everything theyve said. Im going to focus on what I feel are the key issues in my response. 
I can see how stressful the situation was and Ive acknowledged, in my provisional decision, 
that Allied made mistakes with the way it allocated payments to their debt. I also explained 
that Id considered the fact Allied sent correspondence to the wrong address. I dont doubt 
what Mr and Mrs B have told me about how the situation impacted them. Ive taken their 
comments on board when considering how to resolve this complaint. 
Allied took action to reallocate payments and correct its error. Theres been no financial loss 
caused as a result of Allieds mistake in allocating payments. In addition, Allied provided 
information from the original lender to show it was authorised to collect the debt in question. 
I cant comment on how Allied handles private information generally. Our service can only 
look at the individual circumstances of a complaint. In my provisional decision Ive agreed 
Allied made a mistake that led to private correspondence being sent to the wrong address. I 
factored the error in when considering the fairest way to resolve Mr and Mrs Bs complaint. 
Im very sorry to disappoint Mr and Mrs B but I still think £200 fairly reflects the impact of the 
issues raised on them. I understand they remain upset, but Im satisfied that £200 is fair in all 
the circumstances. As a result, Im not going to increase the award further.   
My final decision
My decision is that I uphold this complaint and direct Allied International Credit (UK) Ltd to 
pay Mr and Mrs B a total of £200, less any compensation already paid. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr and Mrs B to 
accept or reject my decision before 13 October 2021.
 
Marco Manente
Ombudsman