DRN-1862505
The complaint
Mr H complains about issues hes experienced with a car supplied with finance from 
MotoNovo Finance Limited.
What happened
In June 2019 Mr H was supplied with a car and entered into a hire purchase agreement with 
MotoNovo. At the point of supply the car was 7 years old and had covered around 43,000 
miles.
Within the first 3 months Mr H experienced issues with the car including issues with the air 
compressor fan, the timing belt (EGR illuminated), the air pipe and the electric window.
The car was returned to the supplying dealer and repairs were carried out. These included 
fitting a new air conditioning compressor and new camshaft chains.
In August 2019 the EML illuminated again. The car was returned to the dealer who 
diagnosed a loose/split air pipe. This was replaced and the dealer provide Mr H with a  
further 6 month warranty as a gesture of goodwill.
When the car was returned to Mr H he discovered an oil leak. He contacted the dealer and 
asked to reject the car. The dealer agreed to offer a refund or a replacement but went into 
liquidation before this was done.
Mr H contacted MotoNovo and asked to reject the car. MotoNovo arranged an independent 
inspection. This confirmed two oil leaks but said these werent related to the previous repairs 
and wouldnt have been present at the point of supply. Based on the independent report, 
MotoNovo said it wouldnt accept a rejection.
Mr H wasnt happy with the response and complained to this service. He feels that 
MotoNovo hasnt taken any of the previous issues into account and has based its decision 
solely on the oil leak. He says the oil leak only started once the other repairs had been 
carried out. 
Our investigator didnt uphold the complaint. He thought the oil leak was due to wear and 
tear.
Mr H didnt agree. He didnt think the business had shown that the faults (including the air 
conditioning and the EML issues) werent present at the point of supply. He felt the fact that 
repairs were carried out so early on in the agreement showed that the car wasnt of 
satisfactory quality at the point of supply.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Because MotoNovo has supplied the car under a hire purchase agreement, theres an 
implied term that it is of satisfactory quality. Cars are of satisfactory quality if they are of a 
standard that a reasonable person would expect, taking into account all of the relevant 
circumstances such as amongst other things the age and mileage of the car and the price 
paid. I would expect a second-hand car  such as that supplied to Mr H  to have a degree 
of wear and tear. So, in order to uphold this complaint, I would need to be satisfied that the 
car had an inherent fault as opposed to issues caused by general wear and tear.
Under the CRA 2015, where a fault occurs in the first 6 months, theres a presumption that it 
was present at the point of supply unless the business can show otherwise. The business is 
allowed one attempt to repair the fault. If the repair isnt successful, the consumer can reject 
the car. After 6 months the burden of proof is reversed and its up to the consumer to show 
that the fault was present at the point of supply.
Mr H and MotoNovo disagree about whether the fault was present at the point of supply. In 
order to reach a decision, I need to look at all of the available evidence and determine, on 
the balance of probabilities, whether the car was of satisfactory quality.
Theres no dispute that Mr H experienced faults with the air conditioning and the EML in the 
first 6 months. And I agree that those faults were likely to have been present at the point of 
supply. Under the relevant legislation, the business is allowed an opportunity to repair the 
fault  which is what happened here. I havent seen anything to suggest that those repairs 
werent successful, so I cant say that Mr H has a right to reject based on this. 
The oil leak also occurred within the first 6 months. So again, its presumed that this fault was 
present at the point of supply unless the business can show otherwise. However, the 
independent engineer concluded that although the oil leak was present, it wouldnt have 
been present at the point of supply and it wasnt related to the previous repairs.
Based on the independent engineers conclusions. I think the business has shown that on 
the balance of probabilities, the oil leak wasnt present at the point of supply and wasnt 
caused by the previous repairs. Therefore I cant conclude that the car isnt of satisfactory 
quality. If the oil leak had been present at the point of supply I would have expected it to 
have become apparent much earlier on in the agreement, as opposed to after 3 months of 
use. So, taking into account the expert evidence and all of the other circumstances of the 
case, I dont think the car is of unsatisfactory quality and I dont think Mr H has grounds to 
reject the car.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold the complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 9 September 2020.
 
Emma Davy
Ombudsman