DRN-3247200
The complaint
Mr B is a sole trader. He complains that Santander UK PLC blocked access to his 
Bounce Back Loan, before terminating and recalling it.
What happened
Mr B banked with Santander and applied to the bank for a Bounce Back Loan in May 2020. 
His application was approved and a loan of £15,000 was drawn down on 6 May. He later 
obtained a top-up loan of £7,000, drawn down in December 2020.
Santander wrote to Mr B on 15 December 2020, explaining that it had a number of concerns 
as to his eligibility for the loan under the Bounce Back Loan Scheme rules and how the loan 
funds had been used. So it asked Mr B for evidence of his trading activity and turnover, as 
well as information about how the money had been used to date and his intentions for the 
remainder. The bank blocked Mr Bs access to funds in his account while it looked into 
things.
Mr B provided some information to Santander but ultimately the bank didnt think that he had 
demonstrated his eligibility for the loan  so it terminated the loan and closed his account. 
Mr B challenged the banks decision. As it remained unchanged, he referred the matter to 
us.
One of our investigators looked into things but didnt think Santander had done anything 
wrong. He thought the bank had carried out appropriate checks in line with the rules of the 
Bounce Back Loan Scheme and its broader legal and regulatory responsibilities. He thought 
its concerns over Mr Bs eligibility for the loan were justified in light of the information it had, 
to which it had given Mr B time and opportunity to respond and demonstrate his entitlement 
to the loan. As it wasnt satisfied as to Mr Bs eligibility, Santander had terminated the loan 
and closed his account in line with the applicable terms and conditions  which he thought 
was reasonable.
Mr B didnt accept our investigators view. He queried the basis of the banks decision and, in 
particular, didnt think it was entitled to rely on its own interpretation of the figures provided in 
his application. He said the loans were backed by a government guarantee, which meant 
Santander shouldnt have implemented its own policies in deciding whether or not to lend.
With no resolution, the complaint was passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive reached the same conclusions as our investigator and for broadly the 
same reasons. Ill explain why.
Under the rules of the Bounce Back Loan Scheme, an applicant could borrow up to a 
maximum of 25% of their annual turnover. Mr B applied to Santander for total borrowing of 
£22,000, so he needed to have a turnover of at least £88,000. The banks record of his 
application shows that he declared a turnover for 2019 of just under £91,000. So Santander 
approved the application on this basis  with applicants required to self-declare that they met 
the eligibility criteria.
Although the loan was initially approved and drawn down, with some of the funds having 
been utilised, Santander was entitled  and expected  to continue to keep matters under 
review. This is in line with its anti-fraud obligations both under the Bounce Back Loan 
Scheme and its wider legal and regulatory requirements. So I dont think it didnt anything 
wrong in conducting a review of the loan or the account.
Santander proceeded to review Mr Bs entitlement to the loan, ultimately deciding that this 
couldnt be confirmed. I think the banks decision on this was reasonable. I say this because:
The level of turnover going through Mr Bs account with Santander was around 
£15,000  significantly below the £91,000 figure declared in his application. 
While I accept there may well be legitimate reasons as to why a businesss turnover 
cant all be seen flowing through one account  most obviously, for example, 
because the business also holds another account elsewhere  Mr B didnt respond to 
Santanders enquiries with sufficient explanation as to the substantial difference here. 
Although Mr B provided a copy of a 2019/20 tax return showing a turnover figure in 
the region of the £91,000 declared in his application, Santander wasnt satisfied that 
it had actually been submitted. Mr B says it was, but he hasnt responded to our 
request for evidence to demonstrate this. In any event, the absence of documentary 
evidence showing he received this level of income  for example, invoices to 
customers or statements showing payments received through other bank accounts 
 left legitimate concern as to the reliability of this figure.
Santander also had reasonable concerns over how the loan had been used. I note 
Mr B doesnt think the bank ought to have had any interest in this, but thats not the 
case. It was a condition of the loan that it be used for business purposes, in keeping 
with the purpose of the Bounce Back Loan Scheme. The loan funds were dispersed 
swiftly in large payments out of the account (mostly by cheque) and Mr B hasnt 
demonstrated that these payments were solely for the purpose of his business. The 
use of the loan funds for any other purposes would be a breach of the agreement 
and grounds alone for its termination.
I also think Santander gave Mr B sufficient time and opportunity to demonstrate his eligibility 
and confirm how hed used the loan funds. The banks letter clearly set out the basis of its 
questions and the type of evidence it would need from Mr B to consider releasing the 
remaining funds. It also explained the possible consequences, including the termination of 
the loan, if Mr B didnt provide the information requested or if the bank deemed him ineligible 
for the loan after its review. It was only after allowing Mr B to respond to its concerns and 
reviewing the information he provided that Santander made the decision to terminate the 
loan.
Under the terms and conditions of the Bounce Back Loan, Santander was entitled to 
terminate the loan and demand its immediate repayment in certain circumstances. This 
included where any of the information provided within the application is found to have been 
misleading, incomplete or incorrect and, as mentioned above, where loan funds were used inappropriately. So for the reasons set out above, I think Santander was entitled to terminate 
the loan. 
The actions Santander took when restricting and later closing Mr Bs accounts were in line 
with the applicable terms and conditions  and, given all Ive said about the concerns it had, 
were reasonable steps for the bank to take.
Looking at everything then, I dont think Santander did anything wrong in how it terminated 
and recalled the loan from Mr B, or in restricting and closing his account. So Im not requiring 
the bank to take any action in response to this complaint.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 14 March 2022.
 
Ben Jennings
Ombudsman