DRN-3366970
The complaint
Mr K complains that TSB Bank plc (TSB) didnt do enough to help him retrieve his funds 
from what he believes to be a fraudulent transaction.
What happened
In August 2021, Mr K contacted TSB about a card payment that debited his account for 
around £70 in May 2021. TSB say that Mr K told them he didnt recognise the payment.
TSBs fraud team pursued a chargeback request and they say, as is their process, they 
temporarily refunded the amount to Mr K as they investigated the matter and attempted to 
contact the merchant the payment was made to. 
In October 2021, TSB re-debited the amount from Mr Ks account. So, Mr K complained to 
TSB.
TSB say the refund was temporary. They say they received notification from the merchant 
that they were unwilling to send the money back to them. So, they say they had no choice 
but to arrange for the money to be taken back out of Mr Ks account. TSB told Mr K that if he 
wants to proceed with his claim, then he will need to do so with the merchant directly. And 
for that reason TSB say the chargeback failed.
Unhappy, Mr K referred his complaint to our service. He told us that in May 2021, he 
purchased goods from an online retailer, using his card. He says the goods didnt arrive and 
now believes it to be a fraudulent transaction. He says he tried contacting the online retailer 
but didnt receive a response from them.
Our investigator found that TSB didnt need to do anything further. He explained the 
conditions of a chargeback request and that he believes TSB to have followed its guidelines 
correctly. He also believes TSB took the correct action by not challenging the merchant 
further following the evidence they had provided to defend the chargeback.
Mr K disagreed with the investigators findings. Mr K believes TSB should go back to the 
merchant as he hadnt received any goods or services for the money that had left his 
account. And so the complaint has been passed to me to decide on.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im not upholding this complaint and Ill explain why below.
Id like to be clear from the outset that my role is to consider whether TSB were right to not 
pursue the chargeback claim. I can only look at what TSB should do in these situations, and 
whether they correctly followed their processes.
A chargeback is a voluntary process run by a card scheme. It is intended to resolve 
settlement disputes without the need to resort to a more formal resolution. Examples where 
a chargeback may be appropriate are where goods never arrived or the merchant never 
provided them, or where goods are faulty and not as described.
A chargeback doesnt guarantee a refund. A card issuer, like TSB, will normally give its 
customer, like Mr K, a temporary refund. If the merchant accepts the chargeback or doesnt 
respond within a certain time period, the customer gets to keep the money. But a merchant 
can defend any chargeback claim. When that happens, most card issuers can choose 
whether to pursue it further through the chargeback scheme.
TSB didnt need to raise or pursue chargebacks if its clear Mr K would have lost. For 
example if there is little or no evidence for Mr K to back up his claim. But I would consider it 
good practice for a chargeback to be attempted where the right exists and where there is a 
reasonable chance of recovery.
Chargebacks arent decided on the merits of the dispute between the cardholder and 
merchant, but rather its decided on the relevant card schemes rules. Ultimately, its the card 
schemes guidelines and TSB has no power to change them.
I have listened to the call Mr K initially made with TSB where he disputed the transaction and 
suggested he hadnt made it. He clearly says at various points throughout the call that he 
hadnt authorised the transaction. During the same conversation, TSB explain to Mr K that 
they will refund the money to him, but if it later transpires he did make the payment, then the 
money will be re-debited from his account at a later date.
But I also note in Mr Ks submissions to us, when he referred his complaint to our service, 
his version of events had changed and he says he did make the payment, but the goods 
ordered hadnt arrived.
TSB say the merchant responded back to their chargeback enquiry in September 2021 with 
the transaction data. TSB believe this identified that the transaction was made by Mr K with 
his details. And so, in October 2021, they re-debited the amount from Mr Ks account, 
following a letter that was sent to him advising when the funds would be taken. They also 
sent Mr K details from the retailer of what they believe show that the purchase was made by 
Mr K or possibly someone he lives with.
TSBs main reason for declining to defend the chargeback is that they believe the 
information the merchant provided showed the transaction was made by Mr K. They also say 
his testimony is inconsistent with what he told them and what he has now told our service.
I have seen the transaction data the merchant provided. In this instance, and considering Mr 
Ks inconsistent testimony, I think its more likely than not he did authorise the transaction. 
And I also think it is reasonable for TSB to not pursue things further through the chargeback 
scheme, following the transaction data provided. Because of this, I think its difficult to 
conclude TSB acted unfairly or unreasonably in declining to proceed with the chargeback 
claim it had made, and so I dont think they have done anything wrong in taking the money 
back from Mr Ks account.
TSB could have asked the card scheme to decide who wins based on the chargeback rules. 
In this instance, the card scheme will look at both sides submissions, and then decide. But I 
think TSBs decision not to pursue this was reasonable as the information it gathered 
suggested it was unlikely to have been successful.My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr K to accept or 
reject my decision before 14 October 2022.
 
Ronesh Amin
Ombudsman