DRN-4072938
The complaint
Miss C has complained about how British Gas Insurance Limited (British Gas) dealt with 
repairs under a home emergency policy.
What happened
Miss C contacted British Gas to fix with a faulty central heating timer. British Gas visited on a 
few occasions. An engineer fixed the timer issue about two years after Miss C first contacted 
British Gas. The engineer also found that the thermostat was incorrectly wired. He thought 
this was likely to have been the case since the system was installed and meant the water 
had stayed hot while the heating was on. He fixed the issue.
Miss C complained. She said British Gas should have found the issues with the timer and 
the thermostat much earlier and that its failure had cost her money and caused 
inconvenience. When British Gas replied, it accepted Miss C had been caused 
inconvenience because some of the appointments needed to be rescheduled. However, it 
said she had been advised on several occasions that her boiler should be replaced. The 
issue with the thermostat also wouldnt have been picked up earlier as it wasnt a safety 
issue. It offered £100 in compensation.
When Miss C complained to this service, our investigator didnt uphold it. He said British Gas 
had dealt with the complaint fairly with the compensation it offered. The issue with the 
thermostat was a pre-existing fault, which wasnt covered by the policy, and there wasnt 
evidence to show it should have been picked up earlier.
As Miss C didnt agree, the complaint was referred to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
When Miss C first contacted British Gas, an appointment was scheduled. However, it was 
rescheduled twice and took place about two months later. When the engineer visited, the 
records showed he replaced a suspect valve head and the system was working ok. 
However, Miss C contacted British Gas again as the timer still wasnt working properly. So, 
another engineer visited about a month later. He also found an issue with a valve, which he 
fixed. Miss C has said she didnt then want visitors in her home, so the next time British Gas 
visited was about 18 months later when the annual service took place. 
I can understand Miss C would have wanted the first engineer to fix the issue. But, I havent 
seen anything that persuades me the actions of the first or the second engineer were 
unreasonable based on the information available to them at the time. The next opportunity 
British Gas had to look at the timer was over 18 months later, but this wasnt down to the 
actions of British Gas, so it wouldnt be fair for me to hold it responsible for that or the 
inconvenience Miss C experienced before the third visit.
At the third visit, the engineer replaced another part and reported that the system was 
working ok. However, Miss C contacted British Gas again as there was still an issue with the 
timer. Another engineer visited, replaced another faulty part and the system was found to be 
working ok. It was only when the fifth engineer visited that the issue with the timer was fixed. 
Until it was fixed, Miss C had to turn off the heating by switching it off at the fuse box. I can 
see this would have been inconvenient. However, Im also mindful that Miss C had been 
advised on several occasions that her boiler needed replacing. The engineers also seemed 
to take reasonable actions during their visits, including testing that the system was ok. British 
Gas also revisited to investigate further when Miss C reported the issue hadnt been fixed.
The fifth engineer also told Miss C the thermostat was incorrectly wired. Miss C said he told 
her he thought it had never worked, which meant the water stayed hot the whole time when 
the heating was on. Miss C has said the central heating system had been there for more 
than 25 years. It wasnt installed by British Gas. British Gass policy also didnt cover pre-
existing issues. Despite this, the engineer fixed the issue as a gesture of goodwill, which I 
think was fair. Miss C has said British Gas should have found the issue with the thermostat 
sooner. However, British Gas explained that it wasnt a safety issue and it wasnt an easily 
observable problem. So, Im not persuaded there was a reason why British Gas should have 
found the issue earlier. But when it found it, it fixed it.
Im aware Miss C has said British Gas was responsible for higher energy usage at her 
property as it should have found the issues earlier. However, Im not persuaded it should 
cover these costs. The main cause of any higher costs seemed to be the thermostat wiring, 
for which British Gas wasnt responsible and had no reason to identify as an issue before it 
did. In response to the complaint, British Gas offered Miss C £100 compensation for 
inconvenience caused to her because of rescheduling appointments. I think that was fair in 
the circumstances. Having thought about all of the above, I dont uphold this complaint or 
require British Gas to do anything further.
My final decision
For the reasons I have given, it is my final decision that this complaint is not upheld.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss C to accept 
or reject my decision before 30 May 2023.
 
Louise O'Sullivan
Ombudsman