DRN-4274283
The complaint
Mr A complains that Mitsubishi HC Capital UK Plc irresponsibly lent to him. 
What happened
In November 2021, Mr A applied and was accepted for a fixed sum loan agreement with 
Mitsubishi HC Capital UK Plc (Mitsubishi). The purpose of the loan was to purchase 
jewellery from a supplier. The loan was interest-free and the total amount repayable was 
£1,585 to be repaid by 18 monthly repayments of £88.05.
Mr A complained to Mitsubishi in January 2023 saying that they hadnt carried out 
appropriate checks before they accepted his credit application. He explained that he was 
suffering from a gambling addiction at the time. Mitsubishi said their decision to lend was 
responsible as Mr A could afford the repayments and that they took reasonable steps to 
verify the information he had given to them. Mitsubishi also said that they had no reason to 
know or suspect that Mr A was suffering from a gambling addiction at the time. 
Our investigator didnt uphold Mr As complaint. He felt that Mitsubishi had carried out 
reasonable and proportionate affordability checks and that they hadnt acted unfairly in 
approving Mr As application.
Mr A didnt agree and so his complaint has been passed to me for a decision.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Before lending to Mr A, Mitsubishi were required to ensure that the borrowing was affordable 
and sustainable. There isnt a set list of checks that needed to be undertaken, however, the 
rules required that checks were proportionate to the circumstances of the lending. What is 
considered proportionate will vary in each case. In deciding what proportionate checks ought 
to be, Mitsubishi needed to take into consideration things such as (but not limited to): the 
amount borrowed, the total amount repayable, the size of the regular repayments, the term, 
and Mr As circumstances.
On the loan application, Mr A declared that he was employed full-time earning between 
£40,000 and £49,999 and that he was currently renting. From that, Mitsubishi worked out 
that Mr As net monthly income was £2,844.63. 
The Financial Conduct Authoritys Consumer Credit Sourcebook (CONC) deals with a way 
a firm should assess a customers income and expenditure. CONC 5.2A.15R says (among 
other things) that a firm must take reasonable steps to determine the amount, or make a 
reasonable estimate, of the customers income. and that the firm must take account of 
the customers income it has determined or estimated 
I note also that guidance in CONC 5.2A.16(3)G includes that: For the purpose of 
considering the customers income under CONC 5.2A.15R, it is not generally sufficient to 
rely solely on a statement of current income made by the customer without independent 
evidence (for example, in the form of information supplied by a credit reference agency or 
documentation of a third party supplied by the third party or by the customer).
Mitsubishi says that they validated Mr As declared income using data from credit reference 
agencies. The information Mitsubishi has sent to us doesnt clearly show me how they did 
this though. Ive seen a copy of the information they considered at the time which shows that 
they estimated Mr As annual income as £44,999.50 but its not clear how they reached that 
figure. I note also that Mitsubishi has said that they worked out Mr As likely net monthly 
income themselves. So, Im not entirely persuaded that Mitsubishi did validate Mr As income 
as they say. Its possible that they simply estimated this from the salary range that Mr A used 
in his application.
However, even though I have some doubt about whether Mitsubishi independently verified 
Mr As income, that doesnt in itself make their assessment unfair or unreasonable. In 
addition to income there is also the question of expenditure. Even if Mitsubishi accepted    
Mr As income at the stated level, they needed to make a reasonable assessment of his 
outgoings. CONC 5.2A.17R requires that a firm must take reasonable steps to determine 
the amount, or make a reasonable estimate, of the customers current non-discretionary 
expenditure and must take account of that determination or estimate in their assessment. 
Mitsubishi used statistical data to estimate part of Mr As expenditure. CONC 5.2A.19 
indicates that the use of statistical data is acceptable for this, unless the firm knows or has 
reasonable cause to suspect the statistical data is unlikely to be reasonably representative of 
the customers situation. Ive no reason though to conclude that Mitsubishi knew or had 
reasonable cause to suspect the statistical data would be unrepresentative of Mr As 
situation. So, I dont find it was unreasonable of Mitsubishi to use this method in its 
assessment of Mr As expenditure. From that, Mitsubishi estimated Mr As monthly rent as 
£450.56 (to which they attributed 50% of that amount for Mr A directly). They also saw from 
the credit check that they carried out that Mr As existing monthly credit commitments were 
£399. After deducting the monthly repayment that would be due under the proposed credit 
agreement with them, Mitsubishi estimated that this left Mr A with disposable income of 
£2,132.30 for essential living costs and other expenditure. 
Im not convinced that it was reasonable for Mitsubishi to only use 50% of the monthly rental 
commitment in their assessment of Mr As outgoings. CONC 5.2A.18G says that Where 
there is a reasonable expectation that the customer will have responsibility to pay only a 
share or a part of a payment required pursuant to a contractual or statutory obligation then 
the firm may, in appropriate cases, take this into account. I havent though seen anything to 
suggest this was a reasonable expectation on Mitsubishis part. It seems this was merely an 
assumption they made, rather than finding out whether Mr As partner did share that cost. 
However, even if I considered that Mr A took on the full rental commitment, there was still 
sufficient available estimated disposable income based on the check Mitsubishi carried out 
to indicate the loan payments would be able to be met without a significant adverse impact 
on Mr As financial situation over the term of the agreement. 
I say this taking into account the credit check that Mitsubishi undertook of which Ive seen a 
copy. The only potentially concerning entry on this was a default against Mr A. However, that 
default was recorded four years and eight months prior to Mr As application. So, that was 
more likely representative of the situation Mr A was in at that particular time rather than from 
the time he applied for credit with Mitsubishi. Mr A has said that he had an active County Court Judgement at the time. Ive not seen that 
this was shown on Mitsubishis credit check. So, Im not satisfied that they would have 
known this, assuming that this was the case of course. And while Mr A has said he wasnt on 
the voters roll at the time, I dont think that had any bearing on Mitsubishis affordability 
assessment. Theres no suggestion for example that Mr A didnt apply for the credit. 
So, I dont consider that Mitsubishi should have been concerned about the information they 
saw on the credit check they carried out, to the extent that they should have carried out 
further affordability checks. 
Mr A has explained that he had a gambling addiction at the time. I am really sorry to hear 
this and how that impacted Mr As health. I dont though consider that Mitsubishi should have 
been aware of this even though I appreciate the impact this had on Mr A. Realistically, they 
would only have seen this had they asked Mr A to provide bank statements. I dont though 
find that it would have been proportionate for them to have asked for this as I dont think 
there was a particular reason for them to have needed to verify Mr As expenditure. 
Overall, while I find there were some possible shortcomings in Mitsubishis creditworthiness 
assessment, for the reasons Ive set out Im not persuaded that made the lending decision 
irresponsible. 
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision before 12 September 2023.
 
Daniel Picken
Ombudsman