DRN-2538138
The complaint
Miss P is unhappy Crystal Legal Services Limited (Crystal) is charging her a fee for a 
payment protection insurance (PPI) claim that she says she did all the work for.
What happened
In August 2019, Miss P asked Crystal to check whether she had any PPI policies with her 
lenders. But in May 2020 she was told by one of her lenders Ill call H that they couldnt 
locate an account. Following this Miss P said shed a lengthy call with H about her claim. 
As a result, in July 2020, H told her that her claim was successful and the redress shed 
receive. But in August 2020 Miss P said she was invoiced by Crystal for their fee for her 
successful claim. As Miss P said the claim was successful because of the work shed done 
and not Crystal she complained to them.
Crystal said Miss P had signed their letter of authority (LoA) in August 2019, and theyd 
submitted her claim to her lenders. They also said theyd kept Miss P updated about her 
claim. In July 2020 H told Crystal about Miss Ps successful claim and as their agreement 
with Miss P hadnt been cancelled, in August 2020 theyd asked her to pay their success fee. 
Miss P wasnt happy with Crystals response and referred her complaint to us. 
Our investigator said Crystal had submitted Miss Ps PPI claim. And as Miss Ps claim was 
successful, they could charge their success fee.
Miss P didnt agree and said H had rejected the claim submitted by Crystal, and that it was 
the work shed done through calling her lender that meant her claim was investigated and 
subsequently successful. She reiterated that Crystal hadnt done any work to justify their fee. 
She asked for an ombudsman to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im not upholding this complaint. Ill explain why.
I can understand Miss Ps frustration as in these difficult times there have been delays in 
claims being investigated. And she doesnt think the work done by Crystal justifies the fee 
they are asking her to pay. Without her direct contact with her lender Miss P doesnt think 
her claim would have progressed.
Were an informal dispute resolution service, acting as an alternative to the courts. This 
means were impartial and look at both sides of the story. We dont place more weight on 
one sides story because of who they are. We ask questions and weigh up all the information 
were given.
Its not in dispute that Miss P authorised Crystal to act on her behalf as she has said she 
signed their LoA. So, what I need to determine is whether Miss P let Crystal know she no 
longer wanted them to work for her. And whether Crystal has acted fairly and reasonably in 
their actions with Miss P.
Crystal has shown Miss P enquired about their services in late August 2019. Following which 
they sent her a claim pack that included their terms and conditions and the LoA. This was 
signed and returned to them by 28 August 2019. And in signing the LoA Miss P had agreed 
to Crystals terms and conditions. 
The agreement Miss P had with Crystal was on a No win No fee basis. This means Crystal 
charged a percentage success fee, not a fee based upon the amount of work they did. So, 
any work done on any unsuccessful claim would be done for free. When a claim was 
successful, as is the case here, Crystals fee may be more or less than the value of the work 
they actually did. This is the risk taken by all parties in this type of agreement. 
As the deadline for making such claims was 29 August 2019, I can see Crystal submitted 
Miss Ps claim to her lenders the same day it was received, 28 August 2019. A submitted 
claim doesnt automatically mean that the PPI claim will be successful, as the claim needs to 
show the PPI policy was mis-sold. And lenders can ask for further information to support the 
claim that the PPI policy was mis-sold. 
Due to the deadline there was a higher than expected number of PPI claims made, and it 
was accepted by all parties that this would cause some delay. Crystal has shown an update 
they sent about such delays. And also, the impact the current pandemic was having on 
dealing with claims.
In May 2020 H told both Miss P and Crystal that they couldnt locate any accounts for her. 
And Miss P has shown that H messaged her to arrange a call. This call isnt available for 
me to listen to, but Ive no doubt the information Miss P gave enabled H to locate her 
accounts and investigate her claim. Miss P has said that this showed the claim Crystal had 
submitted had been rejected and it was her contact with H that enabled her claim to be 
successful.
Ive looked at the agreement Miss P signed. Above her signature on the LoA it says:
I/We authorise Crystal Legal Services Ltd (FRN 837841), (T/A Crystal Legal), to act as 
my/our representative for complaints against the above-named firm relating to Payment 
Protection Insurance and any other financial charges or irregularities.
And goes on to say under the heading customer declaration:
I understand that, in addition to the present Letter of Authority I will need to provide further 
information when raising an expression of dis-satisfaction to the Lender, about the 
underlying product(s), service(s) and where known, specific account tnumber(s) being 
complained about. Doing so will enable the Lender to assess and determine the complaint 
as quickly and as effectively as possible.
Ive also looked at Crystals terms and conditions, these say :
Inform us promptly should you receive any communication from your bank including when 
you receive Compensation payments for Claims made by Us on Your behalf
As mentioned above, Miss Ps agreement was based on whether the claim was successful 
and not on the amount of work done by Crystal. And it was Miss Ps choice to speak to H, to provide the supporting information rather than letting Crystal know about the call. Im 
satisfied the lender was asking for information in of support Miss Ps claim. The message 
Miss P received from H said:
we need more info to progress your claim
So, I think the information asked for was in support of the claim already submitted by Crystal 
on 28 August 2019. I dont think it was rejection of Miss Ps claim. And as the call was made 
after the August 2019 deadline any new claim for mis-sold PPI wouldnt have been 
accepted, unless there were exceptional circumstances. 
Ive now looked to see if Miss P had cancelled her agreement with Crystal. Their terms and 
conditions say:
To exercise the right to cancel, you must inform us of your decision to cancel this contract 
by a clear statement (e.g a letter sent by post, fax, telephone, in person or by email)
I havent seen any evidence that Miss P tried to cancel the agreement but can see how 
frustrated she was about the lack of movement on her claim. And in June 2020 Crystal 
chased H for an update. 
In July 2020 H told both Miss P and Crystal theyd investigated Miss Ps claim and what 
their offer of compensation would be. And their notification to Miss P clearly references 
Crystal in their response. I think this shows H accepted Crystal had authority to represent 
Miss P in making her PPI claim. So, Im satisfied Crystal were authorised to act on Miss Ps 
behalf in pursuing a PPI claim for her. And Miss P hadnt cancelled her agreement. As Miss 
Ps claim was successful, I think Crystal can charge their success fee.
Crystals fees were charged in line with what Miss P agreed to and reflect the fee cap thats 
in place for PPI claims. Miss P could have cancelled her claim with Crystal. But I cant see 
she cancelled the claim before it was successful. 
I know Miss P will be disappointed by my decision, but Im satisfied that Crystal was 
authorised by her to act on her behalf and her claim was successful. This means Crystal can 
charge their success fee. 
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss P to accept 
or reject my decision before 26 May 2021.
 
Anne Scarr
Ombudsman