DRN-2075329
The complaint
Mr S complains Fairmead Insurance Limited declined his buildings insurance claim.
What happened
In February 2019 Mr S made a claim on his policy as he had discovered damage to his roof 
after a storm. 
Fairmead sent a surveyor to inspect Mr Ss property. They inspected the damage including a 
piece of timber that had come away from the roof, which they said had rotted. The surveyor 
concluded the damage had been caused by the timbers rotting and wasnt covered under 
Mr Ss policy. Mr S said the surveyor had based his findings on one piece of timber that was 
found on the ground and disagreed with the decision to decline his claim.
Fairmead said their decision to decline the claim was correct. As the surveyor said the 
timber on the barge boards had rotted, it was excluded from cover as Mr Ss policy didnt 
cover unexpected loss or damage due to wear and tear.
Mr S didnt agree with Fairmead, so he brought his complaint to our service. He said 
Fairmead had looked to decline the claim initially because they reported the wind speed was 
1 mph below their definition of a storm. Mr S also raised other points about how Fairmead 
handled his complaint  such as the time it had taken for Fairmead to send out the surveyor 
and not responding to Mr S in timeframes they provided. Mr S also provided a quote for 
works to repair storm damage from a roofing specialist.
Our investigator didnt recommend we uphold Mr Ss complaint. She said she thought a 
storm had occurred in the area, but the wind speed recorded was unlikely to have caused 
the damage Mr S reported. She said with the information available it was reasonable for the 
surveyor to conclude the main cause of the damage was the rotting timbers  so it was fair 
for Fairmead to decline Mr Ss claim.
Our investigator said there had been times where Fairmead hadnt done what they said they 
would, but she didnt consider the impact of this was significant enough to warrant 
compensation.
Mr S didnt agree with our investigator. The complaint has now passed to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr S has made a number of points. Ive considered all of them but Im going to focus my 
decision on what I see as the central issues to this complaint. I dont intend this as a 
discourtesy, rather it reflects the informal nature of our service and my role in it.
Having done so, I wont be upholding Mr Ss complaint. Ill explain why.
Fairmeads definition of a storm is wind speeds with gusts of at least 47mph. Fairmead 
provided screen shots of the checks they did  which show the windspeeds of 46mph. But 
they didnt decline the claim, they sent out a surveyor. So I dont think they declined the 
claim because of this.
Mr S also provided information showing the wind speeds over 47 mph. So Ive also checked 
the wind speeds in Mr Ss area at the time. I can see they do show wind speeds of 46mph  
which dont meet the policy definition of a storm. But taking into account what we know about 
this particular storm at the time affecting parts of the UK, Im happy to see that Fairmead has 
addressed the claim and in doing so have accepted storm conditions existed
Mr S has said the storm has ripped the timber from the structure of the house. 
But its unusual for wind of the speeds reported, to cause this type of damage to a well 
maintained and securely screwed roofing structure  so I also need to think about whether 
the storm conditions were the main cause of the damage.
The surveyor reported to Fairmead they found the timber work capping in a very poor state 
of repair and to the front barge board, nails were still in place, showing where the boards had 
pulled through the rotting timber. 
The surveyor also provided photos of the damaged part of the roof. Including photos of the 
area where the timber had come away from the roof, the nails that remain in place and the 
condition of the wood in the surrounding area. The surveyor also provided photos of the 
wood found on the ground. I can see from the photos the wood does appear to be rotting, 
which is consistent with what the surveyor has set out. 
Mr S has provided a quote from a Roofing Specialist for work to be carried out to the roof. In 
the quote it details the work needed to replace storm damaged weather board and slates 
and verge. But this a quote, and not a report, and contains no details supporting why the 
timbers are storm damaged. The comments from the surveyor, provide detail as to why the 
timbers are rotted  with supporting photos, so Im more persuaded by what the surveyor 
has said.
Based on the evidence available to me, I think it was reasonable for Fairmead to conclude 
the main cause of the damage was the timbers rotting, not the storm. 
On page 2 of the policy booklet it says:
This policy covers the costs of unexpected loss or damage. It does not cover:
 Wear and tear,
 Damage that happens over a period of time, for example: damp, rot and damage from 
vermin
So because of this, I think it was fair for Fairmead to decline Mr Ss claim.
Ive also considered the other issues Mr S has raised. I can see there have been occasions where he was promised calls and responses, which didnt happen. While I appreciate this 
would have been frustrating for Mr S, I cant see its impacted his claim, or his complaint 
being progressed. So I wont be awarding any compensation. 
Overall having considered everything, I wont be interfering in Fairmeads decision to decline 
Mr Ss claim and I wont be asking then to do anything further here. 
My final decision
My final decision Is that I dont uphold Mr Ss complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 11 September 2020.
 
Michael Baronti
Ombudsman