DRN-4092217
The complaint
Mrs A complains about the assistance offered to her by her travel insurer, Aviva Insurance 
Limited, following the cancellation of a flight.
What happened
Mrs A holds travel insurance with Aviva. She was travelling abroad with her family and their 
flight back to the UK was cancelled.
Mrs A complained to Aviva as shed attempted to contact it after the flight was cancelled 
seeking help with her travel arrangements and accommodation. She said she hadnt 
received any assistance.
Aviva rejected Mrs As complaint, and she referred it to our service. Our investigator thought 
Avivas response to the complaint was fair. Mrs A didnt agree, so her complaint came to me 
for a final decision.
On reviewing the complaint, I thought Mrs As complaint should be upheld in part, and that 
Aviva should pay £100 compensation.
In the provisional decision, I said:
Travel insurance policies dont cover for every scenario, and insurers arent obliged to offer 
assistance to their policyholders in the event of every unforeseen event. The limits of cover, 
and the details of the assistance available on Mrs As policy are set out in the terms and 
conditions.
The terms and conditions of Mrs As policy give details of a number of helplines. The two 
main, relevant ones in relation to this complaint are the 24 hour medical emergency 
assistance helpline, and the travel claims helpline.
The 24 hour medical emergency assistance helpline is listed as the number to call in the 
event of a medical emergency. The travel claims number is to report any travel claims which 
are not as a result of a medical emergency. If you need to return home early you must call 
us before making any arrangements.
Mrs A has made a claim on the policy for the unexpected costs she incurred as a result of 
the flight cancellation. She says she didnt go to a hotel while waiting for a rearranged flight 
because she wasnt given assistance by Aviva.
Mrs A says she spoke with the claims helpline, and then the medical emergency helpline. 
Aviva located the call she made to the medical emergency helpline, but was unable to find 
any call to the claims line. Mrs As provided evidence of phone calls she made, including 
evidence of calls to the travel claims helpline number. I accept that Mrs A did call the travel 
claims helpline.
Ive listened to the call Mrs A made to the medical emergency helpline. In this call she said 
she wanted to be transferred to someone who could help her book a flight and 
accommodation following the cancellation of her flight, and a lack of assistance from the 
airline.
The representative she spoke with gave Mrs A the telephone number for the claims helpline. 
Mrs A said shed called that number but been told to call the medical helpline number. It was 
repeated that Mrs A should speak to the claims helpline. No further assistance or guidance 
was offered. The representative also didnt offer to transfer Mrs A to the claims helpline and 
explain the situation.
I accept from Mrs As evidence that she spoke to the travel claims helpline before the 
medical emergency helpline. Based on the content of the call to the medical helpline Im 
satisfied she wasnt given any assistance by the claims department, and was asked to call 
the medical emergency helpline. Theres also evidence of her calling the travel claims 
helpline again after the medical emergency helpline but Aviva hasnt been able to provide a 
copy of that call, and the evidence I have suggests it was a very short call. I accept that Mrs 
A wasnt provided any meaningful advice or guidance by the travel claims helpline.
The policy terms and conditions say when a policyholder needs to make a claim, You must 
contact us soon as reasonably possible which is what Mrs A did. The terms and conditions 
give a number to be dialled from outside the UK, and is listed as being available 24 hours a 
day. It would therefore seem to be accepted that policyholders are likely to contact the 
claims helpline from overseas in order to make or discuss claims as a matter of urgency.
I accept Mrs A called both the claims helpline and medical emergency helpline following the 
cancellation of her flight but didnt receive any meaningful advice or guidance from either. 
The policy terms and conditions dont have a provision for flights and accommodation to be 
arranged by Aviva in the event of a flight cancellation  although the costs incurred in the 
event of this are something which the policy does cover. Theres a distinction to be made 
here - the policy doesnt provide for Aviva to make those arrangements, but rather that 
reasonable additional costs will be reimbursed.
Avivas decision to deal with claims of this nature in this way is its commercial decision and 
we wont generally tell a business how it should operate. I know Mrs A has said she expects 
her policy to provide assistance in making these bookings, but that isnt provided for by the 
policy she has.
It seems to me that Avivas representatives could have explained this to Mrs A, as well as 
explaining the limits and conditions of cover and what shed need to obtain in order to make 
a claim. Its unlikely theyd have been able to promise shed be covered, but some indication 
of the cover available on the policy for costs she incurred could have been provided. As a 
minimum, I think its fair to say either the claims helpline or medical emergency helpline 
could have directed her to the policy terms and conditions which detail the relevant cover.
Mrs A was in a stressful situation where she was stuck in an airport overseas with no clarity 
from her airline of when shed be able to get home. For obvious reasons, I cant hold Aviva 
responsible for this.
I do think though that the lack of guidance and poor customer service Mrs A experienced 
when she made these telephone calls would have caused her additional distress and 
inconvenience. Having contacted Aviva for assistance, it should have been possible for one 
of the helplines to explain what shed need to do in order to claim or refer her to the relevant 
sections of her policy.To recognise this, Aviva should pay Mrs A £100 compensation. I cant say the compensation 
should be any more than this because, as Ive said, the assistance it could have offered was 
limited to explaining the claims process and cover conditions. Not doing so had an impact on 
Mrs A, but it was fairly minor in comparison to the distress caused by the cancellation of the 
flight and lack of assistance from the airline.
In response to my provisional decision, Mrs A said she didnt think my suggested 
compensation amount properly reflected the stress shed been caused by the lack of 
assistance provided by Aviva. She suggested if shed been given guidance about what she 
could claim, shed have made the necessary arrangements and claimed the costs she 
incurred.
Aviva didnt respond to my provisional decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive considered the points raised by Mrs A in response to my provisional decision, and all of 
the evidence available to me. I remain satisfied that Mrs As complaint should be upheld but 
the amount of compensation Id suggested is fair.
I dont intend to repeat my reasons why the complaint should be upheld, as these have been 
outlined in the provisional decision and reproduced above. Neither party has raised any 
concerns or new points regarding my decision to uphold the complaint. I will address the 
points raised by Mrs A when she says that the compensation amount should be higher.
While Ive concluded that Avivas representatives could, and should, have been able to give 
guidance about what the policy would potentially cover, that wouldnt have been a guarantee 
that costs incurred by Mrs A would be reimbursed. Its also, I think, important to note that 
Mrs A wanted Aviva to make travel and accommodation arrangements, not provide guidance 
on what costs she could claim. I understand she was frustrated that this wasnt done, but its 
not a service provided by her policy.
I also have to consider that the information Aviva could have provided during the course of 
the telephone calls was unlikely to be much more than detailing what was stated in the policy 
terms and conditions, which were otherwise available to Mrs A to review at her convenience. 
I dont think I can conclude that the lack of information provided to Mrs A during the phone 
calls materially affected her actions or the choices she had about what to do around 
accommodation and further travel.
I cant conclude that the any significant distress or inconvenience caused to Mrs A arose 
because of the lack of information given to her during the phone calls. Im satisfied that the 
understandable frustration she felt arose mainly because of the cancellation of the flight, for 
which Aviva wasnt responsible, and she was distressed that her insurer couldnt make 
alternative arrangements for her and her family, which isnt something the policy provides 
cover for.
For these reasons, I remain satisfied for the reasons previously given that asking Aviva to 
pay £100 compensation is a fair outcome in the circumstances. 
My final decision
Its my final decision to uphold Mrs As complaint. In order to put things right, Aviva Insurance Limited must pay Mrs A £100 compensation. Aviva must pay the compensation 
within 28 days of us telling it Mrs A accepts our final decision. If it does not, it must pay 
simple interest at a rate of 8% on this amount from that date to the date of payment.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs A to accept or 
reject my decision before 19 May 2023.
 
Ben Williams
Ombudsman