DRN-3687535
The complaint
Miss D complained because PayPal Europe Sarl & Cie SCA refused to refund her for 
transactions which she said she didnt make
What happened
On 14 October 2021, two personal payments were sent from Miss Ds PayPal account. One 
was for US$200, and another for US$500. On 15 October, there was another personal 
payment, this time for US$700.
On 17 October, Miss D raised a dispute about these three payments, saying she hadnt 
authorised them. Theres a disagreement about exactly how the dispute was raised. Miss D 
said she received an alert from PayPal advising her of suspicious activity, and PayPal said it 
only sent the alert after Miss Dd had disputed the transactions. But the details of how it was 
raised dont make any difference to the outcome.
PayPal investigated, but it didnt uphold Miss Ds complaint. In its final response on 9 
November, PayPal said its fraud department hadnt found any evidence of any unauthorised 
access on her account in relation to the disputed transactions.
Miss D wasnt satisfied and complained to this service. She also complained about other 
payments, but these were payments from her bank account, not from PayPal, so theyre 
being dealt with as a separate complaint against Miss Ds bank. This decision only relates to 
Miss Ds complaint against PayPal. 
Our investigator didnt uphold Miss Ds complaint. He said he thought it was most likely from 
the evidence that Miss D had authorised the payments herself.  She was the only person 
whod had access to the device used to make the payments, and no point of compromise 
had been identified for Miss Ds login. So the investigator said that PayPal didnt have to 
refund Miss D.
Miss D wasnt satisfied. She said she hadnt made the payments, and she asked for an 
ombudsmans decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
There are regulations which govern disputed transactions. The relevant regulations for 
disputed transactions taking place in October 2021 are the Payment Services Regulations 
2017. In general terms, these say that the payment service provider (here, PayPal) is liable if 
the customer didnt authorise the payments, and the customer is liable if they did authorise 
them. 
So Ive considered the evidence to decide whether its more likely than not that Miss D 
authorised the disputed transactions herself, or whether, as she says, a third party fraudster 
hacked her computer and carried out the transactions.
Ive first looked at the login which was carried out on 14 October, before the first disputed 
transaction. That login, and the subsequent disputed transactions, were all carried out using 
the same device, and IP address, which Miss D had used for many previous transactions 
which werent disputed. Shed used that device since October 2020.
As part of that login, Ive also seen evidence that, for the security of two-step authentication, 
PayPal sent a text to Miss Ds registered phone number. Miss D entered the number in that 
text on her device correctly, which enabled her to log in. Miss D only had one phone number 
registered with PayPal, and she hasnt said that her phone had been lost or stolen or in any 
other way compromised. 
After the disputed transactions, the same device, and IP address, were again used by Miss 
D to raise the dispute and to change her password.
So the disputed transactions were carried out using the same device and IP address that 
Miss D had used before, and which she later used to report a fraud. The login was also 
completed using her registered phone number, which she still had. So I cant see that any 
third party can have logged in and carried out these transactions. 
Miss D also said that she hadnt provided anyone with her PayPal login details, and says 
that her computer had been hacked. She sent us screenshots of standard security checks 
on an unidentified computer. But these dont persuade me that Miss Ds computer was 
hacked  especially in the light of all the other evidence Ive mentioned above.
So I think whats most likely to have happened is that Miss D carried out the disputed 
transactions herself. So I dont require PayPal to refund her.  
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss D to accept 
or reject my decision before 4 October 2022.
 
Belinda Knight
Ombudsman