DRN-3300875
The complaint
Mr and Mrs S are unhappy with the way Aviva Insurance Limited (Aviva) handled their home 
insurance claim following an escape of water. The buildings and contents policy is in Mr Ss 
name but as Mrs S raised the claim, and for ease, Ill refer only to her throughout my 
decision.
What happened
Mrs S claimed under the policy when a burst pipe in the downstairs bathroom caused 
significant damage to her home. While Aviva settled parts of the claim, there remained some 
disagreement about the settlement for the kitchen cupboards and associated labour. 
Aviva agreed to contribute 50% towards the undamaged parts of Mrs Ss kitchen cupboard 
doors and decided to cash settle. But Mrs S doesnt think it included the correct number of 
cupboard doors or, therefore, the correct cost of labour. She also complained that Aviva 
didnt include the cost of replacement carcasses in the cash settlement offer. But Aviva said 
none of the carcasses were damaged, so it declined Mrs Ss request for a 50% contribution 
towards replacements.
While Aviva settled the rest of the claim, Mrs S was unhappy with the delays caused and the 
overall claim management. Aviva agreed that she hadnt had the best experience and, by 
way of apology, it repainted doors at a cost of £150, and offered £200 compensation. But 
Mrs S didnt think it was enough.
Our investigator didnt think Aviva had treated Mrs S fairly and she thought it should pay for 
all damaged items and contribute 50% to all undamaged matching items, including the two 
missed cupboard doors, carcasses, decorative panels, fillers, and end panels. Our 
investigator didnt think it was fair to include labour costs for any damage that might happen 
when removing and refitting undamaged worktops, but she thought a further £100 
compensation was warranted in the circumstances.
Aviva agreed to pay an additional £100 compensation, and for the extra cupboard doors if 
evidence was provided that it had miscalculated. However, Aviva didnt agree that it should 
contribute towards the carcasses because it didnt think any had been damaged. 
I issued a provisional decision in November 2021 explaining that I was intending to uphold 
Mrs Ss complaint. Heres what I said:
provisional findings
Kitchen
Mrs S says Aviva failed to include two cupboard doors, kitchen carcasses and the 
associated labour costs in its cash settlement offer. Aviva doesnt think the carcasses were 
damaged, so it declined her request for payment towards those items.
Ive looked at the policy and I can see that it doesnt provide cover for matching items. 
3. Pairs, Sets and Suites
We will not pay for the cost of replacing any undamaged items which form part of a pair, 
set, suite or any other item of a uniform nature, design or colour.
That means Aviva is under no obligation to contribute to the undamaged kitchen cupboards. 
However, it agreed to contribute 50% of the cost in line with industry good practice and I 
think that was a reasonable offer. Because it offered that contribution, Id expect it to apply to 
all visible undamaged matching items. 
It seems there was a mistake about the number of doors in Mrs Ss kitchen, which is why 
she is unhappy that Aviva hasnt offered to contribute to all of them. But Aviva confirmed it 
will pay 50% towards all undamaged cupboard doors, including any extra for which it hasnt 
already offered a cash settlement. Im satisfied Avivas offer is fair and will include any 
previously missed doors. 
However, Aviva doesnt think the evidence shows that any carcasses were damaged, so it 
hasnt offered anything towards them. Looking at Mrs Ss evidence, she provided a quote 
from the claims handler saying four carcasses were damaged and would be replaced. Ive 
asked both parties about this. Neither has provided any evidence that the carcasses were 
damaged and the photos only show damaged end panels. Mrs S simply points out that the 
carcasses match the rest of the kitchen and should be included in the cash settlement offer.
As Ive said, the policy doesnt provide cover for matching items, but Aviva agreed to pay 
50% towards any undamaged matching items. So, Ive thought about whether its fair to 
include the carcasses in the broader category of matching items and whether Aviva should 
pay towards them. While I think it was reasonable for Aviva to contribute towards 
undamaged matching cupboard doors, I dont think the same can be said of the carcasses. 
Thats because, having looked at the photos of the kitchen, the carcasses arent visible (with 
the notable exception of the two glass fronted doors), so I cant fairly ask Aviva to contribute 
towards parts of the kitchen which, if not matching the door fronts, wouldnt affect the overall 
look. The doors cover the carcasses and theyd have to be open to notice any loss of match. 
That said, I think its fair that Aviva contributes 50% towards the two carcasses which are 
visible through the glass fronted doors and any decorative panels, fillers and end panels 
which are visible when the cupboard doors are shut. This should mean that Mrs S will have a 
matching kitchen when viewed with the cupboard doors shut, which I think is a reasonable 
outcome. Should Aviva calculate the cost of labour to complete this work differently to that 
already offered in the cash settlement, it should pay any increase.
Delays and claims management
Ill address these issues together. Mrs S complained that Aviva caused delays progressing 
her claim and that its claims management was poor. Specifically, she thought the agent 
handling her claim was deceitful and tried to avoid including valid parts of her claim, and that 
insufficient care was taken by contractors when in her property. Ive looked at the timeline of events and I cant fairly say that Aviva caused significant 
avoidable delays. Aviva completed the first visits promptly but, because it identified possible 
asbestos containing material (ACM) it put work on hold until tests were completed. The tests 
revealed asbestos and its removal took around three weeks. As this is specialised work, 
Avivas progress wouldve been limited so I cant fairly say it caused any avoidable delay 
here. 
Once the ACM was removed, Aviva started the drying process which took a further week. 
Mrs S then carried out some betterment work while her floor was lifted. Aviva explained it 
wouldnt work on the repairs while she was having the private work done, so progress was 
delayed again. There was a similar situation when an issue was identified with the log 
burning stove. Aviva paused repairs while Mrs S sorted the stove. I dont think its fair to hold 
Aviva responsible for any of these delays because they were all caused by external factors 
and were unavoidable.
However, I have seen some evidence that shows Aviva caused delays. For example, it didnt 
respond fully or correctly to Mrs Ss query regarding the VAT payment on cash settlements. I 
also note that Aviva wanted to send her suite and other furniture for repairs, which wouldve 
taken several weeks. Mrs S was unhappy with the options Aviva gave because she didnt 
want to be without her furniture. While I understand these matters are settled now, they 
show the type of delays Mrs S experienced and the likely impact it wouldve had on her.
Aviva offered £200 compensation, along with work to repaint doors to a value of £150. It has 
since agreed to increase the compensation payment by £100. This brings the total to £450 
(£300 payment and £150 work value) for the shortfalls Mrs S experienced. Ive thought 
carefully about this, also taking into consideration Mrs Ss dissatisfaction that the contractors 
used her bathroom facilities rather than providing their own. I think the offer is reasonable 
and in line with the type of award wed make for delays and service shortfalls of this kind. 
Nothing within Mrs Ss evidence suggests that a greater sum is warranted. 
Overall, its unfortunate that Aviva failed to handle Mrs Ss claim as well as she couldve 
expected, and I see in its final response to Mrs S that Aviva apologised for its mistakes. To 
resolve this matter, I think Aviva should contribute 50% towards all the undamaged matching 
parts of the fitted kitchen which can be seen without opening the cupboard doors. That 
means there would be no obligation for Aviva to contribute towards the carcasses, except for 
the two with glass fronted doors. It Aviva calculates the cost of labour to be more than 
previously offered, its payment should reflect that increase. Then, by way of apology for the 
service shortfalls, Aviva should pay total compensation of £300, if it hasnt already done so.
I said I was intending to uphold the complaint and I was minded to require Aviva Insurance 
Limited to:
contribute 50% towards all undamaged matching cupboard doors, decorative panels, 
fillers, end panels, and the two glass fronted carcasses;
pay any increase in labour costs if it calculates the cost to complete this work 
differently to that already offered in the cash settlement, and
pay an additional £100 compensation, bringing the total compensation payment to 
£300.
I asked both parties to send me any further comments and information they might want me 
to consider before I reached a final decision.
Mrs S wanted to be sure that the outcome included all previously agreed extras, such as 
those for the tiling, VAT, chimney and compensation. She also said shed made it clear to Aviva that she wouldve accepted its contractors doing the work, but instead Aviva offered to 
cash settle. Therefore, Mrs S wants to know that the cost is to her, not to Aviva. Ideally, 
shed like to provide her own quote for the work and have Aviva base its cash settlement 
offer on that.
Aviva responded with an amended cash settlement figure of £5,571.89 to reflect the costs of 
completing the work set out in my provisional decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive decided to uphold Mrs Ss complaint and Ill explain why.
I think its reasonable that Mrs S wanted to know exactly what the cash settlement offer 
included, so I asked Aviva for further information. It provided me with a breakdown of costs 
and included an uplift on the cash settlement offer to allow for regional purchases. 
I wont share the details of that breakdown because the price of materials is a commercially 
sensitive contract between Aviva and the trade supplier. However, I hope Mrs S will be 
reassured to know that Ive looked at the prices and they compare favourably to those 
available to consumers. Indeed, some of the trade prices are slightly more than retail 
suppliers. As Im satisfied that Aviva has demonstrated its offer covers the cost to a 
consumer, I see no reason to seek quotes from Mrs S. Thats because Aviva is offering a 
settlement in line with the policy terms and conditions.
Avivas settlement offer now includes all additional and previously agreed items, including 
the chimney work, refitting units, VAT (on receipt of the completion invoice), along with a 
50% contribution to undamaged items. I cant see any evidence that it includes the 
compensation, so Ill make that clear in my requirements. 
I understand Mrs S is unhappy that Aviva only offered a cash settlement. While it may have 
been her preference for Aviva to arrange the work, the terms of the policy allow it to offer a 
cash settlement. Thats providing its offer is enough to allow Mrs S to complete the work for 
which Aviva provided cover under the policy. Although Aviva based its offer on a trade 
supplier, the prices are comparable with the retail prices. Im satisfied thats fair.
Finally, Mrs S said she would like Aviva to contribute to any damage that might be caused 
when her kitchen is repaired. I cant reasonably ask Aviva to cover the cost of any damage 
for which it isnt responsible, and which might not happen. Should Mrs S experience any 
further loss during repair work, that would be a matter for her to raise directly with Aviva at 
the time.
In summary, Aviva updated its cash settlement offer to reflect a 50% contribution to all the 
undamaged matching cupboard doors, panels, fillers, and glass fronted carcasses. Its 
updated offer also included labour costs. So, in addition to compensation for the service 
shortfalls, Im satisfied Aviva made a fair offer after Mrs S brought her complaint to our 
service and it should complete those actions. For the avoidance of doubt, Ill clarify my 
requirements.My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained above, and in my provisional decision, I uphold Mr Ss 
complaint and Aviva Insurance Limited must:
provide Mr S with a cash settlement of £5,571.89 which includes a 50% contribution 
towards materials for all undamaged matching cupboard doors, decorative panels, 
fillers, end panels, and the two glass fronted carcasses, along with labour costs, and
pay an additional £100 compensation, bringing the total compensation payment to 
£300.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs S and Mr S to 
accept or reject my decision before 7 March 2022.
 
Debra Vaughan
Ombudsman