DRN-4007771
The complaint
Mr and Mrs S complain that Monzo Bank Ltd (Monzo) wont refund all the money they lost 
when they fell victim to a scam.
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them all again 
here. But briefly: a colleague of Mr S had been trading with a merchant Ill refer to as D. 
Thinking they were making good profits, they recommended D to Mr and Mrs S. 
Between October 2021 and February 2022, Mr and Mrs S made seven payments, totalling 
£37,200, from their joint Monzo account to a cryptocurrency wallet in Mr Ss name. They 
then converted the funds to cryptocurrency and sent them on to D.
Unfortunately, D was acting fraudulently. When Mr and Mrs S tried to withdraw their funds, 
they were told they had to pay a high level of tax. D ultimately didnt allow them to access 
any of the money showing in their account  and also deleted its communication with them 
from the messaging platform they had predominantly been using.
After raising the matter with Monzo, who wouldnt refund them, Mr and Mrs S referred the 
matter to our service. Our investigator thought Monzo ought to have intervened when they 
made the third payment to the cryptocurrency wallet. If it had done so appropriately, he 
thought it would have uncovered the scam.
The investigator recommended that Monzo should refund 75% of Mr and Mrs Ss loss from 
the third payment onwards. Monzo didnt agree. It said the payments didnt look suspicious, 
so it had no reason to intervene; the money wasnt transferred to D directly, so the loss 
happened at a later point; and Mr and Mrs S acted negligently, as recognised by the 
investigators 25% deduction from the compensation.
I then issued my provisional decision, which explained why I was minded to direct Monzo to 
refund 50% of Mr and Mrs Ss loss from the third payment onwards:
In line with the Payment Services Regulations and general banking terms, Monzo has a 
duty to execute authorised payment instructions without undue delay. So although its 
not disputed that a scammer duped Mr and Mrs S into making these payments, the 
starting position is that they are liable.
That said, there are some situations where we believe that bankstaking into account 
relevant rules, codes, and best practice ought to have identified a potential fraud risk, 
so should have looked at the wider circumstances surrounding the transaction before 
making the payment. If they failed to do so, and that failure led to a fraudulent loss for 
their customer, it may be fair to hold them liable.
Initially, I dont think Monzo had cause for concern. Although the first two scam payments 
were higher than Mr and Mrs Ss usual level of spending, I dont think they appeared so 
suspicious that Monzo ought to have realised they were at risk from fraud.
But when Mr and Mrs S made the third payment, for £6,200, I think Monzo ought to have 
identified a fraud risk. Although they had paid the recipient previously, this payment was 
over three times more than those earlier payments  which were already a significant 
increase from how they generally used their account. A pattern of escalating, high value 
payments, to a relatively new payee, was emerging.
I therefore think Monzo ought to have completed further checks on this payment to 
satisfy itself on whether all was well. If it had appropriately questioned Mr and Mrs S 
about the circumstances of the payment, I think it would have uncovered the scam. 
I appreciate the funds didnt go directly to D. But thats common in scams like this. As Mr 
S did here, victims often need to transfer funds through another account to purchase 
cryptocurrency for their investment. Given that the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) 
and Action Fraud published warnings about cryptocurrency scams in mid-2018, this is 
something which Monzo ought to have been aware of by the time of these payments.
If Monzo had appropriately questioned Mr and Mrs S, I think they would have explained 
they were acting on the instructions of D  who they were ultimately transferring the 
funds on to. Monzo queries whether they would have revealed this, but Ive seen nothing 
to suggest they were told not to mention Ds involvement  who they ultimately believed 
were legitimate, so I dont think they would have been wary about mentioning.
The pattern of transferring funds onto a trader from their own cryptocurrency wallet is in 
itself a hallmark of a scam which I would have expected Monzo to have been aware of. I 
also think, had Monzo questioned Mr and Mrs S about what they were expecting, it 
would have had further concerns. For example, they were told only 15% of their funds 
would be invested  meaning thats the most they could lose. I would have expected 
Monzo to have warned Mr and Mrs S that sounded like a scam.
Mr and Mrs S were reassured by a recommendation from their friend, who had been able 
to withdraw some funds. But as Monzo would have been aware, allowing low-level 
withdrawals is a tactic used by scammers to appear legitimate, to persuade victims to 
invest more.
Similarly, we know these types of scams often involve manipulated software appearing 
to show how the funds have been invested  as appears to have been the case here. 
These are factors which Monzo could have explained to Mr and Mrs S, to help them 
understand why it sounded like a scam.
I think Mr and Mrs S would have relied on a firm warning from their bank, speaking from 
a position of knowledge about these scams. If Monzo intervened appropriately, it would 
likely have been on actual notice that they would suffer financial harm from fraud. As this 
loss ought to have been in the contemplation of and foreseeable to Monzo, I consider it 
fair and reasonable to hold it liable for the loss.
Ive also considered if Mr and Mrs S should bear some responsibility for their loss by way 
of contributory negligence. I appreciate that they relied on a personal recommendation 
as well as reviews and a website (which, as referenced above, likely employed fake 
software to appear to show that the funds were being invested). But I also think there 
were warnings signs they ought to have picked up on.
Mr and Mrs S were told D had previously been another company, which was regulated 
by the FCA, and was changing names due to a new partner joining. They say Ds 
website looked similar to the other name they were given, who they checked was 
regulated.They cant recall the name they were given so I havent been able to verify this. In any 
event, I think it should have struck them as odd that the firms authority wouldnt transfer 
over, if it was the same entity with a new name. Had they checked the FCA register, they 
would have seen D wasnt listed as a regulated firm. 
D told them it would only invest 15% of what they paid, restricting their loss. I think they 
should have questioned that. If D was only investing such a small proportion, why did it 
need them to pay more  rather than asking them to simply pay less to reflect what they 
were prepared to risk?
I also think the offers/promotions D gave them ought to have seemed suspicious. For 
example, D apparently paid £5,000 as a bonus for them paying in £10,000. I think that 
deal was too good to be true, so should have caused Mr and Mrs S to question its 
legitimacy.
For these reasons, Im minded to make a deduction of 50% from the amount Im 
recommending Monzo should refund. Effectively, I think liability should be split between 
Monzo and Mr and Mrs S.
For those payments which I dont think Monzo could have prevented, I have also 
considered if it could have done more to help recover Mr and Mrs Ss loss. But as the 
payments were transferred on from the account they paid directly, and given the gap 
between the payments, I dont think Monzo would have been able to recover these. 
I invited both parties to submit any further comments or evidence. Monzo has responded to 
accept my findings. But Mr and Mrs S have questioned the increased deduction Ive applied. 
The case has now been passed back to me for a final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided to uphold it and award the same redress as proposed in my 
provisional decision. As this is largely for the same reasons I gave in my provisional decision 
(set out above, and which also forms part of my final decision), Ill focus here on addressing 
the response from Mr and Mrs S.
Mr and Mrs S say they understand why theyre (partly) liable for the loss. But they feel 
strongly that if Monzo had stepped in at the beginning, it would have known this was a scam. 
And they would have lost a lot less if it had done so.
While I appreciate their point, my provisional decision sets out why I dont think Monzo was 
at fault for not intervening with the first two payments. The starting position of a banks duty, 
when receiving an authorised payment request, is to promptly act on this. As I dont think 
Monzo had reasonable grounds to suspect fraud until the third payment, I cant award more 
because it didnt intervene with the first two payments. 
I realise how disappointing it must be for Mr and Mrs S that Ive increased the contributory 
negligence deduction. But my role as an ombudsman is to come to my own, independent 
conclusion on what I think is fair and reasonable in the circumstances. I do agree that Monzo 
should have done more here, which would likely have limited Mr and Mrs Ss loss. But I also 
think there were risk factors they ought to have picked up on. When considering contributory negligence, our approach is to think about what a reasonable 
person would have done in the circumstances. My expectations about what a reasonable 
person ought to identify as a fraud risk are different to what Id expect from a bank to know. 
But even without specialist fraud knowledge, I think there were warning signs that Mr and 
Mrs S should reasonably have picked up on that D might not be legitimate. 
Overall, while I think Monzo ought to have done more to prevent Mr and Mrs Ss loss, I also 
think they could have done more to mitigate this. And so for the reasons given, Im 
persuaded the redress proposed in my provisional decision is a fair way to resolve this 
complaint. 
Putting things right
Monzo Bank Ltd should refund 50% of Mr and Mrs Ss loss from the third payment onwards. 
It should pay interest on this amount, from the dates of payment to the date of settlement.
The payments were funded by transfers into the Monzo account from a savings account and 
a current account. For those funds which came from a savings account, the applicable 
interest rate is the savings account rate, which Mr and Mrs S have confirmed to be 0.75%. 
For those funds which came from the current account, 8% simple interest per year should be 
applied to reflect the loss of use of that money.
Ive included a table to give more clarity on what Im awarding:
Date AmountAmount to 
refund SourceInterest rate 
applicable
08/10/2021 £1,500 £0 - -
14/10/2021 £2,000 £0 - -
02/11/2021 £6,200 £3,100Half from current 
account, half from 
savings8% on £1,550, 
0.75% on £1,550
17/11/2021 £10,000 £5,000 All from current account 8%
18/11/2021 £5,000 £2,500Half from current 
account, half from 
savings8% on £1,250, 
0.75% on £1,250
16/12/2021 £2,500 £1,250Half from current 
account, half from 
savings8% on £625, 
0.75% on £625
14/02/2022 £10,000 £5,000 All from current account 8%
Total £37,200 £16,850   
My final decision
For the reasons given, I uphold this complaint and direct Monzo Bank Ltd to put in line with 
what Ive set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S and Mrs S to 
accept or reject my decision before 7 April 2023.
 
Rachel Loughlin
Ombudsman