DRN-3081240
The complaint
Mr A complains that HSBC UK Bank Plc declined a chargeback claim he raised.   
What happened
In June 2020 Mr A made a debit card payment from his current account for £202.30. Mr A 
was paying for accommodation. 
Mr A told HSBC he thinks the payment he made was part of a scam. Mr A says he had to 
pay for alternative accommodation because the room he rented was dirty and not fit for 
habitation.  
Mr A asked HSBC for help and it raised a chargeback dispute. HSBC refunded Mr As 
£202.30 and sent him confirmation a dispute had been raised. But in January 2021 HSBC 
contacted Mr A and said the chargeback dispute had been declined and it would debit his 
account a week later. 
In March 2021 Mr A asked our service to get involved and a complaint was raised with 
HSBC. In its submission, HSBC sent evidence to show how the chargeback claim had been 
processed and why it was declined. 
An investigator looked at Mr As complaint but didnt find HSBC had acted unreasonably by 
declining the chargeback claim. The investigator noted that HSBC recorded that Mr A was 
unable to find the hotel when he raised the claim. But a call recording shows Mr As claim 
was made on the basis that the accommodation wasnt clean or fit for purpose. The 
investigator thought the overall decision to decline the chargeback claim was reasonable but 
asked HSBC to pay Mr A £50 in recognition of its error when raising his chargeback claim. 
HSBC agreed but Mr A asked to appeal. As a result, Mr As complaint has been passed to 
me to make a decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I dont doubt that Mr A was unhappy with the accommodation he booked when he arrived. 
Mr A told the investigator that hotel staff did offer to clean the room. But due to the time of 
arrival and amount of time it wouldve taken, Mr A says that option wasnt practical. I accept 
Mr A feels he was unfairly charged in this case. But I have to balance that against HSBCs 
options when raising a chargeback dispute and whether it did enough to support his claim. 
HSBC recorded that Mr B raised a dispute because he wasnt able to locate the property. 
But Ive listened to the call Mr A made to HSBC and its clear he found the hotel but felt the 
room was dirty. I agree with the investigator that HSBC recorded the wrong reason behind 
his dispute. 
Ive looked at the chargeback claim documents and can see the merchant defended it. The 
merchant sent its bank a copy of Mr As check in confirmation to show he visited the 
property. I think its more likely than not that the merchant wouldve still successfully 
defended the dispute even if HSBC had made it on the basis that Mr A thought the room was 
dirty. As our investigator has said, its a subjective point and the merchant did offer to clean 
the room. 
Im very sorry to disappoint Mr A but I havent been persuaded that HSBC acted unfairly 
when it declined his chargeback claim. So Im not telling HSBC to refund the payment Mr A 
disputed. 
HSBC has agreed to pay Mr A £50 on the basis it recorded the wrong reason for the 
chargeback claim. Im satisfied thats fair in all the circumstances so Im going to uphold Mr 
As complaint on that basis. 
My final decision
My decision is that I uphold Mr As complaint and direct HSBC UK Bank Plc to pay him £50. 
  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision before 11 November 2021.
 
Marco Manente
Ombudsman