DRN-4127790
The complaint
Ms J complains that Advantage Finance Ltd (Advantage Finance) irresponsibly granted 
her a hire purchase agreement she couldnt afford to repay. 
What happened
In September 2018, Ms J acquired a used car financed by a hire purchase agreement from 
Advantage Finance. Everything else being equal Ms J was required to make 59 monthly 
repayments of £211.15, with a final payment of £386.15. The total repayable under the 
agreement was £12,844.00 at an APR of 37.95%. 
Ms J says that Advantage Finance didnt complete adequate affordability checks and if it 
had it would have found out about her difficult financial situation and seen the agreement 
wasnt affordable. 
Advantage Finance didnt agree. It said that it carried out a thorough  assessment which 
included an income and credit check and an affordability assessment. 
Our investigator didnt recommend the complaint be upheld. She thought Advantage Finance 
didnt act unfairly or unreasonably by approving the finance.
Ms J didnt agree and asked for an ombudsman to review her complaint and make a 
decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Its clear that Ms J has very strong feelings about this complaint. She has provided detailed 
submissions (both at the outset and after the investigators view) in support of her view 
which I can confirm Ive read and considered in their entirety. However, I trust that Ms J will 
not take the fact that my findings focus on what I consider to be the central issues, and that 
they are expressed in considerably less detail, as a discourtesy. The purpose of my decision 
isnt to address every point raised. The purpose of my decision is to set out my conclusions 
and reasons for reaching them. 
I would also point out that where the information Ive got is incomplete, unclear, or 
contradictory, Ive to base my decision on the balance of probabilities.
Advantage Finance will be familiar with all the rules, regulations and good industry practice 
we consider when looking at a complaint concerning unaffordable and irresponsible lending. 
So, I dont consider it necessary to set all of this out in this decision. Information about our 
approach to these complaints is set out on our website. 
In this case Advantage Finance says that Ms J confirmed (as part of her application) that she 
was single, living in rented accommodation and earning £1,800 net per month. 
Advantage Finance says that before agreeing to lend it undertook a number of checks with a 
number of different agencies, including verifying Ms Js declared earnings, establishing her 
current indebtedness, her current and historical debt arrears, whether she had any defaults 
or county court judgements registered against her and what her expenditure was likely to be 
(in respect of rent, utilities, council tax and existing debts).
Ive considered these checks very carefully and given the sum that Advantage Finance was 
looking to make, the monthly repayments required of Ms J, the term of the agreement and 
the APR I can confirm that Im satisfied that these checks were reasonable and 
proportionate. I would also add that just because different checks by Advantage Finance, 
such as requesting pay slips, bank statements or completing an income and expenditure 
form, might have caused it to conclude that it shouldnt lend doesnt make the checks 
undertaken unreasonable or not proportionate.
Having concluded that the checks undertaken by Advantage Finance were both reasonable 
and proportionate Ive gone on to consider whether it made a fair lending decision. And 
having done so I can confirm that Im satisfied that it did. In coming to this finding, Ive had 
regard (amongst other things) to the fact that:
Ive seen no evidence that Advantage Finance did anything wrong in concluding that 
Ms J was earning £1,800 net per month
Advantage Finances credit check(s) showed Ms J had current credit outstanding of 
less than £4,500 with no current arrears
Advantage Finances credit check(s) showed Ms J had two defaults registered, but 
for a combined sum of less than £1,000 and with the most recent being registered 
nearly two years earlier
Advantage Finances credit check(s) showed Ms J had a county court judgement, but 
for a sum of less than £350 and which had been recorded over two years earlier
Advantage Finances calculation of Ms Js expenditure for rent, utilities, council tax 
and existing debt of £911 appears to be entirely reasonable (notwithstanding they 
might have been more or less than this sum)
Advantage Finances calculation of Ms Js surplus income of £889 (£1,800 less £911) 
to meet the cost of its agreement and all other expenditure appears to be entirely 
reasonable
Although Ms J appears to have only complained to Advantage Finance that it lend to her 
irresponsibly, she has also complained to our service about the APR of 37.95%, the total 
sum she has to repay (everything else being equal) of £12,844 and Advantage Finances 
pursuit of payments from her.
Ive considered the agreement Ms J signed and Im satisfied that it correctly sets out all the 
costs. And if Ms J was unhappy with any aspect of the agreement costs she was always free 
not to sign it. For the avoidance of doubt, I would add that Ms J hasnt suggested that the 
costs, as set out in the agreement, were misrepresented to her in anyway by 
Advantage Finance or its agents. Therefore, I dont uphold this aspect of Ms Js complaint.Ms J has complained (to our service at least) about Advantage Finances pursuit of 
payments from her. But having had regard to the very extensive contact notes provided to 
our service by Advantage Finance, Ms Js current and historical arrears, Advantage 
Finances decision to cancel a number of historical arrears charges and its decision to not 
raise any further arrears charges going forward, I think that Advantage Finance has acted 
appropriately in this respect. And for the sake of completeness, I would add that given the 
arrears on Ms Js account Im satisfied that Advantage Finance was entitled to send the 
arrears notices and default notices that it did and to advice Ms J that the car was at risk of 
repossession if the arrears under her agreement werent cleared or in the event they were 
to increase. Therefore, I dont uphold this aspect of Ms Js complaint.
However, notwithstanding what I say above, I would remind Advantage Finance of its 
obligations to act with appropriate forbearance and regard for Ms Js current financial 
circumstances going forward.
My final decision
My final decision is I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms J to accept or 
reject my decision before 20 July 2023.
 
Peter Cook
Ombudsman