DRN-2103418
The complaint
Mr T is unhappy with National Savings and Investments (NS&I) for not responding to a letter 
he sent them. He feels he should be compensated for the customer service shortcomings.
What happened
Mr T had an investment account with NS&I. On 29 July 2019, he transferred £271.39 into the 
account. He says he then wrote to NS&I to ask them to confirm receipt of the money. But he 
didnt receive a response. 
So in October 2019, Mr T wrote to NS&I again and said hed like to make a complaint. He 
explained that the administrative shortcomings had caused him enormous distress and 
tremendous upset. He asked for compensation for what he felt was a customer service 
failure. 
NS&I wrote to Mr T on 25 October 2019  this letter was also their final response on the 
matter. NS&I explained theyd received Mr Ts July deposit but that they dont issue 
transaction records for electronic transfers  despite this theyd send him a statement to 
confirm it for his records. NS&I couldnt see theyd received any earlier letters from Mr T 
though  so didnt agree they needed to pay compensation. 
NS&I wrote to Mr T again on 9 November 2019 but this was mostly a repeat of the same 
points that Mr T was unhappy with. NS&I did however ask Mr T if he had the proof of posting 
for the letter he said hed sent by special delivery in July. 
Remaining unhappy with this, Mr T asked for our help to investigate the complaint. He told 
us he was unhappy hed had to write four different letters to NS&I to receive confirmation of 
his payment and had waited 95 days to receive a response  theyd also not mentioned 
theyd moved their office location so hed been writing to the old address. He also felt it was 
unfair and unjust for NS&I to have said theyd only compensate for financial loss. He said 
hed been drastically impacted and affected by having to write four letters and asked that 
NS&I recognise and acknowledge their shortcomings and compensate him. 
Mr T also shared some of his personal circumstances with us which he wanted us to be 
aware of  he explained he felt NS&I had shown unconscious bias towards him and had 
disregarded his disabilities. 
One of our investigators was assigned to Mr Ts case and considered what had happened. 
He could see Mr T deposited the money as hed said, but that the terms of his account didnt 
require NS&I to send him a letter to confirm the deposit. He couldnt see evidence Mr T had 
written to NS&I before his October letter, so didnt believe NS&I had done anything wrong 
here. And he also explained that while NS&I was moving its postal operations to another 
office, a redirection service was in place. 
Mr T wasnt happy with what our investigator had said for a number of reasons. He felt the 
outcome was biased but also raised concerns about our service  these were later reviewed 
by one of our managers as a service complaint and an outcome into the investigation 
provided. 
As Mr T remained unhappy with the outcome of his concerns about NS&I, his complaint was 
passed to me to review.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I have reviewed the records NS&I shared in relation to Mr Ts account. I can see that the 
£271.39 he deposited by way of a faster payments transfer was successfully added to his 
account on 29 July 2019. 
NS&I didnt write to him to confirm that transfer though  but they didnt have to. Their 
investment account terms  which included an overview and customer agreement  said 
they wouldnt. 
Within the version Mr T shared from March 2019 as well as another version Ive seen from 
April 2019, under the section subtitled keeping track of your account both versions said:
We will send you a transaction record after each transaction (except deposits made 
by electronic transfer). You can check your balance and view your transactions at 
any time by logging in at nsandi.com or by calling us. 
This clearly explained NS&I wouldnt automatically write to Mr T to confirm his electronically 
transferred deposit.
Despite this, Mr T says he wrote to NS&I to ask them to confirm the deposit two days after it 
was made. NS&I say they have no record of a letter  or other contact  from Mr T from July 
2019. And Mr T doesnt have a copy of the letter he sent. Nor has he been able to share 
proof of postage. 
I dont doubt Mr T did write to NS&I in July 2019, but it does not appear that his letter was 
delivered to their offices. And I do not find them responsible should there have been 
problems with the postal service. For this reason, I dont believe it would be fair or 
reasonable to find NS&I at fault for not writing to Mr T in July 2019. 
Mr T wrote to NS&I in October 2019. Ive seen a copy of his letter as well as the proof of 
postage. But I see NS&I responded very quickly to his letter, writing back to him later that 
same week. So I dont believe NS&I could have done any more to help him with this. 
Mr Ts letter in October 2019 was addressed to NS&Is former address. But its clear they still 
received it given they responded to it and shared it with us. NS&I have explained they have 
a mail forwarding service set up to redirect post to the new location. So Im not persuaded 
that the change of location was a reason for NS&I not receiving the July letter either.
From everything Ive reviewed, I dont agree NS&Is customer service has fallen short here. 
NS&I didnt have to write to Mr T after his deposit was made to his account, theres no 
evidence to show NS&I received a letter from him in July 2019 and when they received his 
letter in October 2019, they responded quickly with the information Mr T needed. If Mr T was 
worried about his payment not being received, he could have called NS&I or logged into his 
account online to check it have been received. 
For the reasons explained, I wont be asking NS&I to do anything differently or pay Mr T any compensation.
My final decision
I do not uphold the complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr T to accept or 
reject my decision before 24 July 2021.
 
Aimee Stanton
Ombudsman