DRN-1955877
The complaint
Ms C and Mr R have complained that Sainsburys Bank Plc (Sainsburys) mis-sold a home 
insurance policy to them.
What happened
Ms C and Mr R bought a home insurance policy online through a broker, Sainsburys. 
Unfortunately a quad bike was stolen from an outbuilding at their property and Ms C made a 
claim. The insurer rejected their claim as it said it didnt provide cover for quad bikes.
Ms C and Mr R complained to the insurer about its decision to reject the claim. This has 
been dealt with separately by our service. 
Ms C and Mr R brought a complaint about Sainsburys as they believe it mis-sold the policy 
to them. They said the policy booklet wording was vague about the cover provided and 
Sainsburys didnt make it clear that they needed to read the policy booklet as it wasnt 
provided as an attachment with the other key documents online.
Our investigator thought Sainsburys had acted reasonably. From screenshots provided by 
Sainsburys and Ms C, he could see that the policy booklet for home insurance was available 
for viewing online along with the key documents unique to Ms C and Mr Rs policy. 
But Ms C and Mr R didnt agree. Ms C said she found it difficult to navigate through 
Sainsburys online portal. She said given the importance of the policy booklet, Sainsburys 
should have sent a hard copy in the post to them. So theyd like an ombudsman to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Sainsburys has provided a screenshot of the documents available to Ms C and Mr R when 
they bought their home insurance policy. And Ive also seen a copy of the Welcome pack 
which included a cover letter and key documents for Ms C and Mr R to view and download. 
The covering letter reads that its provided the following:
What we've sent you
Inside the pack, you'll find these documents:
 your Statement of Fact
 our document, 'About our Insurance Services'
 your Policy Schedule
 your Policy Booklet
Screenshots provided by Ms C show that the welcome pack along with the attachments was 
available to view and download. A further screenshot provided by Ms C shows the title Your 
policies and on the right hand side there is a list of attachments under the title Important 
Information including policy documents for home insurance, motor insurance, and About 
our Insurance Services for the same products.
The Statement of Fact and schedule referred to the policy booklet for full details of what was 
and wasnt covered  as these documents provided key information based on what Ms C 
and Mr R told Sainsburys when applying for the policy.
So I think the policy booklet was made clearly available for Ms C and Mr R to read along with 
the welcome pack and key documents - unique to the details they provided - when buying 
the policy through Sainsburys. 
A broker can recommend a product which best matches a customers individual needs 
where it provides advice. In this case, Sainsburys didnt provide any advice as to the 
suitability of the insurance policy Ms C and Mr R bought.
The insurer is responsible for the decision to accept or reject a claim  and for setting out 
any exclusions or limitations of cover under the policy. So the adequacy or otherwise of the 
exclusion which applied to Ms C and Mr Rs claim isnt something that Sainsburys is 
responsible for. 
As I think Sainsburys made access to all of the policy information clearly available to Ms C 
and Mr R, I dont think it mis-sold the policy to them. 
I understand Ms C and Mr R will be very disappointed with my decision. But based on what 
Ive seen, I dont think Sainsburys has done anything wrong. So this means Im not 
upholding their complaint.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms C and Mr R to 
accept or reject my decision before 7 October 2020.
 
Geraldine Newbold
Ombudsman