DRN-3802146
The complaint
Ms B and Mr W are unhappy with the service they received from Bank of Scotland plc, 
trading as Halifax, surrounding their submission of a direct debit indemnity claim.
What happened
Ms B and Mr W had a direct debit set up from their Halifax account to pay a utility company, 
with an agreement whereby the monthly payments would reduce from £70.27 to £27.29 for 
the months August through November 2021. However, the utility company didnt take the 
reduced tariff amount for these months, and instead took the higher £70.27 amount.
Ms B and Mr W contacted Halifax in December 2021 and submitted a direct debit indemnity 
claim via telephone, but this wasnt actioned. Ms B and Mr W then submitted a hand-written 
claim in a Halifax branch a few weeks later, but again their request wasnt actioned by 
Halifax. Ms B and Mr W went into branch again a few weeks after that, in January 2022, 
when a member of staff completed the claim form with them. However, Ms B and Mr W then 
received a letter from Halifax rejecting their claim. Ms B and Mr W werent happy about this, 
or with the service theyd received from Halifax staff, so they raised a complaint.
Halifax looked at this complaint. But they didnt feel theyd acted unfairly towards Ms B and 
Mr W in how theyd managed the situation, and they didnt feel that the indemnity claim 
submitted by Ms B and Mr W in January 2022 had been a valid claim. Ms B and Mr W 
werent satisfied with Halifaxs response, so they referred their complaint to this service. 
One of our investigators looked at this complaint. They felt Halifax had rejected the claim 
because of a misunderstanding of when Ms B and Mr W were attempting to claim from. So, 
they recommended that Halifax should pay £150 to Ms B and Mr W as compensation for any 
trouble and upset caused. However, our investigator didnt recommend that Halifax should 
reimburse the direct debit overpayments as Ms B and Mr W had originally requested. 
Ms B and Mr W didnt agree with the recommendations put forwards by our investigator and 
felt Halifax werent being held to account for not honouring the direct debit guarantee. Ms B 
and Mr W also felt a higher compensation amount for the trouble and upset theyd incurred 
should be merited, and so the matter was escalated to an ombudsman for a final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I feel its important to begin by confirming that this service isnt a regulatory body of a Court 
of Law. As such its not within the remit of this service to hold a business to account for its 
actions, or to declare that a business has acted in an unlawful or non-regulatory manner. 
Such declarations would be for a regulatory body or a Court of Law to potentially make. 
Instead, this service is an informal dispute resolution service with a remit based on fairness 
of outcome. In this specific instance, this means that Ive considered two aspects of this 
complaint: Whether a fair eventual outcome has occurred, and whether Ms B and Mr W 
received a fair standard of service from Halifax surrounding this matter. 
Regarding this second point, I note that Ms B and Mr W have questioned whether Halifaxs 
staff are appropriately trained. I havent considered this point, because it sits outside of the 
remit of this service as described above. Instead, Ive focussed on the outcomes of Ms B 
and Mr Ws interactions with Halifax, and whether I feel those specific outcomes were fair.
Ms B and Mr W have explained they first contacted Halifax about this matter by telephone in 
December 2021, and that they also submitted a direct debit indemnity claim in person at one 
of Halifaxs branch later that same month. Halifax have no record of Ms B and Mr W 
contacting or visiting them about this matter in December, with Halifaxs first record of Ms B 
and Mr W attempting to raise an indemnity claim with them being in January 2022  the 
claim which Halifax then rejected.
In situations such as this, where the positions of the disputing parties contradict each other, I 
have to decide  if I feel its reasonably possible to do so  which of the two versions of 
events I feel is most likely to have happened, on balance, and in consideration of all the 
information and evidence available to me. 
In this instance, I feel its more likely than not that Ms B and Mr W did contact Halifax by 
phone and did visit a Halifax branch in person as they claim. This is because I find Ms W 
and Mr Bs testimony to be persuasive, and because I feel its more likely that their phone 
call and visit werent logged by Halifax rather than that they didnt occur.
Regarding the direct debit indemnity claim itself, Halifax appear to have rejected the claim 
received by them in January 2022 because they believed Ms B and Mr W were attempting to 
reclaim overpayments from December 2020 to November 2021, which was a period that 
Halifax felt begun too long ago to be a valid claim. But this wasnt the case, and Ms B and Mr 
W were only trying to reclaim the overpayments for four months beginning in August 2021. 
As such, Im satisfied that Halifaxs reason for rejecting the claim at the stage they did wasnt 
based on a valid understanding of that claim.
Ms W and Mr B feel that my position in this regard should necessarily mean that I should 
instruct Halifax to honour the direct debit indemnity claim and reimburse the four monthly 
overpayment amounts to their account. Ms W and Mr B have also asked why this service 
isnt holding Halifax to account for not honouring the direct debit guarantee as it should have, 
and awarding a higher amount to them because of this
However, as explained, this service isnt a regulatory body, and so its not for me to hold 
Halifax to account here as Ms W and Mr B suggest. And, when considering the outcome 
here  which was the Halifax explained to Ms W and Mr B that they should seek to recover 
the overpayments from the utility company directly  while I acknowledge this would have 
been inconvenient for Ms W and Mr B, I also feel it would have resulted in the overall 
outcome that Ms W and Mr B were seeking to achieve  specifically, the reimbursement of 
the overpayments for the four months in question.
I also feel that the length of time thats elapsed since the payments in question means that it 
wouldnt be reasonable for me to instruct Halifax to reimburse the overpayments to Ms W 
and Mr Bs account as they would like. I say this because it seems logical to me that Ms W 
and Mr B, having made the overpayments, would have been in a position of credit with the 
utility company and may have already taken steps with that company directly to resolve that 
position of credit  such that no reimbursement would now be justified. And I also feel that if 
Ms W and Mr B remain in an unresolved position of credit with the utility company that they 
would be best placed to resolve that position with the utility company directly at this stage.But its clear that Ms W and Mr B have been inconvenienced by whats happened here, both 
in regard to Halifax not logging their claim when first should have been the case, and in 
regard to Halifaxs response to that claim when it was recognised by them, and Im satisfied 
that they should fairly be compensated for this inconvenience.
Matters of compensation can be subjective, but the £150 recommended by our investigator 
which Halifax have accepted does feel fair to me, and I can confirm that its commensurate 
with what I might have instructed Halifax to pay, had they not already agreed to do so.
In arriving at this position Ive considered only the elements of this complaint that fall within 
the remit of what this service can consider  as explained above  and the impact that these 
may have had on Ms W and Mr B. 
These include that Ms W and Mr B had to contact Halifax three times before their claim was 
logged and actioned by Halifax, as well as the inconvenience of Halifax incorrectly assessing 
their claim and asking them to resolve the matter with the utility company directly. And Ive 
also considered the general framework by which this service considers trouble and upset 
compensation amounts  further details of which can be found on this services website. 
And, taking all these points into consideration, I feel £150 is a fair compensation amount. 
I realise this wont be the outcome Ms W and Mr B were wanting, but while I will be 
upholding this complaint in their favour, Ill only be doing so to formally instruct Halifax to pay 
£150 compensation to them. I hope that Ms W and Mr B will understand, given what Ive 
explained, why Ive made the final decision that I have.
Putting things right
Halifax must make a payment of £150 to Ms W and Mr B.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint against Bank of Scotland plc, trading as 
Halifax, on the basis explained above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms B and Mr W to 
accept or reject my decision before 1 February 2023.
 
Paul Cooper
Ombudsman