DRN-3236273
The complaint
Mr O is unhappy that Fairmead Insurance Limited declined his claim for damage to his 
property, which he believes should be covered under his home insurance policy.
Reference to Fairmead includes it agents. 
What happened
Mr O has a home contents and buildings insurance policy thats underwritten by Fairmead. 
In June 2021 Mr O returned home after a storm to find his house had been flooded. He 
contacted Fairmead but it declined the claim. It said the bad weather hadnt been severe 
enough to meet its criteria of being a storm. Later the same day Mr Os builder inspected the 
house and found that a seagulls nest had blocked the gutter and water had come into the 
house through the roof tiles. Mr O contacted Fairmead but it again declined the claim and 
said water damage caused by a blocked drain was an exclusion in his policy. 
Mr O complained but Fairmead maintained its decision. So, Mr O brought his complaint to 
this service. 
Our investigator was satisfied there were no storm conditions at the time the damage was 
said to have occurred and so thought Fairmead had acted fairly by declining the claim for 
storm damage. She noted the terms of Mr Os policy said it didnt cover him for loss or 
damage caused by the escape of water from guttering and rainwater down pipes. And so, 
she didnt think Fairmead needed to take any further action.
Mr O didnt agree with the investigators view and so the complaint has been passed to me 
to make a final decision. Mr O said his home had been well maintained and didnt think it 
was fair for Fairmead to say he wasnt covered for the damage caused. He also said his 
policy document didnt give a definition of a storm. And he complained that the policy had 
been mis-sold to him. Our investigator explained that, as the insurer, Fairmead wasnt 
responsible for the sale of the policy and if Mr O wanted to complain about that, hed need to 
raise a complaint about the business that had sold the policy. To be clear, my decision will 
only focus on the actions of Fairmead and I will not consider Mr Os complaint that the policy 
was mis-sold to him.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive come to the same conclusion as our investigator and for broadly the 
same reasons. Let me explain why.
Mr O thinks his property was damaged during a storm and he thinks he should be covered 
for this type of claim. So, Ive considered this, taking into account the policy terms and 
conditions.
When we look at storm damage cases, we ask three main questions:
1. Were there storm conditions on or around the date the damage is said to have 
happened?
2. Is the damage claimed for consistent with damage a storm typically causes?
3. Were the storm conditions the main cause of damage?
If the answer to all of these questions is yes then the claim is likely to succeed. But, if the 
answer to any of above questions is no the claim for storm damage is unlikely to be 
covered.
Fairmead checked the weather in the area where Mr O lives at the time he said his house 
was damaged but didnt think its storm criteria had been met. It said winds that week were 
around 22 mph and rainfall for the week was no more than 7.44mm. It said it considered a 
storm to be winds of over 47 mph. And said heavy or persistent rain alone doesnt constitute 
storm conditions unless the downpour is torrential (25mm or more of rain over a one-hour 
period). 
Mr O is right to say his policy document doesnt include a definition of storm conditions. Not 
all policies do. I dont think thats necessarily unreasonable and, in this case, Fairmead has 
explained what they consider to be storm conditions. That explanation seems fair and based 
on an approach similar to that taken by this service. A storm generally involves violent winds, 
usually accompanied by rain, hail or snow. I too have checked the conditions in the area 
around Mr Os house during the week in question and Im satisfied there were no storm 
conditions on or around the date the damage was said to have happened. The recorded 
wind speeds and rainfall were much lower than Id expect to see if there had been a storm. 
As Ive answered no to question 1, theres no need for me to go on to consider questions 2 
and 3.
Ive also considered whether the damage caused to Mr Os property could be covered by 
any other parts of his home insurance policy. But I dont think it could. From what Mr O has 
said, water entered his property because a seagull had nested on his roof and blocked the 
gutter. So, water escaped through his roof tiles and into his house rather than via the 
guttering system. Mr Os policy covers him for the escape of water in some circumstances 
but there are also a number of exclusions. One of which is that the policy doesnt cover loss 
or damage caused by the escape of water from guttering, rainwater down pipes, roof valleys 
and gullies. In light of the above, I dont think Fairmead acted unfairly in declining Mr Os 
claim. 
I can see that Mr O thought Fairmead had suggested his property was poorly maintained. 
And I can see why that must have been upsetting as hed recently spent a lot of money 
repairing the roof. But having read the final response letter, I dont think Fairmead said his 
property was poorly maintained. It outlined the issues it took into account when assessing a 
claim and noted that a well-maintained building should withstand all but the most severe 
weather events. But I dont think that was implying that Mr Os property was poorly 
maintained. And I dont think its unreasonable for insurers to highlight to policy holders the 
importance of maintaining their homes to prevent loss or damage.
Im sorry to hear about the problems Mr O has experienced at his property. But for the 
reasons Ive given, I think it was reasonable for Fairmead to decline his claim.My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained above, I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr O to accept or 
reject my decision before 24 February 2022.
 
Richard Walker
Ombudsman