DRN-2948824
The complaint
Mrs S complains Santander UK Plc (Santander) gave her unsuitable advice because the 
investment it recommended had a higher level of risk than she was willing to take.
What happened
In January and February 2012, Mrs S met with a financial adviser. She had sadly, in the 
months prior, been widowed. She contacted Santander after shed received lump sum 
payments from her late husbands death in service and life policies which she was looking to 
invest. Santander recommended Mrs S invest £50,000 over a five to ten-year period in a 
structured product  the Santander Max 70% shares portfolio.
In July 2013, Mrs S partially encashed the investment to finance the purchase of a property, 
withdrawing £50,000 and leaving around £7,000 invested. In September 2014 and 
July 2015, she invested a further £25,000 into the same product, with no advice provided by 
Santander at either of these points. In December 2018, Mrs S surrendered her investment. 
In total over the life of the investment, she received around £87,000 - equating to a 23% 
gain.
In September 2020 Mrs S complained. She was unhappy Santander hadnt intervened when 
her investment began to drop in value. She withdrew the investment when it was down by 
10% but said she was unaware her investment could lose more than that. Mrs S says she 
wanted a low risk investment that generated interest she could take an income from, so she 
was unhappy Santander had failed to explain the possible risks.
 
Santander rejected Mrs S complaint. In short, it said:
Mrs S had been offered a minimum of two meetings to give her time to consider what 
she wanted to do with the lump sum payments before committing
Mrs S met with an adviser who carried out a fact find and provided a suitability letter 
at the time of advice which showed she had discussed her income, expenditure, 
savings and future plans.
The adviser recommended Mrs S invest almost £115,000 out of approximately 
£245,000 and offered a range of different products with varying degrees of risk, but 
Mrs S rejected this for a smaller sum (£50,000) and for the possibility of achieving 
better returns. This shows the financial adviser discussed her attitude to risk.
It didnt believe there was evidence to indicate the advice had been unsuitable
Mrs S was unhappy with Santanders response, so she brought her complaint to us. To be 
clear, the complaint about how Santander managed the fund has been dealt with separately. 
This case and decision solely concern the advice she was given.
One of our investigators looked into this complaint. He thought the investment was suitable 
for Mrs S. This was because it provided the opportunity for her to meet her objectives while 
taking a level of risk, he thought she was willing to accept. He said Santander had discussed 
the possibility of Mrs S investing in annuities to derive an income, but she had made it clear 
she wanted to retain control over her money and have the possibility of achieving a higher 
return over the longer term. As no agreement could be reached, the matter has been 
referred to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided not to uphold Mrs S complaint. I understand this will come as 
a disappointment to her, but Ill explain my reasons why.
Santander has provided us with key documents it completed when it gave the investment 
advice. Mrs S at the time was aged 47, generally in good health but on sick leave and 
receiving half pay following the passing of her husband. She was looking to leave work for at 
least for a few years to focus on family life with her children who were nearing university age. 
Mrs S had a small outstanding balance on her mortgage which she was looking to repay. 
She had no experience in investing, so Santander classified her as a first-time investor. It 
recommended Mrs S hold a cash reserve of around 30% of her overall wealth. This included 
a five-year cash reserve for when Mrs S considered a break from work. Mrs S had no plans 
for her money, but she wanted a better return than a bank account.
Mrs S says Santander assessed her attitude to risk incorrectly as she was a low risk 
investor. As a way of Santander understanding Mrs S appetite for risk, she completed a fact 
find. This discussed products that guaranteed Mrs S capital and the fact that Mrs S only had 
experience in deposit- based savings and not risk-based investments. But Mrs S answered 
she never had significant funds available to do so and wanted to maximise her returns so 
that she could replace the money she was going to have to spend in the short term and did 
not feel that cash could do this. So, Santander recorded Mrs S was a medium risk investor.  
Based on the information Mrs S provided to Santander, Im satisfied it was reasonable for 
Santander to conclude she was willing to take a degree of risk with this portion of her money.
I've considered whether the advice to invest in the Max 70% shares portfolio was unsuitable 
because the fund was too risky for Mrs S. Taking what we know about Mrs S circumstances 
and objectives into account, I dont think Ive seen enough to persuade me that investment 
advice given here was unsuitable. Although Mrs S hadnt invested in risky products before, 
this doesn't automatically mean she wasnt able to take a risk with some of her money, 
especially when the fact find shows she expressed a willingness to take more risk, in the 
hope of better returns and because she had decided to invest less  retaining 79% of her 
total investable assets. 
The Max 70% Shares Portfolio was broadly made up of a mixture of fixed interest securities 
(such as corporate bonds, government bonds) and up to 70% equities  of which the 
majority were UK and European shares. The investment would give Mrs S exposure to 
equities in hope of growth, but with a limit on the amount, whilst being actively managed to 
switch in and out of stocks depending on market conditions. So, I find the investment was in 
line with the level of risk Mrs S had expressed a willingness to take  and given the level of 
cash reserve she retained that she could afford to take that risk.
Ive considered Mrs S testimony carefully. Having weighed this against the documents from 
the point of sale, Im satisfied the adviser explained how much risk it thought she was willing 
to take, and that the risk associated with the different investment types was clearly and 
simply explained in language such that she could understand what this could mean for her 
money. I can also see the change in investment amount suggests Mrs S was actively 
involved in the recommendation and decision-making process and understood to at least some degree the implications for her money. So, on balance Im satisfied that Mrs S ought to 
have understood that at the time and accepted the risk. 
I note Mrs S says she was unaware the value of the investment could fall by more than 10%. 
The fact find clearly says the adviser highlighted that whilst bonds and equities have the 
potential for higher returns, there is a real risk of getting back less than you invested, 
particularly if you withdraw your money in the early years.
And again, in the Key Investor Information, The risk and reward indicator is at the level it is 
because the value of shares and the income from them can fluctuate. The value of bonds 
issued by companies and governments can also vary, although usually by not as much. This 
can cause the value of your investment in the Fund to fall as well as to rise. The value of 
your investment is not guaranteed, and you may not get back the original amount you 
invested.
Overall, Im satisfied Santander clearly explained the risk the investment posed to Mrs S 
money, and that this was a level of risk she was willing and able to take with this portion of 
her assets in the hope of a greater return. That means that I cant fairly say Santanders 
advice was unsuitable.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs S to accept or 
reject my decision before 8 November 2021.
 
Farzana Miah
Ombudsman