DRN-3245323
The complaint
A company which Ill refer to as P complains that HSBC UK Bank Plc unfairly processed a 
payment causing an exchange rate loss which the bank debited from Ps account. 
The complaint is brought on Ps behalf by its directors, Mrs M and Ms H. But for ease, Ill 
refer to Mrs M throughout. 
What happened
P holds different currency accounts with HSBC. On 1 April 2021, P sent a payment of 
€120,000 from its euro account to its sterling account using online banking. The payment 
needed to in the sterling account first thing on 6 April - which followed the UK Easter bank 
holiday weekend.
Mrs M checked Ps account again on 5 April but couldnt see that the payment had been 
debited from its euro account or credited to the sterling account. She also checked Ps online 
banking for pending payments but there was nothing to suggest the payment had been 
made, so she thought there must have been a mistake. As the payment needed to be in the 
sterling account the next day for the start of the tax year, and the balance was still showing 
in the euro account, she made the transfer again. 
A couple of days later, HSBC contacted P about the second currency transfer. The bank 
said there had been insufficient funds in the account but as the currency had been ordered, 
P would be charged an exchange rate loss of around €3,000. P said theyd explained what 
had happened to the bank and didnt hear anything further, so they thought it had been 
sorted. But around 10 days later without warning, Ps euro account was debited around 
€4,500. So P made a complaint. 
HSBC didnt uphold the complaint. The bank said the first payment had been held for 
additional checks and debited Ps account on the following working day which was 6 April. 
HSBC also said the second payment had been processed but due to insufficient funds it had 
been cancelled causing the exchange rate loss. The bank also said P should have called it 
before making the second payment if it was unable to see the first transaction under the 
Account activity tab through its online banking. P didnt agree and asked this service to look 
into its complaint. 
Our investigator recommended the complaint be upheld. She thought P had taken 
reasonable steps to see if the payment had been made and that both the Account Activity 
tab and the instructions related to this werent easy to locate. She also thought it wasnt 
reasonable for HSBC to say P should have called before making the second payment as it 
was a bank holiday and not only were the team they needed to speak to not available, but P 
would have been told not to submit the second payment  which it couldnt have done due to 
the tax year deadline.
P agreed with the investigators view, but HSBC didnt. The bank said if P had called the 
bank, it could have explained to P where to look to see if the payment had been sent. HSBC 
also said the checks had been completed before P put through a second payment, and that 
P had made assumptions that the first payment hadnt gone through and should have taken 
more steps before submitting another payment. 
As an agreement couldnt be reached, the case has been passed to me to decide.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided to uphold it. Ill explain why.
P thinks its unfair it was charged a foreign exchange loss for a payment that should have 
been rejected due to insufficient funds. However, HSBC says P shouldnt have resent the 
payment without checking if the first one had gone through. So I need to see whether the 
bank has applied the currency loss to P fairly.
Looking at the terms and conditions of Ps account, I can see it says under the section 
sending an electronic payment in another currency that If the payment is returned to us or 
we cant make it for any reason, well reverse it using the HSBC exchange rate at that time. 
If the rate has changed, the amount we pay back when we reverse the payment will be 
different to the amount we originally took from your account. So I understand why HSBC 
feel it is entitled to charge P the cost of the exchange rate loss.
However, Ive also seen that the terms and conditions say under the section When we might 
not be able to make a payment that the bank wont be able to make a payment if: you dont 
have enough money in your account which includes any arranged overdraft or if we dont 
agree to give you an arranged overdraft. So P thinks HSBC shouldnt have been able to 
process the second transfer as the available funds were already in course to be transferred.
HSBC have told us that although P placed the first transfer on 1 April, it needed to complete 
additional checks, which due to the bank holiday weekend meant these couldnt be 
processed until the next working day. The bank explained that because the original transfer 
was awaiting the additional checks, the system didnt debit the balance from the euro 
account  so the balance was still showing as available when P processed the second 
transfer. HSBC has also said that the internet banking system isnt designed to show if there 
has been a request for additional checks. 
I acknowledge the system may not have been set up to show an additional check was taking 
place. However, the bank has said the payment was authorised at 17:49 on 1 April, and Ive 
seen that the next payment wasnt submitted until 5 April. I recognise the funds may not 
have debited the account until 6 April as the next working day, but it seems reasonable to 
think that once HSBC completed their check and agreed the money should be released, that 
the system should recognise the transfer was pending and the funds were already allocated 
 meaning the second payment would have been rejected due to insufficient funds.  
However, HSBC was aware its internet banking system could only provide limited 
information in circumstances such as this. So I think it would have been reasonable for the 
bank to highlight to its internet banking users that the only way to see the payment has been 
made would be to check under the account history section - as their staff and other systems 
cant see the transaction is pending if made via internet banking. But because I dont think 
HSBC made it clear where users could find this information, I dont think the bank treated P 
fairly. 
HSBC has also said P should have called the bank to check if the first transfer had been made, and by not doing so, it made an assumption. But I dont agree. Mrs M has told us that 
she checked Ps online banking for both the sterling and euro account, and the account 
transactions and pending payments  but there was no visible sign that they payment had 
been made. I think it was reasonable for Mrs M to check here as this is where she expected 
the transactions to show. 
I acknowledge HSBC has said if Mrs M had checked the Account History section within Ps 
online banking, that she would have been able to see the first transfer had been processed. 
The bank has also said they dont feel it was difficult to locate this option. But I dont agree. 
HSBC have provided evidence of where to locate this section and I dont think its in an 
obvious location as it sits within the manage users section  which doesnt suggest that any 
transaction history would be located here. 
Ive also looked at the user guide for online banking which explains where this section is on 
the online banking. It is on page 15 of the user guide, not highlighted on the contents page 
or indeed anywhere throughout the document that this is where this specific view of an 
account transfer can be seen. It also isnt highlighted that this is the section you would need 
to look at to view any payment which a user would need to check to see if the payment had 
been processed. If this section is the only screen to view this information, I think it would 
have been reasonable for the bank to make this very clear to its online banking users. 
HSBC have said that if P had called the bank on 2 April before submitting the second 
transfer, it would have been able to explain to Mrs M where she could have seen the 
payment. But Im not persuaded thats the case. HSBC have also said that because of the 
bank holiday, the department Mrs M would have needed to speak to about the payment 
were closed. So the advice she would have been given by the call operatives on that day 
would have been to wait until the next working day to put the payment through again  which 
P wouldnt have been able to do due to the deadline for money to be in the sterling account. 
Ive also seen that HSBCs terms and conditions say that telephone banking is only available 
during opening hours, and that the remainder of the time it would be the automated system. 
They also say a working day is Monday to Friday excluding English public holidays. So I 
think its reasonable that Mrs M thought as it was a bank holiday there wouldnt have been 
any point calling HSBC as the department she needed to speak to was closed.
So based on what Ive seen, I dont think HSBC treated P fairly by charging it the exchange 
rate loss from the second currency transfer. I think P attempted to locate the first transfer 
and when they werent able to do so, it was reasonable for them to submit the second 
transfer so they could meet their deadline for the money to be in their sterling account. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint. I instruct HSBC UK Bank Plc to refund the 
exchange rate loss charged to P.  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask P to accept or 
reject my decision before 3 March 2022.
 
Jenny Lomax
Ombudsman