DRN-1827916
 
The complaint
Mr D complains that Triodos Bank UK Limited unfairly recorded a CIFAS marker against his 
name, after there were unauthorised cash machine withdrawals on his account. 
What happened
Mr D says that he believes he had his bank card taken from him in a crowded bar at the 
beginning of August 2019. Over the following days a number of cash machine withdrawals 
were made in London using the card and its PIN. Mr D says he was away from London at 
the time. 
After several days the bank sent a text message to Mr D to tell him that his account balance 
was low. He says he checked his account and realised that his card was missing. He 
contacted the bank to explain what had happened. The bank said it wouldn't refund the 
withdrawals, a decision which he accepted. It did however close Mr D's account and placed 
a CIFAS marker against his name; CIFAS is the UK's fraud alert service. 
Mr D didn't think that was fair. He didn't believe the bank had sufficient evidence to show he 
had been involved in the withdrawals. He referred the matter to this service, and one of our 
investigators considered what had happened. 
Our investigator agreed with the bank. He thought it was more likely than not that Mr D had 
made or authorised the withdrawals and that the bank had therefore treated him fairly. Mr D 
didn't accept the investigator's findings and asked that an ombudsman review the case. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Having done so, however, I've reached 
broadly the same conclusions as the investigator did.  
As I've indicated, Mr D didn't seek challenge the decision not to refund the withdrawals, and 
hasn't complained to this service about that part of the bank's decision. How those 
withdrawals came about is however relevant to my consideration of the complaint about  the 
CIFAS marker. 
I'm not persuaded that Mr D had his card taken in the way he's suggested, or at all. And I 
don't believe either that someone observed his PIN and then took his card. He says that he 
was not in London at the time of the withdrawals, but I'm not persuaded that was the case 
either. I find it surprising too that, if the card was missing, he didn't notice for several days 
and only then when he was alerted to the account balance. 
As the investigator explained, a bank needs to have more than a mere suspicion of fraud 
before placing a CIFAS marker against a customer's name. It should have sufficient 
evidence that it could report a fraud, whether or not it actually does so. In this case, however, I think the bank had sufficient evidence to do that. It follows that it didn't treat Mr D 
unfairly by registering a CIFAS marker or closing the account. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I don't require Triodos Bank UK Limited to do anything more to 
resolve Mr D's complaint. Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required 
to ask Mr D to accept or reject my decision before 13 August 2020.
Mike Ingram
Ombudsman