DRN-3032558
The complaint
The estate of Mr R is unhappy that Lloyds Bank PLC paid a funeral bill without authority to 
do so being granted by the estate.
What happened
The estate of Mr R contacted the Bereavement Team at Lloyds and was advised that the 
late Mr Rs accounts would be frozen until such time that probate was granted, but that 
funeral expenses could still be paid from the late Mr Rs accounts before probate was 
granted if the funeral bill was presented in branch along with other supporting documents. 
Subsequent to this, while the accounts were still suspended and before probate had been 
granted, a family member went into branch and presented the funeral bill to Lloyds, such that 
Lloyds made a payment from the late Mr Rs accounts to settle that bill.
The estate of Mr R later raised a complaint with Lloyds on the basis that Lloyds had paid this 
bill without the express permission of the estate - which hadnt been formally recognised at 
the time that Lloyds paid the funeral bill. 
Lloyds looked at the estate of Mr Rs complaint, but they noted that funeral expenses can be 
paid before probate has been granted, and that they had made the payment directly to the 
funeral directors at the direct request of a family member. Because of this, Lloyds didnt feel 
that theyd done anything wrong, so they didnt uphold the complaint. 
The estate of Mr R wasnt satisfied with Lloyds response, so they referred their complaint to 
this service. One of our investigators looked at this complaint, but they also didnt feel that 
Lloyds had acted unfairly or unreasonably by paying the funeral bill when they did, so they 
also didnt uphold the complaint.
The estate of Mr R remained dissatisfied, so the matter was escalated to an ombudsman for 
a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The estate of Mr R contends that because Lloyds paid the funeral bill without the express 
permission of the estate, that a fair outcome here would be that Lloyds should reimburse the 
cost of that bill to the estate.
Im not convinced by the estates position here and this is because the bill that Lloyds paid 
was a valid bill for the funeral expenses of the late Mr R, and because the payment made by 
Lloyds was for services that were received. 
This means that I wouldnt consider any form of reimbursement to the estate in the manner 
that the estate would like here. And the reason I say this is because if I were to instruct such 
a reimbursement I would, in effect, be instructing Lloyds to meet the cost of the funeral 
expenses for the late Mr R rather than these expenses being met by the estate of the late Mr 
R. And this is an outcome which Im satisfied would not be fair. 
However, In circumstances such as this, if it could be demonstrated that Lloyds had acted 
unreasonably or had led to an unfair outcome for the estate of the late Mr R, I might consider 
that a payment of compensation to the estate by Lloyds would be warranted. But in this 
instance, I find it very difficult to conclude that Lloyds have done anything wrong here. 
One of the reasons I say this is because its common at times of bereavement for funeral 
expenses to become due before the administrative processes of recognising an estate have 
been completed, and its for this reason that there are no restrictions on the payment of 
funeral expenses before a grant of probate has been finalised.
In this specific instance, a family member who was known to branch staff presented Lloyds 
with a legitimate bill for funeral expenses and a copy of the late Mr Rs death certificate. And, 
while there are discrepancies between the testimonies of the estate of Mr R and Lloyds as to 
whether additional supporting documents were provided at that time, I dont feel that these 
discrepancies have any reasonable impact on what I consider was a fair outcome here  
which was that Lloyds made a payment from the accounts of the late Mr R to settle the valid 
funeral expenses of the late Mr R at the request of a family member. 
Its also difficult to see that any form of detriment has been incurred by the estate of Mr R 
here, and I say this because the funeral expenses of the late Mr R would have needed to 
have been paid at some point such that its hard to see how the estate of Mr R has been 
disadvantaged by Lloyds paying these expenses from the account of the late Mr R at the 
time that they did.
I realise that this might not be the outcome that the estate of Mr R wants here, but in 
consideration of everything Ive explained above I dont feel that I can reasonably conclude 
that Lloyds have acted unfairly here, and it follows from this that I wont be upholding this 
complaint or instructing Lloyds to take any further action at this time.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask the estate of Mr R 
to accept or reject my decision before 4 October 2021.
 
Paul Cooper
Ombudsman