DRN-3604876
The complaint
Mr A complains that Lloyds Bank PLC (Lloyds) wont refund payments he made after falling
victim to a scam.
What happened
In May 2017, Mr A was befriended on a social media website by a woman, who Ill refer to as
B. Mr A says they were talking three times a week via a messaging app, but B was unable to
talk over the phone with him or video call him as her phone was damaged. Mr A says they
had similar interests as he owns a farm, and B wanted to move to the UK and become a
farmer herself. Mr A says they talked about many aspects of their lives and built a friendship.
When B first asked Mr A for some money, he said it didnt feel right and he said no. But
when she later asked for a lower amount, she had worn him down, so he sent her some
funds via a money transfer service.
Mr A says B told him she was at university in South Africa and was struggling to pay her
living costs. Mr A asked B for her birth certificate and passport, so he could confirm her
identity  which she sent him.
After sending some small amounts of money for her university costs, B told Mr A that she
was having trouble with an inheritance. She said her mother had passed away at an earlier
date, but her father had passed away recently and a family member was contesting his will
to try and get a share of the inheritance.
Mr A was contacted by a person posing as a solicitor (Ill refer to him as C) who said they
were helping B release the inheritance funds. Mr A says he looked C up on a professional
networking site and that he seemed genuine.
Mr A received various emails from C, as well as documents purporting to be a police affidavit
and a certificate of deposit for a firm Ill refer to as D. The police affidavit said that B was 
giving 100% of the claiming rights on her inheritance to Mr A. The certificate of deposit from
D said they were holding funds of over $17m USD as well as gold bullion. All of the
documents weve been given are dated May 2017.
Mr A says that initially he was asked to send £120,000 but he told B he couldnt access that
amount of money. After a few days, B came back with a lower figure of £20,000, which she
said would release some of the funds so they could pursue the remaining inheritance
balance. Mr A says he couldnt afford to pay the whole £20,000 in one payment, so he made
several smaller payments. However, after having transferred over £20,000 he was told that
B needed more money in order to release the inheritance. Mr A says he cant remember the
different reasons B gave for the additional payments, however, says he found them
persuasive and that B kept saying it would just take a little bit more.
After a period of time, Mr A was told that B had fallen out with the solicitor, but she still
requested further payments to be made. And, it was at this time, that Mr A realised hed
been the victim of a scam.
In total Mr A sent 105 international payments totalling £151,555 (not including international
payment charges) between May 2017 and November 2020  all from his Lloyds account.
Once he was aware of the scam, Mr A contacted Lloyds and raised a fraud claim.
Lloyds investigated Mr As fraud claim but declined to refund him any of the payments hed
made. They had concerns Mr A had continued making payments even after hed sent the
£20,000 without seeing any signs of the inheritance funds being released. Lloyds also raised
that Mr A hadnt done any checks to verify the person he was communicating with, saying
hed never met them or spoke to them by phone. They also felt the documents Mr A was
given were poor quality and the seals and signatures were clearly copied and pasted onto
the documents.
Mr A wasnt happy with Lloyds response, so he brought a complaint to our service.
An investigator looked into Mr As complaint and upheld it. Ultimately, they felt Lloyds
shouldve intervened by October 2019, due to the pattern of increasing payments which
looked suspicious. And, had Lloyds intervened, they thought it was most likely the scam
wouldve been uncovered. However, the investigator also felt Mr A shouldve had concerns
about what he was being told after hed paid the £20,000 required to release the initial funds
from the inheritance. Based on that they recommended that Lloyds refund all the payments
in full between 4 October 2017 and 26 January 2018, along with the international payment
fees charged. But, Lloyds and Mr A should share the responsibility for the remaining
payments made, so Lloyds should refund 50% of the payments between 1 February 2018
and 27 October 2020  along with 50% of the international payment charges. The
investigator also awarded interest at the account interest rate.
Mr A accepted the investigators recommendation, however Lloyds disagreed.
Lloyds raised the following points:
Mr A shouldve had concerns from the start when the scammer said they couldnt call
or video call him.
Getting a birth certificate and passport wasnt enough to prove Mr A was talking to a
genuine person, as ID theft is quite common.
Mr A shouldve questioned why the scammer needed to borrow any money if her
parents were wealthy enough to leave her $17m USD in inheritance.
Mr A shouldve questioned why tax and charges couldnt be deducted from the
inheritance value, rather than having to be paid upfront.
Mr A shouldve been concerned that the solicitor dropped the amount requested from
£120,000 to £20,000.
The promised return was too good to be true, the affidavit suggested Mr A was due
to get the full balance of the inheritance.
Lloyds had no duty to intervene at the time and feel its unfair to hold them liable for
over £90,000.
As Lloyds disagreed the case was passed to me to review.
My provisional findings
On 24 June 2022, I issued a provisional decision explaining I was reaching the same overall 
outcome as the investigator but with a different redress recommendation. I asked for both parties to provide any more comments or evidence they wanted to be considered before 
issuing my final decision. 
In my provisional decision I said:
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In deciding whats fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of a complaint, Im required to
take in account relevant law and regulations; regulators rules, guidance and standards;
codes of practice; and, where appropriate, what I consider to be good industry practice at the
time. Where there is a dispute about what happened, and the evidence is incomplete or
contradictory, Ive reached my decision on the balance of probabilities  in other words, on
what I consider is most likely to have happened in light of the available evidence.
In broad terms, the starting position at law is that a firm is expected to process payments
and withdrawals that its customer authorises, in accordance with the Payment Services
Regulations and the terms and conditions of the customers account. When Lloyds made the
payments, it was complying with Mr As instructions. At the time, Mr A wanted to pay B and
there was no mistake made as the money was sent to the correct account details.
Should Lloyds have prevented Mr A from making the payments?
There is an obligation on Lloyds to be on the lookout for, and to protect its customers from,
potentially falling victim to fraud or scams. This includes monitoring accounts and identifying
suspicious activity that appears unusual and out of character. In situations where potential
fraud is identified, I would expect Lloyds to intervene and attempt to prevent losses for the
customer.
Having looked at Mr As previous account use, he rarely used the Lloyds account. There was
a monthly direct debit of around £20 and a monthly transfer to another of his accounts of
£50. The largest single payment made out of this account was a few months prior for £1,000.
Mr A had never made an international payment out of this account and tended to only have
around three to four transactions in total per month.
Based on this, I think the first payment he made of £4,150 was significantly out of character
and unusual whereby I think Lloyds shouldve had concerns and intervened. I say this
because the payment was significantly higher than any other payment made from his
account previously, it was an international payment and it was to a new payee. I think taking
into account all of those factors, that Lloyds shouldve had concerns and got in touch with
Mr A prior to processing the payment.
And, I think had they got in touch its most likely the scam wouldve been uncovered and that
the payments wouldnt have been made. I think basic questions around who Mr A was
paying, how he knew them, whether hed met them before, and why he was paying them
money wouldve provided answers that are very commonly seen in a romance scam.
Mr A hadnt met B before, and shed told him that she couldnt talk to him over the phone or
video call due to her phone being damaged. He wouldve said that she befriended him on a
social media site  out of the blue. Also, I think its most likely he wouldve been honest and
told Lloyds that he was sending her money to help release an inheritance of over $17m
USD. If Lloyds had asked to see any paperwork he had as part of those questions, Mr A
wouldve provided the certificate of deposit, police affidavit and letters from Bs solicitor.
Lloyds have indicated these documents do not appear legitimate and shouldve raised red
flags. Also, Mr A wasnt given a cover story and had no knowledge that romance scamsexisted, how they operated or that the information he was given mirrors the approach usually
taken in romance scams. I think once Mr A was aware of romance scams and how they
operate, that he wouldnt have sent the money to B. For Mr A, the money he was sending
was substantial and required him to access his pension savings. So, I think the information
Lloyds wouldve given him, combined with his initial concerns, wouldve prevented him from
making any payments to B. On that basis, I think Lloyds should refund Mr A for all of the
payments he made as well as the international payment charges associated with them.
Lloyds raised a point regarding their duty of care, saying the payments started prior to
publication of BSI PAS in October 2017  which established a code of practice for banks to
protect customers from financial harm. However, the publishing of the BSI simply codified
what was already good industry practice, so Im not persuaded that means Lloyds didnt
have a duty to protect Mr A from potentially falling victim to a scam prior to its introduction in
this particular case.
Could Mr A have done more to mitigate his losses?
But Ive also considered whether Mr A should bear some responsibility by way of
contributory negligence.
Mr A has told us that when B initially asked him for money, he told her no because it didnt
feel right. Mr A says B eventually wore him down and requested a lower amount of money,
so he made the first payment to her. He says he asked for photos of her birth certificate and
passport so that we could check her identity and she provided the documents. This suggests
that Mr A had initial concerns about the legitimacy of Bs story or her being who she said she
was.
Mr A has provided the documents he was sent by B which included a certificate of deposit
and a police affidavit. Mr A says B promised him £1m in return for him advancing her the
money in order to release her inheritance, however the police affidavit says that B gave Mr A
full capacity the claiming right of her inheritance  which suggests that he would actually
have a claim on the full $17m USD. This shouldve raised red flags for Mr A, as it was too
good to be true and Im not persuaded that a reasonable person wouldve thought this was
legitimate. I also note that Mr A searched for the company named as holding the funds in the
certificate of deposit. Mr A wasnt able to find any information about the company online,
which he thought was due to South African search engines possibly working differently with
regards to company information than those in the UK. But I think its unlikely that any
company holding a deposit of $17m USD and 10 pieces of gold bullion would not have an
online profile  regardless of which country they are located in.
Mr A also received documents from the solicitor B said would help her release her
inheritance. Initially the solicitor asked for £120,000 in order to release the funds, however
when Mr A said he couldnt find that amount money  he says B and the solicitor went quiet
for a few days. They then came back with a hugely discounted request saying £20,000
would be enough to start releasing the funds. I think this shouldve concerned Mr A and that
he shouldve asked questions about why the amount they needed dropped so dramatically.
Mr A did say that B told him the solicitor was a family friend of her fathers and that he was
helping her out, but that only concerns me more as to why they initially wanted such a large
sum then suddenly could take action on a much lower sum.
Overall, I dont think Mr A acted with the appropriate level of care based on the information
he was presented with. He was contacted out of the blue by a stranger, who wouldnt talk to
him on the phone or video call him. They asked him for sums of money, and when he said
he wouldnt give it to them, they continued to push him but for lower sums. The same person
then told Mr A that they were entitled to an inheritance of over $17m USD and said theywould give him £1m for providing a comparatively small amount of money to help them
release that inheritance. They then provided Mr A with a document which suggested he
would get 100% rights to the total inheritance value.
I also have concerns about the professionalism and believability of the documents Mr A was
given. For the certificate of deposit document, most of the signatures look like theyve been
copied and pasted to the document as they are blurred and some have a different
background colour or tone. The image of the seal and the companys logo are also not as
clear and crisp as would be expected for a genuine document. And one of the date stamps is
out of alignment and appears to have been pasted over. Its also concerning that Mr A was
given a copy of a police report, but not sent the original, which shouldve been available in
the same way the certificate of deposit was. The report is clearly not an original document as
it is in black and white.
Im not satisfied that a reasonable person wouldve believed this was a genuine situation, or
wouldve proceeded without doing substantive investigation and checks to verify all the
information they were given  which wouldve shown inconsistencies and issues in the
information provided.
On that basis, I think its reasonable for Mr A to share the responsibility with Lloyds and
reduce the refund on all of the payments by 50%. Therefore, I intend to recommend that
Lloyds refund 50% of all the payments Mr A made from the payment of £4,150 made on 7
August 2017 onwards. Lloyds should also refund all of the international payment charges
associated with those payments.
The interest award on the refund
The investigator recommended interest be calculated and paid at the account interest rate,
however Mr A doesnt earn credit interest on his Lloyds account  so that doesnt feel fair.
Mr A told us that he funded the payments to the scammer from his pension savings. Lloyds
have provided a copy of Mr As pension savings, which appears to have made a return of
over 8% per annum for the 2017/2018 year and around 6% for the 2017/2018 year.
However, its unclear if Mr A did take the funds out of his pension savings based on the
evidence weve been given.
Having considered all the information weve been given, I think the fairest award is our
standard 8% simple interest per year, calculated from the date Mr A made each payment,
until the date of settlement.
Having reviewed several lists of transactions that Lloyds have sent us, it appears that some
of the transactions are not included on all the lists. So, Lloyds should check Mr As bank
statements and ensure they have a complete list of the payments due to be refunded.
Putting things right
To put things right, I intend to ask Lloyds Bank PLC to:
Refund 50% of all the international payments Mr A made from August 2017 to
October 2020 (inclusive).
Pay interest on that refund at 8% simple interest from the date the payments were
made until the date of settlement.
Refund all of the international payment charges on those payments.Responses to the provisional decision
Mr A responded saying he accepted my provisional decision. Lloyds responded to say they 
accepted my provisional decision but had concerns about the interest award I had made. 
Lloyds said Id concluded that the payments were funded by withdrawals from Mr As 
pension, which they didnt agree was the case. Lloyds provided further information which 
showed some payments into Mr As account from pension withdrawals, but which showed 
that most of the payments made as part of the scam were funded by cash or cheque 
deposits, along with a transfer from Mr As ISA account.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having considered Lloyds response to my provisional decision, I see no reason to depart 
from the recommendation made in my provisional decision.
Lloyds raised concerns that the payments Mr A made as part of the scam werent funded by 
withdrawals from his pension savings. However, in my provisional decision I said it was 
unclear how the payments were funded, therefore I felt the fairest award to make was 8% 
simple interest and Lloyds havent provided a valid reason why this isnt a fair award. 
Also I think its worth noting that at the time of making these scam payments Mr A has told 
us that he was experiencing some financial challenges related to his occupation  which he 
says is why he withdrew funds from his pension savings. So, I think not having the £150,000 
he paid to the scammer available for use has negatively impacted him and arent funds that 
he had sitting idly in an account. Also, its unclear what Mr A did with the withdrawals that he 
made from his pension savings. Its possible that he deposited the funds into another 
account and then withdrew funds as needed to fund the payments to the scam from his 
Lloyds account. Ultimately, I have to reach a decision on how I can fairly compensate Mr A 
for being deprived of these funds. In this case, where they are so many unknowns, I think 
8% simple interest is fair and proportionate.
Putting things right
To put things right, I intend to ask Lloyds Bank PLC to:
Refund 50% of all the international payments Mr A made from August 2017 to
October 2020 (inclusive).
Pay interest on that refund at 8% simple interest from the date the payments were
made until the date of settlement.*
Refund all of the international payment charges on those payments.
*If Lloyds considers that its required by HMRC to deduct income tax from that interest, it 
should tell Mr A how much its taken off. It should also give Mr A a tax deduction certificate if 
he asks for one, so he can reclaim the tax from HMRC if appropriate.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint against Lloyds Bank PLC and require them to 
compensate Mr A as set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A to accept or reject my decision before 17 August 2022.
 
Lisa Lowe
Ombudsman