DRN-1161947
 
The complaint
Mr R has complained that Canada Square Operations Limited mis-sold him a credit card 
payment protection insurance (PPI) policy.
What happened
Mr R took out the card and PPI in February 2003 via an internet application.
Our adjudicator didnt uphold the complaint. Mr R disagrees with the adjudicators opinion 
and so the complaint has been passed to me for a decision.
 What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. 
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding this case.
Ive decided not to uphold Mr Rs complaint and Ill explain why.
Mr R says he didnt know he had PPI. Mr R applied for the credit card online. Weve seen 
copies of the web pages that Mr R would have seen during the application process. There 
was a page for PPI and Mr R would have needed to select either a yes or no option to 
request or decline the policy. These options have equal prominence and neither has been 
pre-selected. Therefore I consider that Mr R would have understood from the wording and 
layout of the page that the PPI was optional. There was also a link to the terms and 
conditions. The application process couldnt be progressed until an applicant had selected 
either yes or no. Canada Square has provided a copy of Mr Rs application report which 
recorded the answers that he gave  and this shows that he chose the yes option for PPI.
The sale was a long time ago and so it wouldnt be surprising if Mr Rs recollection of the 
sale has faded. Looking at the available evidence, it seems to me that he decided to take out 
the policy, knowing that he didnt have to, even if he no longer remembers doing so.
Canada Square didnt advise Mr R to buy the policy, so it didnt need to ensure that it met his 
needs. But it did need to provide him with enough information to make an informed decision 
about whether or not it was right for him.
Mr R wouldnt have received any sick pay from his job. And he hasnt told us about any other 
means, such as savings, that he could fall back on. Mr R says he had a life and critical 
illness policy, but that was a different type of insurance than the PPI policy. Overall I think 
that Mr R had a need for the policy and could have benefitted from it.
Its possible that Canada Square didnt provide as much information about the policy as it 
should have, particularly about the things that it didnt cover. But Mr R wasnt affected by any of those things. As I think that he had an interest in the policy and decided to buy it, I dont 
think that further information would have caused him to change his mind.
This means that Canada Square doesnt have to pay back all of the cost of the PPI to Mr R. 
But Canada Square has paid back some of the cost of the PPI to Mr R because: 
When the policy was sold, Canada Square expected to get a high level of 
commission and profit share (more than 50% of the PPI premium) - so it should have 
told Mr R about that. Because Canada Square didnt tell Mr R, that was unfair. 
To put that right, Canada Square has paid back the amount of commission and profit 
share that was above 50% of the PPI premium - and I think that is fair in this case.
My final decision
The PPI policy wasnt mis-sold  Canada Square Operations Limited does not have to pay 
back all of the cost of the PPI to Mr R.
But Canada Square Operations Limited does have to pay back to Mr R any commission and 
profit share it got that was more than 50% of the PPI premium. I understand it has already 
done this, so I dont award any further compensation. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision before 18 February 2020.
Carole Clark
Ombudsman