DRN-3031152
The complaint
This complaint is about a mortgage payment protection insurance (PPI) policy taken out in 
August 2000 and increased in February 2006. Mr and Mrs C says Yorkshire Building Society 
(YBS) mis-sold them PPI.
What happened
The background and circumstances leading up to this complaint, which includes Mr and 
Mrs Cs circumstances at the time of the sale as well as the PPI policy benefits, limitations 
and exclusions of cover, arent disputed. So I havent repeated all of this information here.
Our adjudicator did not uphold the complaint.
Mr and Mrs Cs representative disagreed with the adjudicators opinion  they didnt raise 
any new or additional points but repeated the same complaint points and arguments theyd 
previously made. 
As the complaint couldnt be resolved informally, it has been passed to me for a final 
decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Although I have only included a summary of the complaint, I have read and considered all 
the evidence and arguments available to me from the outset, in order to decide what is, in 
my opinion, fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of this complaint. 
When considering what is fair and reasonable, I am required to take into account relevant: 
law and regulations; regulators rules, guidance and standards; codes of practice; and, 
where appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry practice at the time. 
Weve set out our general approach to PPI mis-sale complaints on our website and 
published some example final decisions that set out in detail how these relevant 
considerations may apply to PPI sales like Mr and Mrs Cs. I havent set out that detailed 
information here, but Ive taken into account all relevant considerations in deciding Mr and 
Mrs Cs complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided not to uphold this complaint and Ive summarised my reasons 
for this conclusion below:
I think YBS made it clear that Mr and Mrs C didnt have to take out the PPI and they 
chose to take it out. I say this because YBS has provided a copy of Mr and Mrs Cs 
separate application for the PPI that started in August 2000  they have both signed the 
form. They also signed another form to confirm they wanted to increase the benefit of the 
policy, which took effect in February 2006. 
YBS didnt recommend the PPI to Mr and Mrs C - so it didnt have to check that the PPI 
was right or suitable for them. But it did have to give Mr and Mrs C enough clear and 
timely information so they could decide for themselves if it was right for them.
Its possible the information YBS gave Mr and Mrs C about the PPI wasnt as clear as it 
shouldve been. But Ive found that they chose to take it out - so it looks like they wanted 
accident and sickness cover. The cover wasnt fundamentally wrong for Mr C  who was 
the one covered by the policy. 
Although Mr C says he had a medical condition some time before the policy was taken 
out, I dont think better information about the existing medical condition exclusion 
wouldve caused them to change their minds about taking out the policy. I say this 
because Mr Cs condition occurred several years before the policy was sold and it 
doesnt seem to have caused any ongoing problems. There were also no additional 
restrictions on cover for mental health or back problems. 
It also looks like it was affordable  so it seems like it would have been useful for them if 
something went wrong. Because of this I dont think Mr and Mrs C would have declined 
the cover had YBS done anything more.
Overall, I consider that Mr and Mrs C would have still taken out PPI. The policy was 
sufficiently close to what its likely they thought they were getting, and I think the policy could 
provide a useful benefit in a difficult time, given their circumstances at the time. And in those 
circumstances, I think that they would have taken out the policy in any event.
Mr and Mrs Cs representative has raised a number of what I consider to be general 
complaint points, which it says apply to all PPI complaints. These general points include: a 
claim that the Financial Ombudsman Service is not correctly applying the regulators rules 
and guidance for handling PPI complaints; these policies represented poor value because of 
the number of significant exclusions and limitations of cover coupled with the low claims 
ratio; and the duty of utmost good faith meant YBS should have disclosed the poor value 
and explained the significance of the limitations and exclusions and the impact it had on the 
chances of making a claim.
But Mr and Mrs Cs representative has not said how these points apply to the specific facts 
and circumstances of Mr and Mrs Cs individual complaint  just that they apply to all PPI 
complaints.
I have thought about these things and how they might apply in Mr and Mrs Cs particular 
case. But these points dont persuade me to alter my conclusions about what is fair and 
reasonable in all the circumstances of the complaint  for the reasons Ive set out above I 
dont uphold this complaint. 
This means YBS doesnt have to do anything to put things right.My final decision
Overall, having considered all the evidence and arguments to decide what is, in my opinion, 
fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of this complaint and for the reasons I have set 
out above, I dont uphold Mr and Mrs Cs complaint  so I make no award.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr and Mrs C to 
accept or reject my decision before 23 December 2021.
 
Hanna Johnson
Ombudsman