DRN-1608258
Complaint 
Ms B complains that AXA France IARD mis-sold payment protection insurance (PPI) to her 
alongside a store card in August 2000.
Although the PPI was sold by another business AXA France IARD has taken responsibility 
for this complaint. For ease of reference, I will refer to AXA throughout this decision.
Background
Ms B applied for the PPI in the store when she took out her store card there. This policy 
covered her if she lost her job, was off work because she was sick, or if she had an accident. 
The policy cost no more than £1.00 for every £100.00 of the outstanding balance owed on 
the card. On a successful claim, it would have paid 15% of that balance until the outstanding 
balance on the card was repaid or until Ms B returned to work.
Our adjudicator said she thought this was a case that should be upheld. She explained that 
Ms B had a pre-existing medical condition, and she didn't think AXA had made it clear 
enough that Ms B wouldn't have been able to make a claim for this condition. If AXA had 
made it clearer, she didn't think Ms B would have bought the PPI. AXA disagreed with this 
view. It said that Ms Bs condition was not enough to make it unsuitable for her and it was 
unlikely that Ms B would have needed to make a claim for this condition. It asked that the 
matter be referred to an ombudsman for a final decision.
My findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Weve set out our general approach to 
complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken that into account in deciding 
this case.  
Ive decided to uphold Ms Bs complaint. Ill explain why below.
I dont think AXA recommended this policy to Ms B. So, it didn't have to make sure it was 
suitable for her circumstances. Even so, it still had to give her enough clear information, so 
she could make an informed decision and decide for herself whether she wanted to add the 
PPI to her account.
I dont think the information was as clear as it should have been. But even if the information 
had been clearer that doesn't mean I can automatically uphold Ms Bs complaint. I have to 
decide whether Ms B would have acted differently if shed been given all the information she 
should have been given. 
To help me decide, Ive thought about the terms and conditions of the policy and Ms Bs 
personal circumstances. In the circumstances of this case, I think Ms B would likely have 
acted differently. I dont think its likely she would have bought the cover at the time if the 
information about the limitations and exclusions set out in the policy about pre-existing 
medical conditions would have been clearer.As our adjudicator has explained Ms B suffered with a medical condition which shed had for 
a long time. This pre-existing condition wouldn't have been covered by the policy terms - so 
Ms B couldn't have made a claim for any condition which she knew about or should have 
known about, or if shed received any advice or treatment from a doctor during the 12 
months before the start date. I dont think AXA made this important exclusion clear to Ms B 
when she was sold the policy and I think this would have made a difference to Ms B.
After our adjudicator said this was a complaint which she thought should be upheld, AXA 
responded and said it didn't agree with this view. It said it did not dispute Ms B had this 
condition but that it was usually a manageable condition which could be treated with 
medication. It also said that there was nothing to suggest the severity of the condition and 
Ms B would have thought it unlikely she would have had to make a claim because of it.
Ive thought carefully about what both parties told me. As a result of AXAs response to the 
view I asked Ms B for some more information about her condition. She has given me details 
about it. She told me that she had had the condition since late childhood and had previously 
taken time off work for it, sometimes for a number of weeks at a time. She has also 
explained that she had various treatments in place and wide-ranging medication for her 
condition and had to make regular visits to the nurse and a doctor. 
From what Ms B has told me Im satisfied in this case, at the time she bought the cover, that 
this condition was something which would likely have affected Ms B, to the extent if she had 
been given clearer information about the exclusions in relation to any pre-existing conditions, 
Im persuaded on balance that it would have impacted her decision to take out the cover. I 
think more likely, Ms B would have decided against taking out the PPI.
Overall, I think Ms Bs condition was probably the main reason shed have thought she 
would have to take a prolonged period of time off work. And on the basis that the policy 
wouldn't have covered her for this condition I dont think shed have wanted to take the PPI 
out. All in all, I think Ms B lost out because of something AXA did wrong and I uphold this 
complaint.
Putting things right
AXA should put Ms B in the position she would be in now if she hadn't taken out PPI.
So AXA needs to:
Pay Ms B the amount she paid each month for the PPI. 
Add simple interest to each payment from when she paid it until she gets it back. The rate of 
interest is 8% a year. 
If Ms B made a successful claim under the PPI policy, AXA can take off what she got for the 
claim from the amount it owes her.
 HM Revenue & Customs requires AXA to take off tax from this interest. AXA must give 
Ms B a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if she asks for one.
 
 
 My final decision
For the reasons given, I uphold this complaint. AXA France IARD needs to put things right 
as set out in the 'putting things right ' section above.  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms B to accept or 
reject my decision before 29 June 2020.
Nicola Woolf
Ombudsman