DRN-3761287
The complaint
Mr G complains about a hire purchase agreement he took out with Volkswagen Financial
Services (UK) Limited (VWFS).
What happened
Mr G is represented in his complaint, but for ease of reading Ill refer to everything sent and 
said on his behalf as if he said or sent it.
In early July 2020 Mr G entered into a hire purchase agreement with VWFS for a used car. 
To help finance the deal Mr G part exchanged his existing car. The agreement was credit 
brokered by a third party, a Volkswagen dealership who I will call W.
Mr Gs position is that the agreement was unaffordable as he had no income at the time he 
took out the agreement. He was unemployed and prior to that he had been a full-time 
student. 
Further, Mr G tells us that he has mental health conditions that should have been obvious to 
W and by extension to VWFS. He explains that these mental health conditions impaired his 
thinking, and this also should have been obvious to W and VWFS.  Mr G indicates that his 
mental health conditions also made him act in an impulsive and secretive manner at this 
time.
In addition, Mr G tells us that within days he tried to return the car. Specifically, his position is 
that he went to two other Volkswagen dealerships rather than W to try and return the car. 
Moreover, Mr Gs father twice contacted VWFS and on one occasion at least his father told it 
about his sons mental health, and that in his opinion, as a result his son should not have 
been allowed to acquire the car from VWFS. Mr G tells us his father then asked VWFS to 
take back its car.
After these attempts to return the car, Mr G was involved in a road traffic accident. 
Unfortunately Mr G was hurt and VWFSs car was badly damaged.  The car was being held 
in a garage. Mr G had to pay the garages storage fees. Moreover, Mr G had acted in a way 
that meant that his motor insurance company would not indemnify him. In particular, 
amongst other things, it would not cover the damage to the car. Nonetheless, VWFS was 
able to collect and sell the car but there is still a balance owing. This is because the sale 
price of the car was substantially less than the amount Mr G owes. Mr G tells us he was 
subsequently sectioned. We dont have the date on which this happened.
Mr G wants VWFS to write-off the amount owing under the agreement, end the agreement, 
and pay the garage storage costs. Mr G is prepared to allow VWFS to keep the car he part 
exchanged. It appears from the information on the hire purchase agreement that the part-
exchanged car had a value of £500. The car Mr G acquired from VWFS had a cash price of 
£22,990.
VWFS initially did not agree that the lending was unaffordable. Moreover, VWFS also did not 
accept that prior to the contract it ought to have been aware of Mr Gs mental health 
conditions and the impact that might have on his decision making. VWFSs position is that it 
is entitled to rely on the terms of the hire purchase agreement.
Further, VWFS did not agree it had not done enough to assist Mr G after the contract was 
made. To support its position it mentions calls with Mr Gs parents. Specifically, it accepted 
Mr Gs version of events in so far as it also says that Mr Gs father had called it, at least 
twice. But VWFS points out that it did not have any authority to speak to Mr Gs father at that 
stage. VWFS tells us in the first call the conversation was solely about finances. According 
to VWFS, it was only in the second call that Mr Gs father talked about his sons mental 
health. This call took place shortly before the accident. VWFS also tells us that according to 
Ws records, W spoke to Mr Gs mother shortly after the contract began, she asked about 
how the agreement could be ended. W offered to buy back the car but the figure it offered 
was less than Mr G owed. VWFSs position is that on that basis, Mr Gs mother told W shed 
sell the car privately and use the proceeds of sale to settle the finance. W indicates at this 
point Mr Gs mother said nothing about Mr Gs mental health.
Moreover, VWFS did not agree that it should have to lose out financially because Mr Gs 
insurance policy would not cover the loss. 
For all these reasons VWFS declined to uphold Mr Gs complaint. VWFS let us know that Mr 
G had made no payments at all towards the hire purchase agreement.
Dissatisfied, Mr G came to our service.
One of investigators took a look at Mr Gs complaint. Our investigator concluded that the 
lending had been unaffordable and that if VWFS had taken the steps it should have done 
before lending to Mr G it would have been aware of this. However, our investigator also 
pointed out that VWFS is facing a loss due to Mr Gs actions. In the normal course of events 
Mr Gs motor insurer would have made a payment that most likely would have covered all of 
VWFSs losses or most of them. But Mr Gs insurers will not indemnify Mr G because of Mr 
Gs behaviour. Our investigator said because the lending was unaffordable VWFS may not 
charge Mr G any interest. Therefore interest must be taken off the figure owed. But then the 
remaining balance must be divided in half and VWFS can only pursue Mr G for this sum (i.e. 
50% of the balance once interest is removed).
VWFS accepted our investigators recommendation. Mr G did not.
In summary, Mr G objected to the recommendation for the following reasons. Mr G 
suggested his mental health conditions and his inability to pay for the car should mean that 
he has no further liability to VWFS. Moreover, Mr G reiterated that there had been more than 
one attempt to return the car. His stance is that if VWFS had accepted the return of the car 
then this would have lessened or totally avoided the loss. Moreover, Mr G suggested VWFS 
should be happy that he was not asking for damages.
Mr G also provided further information about his mental health at the time he entered into the 
agreement with VWFS. He explained he was experiencing a manic episode which lasted 
until he was sectioned. He explained that This stage manifests by an impulsive and 
obsessive behaviour, when any kind of logic, analysis, thought is not used to take any 
decision. Mr G pointed out again that his father had contacted VWFS during the time 
between him taking out the agreement and crashing the car. He told us his father had also 
contacted the police at this time.
Mr G asked that an ombudsman take a fresh look at his complaint.
I issued a provisional decision. This is what I said in that decision about what Id decided and 
why:
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
It appears that there is no longer any dispute that the lending was unaffordable. So what I
now need to decide is are there circumstances here including the unaffordability of the
lending and Mr Gs mental health conditions and the attempts to return the car, that mean it
would not be fair and reasonable to permit VWFS to pursue him for payment of the balance
owing under the agreement.In general where I find that a motor finance agreement is not affordable. I would be asking
the motor finance provider to take back its car and I would also be saying it could not apply
any interest on the balance. Here, because the lending was unaffordable, I am able to find
that VWFS must not seek to recover any interest from Mr G and indeed VWFS has already
accepted this. But in this instance although the car has been returned it has been returned
damaged due to the road traffic accident Mr G had.
Moreover due to Mr Gs actions the insurer has refused to indemnify him. Normally VWFS
would not have experienced a loss or such a big loss, because depending on the terms of 
the motor insurance policy, the motor insurer would have paid out for the entire loss 
experienced by VWFS or for the market value of the car. Here that will not happen. VWFS 
sought to recover the balance owed under the agreement. Mr G says this is unfair for 
several reasons and he should owe nothing.  The first reason being that Mr G indicates he is 
a vulnerable consumer. The second reason is that in his opinion this loss would not have 
happened if VWFS had accepted the return of the car.
A vulnerable customer is someone who, due to their personal circumstances, is especially
susceptible to harm, particularly when a firm is not acting with appropriate levels of care.
There seems to be no disagreement that Mr G was a vulnerable consumer by reason of his
mental health conditions.
Mr G indicates due to his vulnerability he did not have the ability to understand the
consequences of his actions in entering into the contract. That, in itself, he suggests should
mean that VWFS cannot hold him to the contract.
Further, VWFS is expected to provide its customers with a level of care that is appropriate
given the characteristics of the customers themselves. It is expected that frontline staff such
as the staff at VWFS and the staff at W who dealt with Mr G, should have the skills and
capability to recognise characteristics of vulnerability and respond to individual consumer
needs where there are clear indicators of vulnerability. VWFS can be held to account even
though it did not deal directly with Mr G at first because it has this responsibility even where,
like in this situation, it transacts through an intermediary.
Mr G suggests there were clear indicators of vulnerability in his case before he entered into
the deal. Moreover he suggests that VWFS did not do enough after the contract was entered
into and his father disclosed his vulnerability due to mental illness. Whereas VWFS
disagrees that it acted inappropriately given Mr Gs very particular circumstances.
Where the evidence is incomplete, inconclusive, or contradictory (as some of it is here), I
reach my decision on the balance of probabilities  in other words, what I consider is most
likely to have happened in the light of the available evidence and the wider circumstances.
Ill deal first with whether Mr G had the ability to understand the consequences of his actions
in entering into the contract. Mr G is suggesting he lacked the mental capacity to contract 
with VWFS. Lack of mental capacity is a medical diagnosis. I have supporting information
from doctors about Mr Gs mental illnesses. But I have nothing that diagnoses Mr G as
lacking mental capacity at the time he contracted. On this basis I have no proper basis for
saying VWFS ought not to be able to properly pursue Mr G for the loss because he lacked
mental capacity at the relevant time, that is at the time he contracted.
I recognise that after the transaction Mr G was sectioned. But I dont know when that was
but it appears to have been some significant time afterwards. I cannot say that in the
circumstances the fact that Mr G was sectioned suggests that even if Mr G did have capacity
his ability to think was so significantly impacted that it would be fair or reasonable to askVWFS to set aside the agreement for this reason.
Alternatively, Mr G indicates he was displaying clear indicators of vulnerability immediately
before he contracted and when he contracted. Specifically, he suggests he was experiencing
a manic episode and what he was experiencing was obsessive and impulsive behaviour and
that his ability to think through his actions was impaired. The medical information I have
does not say that in the professional opinion of his doctor Mr G was experiencing a manic
episode, rather it suggests that Mr G reports at this time he was experiencing a manic
episode.
Moreover, even if Mr G was experiencing a manic episode, the difficulty is was this
reasonably apparent to W and by extension to VWFS or ought it to have been given their
responsibilities to provide protection to vulnerable consumers? Ive looked closely at the
timeline of events here. Ive done this as I think this will shed light on whether VWFSs
actions were inappropriate or not.
It seems the parties agree that the sales process extended over eight days. That is on 27
June Mr G came in for a test drive, on 2 July there was a discussion about the deal, on 3
July Mr G entered into the agreement with VWFS and on 4 July he came back to hand over
documents for the car he part-exchanged. This extended period of transacting does not fit
with what Mr G tells us about acting without due consideration and acting on impulse and or
obsessively.
Moreover W reports it had a number of conversations with Mr G during his visits, W indicates
that on at least one occasion, Mr G was accompanied by a companion throughout an entire
visit. I think it likely those conversations would have given W a good opportunity to establish,
if on the face of it, Mr G was acting in a way that ought to have alerted it to clear indicators of
vulnerability on Mr Gs part. I find it unlikely that W would have continued to transact if it had
witnessed any such clear indicators of vulnerability.
Mr G suggest he tried to return the car to two unrelated dealerships. Ive no reason to doubt
what Mr G says. But I cant fairly hold VWFS responsible because two dealerships who had
nothing to do with the contract were contacted and did not accept the return of the car.
I note also that Mr G was driving the car after he acquired it. This does not fit with what he
tells us about wanting to return the car after acquiring it in an impulsive state. I might have
expected him to have stopped driving the car if he had decided the transaction had been a
mistake.
Further, Mr G and VWFS both agree that Mr Gs father contacted it at least twice by phone,
once on 13 July and again on 15 July. According to VWFSs records, which I have no reason 
to doubt, Mr Gs father did not mention Mr Gs mental health in the first call, he asked for a
settlement figure. Moreover, according to Ws records, Mr Gs mother contacted it shortly
after the contract was made, as I have already mentioned. It does not appear that Mr Gs
mother mentioned Mr Gs mental health issues. I can well understand if Mr Gs parents were
reticent about discussing the private matter of Mr Gs health in the first instance. However, it
appears from this information that at first at least, the primary concern of Mr Gs parents was
about finances. This is not consistent with what Mr G has told us about experiencing a manic 
episode for the entire duration of the relevant period and his father being concerned about
his manic state.
I appreciate that as far as VWFS knew when it first spoke to Mr Gs father, he was an
unauthorised third party. That said, when a person is experiencing mental health issues it
might not be unexpected that the first contact about this is not with the consumer but with a
concerned relative. I would have expected VWFS to have taken what Mr Gs father said
about Mr Gs mental health very seriously and to have acted urgently. I have not seenanything to suggest that VWFS did take action straightaway.
That said, I dont think that because VWFS did not immediately seek to retrieve its car this
led to the loss. Rather, I think that the car crash is unrelated to anything that VWFS did
wrong. The loss came about because Mr G crashed the car, and his insurer refused to
indemnify him. The refusal to indemnify him seems to have come about because Mr G
breached the terms of the motor insurance policy. In addition Mr G tells us he faced a
criminal prosecution in relation to the accident and he was convicted of a criminal offence.
The criminal courts have decided where culpability lay, and I cannot reverse the decision of
the criminal court. Therefore for all of these reasons I have no proper basis to say that
VWFS must bear a loss that had no causal link to anything it did wrong.
I recognise this may disappoint Mr G in all likelihood as his position is that there is a direct
link between the loss and VWFSs mistake in lending to him in the first place. But Ive
explained above why I dont see it that way.
For all of these reasons I dont uphold this part of Mr Gs complaint.
My provisional decision was as follows:
My provisional decision is that Volkswagen Financial Services (UK) Limited can only pursue
Mr G for the balance owing under the agreement minus any interest on the balance.
I invited Mr G and VWFS to respond to my provisional decision should they wish to do so.
Mr G responded about both the affordability aspect of his complaint and about his mental 
health at the relevant time.
Mr Gs response about the affordability part of his complaint was, VWFS entered an 
agreement with [Mr G], without doing the proper research and minimal care regarding the 
affordability. For that alone they should bear responsibility.  Moreover, Mr Gs parents, 
advised immediately of that fact and offered solutions. They wouldnt want to engage.
As to his mental health Mr G suggested that at the time society was not able to provide the 
appropriate care and his condition was undiagnosed and not necessarily recognisable. 
However, his parents knew something was not right. Further, according to Mr G, before his 
parents eyes Mr Gs situation became very negative very quickly, to such an extent that in 
their opinion he was a danger to himself and others. Mr G suggested his doctor could 
confirm this. We have asked Mr G twice to provide this medical information if he wants to do 
so but I have seen nothing to suggest that we have received this information.
Mr G reiterated that his parents told VWFS, the police, and doctors what was going on but to 
no avail. Moreover, Mr G does not consider VWFS is giving a good faith account of its 
interactions with his parents. 
For all of these reasons, Mr Gs stance remains that any loss here flows from the actions of 
VWFS.
VWFS responded to say it had nothing further to add to what it had already said.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I thank both Mr G and VWFS for their responses to my provisional decision.
Ill look first at the affordability part of Mr Gs complaint. In relation to this complaint point, 
there is no disagreement now between Mr G and VWFS that the lending was unaffordable. 
The disagreement concerns only the remedy for this. VWFS agrees it will only pursue Mr G 
for the balance of what is owed without any interest on that balance. Mr Gs position is that because the lending was unaffordable the entire balance should be written off. In general 
where lending was unaffordable this service would not ask the lender to write off the whole 
balance owed. Rather, this service would normally ask that the asset that is the car here be 
returned and then depending on the individual circumstances of the complaint we would look 
at whether it was fair or reasonable for the lender to be able to pursue the consumer for 
anything further.
In this instance Mr G returned VWFSs car to it damaged. So the balance remains higher 
than it would have been than if he had returned the car undamaged. But the point remains 
just because the lending was unaffordable does not mean that it is fair or reasonable that the 
whole of the balance be written off for this reason alone. Moreover I have to take into 
account why that loss occurred and as I mentioned in my provisional decision I dont find that 
the loss flows from the unaffordable lending. Therefore it follows that I have no proper basis 
for saying that because the lending was unaffordable VWFS must write-off the balance due 
to this.
I regret to hear that Mr G felt he was left with only the support of his parents at a time when 
he indicates he was very unwell due to mental health conditions. I can well understand that it 
may well be distressing to feel like that. However, the difficulty for Mr G remains that his 
response does not persuade me that the reasoning I set out in my provisional decision about 
this complaint point should be set aside or amended. 
Neither do I agree that I can fairly say that Mr Gs parents offered solutions but VWFS did 
not engage and therefore VWFS should bear the entire loss. In my provisional decision I 
found it likely that Mr Gs mother offered to sell the car privately as W suggested. That 
solution would not have avoided the loss in the circumstances though and in any event Mr G 
would have had to have bought the car first which he had not done. Also in my provisional 
decision I found it likely that Mr Gs father did ask VWFS to take back its car but that does 
not mean that because VWFS did not do this it must bear the loss for this reason alone 
either. I cannot overlook that it was not VWFSs actions or inactions that caused the loss, 
rather, it was Mr Gs actions that led to the loss.
I have not been persuaded by Mr Gs response to my provisional decision. It follows that I 
have come to the same conclusions for the same reasons as I set out in my provisional 
decision and repeated in this decision.
My final decision
My final decision that Volkswagen Financial Services (UK) Limited can only pursue
Mr G for the balance owing under the agreement minus any interest on the balance and 
minus any charges related to the initial decision to lend.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision before 21 November 2022.
 
Joyce Gordon
Ombudsman