DRN-2925946
The complaint
Mrs F and Mr M complain that AXA Insurance UK Plc (AXA) refused to cover the cost of 
remedial work to their floor joists, after they discovered a leak from their washing machine.
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here. The main facts of the case arent in dispute, so Ill focus on giving the reasons for my 
decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the conclusions reached by our investigator, for the following 
reasons:
The policy doesnt provide cover for alternative accommodation unless the home 
cannot be lived in due to loss or damage by buildings causes. Having looked at the 
photographs provided, I agree that there was limited access to the kitchen due to the 
placement of the washing machine and dehumidifier. However, the washing machine 
wasnt connected and therefore couldve been moved further out of the way. The 
humidifier wasnt as large in comparison and so wouldnt have caused a blockage in 
the same way on its own. And alternative accommodation wouldnt have been 
available for Mrs Fs difficulties in working from home due to the noise of the 
humidifier, as the policy doesnt provide for this. So I think AXAs decision not to offer 
alternative accommodation was reasonable.
Im persuaded by the reports that there was rising damp at the property, despite 
Mrs F and Mr M providing us with information showing a damp-proof membrane had 
been installed in their home. As our investigator said, damp-proofing doesnt always 
protect floor timbers and so I consider it likely, based on the evidence provided, that 
the joists were also damaged due to damp.
However, in accepting this claim, AXA is responsible for ensuring an effective and 
lasting repair. Its said this doesnt include betterment to the degree of covering areas 
of damage which are excluded under the policy, and so it would expect Mrs F and 
Mr M to put right the damp issue before it commences its repairs under the policy. 
But I dont agree that would be fair in this complaint. AXA has specifically confirmed 
that the underlying damp issue is likely to result in the damage re-occurring in the 
future. And so I consider a lasting and effective repair in this case to involve a repair 
of the damaged floor joists and subfloor as well as damage relating to the insured 
peril. I think this is fair in the circumstances because without AXA repairing the 
damage to the subfloor and joists, it cannot complete a lasting and effective repair of 
the areas damaged by the leak.  
Putting things right
AXA should cover the cost of the repair to the damaged subfloor and floor joists as well as 
the damage caused as a result of the leak.  
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint. I require AXA Insurance UK Plc to put things 
right as Ive set out above.  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs F and Mr M to 
accept or reject my decision before 15 October 2021.
 
Ifrah Malik
Ombudsman