DRN-3371759
The complaint
Mr P and Mr P complain about Santander UK Plc and the difficulties they faced when they 
attempted to make five transfers to beneficiaries of the estate they were executors for.
Throughout my decision, I will address any comments made by both Mr P and Mr P as if 
they were one person for ease of reference, due to the complaint being represented in the 
main by one of them.
What happened
On 26 May 2021, Mr P attended his local Santander branch to arrange for five payments of 
£128,800.00 to be made to beneficiaries of the estate he was executor for. Mr P arranged for 
the payments to be made via CHAPS, on the understanding the payments would be made 
the same day.
But these payments werent processed, and Mr P was made aware of this by the 
beneficiaries themselves. Mr P returned to his branch on 28 May to question this, where he 
spoke to Santanders security team to verify the authenticity of the payments. But Mr P says 
he had to return to branch on another two occasions before the payments were eventually 
completed on 1 June. Mr P was unhappy about this, so he raised a complaint.
Mr P was unhappy with the service he received from Santander. He didnt think Santander 
acted reasonably when stopping the payments, which he felt were routine. So, he wanted to 
be compensated for the inconvenience hed been caused having to visit the branch on 
several occasions, as well as speaking to Santander on the phone. He also wanted to be 
compensated for the embarrassment he felt in branch when needing to speak to Santanders 
security team, and for Santander to change their processes to prevent situations like this 
happening in the future.
Santander responded and upheld Mr Ps complaint. They recognised Mr P had attended the 
branch on several occasions and they appreciated the inconvenience and upset this 
wouldve caused. And they accepted this was in part due to an issue identified with their 
system, alongside concerns that one of the payments may not have been going to the right 
location. So, they paid Mr P £250 as well as refunding the CHAPS fees associated to the 
payments, worth £125. Mr P remained unhappy with this response, so he referred his 
complaint to us.
Our investigator looked into the complaint and didnt uphold it. They didnt think Santander 
acted unreasonably when initially stopping the payments, as theyd expect Santander to 
have systems in place to highlight unusual account activity and ensure a customers account 
is safeguarded. But they recognised Santanders acceptance that the payments were 
delayed due to a system issue as well as the above. And they understood the inconvenience 
Mr P wouldve experienced travelling to branch on several occasions. Having thought about 
this, they thought the £250 compensatory offer, plus refund of CHAPS fees, was a fair one. 
And because of this, they didnt think Santander needed to do anything more.
Mr P didnt agree. He didnt think the £250 was enough to compensate him for the upset 
hed been caused. Nor did he think it reflected the size of the payments being sent from the 
account. Instead, Mr P wanted £500 and for Santander to change their fraud prevention 
system. Our investigators view remained unchanged and Mr P continued to disagree. So, 
the complaint has been passed to me for a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im not upholding the complaint for broadly the same reasons as the 
investigator. Ive focused my comments on what I think is relevant. If I havent commented 
on any specific point, its because I dont believe its affected what I think is the right 
outcome.
First, I want to recognise the impact this complaint has had on Mr P. Its not disputed that the 
payments Mr P wanted to make took longer than he expected. And its been accepted that 
Mr P travelled into branch on several occasions to ensure the payments were made, which 
would no doubt have taken both time and effort. Because of this, I understand why Mr P 
feels as though he should be compensated to recognise this, which Santander have 
attempted to do by paying him £250 as well as refunding the CHAPS transfer fees 
associated to each payment.
So, for me to uphold the complaint and say Santander should do something more, Id need 
to be satisfied that the offer already put forward by Santander fails to adequately address the 
impact Mr P has suffered. And in this situation, I dont think thats the case.
Ive first thought about Santanders decision to stop the payments initially. Santander have 
confirmed the payments were flagged by their fraud prevention system, which is an 
automatic process. Id expect Santander to have a process such as this in place to 
safeguard customer accounts. And our service is unable to comment on, or direct Santander 
to change this system as only the industry regulator, the Financial Conduct Authority, can do 
so.
In any event, its not disputed that the payments Mr P wanted to make were of a significantly 
high value. And Ive seen the account statements which show payments of this amount were 
unusual. So, I dont think I can say Santander acted unfairly, as I dont think it was 
unreasonable for their system to decide these payments needed to be verified. Thats not to 
say I dont understand the point Mr P raises about the fact he attended branch with 
identification to raise these payments in the first place. But as Ive explained above, the fraud 
prevention system is automated and so, I dont think this necessarily means these payments 
shouldve avoided these checks to begin with. 
But I do recognise Mr P made these payments by CHAPS, which should mean they reach 
the beneficiary account the same day. And, with the bank holiday and weekend considered, 
they didnt reach the designated accounts until four working days later, which I think is an 
unreasonable delay. Santander have accepted this and pointed to a system issue that they 
have since rectified to ensure this doesnt happen again. As I think this is unreasonable, Ive 
then thought about the impact this had on Mr P and what I think Santander should 
reasonably do to put things right.
Santander dont dispute that Mr P needed to attend branch on several occasions, as well as 
take time out of his day to speak to their security team to ensure the payment information 
was correct for one of the beneficiaries. So, they made the offer to Mr P that Ive set out 
earlier within the decision.I think its clear Mr P wouldve needed to take time of his day to attend branch and speak to 
Santander over the phone. And from what I can see, I dont think Mr P shouldve needed to 
attend his branch as many times as he did. So, I think he should be compensated for the 
inconvenience he was caused by this. 
And I think its reasonable to assume Mr P wouldve been left stressed and anxious about 
the status of the payments, due to his role as the executor of the estate and his duty to 
ensure the beneficiaries received the funds they were due. And this wouldve been made 
worse each day the payments failed to be processed.
But I think the £250 Santander have offered is a fair one to recognise this, and it falls in line 
with what I wouldve directed had it not already been made. I think it adequately recognises 
the inconvenient Mr P was caused by attending the branch on more occasions than he 
expected to. But it also factors in the fact Mr P wouldve always needed to attend branch to 
set up the initial payments. And I think it also considers the fact the payments were impacted 
by the weekend and bank holiday at that time, which Santander were unable to control.
I also think Santander have acted fairly by refunding Mr Ps CHAPS transaction fees, to 
recognise the fact the payments werent processed within the usual timeframe of a CHAPS 
transaction. So, I dont think Santander need to do anything more on this occasion.
I understand this isnt the outcome Mr P was hoping for. And I appreciate why Mr P believes 
the value of the payments should be factored into the compensation he received. But I dont 
think the value of the payments mean Santander should increase the compensation theyve 
paid on this occasion. Its correct that a smaller amount might not have triggered 
Santanders fraud prevention system. But that is a hypothetical situation. The fact is the 
value of the payments Mr P made did trigger this system. And the compensation I deem to 
be reasonable is intended to address the inconvenience Mr P experienced and this 
inconvenience only, as there has been no financial loss as the payments were made as 
requested.
My final decision
For the reasons outlined above, I dont uphold Mr P and Mr Ps complaint about Santander 
UK Plc.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P and Mr P to 
accept or reject my decision before 14 June 2022.
 
Josh Haskey
Ombudsman