DRN-3127286
The complaint
Mrs M complains Bank of Scotland plc trading as Halifax failed to honour a claim she 
brought under section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974 (CCA). Mrs M is represented by 
a claims management company. When I refer to things said or done by Mrs M in relation to 
the complaint then this should be taken to include things said or done by her claims 
management company also.
What happened
The background to the matter is well known to all parties so I will provide a brief summary:
Mrs M and her husband had a membership with a holiday club which they wished to 
terminate.  In August 2016 they entered into a contract with another company I will 
call R. It said it would arrange for Mrs M and her husband to be released from their 
membership with the club and claim compensation for the mis-selling of the 
membership.
Mrs M paid R £7,914 towards the contract of which £3,664 was paid using her 
Halifax credit card to a company I will call MRL. I gather the balance was paid by 
several bank transfers to R but full details are not available. The credit card payment 
was made on 21 January 2017. The contract guaranteed that R would achieve the 
release of Mrs M and her husband from their membership within 12 months of the 
agreement.
R failed to arrange for Mrs M to be released from her membership with C, and 
subsequently went into liquidation in May 2018. 
Mrs M brought a claim against Halifax under s 75 of the CCA in January 2019 via her 
claims management company.
Halifax investigated the matter and didnt agree Mrs M had a valid claim under s 75 
of the CCA. It asked for further details to support the claim that there had been a 
breach of contract or misrepresentation. It says none were [provided and so it 
rejected the claim. Mrs M was unhappy with this decision and complained, but 
Halifax rejected her complaint. 
Mrs M brought her complaint to this service, where it was considered by one of our 
investigators. She concluded Halifax had been right to say Mrs M didnt have a valid 
claim under s 75 CCA, albeit for different reasons, because MRL had taken the credit 
card payments instead of R.
Our investigator investigated whether there were any exceptions which meant this 
might not matter, but she couldnt find any. She also thought about whether Halifax 
should have charged back the credit card transactions but concluded the bank had 
been out of time to do so at the point it had been made aware of the issue.
Mrs M didnt agree with our investigator and asked for her complaint to be reviewed by an 
ombudsman. The case has now been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
When someone makes a purchase using the facilities offered by their bank or credit card 
company, and something goes wrong with that purchase, theres no general obligation for 
them to provide a refund. However, there are some mechanisms via which they can assist. If 
a credit card has been used, as in this case, s 75 CCA gives a legal right to the account 
holder to claim against their credit card issuer in respect of breaches of contract or 
misrepresentations by the supplier, so long as certain technical criteria have been met.
If any type of card has been used (debit, credit or pre-paid), the card issuer can use the 
dispute resolution service administered by the card schemes in order to claim back the 
money paid on the card. This can be done only in certain scenarios and only so long as the 
dispute fits within the rules set out by the card scheme. This includes scenarios where goods 
or services have not been received, and the process of disputing payments in this way is 
generally known as a chargeback. Although a consumer cannot insist that their card issuer 
attempts a chargeback, I would expect the issuer to attempt one if there was a reasonable 
prospect of the process succeeding, and to conduct the chargeback process in a competent 
way, free of errors.
The Section 75 claim
I dont think Mrs M had a valid section 75 claim against Halifax for essentially the same 
reasons our investigator explained. I dont think her claim meets one of the key criteria I 
referred to above.
The criterion in question is the requirement for there to be a DCS agreement in place. The 
simplest explanation of this is, is that when someone makes a payment on their credit card, 
in order to be able to make a section 75 claim against their credit card provider they need to 
have used the credit card to pay the same company they say misrepresented something to 
them, or breached its contract with them. Mrs M didnt pay R, which is the company she has 
a problem with. Instead, her credit card payments went to MRL.
There are some exceptions to this general rule. The first exception occurs where the 
company which is responsible for the breach or misrepresentation (the supplier) is an 
associate of the company which received the credit card payment (the payee), at the time 
the payment is made. This doesnt mean an associate in the everyday sense of being linked 
in some way or another; the companies have to be associates according to a very specific 
definition which is set out in section 184 of the CCA.
According to section 184 of the CCA, in order for companies to be associates they need to 
be controlled by the same people, or by people who are themselves associates of one 
another. People are associates of one another if they are relatives, or if they are in 
partnership (for example, being directors together at another company). A person would be 
in control of a company if they are a person whose instructions will normally be followed by 
the officers of the company, or if they are entitled to exercise a third or more of voting power 
at any general meeting of the company. In general, I would view a company director or 
majority shareholder to fall into these categories. Being based at the same or a similar 
business address, as Mrs M has claimed, would not be enough to make two companies 
associates.
Ive carefully considered whether R and MRL were associates at the time of Mrs Ms credit 
card payment, by checking publicly available information about the companies. A Mr K was a 
controller of R between 1 April 2016 and 1 December 2016, while an associate of his (a Mr 
U) controlled MRL. This means the companies themselves were associates during this time window. Mr K gave up his shareholding in R from 1 December 2016 and I cannot see that he 
was a controller of the company from that point on. Mrs M has cast some doubts on the 
Companies House filings which show Mr K giving up his shares on 1 December 2016. 
The records were filed late and Mrs M thinks Mr K controlled R for longer than the records 
say. But I think this is speculative without further evidence that the records filed with 
Companies House are not an accurate representation of what happened and when. In the 
absence of convincing evidence to the contrary, I conclude Mr K was no longer a controller 
of R from 1 December 2016.
I have noted that Mrs M signed the agreement in August 2016, but as she didnt make 
payment by credit card until after 1 December there was no DCS agreement in place during 
the period when Mr K was a controller of R.  
I note there is also an outstanding debenture in Mr Ks favour, granted by R, dating back to 
January 2016. Mrs M has suggested this means he controls the company. I dont agree. All 
this shows is that Mr K had agreed to lend money to R on a secured basis and this has not 
yet been repaid.
Because Mrs Ms credit card payments were made outside of the window in which R and 
MRL were associates, this means the exception doesnt apply in her case.
There is another exception which was identified in the case of Bank of Scotland v. Alfred 
Truman [2005] EWHC 583 (QB). The case concerned a firm of solicitors who had a motor 
trader as a client. The solicitors took credit card payments from customers of the motor 
trader, which had no facility to take such payments itself, as deposits for cars which the 
customers had ordered. The court found that the contractual arrangements between the 
motor trader and the solicitors were adequate to link the motor trader to the card scheme 
through the transactions processed via the solicitors credit card facilities, and therefore 
mean there was a DCS agreement in place.
The judge observed in the Alfred Truman case that the above conclusion couldnt be applied 
in all cases as a general principle, and that there were problems with establishing where the 
line should be drawn between scenarios where the supplier could be linked to the card 
scheme, and where things were too tenuous to be able to draw this conclusion.
The judge noted that the problem would need to be resolved on a case by case basis, and 
that the precise contractual arrangements between the parties would determine whether 
the creditor had liability under section 75.
A later case in the County Court, Marshall v. Retail Installation Services Ltd [2016], clarified 
that in the absence of knowledge of the precise contractual arrangements between the 
company which was meant to supply the services or goods under the contract, and the 
payee, that the involvement of the payee in the provision of the goods or services could be 
enough to link the supplier to the card scheme and for a DCS agreement to exist.
In Mrs Ms case, not much is known about the precise contractual arrangements between R, 
which was the supplier of the services, and MRL, which was the payee. Its clear that MRL 
took payments for Rs customers and that this was an established practice, as Ive seen 
evidence that R required its salespeople to tell customers that the name of MRL or another 
company might appear on their statements.
There is some evidence that a company in the group to which MRL belonged, acted as Rs 
accountants. We have tried to find out more from this group of companies, and the relevant 
liquidators. Unfortunately, we have not received information which helps to clarify what the 
arrangements were between the companies. In Alfred Truman the court had a much more 
complete picture of the nature of the arrangements between the parties and had the benefit 
of direct evidence from the payee. Here I dont have nearly as much information and I feel 
unable to conclude that R was linked to the card scheme via its arrangements with MRL, on 
the evidence available to me.Ive considered whether the case of Marshall might be applicable to Mrs Ms case, but Ive 
seen no evidence that it would be because it doesnt appear MRL was involved in the 
provision of the timeshare release or compensation claim services Mrs M had contracted 
with R for.
I have also noted Mrs Ms point that there was link between MRL and another company I will 
call MRTP, but the payment was processed by MRL and I can only consider the link 
between R and MRL. Nor can I presume there was a link because the different companies 
operated from the same building or close by. The location of a business is not one of the 
criteria I can consider under s 184 CCA.
In light of the above, I conclude there was no valid DCS agreement in place to allow Mrs M 
to make a section 75 claim against Halifax. I therefore dont think the bank was wrong to 
reject her claim. Ive thought about the arguments Mrs Ms representatives have raised in 
response to our investigators assessment, but they dont change my view. I appreciate the 
frustration with the situation but I cannot require Halifax to pay out money where a claim falls 
outside the terms of s 75 CCA.
Chargeback
The CMC hasnt queried our investigators opinion on whether or not it was possible for 
Halifax to have attempted a chargeback on either of the credit card transactions.
I agree with the conclusions our investigator reached on this question. This is because the 
rules applicable to chargebacks impose a deadline of 120 days from the point that the 
cardholder expected to receive the merchandise or services.
Like our investigator I have noted from the Terms and Conditions of the contract - that R 
confirmed the relinquishment would be achieved within 12 months of the date of the 
agreement which would have been August 2017. So, Halifax couldnt have been expected to 
attempt a chargeback when Mrs M raised a claim in January 2019.
My final decision
For the reasons explained above, I do not think Halifax treated Mrs M unfairly by refusing to 
reimburse her. My final decision is that I do not uphold her complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs M to accept or 
reject my decision before 1 February 2022.
 
Ivor Graham
Ombudsman