DRN-2394162
The complaint
Mrs C complains that U K Insurance Limited (UKI) paid out too much for a claim made on 
her motor insurance policy and increased the premium unduly. 
What happened
Mrs C told UKI that when she was manoeuvring her car, it came into contact with the rear 
bumper of another car that was parked. She said there was no damage to her vehicle and 
just a scratch to the other car. When the other driver had his car repaired, the bill from the 
garage was £1,059.22. Mrs C thought that was excessive, as in her view there was barely 
any damage to repair. Her premium then rose substantially at renewal, which she thought 
was unreasonable, given the minor nature of the accident.
 
One of our investigators reviewed Mrs Cs complaint. He thought UKI had acted reasonably 
in the way it dealt with the claim. He noted that its engineer had assessed the extent and 
cost of the repairs and thought they were in line with the damage done to the other car. The 
investigator said Mrs Cs premium rose as a result of her having had two claims on her 
policy during the policy year. He thought UKI had made a reasonable commercial decision. 
As there was no agreement, the complaint was passed to me for review.  
  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mrs C accepts that her car came into contact with the other car whilst she was manoeuvring 
her vehicle, and that some damage was done, so I think it was fair for UKI to decide that it 
would pay for any reasonable  repairs and set the cost against Mrs Cs policy. 
It isnt unusual for consumers to think that if the only damage they can see to a car is minor, 
then the cost of repairing it will be minimal. But its for an engineer to assess the extent of 
the damage and the best way to repair it. 
In this case, UKI noted that the garages engineer inspected the damaged car carefully and 
excluded some damage to it that he didnt think was accident-related. UKIs engineer later 
assessed the work the first engineer thought should be done. He thought it was 
proportionate to the minor damage on the car, so I think it was reasonable for UKI to agree 
to pay the repair bill. 
Mrs Cs premium rose substantially at renewal, but that was only partly because of this 
accident. It seems Mrs C had made another claim during the policy year, so UKI took into 
account that two fault claims had been made on the policy. 
A policy holders no claims discount (NCD) will usually be affected if a claim is made on the 
policy. Mrs C had the maximum nine years NCD, which meant her premium prior to renewal 
was considerably lower than it would have been otherwise due to the discount that applied.
 
The NCD table in the policy shows that UKIs step back process reduces NCD of five years 
or more to just one year if two claims are made on the policy within one policy year. That 
isnt out of line with the reductions generally made by insurers. Unfortunately, the reduction 
in NCD would have made a significant difference to Mrs Cs premium. And it would have 
happened regardless of the cost of the repairs, as its based solely on the number of claims.
Although I understand why Mrs C was surprised by the cost of the claim - and then by the 
rise in her premium - I dont think shes been able to show that UKI acted unreasonably in 
relation to either issue. So I cant uphold her complaint. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs C to accept or 
reject my decision before 14 July 2021. 
Susan Ewins
Ombudsman