DRN-3340818
Complaint
Mr Z has complained about a loan Loans 2 Go Limited (L2G) provided to him. He says
L2G irresponsibly lent him this loan.
Background
One of our adjudicators reviewed what Mr Z and L2G had told us. And she thought that L2G
hadnt lent irresponsibly. So she didnt uphold Mr Zs complaint. Mr Z disagreed and asked 
for an ombudsman to look at his complaint.
My findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve explained how we handle complaints about unaffordable and irresponsible lending on
our website. And Ive used this approach to help me decide Mr Zs complaint.
L2G needed to make sure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In practice, what this means is
L2G needed to carry out proportionate checks to be able to understand whether Mr Z could
afford to repay before providing this loan. Our website sets out what we typically think about
when deciding whether a lenders checks were proportionate. Generally, we think its
reasonable for a lenders checks to be less thorough  in terms of how much information it
gathers and what it does to verify it  in the early stages of a lending relationship.
But we might think it needed to do more if, for example, a borrowers income was low or the
amount lent was high. And the longer the lending relationship goes on, the greater the risk of
it becoming unsustainable and the borrower experiencing financial difficulty. So wed expect
a lender to be able to show that it didnt continue to lend to a customer irresponsibly.
L2G provided Mr Z with a loan for £400 in October 2019. It had an APR of 1,013.1% and 
was to due be repaid in 18 instalments of £91.42, which meant the total amount to be repaid 
was £1,645.56. L2G says it agreed to Mr Zs application after he provided details of his 
monthly income and expenditure. It says it cross-checked this against information on a credit 
search it carried out on Mr Z. 
The information Mr Z provided about his income and expenditure showed hed be able to 
comfortably make the repayments he was committing to. But it, in any event, adjusted Mr Zs 
declarations to account for what its verification checks showed and this left enough for Mr Z 
to be able to make his payments. L2G says, in these circumstances it was reasonable to 
lend. On the other hand, Mr Z has said he shouldnt have been lent to.
Ive carefully thought about what Mr Z and L2G have said. The first thing for me to say is that 
this was Mr Zs first loan with L2G. The information provided does suggest Mr Z was asked 
to provide details of his income and expenditure and L2G didnt just rely on what it was told.
Bearing in mind the amount of the repayments, the credit search not showing recent 
payment difficulties, Mr Zs lack of any previous lending with L2G and the low monthly 
repayments, I dont think it was unreasonable for L2G to rely on the payments being 
affordable as, on the face of things, they did appear to be. Id also add that while it wasnt 
necessary for L2G to have obtained bank statements before lending, there isnt anything in 
the bank statement Mr Z has provided which contradicts what he declared, or more crucially 
suggests the monthly payments were unaffordable. 
I accept that Mr Zs actual circumstances may not be reflected in the information gathered. 
But its only fair and reasonable for me to uphold a complaint in circumstances a lender did 
something wrong. And, in this case, I dont think that L2G did anything wrong in deciding to 
lend to Mr Z - it carried out proportionate checks even though its possible the information it 
was provided with may not have told the whole story. L2G reasonably relied on this 
information and given the amount of the repayments involved and its lack of previous history 
with Mr Z, I dont think it was unreasonable for L2G to provide this loan.
Ive also thought about the terms of this loan. The amount Mr Z is being expected to repay 
can only be described by any reasonable observer as eye-watering. I appreciate making 
payments may be difficult and sympathise with Mr Z. But the credit agreement makes no 
attempt to disguise and arguably brazenly sets out just how egregious these terms are. And 
as Mr Z accepted these terms, the payments appeared affordable and there isnt anything on 
file, at least, to demonstrate L2G actively took advantage of Mr Zs position, overall I find that 
L2G didnt unfairly provide this loan given all the circumstances.
As this is the case, Im not upholding Mr Zs complaint. I appreciate this will be very 
disappointing for Mr Z. But I hope hell understand the reasons for my decision and that hell 
at least feel his concerns have been listened to.
Although Im not upholding Mr Zs complaint, I would remind L2G of its obligation to exercise
forbearance should Mr Z be experiencing difficulty and it choose to collect payments from 
him.
My final decision
My final decision is that Im not upholding Mr Zs complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr Z to accept or 
reject my decision before 25 April 2022.
 
Jeshen Narayanan
Ombudsman