DRN-3494285
The complaint
Mr R complains about the way that NM Mortgages Ltd administered his personal private 
medical insurance policy.
What happened
As the background to this complaint is well-known to both parties, Ill only set out a brief 
summary here.
Mr R had a personal private medical insurance policy, which was underwritten by an insurer 
Ill call A and which had been sold to him by NM. The policy was due to renew on 28 
September 2020. 
In August 2020, Mr R got in touch with NMs adviser, as his premium had gone up following 
a claim he made on the policy. The adviser looked into alternative cover options for Mr R 
with two other insurers. While enquiries were ongoing, Mr R agreed to renew his policy with 
A on an in-patient cover basis only to ensure he still had cover in place.
Ultimately, Mr R decided to apply for a new policy with an insurer Ill call B. He completed the 
necessary paperwork and on 11 November 2020, B offered cover terms. On that basis, Mr R 
agreed to go ahead with Bs policy. However, the adviser noted hed sent Mr R the wrong 
medical form to complete. And hed wrongly told Mr R that hed get one month free from B if 
he took up its policy. Mr R was unhappy with the advisers errors and let NM know he 
wanted to cancel the application with B.
But on 16 November 2020, at 10.11, NM had asked A to cancel Mr Rs policy with effect 
from 10 November 2020. At 12.56 on that day, NM asked A to disregard its earlier email and 
leave the cover in place. At 14.37 on 16 November 2020, A confirmed that itd asked for the 
policy to be reinstated. And on 18 and 20 November 2020, A told NM that Mr Rs policy had 
been reinstated.
During the period of cancellation though, A had issued a pro-rata of Mr Rs premium which it 
had sent to him by cheque. Mr R had received the cheque and had been concerned. He 
made a complaint to NM about the way it had administered his policy and that it had 
cancelled his contract with A without his authority.
NM acknowledged its adviser had made administrative errors, although it concluded that the 
adviser had comprehensively discussed Mr Rs needs with him. To compensate for its 
errors, NM offered Mr R a payment of £240.31  which was the same amount as one 
months premium with B.
Mr R remained unhappy with NMs position and he asked us to look into his complaint. He 
felt that NM should pay him compensation of £1000.
Our investigator felt that NM had made a fair offer of compensation. While he acknowledged 
that NMs adviser had made some errors in the way he administered Mr Rs policy, which 
had caused Mr R some upset and inconvenience, he felt £240.31 was reasonable to reflect 
the impact NMs actions had had on Mr R.
Mr R disagreed and Ive summarised his response to our investigator:
NM had only offered him the amount B had been offering had the adviser not 
provided an incorrect quote. So this award simply put him where he wouldve been 
had the mistake not been made;
Given NM had asked him to complete the wrong application form, hed lost 
confidence in its ability to provide professional advice. He wasnt prepared to 
complete a new form, as the error had been NMs mistake;
When NM had provided a quote for B, hed indicated that hed accept this subject to 
receiving confirmation that A would cancel his existing plan and provide a pro-rata 
premium refund;
But NM had cancelled his policy without authority and hadnt let him know that this 
had happened. Hed been horrified to receive the refund cheque from A and when 
hed contacted it, A had told him that the plan hadnt been reinstated but would be 
immediately. Hed been extremely worried about his ongoing cover;
Because of NMs incompetence and delays, hed had no choice but to renew with A 
on an inpatient basis only;
Hed wanted to renew before his birthday to avoid another premium increase;
NM had unreasonably delayed its response to the complaint and in providing 
information to us;
The above points had caused Mr R extreme stress and worry, together with time and 
effort. So he felt he should be awarded a realistic amount of compensation over and 
above NMs existing offer.
The complaints been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, whilst Im sorry to disappoint Mr R, I think that NM has already made a fair 
offer of compensation and Ill explain why.
First, Id like to reassure Mr R that whilst Ive summarised the background to his complaint 
and his detailed submissions to our service, Ive carefully considered all hes said and sent 
us. Within this decision though, I havent commented on each point hes made and nor do 
our rules require me to. Instead, Ive focused on what I consider to be the key issues.
Next, its important I explain our role. Were not the industry regulator and so we have no 
power to fine or punish the businesses we cover. Our role is to investigate individual 
complaints brought by consumers against a financial business, where a consumer thinks a 
business has done something wrong which it needs to put right. So Ive considered whether I 
think NM did anything wrong and if so, what it needs to do to put things right for Mr R.
It's clear that NM did make errors in its administration of the proposed switch of Mr Rs policy 
from A to B. It accepts that its adviser sent Mr R the wrong form at application, which caused 
B to potentially offer the incorrect terms. It acknowledges too that the adviser wrongly told Mr 
R that B would be offering one month of free cover. And it agrees that Mr B had emailed it on 
13 November 2020 to ask it not to cancel his policy with A  but that despite this instruction; 
it went ahead and asked A to cancel the cover. I dont doubt that these errors caused Mr R 
frustration, upset and worry. And I think Mr Rs concerns were likely to have been 
compounded when he received a pro-rata premium refund cheque from A, despite having asked NM not to cancel the policy.
NM has offered to pay Mr R compensation of £240.31  which is equal to one month of free 
cover had he taken up the policy with B. I understand how strongly Mr R feels that this 
amount of compensation isnt a fair award and Ive thought about this carefully.
In making a decision about what I think is fair compensation, I need to consider the impact 
and nature of the upset and trouble a financial business has caused a consumer. In this 
case, I appreciate Mr R was put to some time and effort in completing a form which later 
turned out not to be the form he needed to complete. I understand this must have been very 
frustrating. Equally, learning that he wouldnt be entitled to a month of free cover with B 
mustve been disappointing and undermined his confidence in NMs adviser. Its clear too 
that NM acted outside of Mr Rs authority when it cancelled his policy on 16 November 2020.
With that said, NM asked A to cancel the policy at 10.11 on 16 November. By 12.56 on that 
day, itd realised its mistake and asked A to reinstate the policy. A had confirmed cover 
would be reinstated by 14.37 that afternoon. So it appears Mr R was only without private 
medical insurance for about four and a half hours. And happily, it doesnt appear that he 
needed to make a claim during that time. So while it must have come as a shock when he 
received Avivas cheque and learned that the policy had been cancelled (albeit briefly), I 
dont think I could fairly find he lost out in any way as a result.
So in my view, taking the totality of NMs errors into account and the time and trouble Mr R 
was put to, I also think £240.31 is fair compensation to recognise these mistakes. I havent 
discounted the impact Mr R has told us these errors had on him, but I also need to bear in 
mind that these mistakes happened over a period of only a few days and were quickly 
resolved. I also cant hold NM responsible for Mr Rs ultimate choice not to go ahead with an 
application to B. Its clear too that Mr R had already decided to renew with A ahead of 
receiving offer terms from B.
Overall then, I find that NM has already made a fair offer of compensation to Mr R. And it 
should now arrange to pay this sum to Mr R if it hasnt already done so.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above, my final decision is that NM has already made a fair offer 
of compensation and so Im not directing it to pay anything more.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 August 2022.
 
Lisa Barham
Ombudsman