DRN-4238611
The complaint
Miss L complains that National Westminster Bank Plc (NatWest) failed to properly 
administer her account resulting in the repeated removal of funds she didnt recognise.
What happened
There has been much correspondence between the parties regarding the circumstances of 
this complaint. I dont intend to repeat them here, but I will set out the points which I think are 
critical to understanding the complaint and to explain my decision.
In summary, Miss L had a transaction taken from her account that she didnt recognise. She 
confirmed this to NatWest who refunded the payment and dealt with it as fraud. Some 
months later, the same payment was again taken from Miss Ls account despite already 
being raised with NatWest who had given assurances the matter wouldnt be repeated. 
In total, there were six outgoing debits from Miss Ls account related to the same merchant 
that took place over a year or so. Miss L was repeatedly asked about the payments and was 
required to enter into correspondence with NatWest despite denying shed made the 
payments herself.
It later transpired that the payments were the result of an agreement set up by a close family 
member to pay for a large bill and used Miss Ls account without her permission.
NatWest made various refunds to Miss L throughout this period, but Miss L was left unhappy 
with how her account had been handled. Complaints were made to NatWest who accepted 
theyd let Miss L down and after some negotiation agreed to pay £250 compensation.
At the time of these incidents, Miss L was dealing with a very serious illness and in hospital 
for periods when having to communicate with NatWest. 
Miss L remained unhappy with how NatWest had dealt with her circumstances and brought 
her complaint to the Financial Ombudsman Service for an independent review. It was looked 
into by one of our investigators who received evidence from both parties about the situation.
Miss L and her representative made numerous submissions regarding the impact on Miss L 
and their belief that there was a criminal element to the way the payments had been 
handled.
Miss L remained unhappy about other aspects of her complaint and wanted an apology from 
a senior member of NatWests board and additional compensation of around £100,000. Miss 
L also withdrew one of her requests related to additional compensation. 
NatWest provided details of the payments and how theyd dealt with the issue. Initially they 
couldnt initially explain how some of these payments had been allowed to be debited from 
Miss Ls account but later said that because the original matter had been raised as fraud  
the future payments werent automatically cancelled.
The investigator recommended that NatWest pay a further £100 for the way they handled 
the issue and the additional stress this caused Miss L. NatWest accepted this, but Miss L did 
not.
Her representative thought the amounts recommended were insufficient to recognise the 
experience Miss L had gone through and continued to believe that NatWests actions had 
been criminal, and the payments taken from Miss Ls account were illegal.
As no agreement could be reached, the complaint has been passed to me for a decision. 
Having digested the information provided by both parties, it was apparent that additional 
transactions from the merchant were still outstanding. NatWest were asked about these and 
have accepted that because Miss L hadnt authorised them, they should be refunded. A 
further refund was made recently and as far as Im aware, all the disputed transactions have 
now been repaid to Miss L.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
My focus is on what I think the key issues are as our rules allow me to do this and it reflects 
the nature of our service as an informal alternative to the courts. So, if theres something Ive 
not mentioned, it isnt because Ive ignored it, its because Im satisfied that I dont need to 
comment on every individual argument to be able to reach what I think is the right outcome.
Much has been made of the transactions taken from Miss Ls account and her belief that 
somehow NatWest were criminally involved. Having examined the situation, its apparent 
that a close family member took Miss Ls payment details and used them to arrange a form 
of a loan having had an unexpected bill to pay.
The payments taken from Miss Ls account were by the merchant who provided the loan and 
were to repay it. Whilst its accepted that Miss L didnt give her permission for this to take 
place, I think its fair to say that NatWest were responding to payment requests following the 
agreement set up by the close family member.
If Miss L believes theres a criminal element to NatWests conduct, she can raise this with 
the police to investigate.
I dont think theres any argument here that NatWest dealt with the situation poorly. Their 
explanation that because it was raised initially as fraud by Miss L isnt one I particularly think 
holds much water. Miss L wouldnt be aware (and nor should she) of the different types of 
dispute/fraud process used by NatWest. Its for NatWest to deal appropriately with the 
situation theyre told about. The way they handled it led to continued payments taken from 
her account and unnecessary requests for information from Miss L whilst she was dealing 
with her illness. 
NatWest accepted the additional payment of £100 to bring the overall payment to Miss L to 
£350 for their handling of the situation. I think thats fair in the circumstances and I wont be 
recommending any further payment to Miss L.
Ive also considered Miss Ls request for an apology from a senior board member. Reading 
through the correspondence, NatWest have already apologised to Miss L for their earlier 
handling of the issue. Its not my role here to direct a specific person to make an apology, 
but I do think that further recognition of NatWests overall handling (given the missed 
refunds) warrants a further apology to Miss L.Putting things right
In order to finalise this complaint, NatWest should pay Miss L a further £100 (if they havent 
already) and apologise for the overall handling of her situation.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint and National Westminster Bank Plc are 
required to settle it as outlined above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss L to accept or 
reject my decision before 22 September 2023.
 
David Perry
Ombudsman