DRN-3597226
The complaint
Mr and Mrs B complain about the way Aviva Insurance Limited has handled a claim theyve 
made on their buildings insurance policy following subsidence.
What happened
Mr B brings this complaint on behalf of himself and his wife so Ill refer to him throughout. 
References to Mr B and Aviva includes respective representatives and agents.
The background to this complaint is well known to the parties so Ive provided a summary.
Mr Bs property is insured by a buildings insurance policy underwritten by Aviva. He 
made a claim for subsidence which was accepted and once Aviva achieved 
stabilisation, arrangements for remedial work were made.
Mr B wasnt happy with the settlement amount offered and he says there was 
confusion over the arrangements. Aviva apologised about the confusion and delays 
and offered £100 compensation. But it said it was entitled to settle the claim at the 
rate it would have been charged by its contractors.
Mr B raised certain aspects of the complaint with this Service, about delays and poor 
service. Our Investigator concluded there had been shortfalls in Avivas service and 
he said it should pay Mr B an additional £100 to recognise this.
But he said the other concerns not covered by Avivas final response in August 2021, 
including but not limited to, the way the repairs were carried out, the lack of 
alternative accommodation provided by Aviva and the effect this had on Mr B and his 
family would need to be raised with Aviva before this Service could consider them.
Mr B accepted the Investigators recommendations but Aviva didnt respond so the 
complaint has come to me for an Ombudsmans decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Delays and poor service
Aviva accepted it caused confusion over dates and what works would be carried out 
and apologised so I wont comment on this further.
Ive carefully considered Avivas claim notes and its clear to me there were some 
unnecessary delays in the way the claim was progressed. For example, after repair 
work was authorised there was a delay of approximately a month during which time 
Mr B had to chase it for updates while Avivas agent in turn was chasing the 
appointed contractor.
Then there was a further delay while the conservatory was assessed and found to be 
beyond repair during which time Mr B had to chase Aviva regularly for updates.
In summary, I dont think Aviva met its obligation to handle claims promptly and fairly 
during this time and it caused Mr B distress and inconvenience as a consequence. 
Ive kept this in mind when reaching my decision about the compensation it should 
pay him.
I know Mr B was unhappy with the number of visits undertaken at a time when the 
Covid pandemic was an ongoing situation, particularly as he says a number of the 
members of the household were vulnerable. I do also understand regular visits were 
distressing for one of the family members.
I can see there were a number of regular visits made by Avivas agents but it seems 
it wasnt advised of the vulnerabilities until around May 2021 and Ive seen nothing 
which shows me it was aware of them before. Avivas explained it would have 
discussed alternatives to in-person visits, such as video calls if it had been made 
aware of this before and it took all appropriate precautions when it undertook visits. 
Ive not been given details to consider of any specific occasions where this wasnt the 
case so overall, Im not persuaded it acted unreasonably here.
Other concerns
Once Aviva has responded to Mr Bs other concerns, briefly detailed above, if he remains 
unhappy with its explanations, he is, of course, free to raise another complaint with this 
Service.
Putting things right
Taking into account everything Ive said above, Ive concluded Aviva caused unnecessary 
delays and Ive decided it should pay Mr and Mrs B a total of £200 In recognition of the 
trouble and upset it caused because of this.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint and direct Aviva Insurance Limited to pay Mr 
and Mrs B a total of £200, deducting anything its already paid from this figure.
Aviva Insurance Limited must pay the compensation within 28 days of the date on which we 
tell it Mr and Mrs B accept my final decision. If it pays later than this it must also pay interest 
on the compensation from the date of my final decision to the date of payment at 8% a year 
simple.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr and Mrs B to 
accept or reject my decision before 25 August 2022.
 
Paul Phillips
Ombudsman