DRN-4252772
The complaint
Mrs G, through her representatives, complains that she was mis-sold a Free Standing 
Additional Voluntary Contribution plan (FSAVC) by Allied Dunbar.
Zurich Assurance Ltd (Zurich) is responsible for this advice and I will be referring to Zurich 
throughout this decision for ease of reading.
What happened
Mrs G was advised by Zurich in 1996 to contribute into an FSAVC. At the time she was a
member of the Teachers Pension Scheme.
In February 2022, her representatives raised a complaint about the advice she received.
They raised the following points:
The adviser failed to accurately assess the level of risk Mrs G was willing to take.
There was no justifiable reason to her having the portable FSAVC(s) as she was
likely to remain in the same employment until her retirement.
The adviser failed to establish if our clients occupational pension scheme had an
added years or any other enhanced benefit AVC arrangement that our client would
have chosen if properly advised.
There is no evidence that the adviser compared the benefits of the FSAVC with
additional contributions to the occupational scheme AVC scheme.
The adviser should have referred our client to the company scheme for the full details
of charges in order to make an informed choice.
There is no evidence that the adviser made our client fully aware of the comparison
of charges with the FSAVC recommended and the in house AVC scheme.
There is no evidence that more suitable retirement alternatives were discussed with
Mrs G in a fair and balanced way.
If the adviser had advised Mrs G correctly, she would have contributed to the most 
suitable in house AVC arrangement.
During the complaint investigation, Zurich started asking for information from Mrs G and from 
the Teachers Pension Scheme. They said they were looking to carry out an Added Years 
loss assessment. However, Zurich then issued their final response to the complaint and said 
Mrs G had complained outside the regulators time limits and so her complaint wouldnt be 
considered further. They also objected to our service looking into Mrs Gs complaint if we 
agreed with their assessment on jurisdiction.
I previously issued a decision explaining that Mrs G had complained in time. We asked 
Zurich to provide their files so we could consider the merits of Mrs Gs complaint. We also 
noted that they had previously considered making an offer of redress and asked them to let 
us know if they were still willing to do this.
Zurich provided their file but didnt put forward an offer. One of our investigators therefore 
independently considered the merits of Mrs Gs complaint and found that she hadnt been 
appropriately advised. His view was that if she had been, she likely would have contributed 
to the in-house AVCs in the Teachers Pension instead of the FSAVC due to its lower 
charges. He asked Zurich to compensate Mrs G for any losses she incurred as a result 
which is mainly based on the difference in charges between an in-house AVC and an 
FSAVC.
Zurich agreed with the view including the proposed redress. Mrs Gs representatives 
disagreed. They point to the fact that Zurich originally wanted to settle on an Added Years 
basis and feel this should be considered.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I understand that Zurich started making enquiries and indicated they were considering 
making an offer on an Added Years basis before they decided to raise jurisdiction objections. 
However, they didnt revisit such an offer after the jurisdiction decision was issued. 
I have made my decision based on the information I have and what I consider fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances and like the investigator Im not persuaded Mrs G would 
have likely chosen to buy added years in 1996.
Mrs G was advised by a tied adviser who could only recommend products provided by the 
company he worked for. At the time of the advice he had to follow the rules set in 1988 by 
LAUTRO (the Life Assurance and Unit Trust Regulatory Organisation) and adapted by the 
Personal Investment Authority (PIA - a predecessor of the Financial Conduct Authority) in 
1994. 
Amongst other things, the LAUTRO code of conduct said advisers should exercise due skill, 
care and diligence and deal fairly with investors. And they had to have regard to any rights 
under an occupational scheme and give consumers all relevant information. 
It was recorded on the fact find that Mrs G had a pension with her employer and that it was a 
defined benefit scheme. I would expect the adviser to have mentioned the generic benefits 
of in-house options. 
These generic benefits would include that: 
 Money purchase AVCs could potentially offer lower charges than the FSAVC
 Added years might have been available 
 Mrs Gs employer might match or top-up the amount she paid into an in-house option
If the adviser couldnt make further enquiries with Mrs Gs occupational pension scheme, 
potentially due to being tied to Allied Dunbar, I would have expected the adviser to 
recommend that Mrs G explored those options herself with her employer, before considering 
whether to take out an FSAVC.
Based on the information provided, there is no evidence that options in the Teachers 
Pension were discussed, so I think the adviser failed in his obligation to have regard to any 
rights under an occupational scheme and give Mrs G all relevant information. In doing so he 
didnt treat her fairly.
What I need to decide is what Mrs G more likely than not would have done if the adviser had 
given her some generic information about in-house benefits and pointed her to her employer 
for further information. The fact find shows that Mrs G and her husband could only afford £35 to go towards Mrs Gs 
pension. So I think taking advantage of generally lower costs in an in house AVC would have 
been attractive to her. On balance I therefore think she would have chosen to contribute into 
her in-house AVC instead of an FSAVC if this option had been pointed out to her. Zurich has 
accepted to pay this redress, so I dont see the need to address this in more detail here.
I considered whether Mrs G would have opted for added years, however Im not persuaded 
for the following reasons:
Like I said above, the adviser didnt have to recommend added years to Mrs G or even do a 
cost comparison. He just needed to point out possible available in-house options and point 
Mrs G to her employer for more information.
Mrs Gs representatives have not provided any particular reasons why they think Mrs G 
would have opted for added years at the time. They are correct to say that there are different 
factors which influence if added years might be a suitable option for someone, including for 
example their age, marital status, retirement age, whether they are likely to remain with their 
employer and if their salaries are likely to increase substantially over time and their attitude 
to risk.  
However, I would like to reiterate here, that Mrs G wouldnt have received advice on added 
years based on her specific circumstances. If she chose to contact her employer-which isnt 
guaranteed in itself- she only would have been provided with information about added years. 
It would have been then up to her to make a decision on what she preferred.
Ive considered Mrs Gs circumstances, but overall, I think she likely wouldnt have chosen to 
buy added years. 
The fact find shows the couple were about to increase their mortgage as they were planning 
home improvements and they only could afford £35 per month to put towards Mrs Gs 
pension. They chose level contributions instead of increasing ones which further 
demonstrates the tight budget. With Added Years, Mrs G would have had to commit to an 
increasing contribution which couldnt be easily stopped and started if contributions became 
unaffordable for example. Given her financial circumstances at the time Im not persuaded 
she would have seen this as an affordable option.
Even if she could have found more money to put towards her pension, Added Years also 
would have looked expensive compared to the projected benefits of the FSAVC given that 
estimated investment returns in 1996 would have been a lot higher than they are now. 
Added Years also arent subsidised by the employer like the regular DB benefits are.
Added years would have provided guaranteed benefits whereas AVC or FSAVCs were 
subject to investment risk. However, Mrs G was still many years from retirement and could 
accrue additional guaranteed benefits as well as take some risks with a smaller part of her 
pension.  The fact find shows her attitude to risk to be 2 on a scale of 1-4 (one being 
cautious and 4 being speculative). So I think she was willing to take some risk with her 
pension.
I think Mrs G would have likely seen Added Years as a less affordable option which also 
would have looked expensive and not particularly good value for money compared to an 
AVC or FSAVC at the time. With hindsight and investment returns not matching expectations 
of the mid 1990s, Added Years have become a very valuable benefit. However, I think Mrs G 
would have seen cheaper AVCs as the more attractive and affordable option at the time of 
the advice.Putting things right
My aim is to put Mrs G as much as possible back into the position she would be in if Zurich 
had advised her properly. I think Mrs G would have likely ended up contributing to her in-
house AVC instead of an FSAVC.
Zurich should undertake a redress calculation in accordance with the regulators FSAVC 
review guidance, incorporating the amendment below to take into account that data for the 
CAPS mixed with property index isnt available for periods after 1 January 2005. 
The FSAVC review guidance wasnt intended to compensate consumers for losses arising 
solely from poor investment returns in the FSAVC funds, which is why a benchmark index is 
used to calculate the difference in charges and (if applicable) any loss of employer matching 
contributions or subsidised benefits.
In our view the FTSE UK Private Investor Growth Total Return Index provides the closest 
correlation to the CAPS mixed with property index. So where the calculation requires 
ongoing charges in an investment-based FSAVC and AVC to be compared after 1 January 
2005, Zurich should use the CAPS mixed with property index up to 1 January 2005 and the 
FTSE UK Private Investor Growth Total Return Index thereafter.
If the calculation demonstrates a loss, the compensation amount should if possible be paid 
into Mrs Gs pension plan. The payment should allow for the effect of charges and any 
available tax relief. The compensation shouldnt be paid into the pension plan if it would 
conflict with any existing protection or allowance.
If a payment into the pension isnt possible or has protection or allowance implications, it 
should be paid directly to Mrs G as a lump sum after making a notional deduction to allow for 
income tax that would otherwise have been paid in retirement. 25% of the loss would be tax-
free and 75% would have been taxed according to her likely income tax rate in retirement  
presumed to be 20%. So making a notional deduction of 15% overall from the loss 
adequately reflects this. 
My final decision
I uphold the complaint and require Zurich Assurance Ltd to pay Mrs G compensation as set 
out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs G to accept or 
reject my decision before 14 September 2023.
 
Nina Walter
Ombudsman