DRN-3103245
The complaint
Mr M complains Capital One (Europe) plc (Capital One) unfairly registered a default on his 
credit file.
What happened
Mr M says Capital One registered a default on his credit file because he fell short of paying 
four pence on the amount, he owed them on his credit card account. Mr M says he received 
a letter from Capital One in late December 2020 asking him to make a payment to his credit 
card account to avoid the account being defaulted. Mr M says when he went online and 
made a payment for the amount shown as the minimum payment required, but this was four 
pence less than the amount detailed in the default notice letter. Mr M says its unfair that 
Capital One have registered a default on his credit file for such a small amount and wants 
Capital One to remove the default.
Capital One says Mr M had been behind with his monthly payments over the last 24 months 
and so they issued a default letter in December 2020 and as Mr M didnt pay the full amount 
owed to prevent the default, they acted correctly here. 
Mr M wasnt happy with Capital Ones response and referred the matter to this service.
The investigator looked at all the available information and felt Capital One needed to take 
further action here. The investigator explained, while Capital One correctly registered the 
default against Mr M in January 2021, in view of the way his credit card account had 
operated in the previous two years, with missed payments being a regular feature, the 
default should have been registered sooner. The investigator acknowledged Capital One 
had tried to help Mr M by agreeing to stop any interest or fees on his credit card account 
from February 2020, but he felt a payment plan should have been put in place in December 
2018 as Mr M was already five months in arrears at that point. The investigator felt the 
default should be backdated to December 2018 and any interest and charges applied to the 
credit card account, from that date, should be refunded and proposed this should be offset 
against any outstanding balance Mr M owed Capital One.
Capital One accepted the investigators view but Mr M didnt agree and asked for the matter 
to be referred to an ombudsman for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I have come to the same outcome as the investigator and I will explain how 
I have come to my decision.
I can understand it would be upsetting for Mr M to have a default registered on his credit file 
for what he believed to be only a matter of a few pence short, of the amount he was due to 
pay, on his credit card account.
When looking at this complaint I will consider if Capital One acted fairly when they registered 
a default on Mr Ms credit file in January 2021. 
Capital One have provided this service with comprehensive details of the course of events 
here and while that has proved helpful, I wont be commenting on every piece of information 
received, as I dont feel its necessary to come to a full and impartial decision. Thats not to 
say I havent considered everything  I have.
Mr M has told this service after receiving a notice of default letter in December 2020 he went 
online to make the payment required and paid what was shown as the minimum payment. 
Mr M says this was four pence less than detailed in the default letter, but he believed it was 
the correct amount and feels its unfair that Capital One have registered a default against 
him because of this. 
While I understand the point Mr M makes here, I also have to take into account the fact this 
service has been provided with a detailed history of the conduct of his credit card account, 
not only at the time of the notice of default in December 2020 but also the events prior to 
this. I say this because as the investigator has pointed out, as far back as 2018 Mr M had 
missed several monthly credit card payments, exceeded his credit card limit and defaulted 
on a payment plan agreed in 2019. I can also see that Capital One tried to help Mr M earlier 
in February 2020, when agreeing to stop any further interest and charges being applied to 
his credit card account. So, while in isolation it may seem unreasonable for Capital One to 
register a default for a matter of a few pence, in fact if anything here, Capital One have not 
taken these steps as early as they should, given as far back as December 2018 Mr Ms 
credit card account was over five months in arrears. Having said that, Capital One in any 
event, were entitled to register the default when they did in January 2021, as Mr M hadnt 
paid the full amount owed as detailed in the notice of default he was sent.
Although Mr M may not agree, like the investigator, I am satisfied that Capital One have 
acted fairly in registering the default, but this should have taken place back in December 
2018 by which time Mr M had missed several monthly payments to his credit card account. It 
would have made sense at this stage to have set up a payment plan and stop any further 
interest and charges, to give Mr M the best opportunity of getting his account back on track, 
even if as the credit card account history suggests, he may have struggled to make that 
commitment. 
With this in mind, it makes sense for Capital One to back date the default on Mr Ms credit 
file to December 2018, which will mean the default will expire in December 2024, rather than 
its current expiry in January 2027. It follows, any interest and charges applied to Mr Ms 
credit card account from December 2018 should be refunded back to the credit card account 
to reduce his outstanding balance. Following this, I would suggest if this has not already 
happened, that Mr M discusses an appropriate way forward with Capital One, regarding the 
outstanding debt he has with them.
While Mr M will be disappointed with my decision, Im satisfied this is a reasonable outcome 
here.
Putting things right
I instruct Capital One (Europe) plc to back date Mr Ms credit card account default to 
December 2018. In addition, Capital One (Europe) plc should refund any interest and charges that have been applied to Mr Ms credit card account since December 2018, in 
reduction of any outstanding borrowing on his credit card account. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint.
I instruct Capital One (Europe) plc to back date Mr Ms credit card account default to 
December 2018. In addition, Capital One (Europe) plc should refund any interest and 
charges that have been applied to Mr Ms credit card account since December 2018, in 
reduction of any outstanding borrowing on his credit card account.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 17 November 2021.
 
Barry White
Ombudsman