DRN-2810705
The complaint
Mr B complains that Advanced Payment Solutions Limited trading as Cashplus unfairly 
registered a default on his credit file. 
What happened
Mr B has not disputed that he owed an outstanding balance on his Cashplus account. But he 
says Cashplus agreed an extended repayment holiday during which time he wasnt required 
to make any payments. However, some time later he found that Cashplus had registered a 
default on his credit file. Mr B says Cashplus didnt make him aware of the action it was 
taking.
Mr B complained to Cashplus as he thought there had been some mis-communication. He 
said that he would have ensured he took action to prevent the default from being registered 
had he been made aware of Cashplus intensions. 
Cashplus didnt agree that it had done anything wrong. It said it had administered Mr Bs 
account correctly and the appropriate correspondence about the status of the account - 
including a Default Notice, had been sent to Mr B. Mr B didnt agree, so he referred his 
complaint to this service.
Our investigator didnt uphold the complaint. He noted that Cashplus records confirmed that 
Mr B had been in contact with Cashplus several times prior to the Default Notice being 
issued. But, on each occasion, the records indicated that Mr B was told what he needed to 
do to get things back on track - this included making payments to the account. But he was 
satisfied that Mr B hadnt made any payments since 2017 and that Cashplus correctly 
defaulted the account  after issuing the appropriate correspondence, as a result.
 
Mr B didnt accept this outcome and he requested to see the evidence the investigator had 
relied on. This was sent to Mr B. But he maintained that he had not made aware of the 
Default Notice. He says he was struggling to repay the debt and recalls being told to get in 
touch with Cashplus when he could afford to restart making payments as his account was on 
hold.
The investigator didnt alter the outcome he had reached. So, the complaint has come to me 
for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
This includes listening to recordings of calls between Mr B and Cashplus and the records 
pertaining to Mr Bs account. Having done so I have come to the overall view that I dont 
uphold this complaint. I appreciate Mr B will be disappointed by my decision. So, Ill explain 
why.
Mr B accepts that he had an outstanding balance on his Cashplus account. But hes said 
that he understood from phone conversations with Cashplus than his account was on hold 
and that he didnt need to make payments until he could afford to do so.
So, Ive looked at Cashplus customer contact records for Mr Bs account. These show that 
Mr B wasnt managing his account in accordance with the terms and conditions from around 
late 2016. The notes record several late payments and that the balance of the overdue 
payment grew month on month until early 2018. 
The records show one instance of Mr B contacting Cashplus during this period. And this note 
indicates Mr B was told what he needed to do  make the minimum payment required, to 
bring the account back into order. But Mr Bs account shows no record of a payment being 
made. So, I dont think Cashplus made a mistake or acted unfairly by issuing a Default 
Notice in January 2018. 
I note Mr B says he was unaware that the Default Notice had been issued and that - had he 
been aware, hed have taken action to prevent it. But Cashplus has provided a copy of the 
Default Notice. A copy of this was sent to Mr B by our investigator and he hasnt suggested 
that it was addressed incorrectly. So, I think this was most likely sent out and to Mr Bs 
correct address. Its of course possible that Mr B didnt receive it, but I dont think I can fairly 
hold Cashplus responsible for mail not being delivered. 
The Default Notice clearly sets out the balance needed to be paid and the consequences of 
no action being taken by Mr B. This includes the default being recorded on his credit file for 
six years and the impact this would have on him trying to apply for further credit. 
I can see that Mr B did contact Cashplus twice before the default was registered. Cashplus 
has provided recordings of both calls, which I have listened to. In both calls Mr B asks about 
the balance of the account. And. on both occasions, he was provided with this information 
and what he needed to pay to bring the account up to date. In the second call, Mr B was also 
advised to contact the Collections department and it was explained that he could no longer 
access his account on-line due to the status of the account. I cant see Mr B questioned why 
his account was in Collections or what that meant. So, I think Mr B was aware of the status 
of the account and  on balance, was most likely aware that a Default Notice had been 
issued. 
Mr B has suggested that he wasnt aware that Cashplus intended to register the default on 
his credit file. He says he was told: his account was on hold, that no action would be taken, 
and he should contact it again when he was able to pay. And I can see there was further 
contact with Cashplus in August 2018. But Cashplus records recorded at the time suggest 
the hold placed on the account was for just 45 days. So, while I accept there was a 
discussion about the account being placed on hold, Im not persuaded Mr B was told he 
didnt have to make a payment until he could afford to do so. As a payment wasnt made 
after the 45-day hold period, I dont think Cashplus did anything wrong when it registered the 
default and sold Mr Bs debt to a third party as these consequences were made clear in the 
Default Notice.  
I acknowledge that Mr B has since repaid the outstanding debt in full (in 2020). But 
Cashplus records show that it completed an Income and Expenditure (I&E) breakdown with 
Mr B in August 2018. And the outcome of the I&E was that Mr B didnt have any disposal 
income at that time to make any repayments. So, overall, I dont think Mr B was in a position 
to agree a sustainable repayment plan with Cashplus which would have prevented the 
account being defaulted at that time.Overall, while I empathise with Mr B  as I acknowledge he was struggling financially and 
couldnt afford to meet his payments as a result, I dont think this means that Cashplus 
treated him unfairly. 
I havent seen anything that would make me think Cashplus agreed to put a hold on Mr Bs 
account indefinitely or that it didnt intend to register the default. Lenders are required to 
report accurate information about how a credit facility is maintained with the credit reference 
agencies and this is what Cashplus has done here. So, I wont be asking it to remove the 
default from Mr Bs credit file. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 18 August 2021.
 
Sandra Greene
Ombudsman