DRN-4154904
The complaint
Mr B complains that The Co-operative Bank Plc unfairly blocked and closed his accounts. 
Hes also unhappy about the service the bank provided him, and he wants compensation for 
the trouble and upset he suffered.
What happened
Mr B had two accounts with the Co-op  a current and savings account.
In November 2022, during a telephone call about Mr Bs account, the Co-op  became 
concerned that the person they were speaking to wasnt Mr B. So, it withdrew Mr Bs 
telephone banking and asked Mr B to go into branch to verify his ID. 
Following this the Co-op decided to review Mr Bs accounts. Whilst it completed its review 
the bank blocked Mr Bs accounts. This meant Mr B couldnt access the money held in his 
accounts. Mr B discovered that his account was blocked when he was unable to use his 
bank card. Mr B contacted the bank to find out how long its review would take to complete. 
But bank wouldnt tell him much over the phone and told him if he visited a branch with ID, 
hed be given more information. Mr B went to a branch on 23 November 2022 but was told 
by staff that they couldnt help him. Following, this the Co-op decided to close Mr Bs 
accounts immediately. 
Mr B complained to the Co-op about blocking and closing his accounts. He asked the bank 
to explain why it had blocked and closed his accounts. He also said hed wasted time and 
effort travelling to a branch to be given no information. In response, the Co-op said it hadnt 
done anything wrong when it had blocked, reviewed, and then closed Mr Bs accounts. And 
said it  had acted in line with the terms and conditions of the Mr Bs account. However, it 
accepted that it should have provided better service to Mr B when it told him to go to a 
branch. It agreed that Mr B had a wasted journey, which at the time wasnt needed, and 
offered Mr B £75 compensation for the trouble and upset this had caused him. 
Mr B said this didnt go far enough. He wants to know why the bank closed his accounts. He 
also said he was left out of pocket because he couldnt access his money and the whole 
situation was very stressful and made his health condition worse. So, he wants more 
compensation.
Mr B brought his complaint to our service where one of our investigators looked into what 
had happened. After reviewing all the information, the investigator didnt uphold Mr Bs 
complaint. He thought the bank had acted fairly blocking and closing his accounts. And had 
done enough to put things right. Mr B disagreed. He wants to know why the Co-op no longer 
wanted him as a customer and more compensation. 
As no agreement could be reached the matter has come to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I would add too that our rules allow us to receive evidence in confidence. We may treat 
evidence from banks as confidential for a number of reasons  for example, if it contains 
security information, or commercially sensitive information. Some of the information The Co-
op has provided is information that we considered should be kept confidential. This means I 
havent been able to share a lot of detail with Mr B, but Id like to reassure him that I have 
considered everything.
Ill deal first with the banks decision to block and review Mr Bs accounts. The Co-op have 
important legal and regulatory obligations they must meet when providing accounts to 
customers. Those obligations are ongoing and dont only apply to when an account is 
opened. They can broadly be summarised as a responsibility to protect persons from 
financial harm, and to prevent and detect financial crime.
Having looked at all the evidence, Im satisfied that the Co-op acted in accordance with 
these obligations when it blocked and reviewed Mr Bs accounts. It was also entitled to do so 
under the account terms and conditions. So, I cant say Co-op treated Mr C unfairly when it 
decided to block and review his accounts.
I understand that Mr B wants the Co-op to explain the reason it applied the block to his 
accounts. Hes also unhappy that the bank gave him no warnings about what it was doing. 
But the Co-op doesnt disclose to its customers what triggers a review of their accounts. And 
its under no obligation to tell Mr B the reasons behind the account block, as much as hed 
like to know. So, I cant say its done anything wrong by not giving Mr B this information. And 
it wouldnt be appropriate for me to require it to do so or for me to disclose the reasons. 
Mr B has said the bank took too long to review his account and release his funds. Hes 
pointed out that he had to borrow money and that it was close to Christmas. So, this made 
things tough for him financially. Ive looked at the timeline and can see that the bank didnt 
cause any unnecessary delays and were trying to complete its enquiries as quickly as 
possible. I appreciate that the Co-ops actions caused Mr B real inconvenience and upset. It 
wouldnt, however, be appropriate to make an award for compensation for that since I dont 
believe that the bank acted inappropriately in taking the actions that it did.
Ive next gone on to consider whether the bank acted fairly when it closed Mr Bs accounts. 
Mr B has pointed out that the closure of his accounts has caused him a lot of problems and 
stress. But its generally for banks to decide whether or not they want to provide, or to 
continue to provide, banking facilities to any particular customer. Unless theres a very good 
reason to do so, this service wont usually say that a bank must keep customer or require it 
to compensate a customer who has had their account closed.
The bank relied on the terms and conditions of Mr Bs accounts in closing his accounts. The 
terms and conditions outline that the bank can close a customers account with two months 
notice, and in certain circumstances they can close an account immediately. In this case the 
bank closed Mr Bs account immediately. For the bank to act fairly here they needed to meet 
the criteria to apply their terms for immediate closure  and having looked at these terms 
and all the evidence, Im satisfied that the bank did. So, it was entitled to close the accounts 
as its already done. 
Finally, Co-op has accepted it should have provided Mr B with better service and offered him 
£75 compensation for any trouble and upset he was caused when he travelled to branch. 
The bank accepts that this was a wasted trip and that it shouldnt have told Mr B to visit a 
branch in order to find out more information about what was happening with his accounts. Im satisfied that this is fair and reasonable way to resolve to resolve this aspect of Mr Bs 
complaint. So, I wont be directing the Co-op to do anything more.
In summary, its clearly caused Mr B inconvenience when he wasnt able to use his 
accounts. And took the time to travel to a branch, which at the time wasnt necessary. So 
understandably hes upset. I also appreciate it must have been a worrying and frustrating 
time for him not being able to access his funds. So, I realise he will be disappointed by my 
decision. But having looked at all the evidence and circumstances of this complaint, Im 
satisfied that the Co-op have done enough to put things right and I wont be asking them to 
do anything more to resolve Mr Bs complaint. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, my final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint. Thats 
because Im satisfied that The Co-operative Bank Plc has done enough to put things right.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 26 October 2023.
 
Sharon Kerrison
Ombudsman