DRN-2110530
The complaint
Mrs C complains about the way Fairmead Insurance Limited has handled a claim she made 
on her home insurance policy.
What happened
In September 2019, Mrs C made a claim on her home insurance policy after noticing a damp 
smell in her en-suite bathroom. It was initially treated as an accidental damage claim to Mrs 
Cs shower tray. Fairmead appointed its surveyor, which Ill call B, to investigate the cause of 
damage. B noted that there was staining under the shower tray, but that it seemed to be dry.
Mrs C decided to get the shower repairs done privately. While the shower plinth was being 
replaced, the joiner suggested the chipboard floor was water damaged and might need to be 
replaced. B didnt think there was evidence to suggest this was necessary or that the joists 
were damaged. A drying company, which Ill call P, attended Mrs Cs home. It found the floor 
was dry and its report said the floor was structurally sound.
So Fairmead didnt think any further work was necessary. It let Mrs C know that she could 
provide further evidence from an independent expert to show that a) replacing the chipboard 
floor was necessary and b) that it was down to something the policy covered. 
Mrs C arranged for a plumber to visit to investigate the damage. He concluded it was an 
escape of water caused by a failed trap. She later asked her own surveyor, A, to inspect the 
damage. A concluded that the shower tray was starting to sink into the floor and that the 
chipboard flooring needed to be replaced. Mrs C sent this report onto Fairmead. 
Fairmead considered the report, but overall, it still didnt think the costs of replacing the floor 
and applying a fungicide should be covered by the policy. It wasnt satisfied that the floor 
was wet or that the damage was down to the escape of water from the shower. It did 
suggest though that B could reinspect the damage.
Mrs C was unhappy with the way Fairmead had handled her claim. She felt thered been 
delays in the claim being progressed; she felt Fairmead had kept changing the goalposts 
and she thought shed provided enough evidence to show the claim should be paid. She 
asked us to look into her complaint.
Ultimately, our investigator recommended that Mrs Cs complaint should be partly upheld. 
He acknowledged that Fairmead hadnt progressed the claim as quickly as it could and he 
felt that thered been delays in communicating with her. So he felt Fairmead should pay Mrs 
C £100 compensation. But he considered it was reasonable for Fairmead to appoint a 
surveyor to look at the damage to assess whether or not it should be covered. He felt it 
would be reasonable for Fairmead to appoint an independent surveyor rather than B.
Fairmead accepted the investigators assessment.
Mrs C disagreed with our investigator. She said shed appointed a plumber and a surveyor at 
her own cost to determine whether the damage was down to an insured event and whether 
the floor should be replaced. She didnt understand the purpose of a reinspection. And if 
Fairmead had wanted to appoint an independent surveyor, it shouldnt have put her to the 
time and trouble of providing a report. She didnt think it was reasonable that if she was 
unhappy with the outcome of any reinspection, shed need to make a new complaint to us. 
She requested a review of the content of the calls between her and Fairmead.
The complaints been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I plan to partly uphold Mrs Cs complaint. Ill explain why.
Insurers have a duty to handle complaints promptly and fairly. And they mustnt turn down 
claims unreasonably. So Ive thought very carefully about the circumstances of Mrs Cs claim 
and Fairmeads handling of it when deciding whats fair and reasonable.
First, its clear there were some delays in the way Fairmead and its contractors handled Mrs 
Cs claim. Mrs C does appear to have been told different things about what was required 
from her at different times and there were delays in B getting in touch to keep her updated 
about her claim. So I dont think Fairmead met its duty to handle Mrs Cs claim as promptly 
as it couldve done and I dont doubt that this put Mrs C to some unnecessary time, trouble 
and inconvenience. This means I think its appropriate for Fairmead to pay her 
compensation.
In my view, £100 to recognise its service issues feels fair and reasonable and Im pleased to 
note that Fairmead agreed to pay this amount. I appreciate Mrs C wanted me to listen to all 
of the calls between her and Fairmead so I could understand her overall claims experience 
and the delays she experienced. But Im satisfied that the call logs and records that both 
Fairmead and B have provided set out in detail what happened and show that there were 
avoidable delays in communication and in moving things forward. This means I didnt think I 
needed to listen to calls to be satisfied that Fairmead didnt handle the claim as well as it 
couldve done.
Ive then turned to consider whether its fair and reasonable for Fairmead to require another 
surveyor to inspect the damage. 
Its generally a policyholders responsibility to show they have a valid claim on their policy 
caused by something their policy covers. Often, an insurer will appoint their own contractor 
to investigate the cause of damage on a policyholders behalf.
In this case, Fairmead initially appointed B to investigate the cause of damage when Mrs C 
first made her claim. B noted the seal around the waste area had failed and that there was 
missing silicon. It noted staining below the tray, but said the area was dry. It appears B 
visited Mrs Cs home a couple of weeks after she first made the claim  so relatively soon 
after the shower had stopped being used. At this point, it doesnt look like B thought the floor 
needed to be replaced. And it seems to have thought the damage was down to a bottle 
being dropped into the shower tray.
B spoke to Mrs Cs joiner as part of the investigation into Mrs Cs claim to find out why hed 
suggested replacing the flooring. Fairmeads notes indicate the joiner had recommended this 
course of action because he thought it was prone to dry rot. But it doesnt seem as if the 
joiner indicated to B that he felt the floor was wet or structurally unsound.Fairmead also appointed P to give a second opinion on whether Mrs Cs floor needed to be 
replaced. Ive considered Ps report carefully. Ps report said: Chipboard has some water 
marks, but reading dry now. Tiled wall next to shower also dry. There is some discolouring to 
tile grout on floor. Chipboard is structurally sound. On this basis, Fairmead had two experts 
who both said the flooring was dry and who didnt consider the floor needed to be replaced.
On the other hand, Mrs Cs provided independent reports from two experts. Her plumbers 
invoice stated that the source of the leak under the shower pod was a failed trap.  A 
concluded that the floor did need to be replaced. Its report said: water damage was noted to 
the chipboard flooring. And A recommended changing the chipboard flooring due to the 
shower tray starting to sink into the flooring. Mrs C explained that A felt the water damage 
was attributable to the failed trap.
Fairmead and B reviewed the new evidence, as Id expect it to do. But neither were satisfied 
that the floor was wet or that the damage was down to something the policy covered. Given 
the conflicting expert evidence, I can understand its position. While I think the evidence 
provided by both parties is clear and compelling, there remains a dispute about whether the 
floor is unsound and if so, whether thats because of an insured event. So I think its 
reasonable for Fairmead to appoint an independent surveyor to visit Mrs Cs home and carry 
out a new assessment of the damage to ascertain whether it should be accepted and paid 
under the policy.
In this case, I can understand why Mrs C wasnt happy for B to reinspect her home, given 
the delays in progressing her claim and the lack of communication. I think the fairer outcome 
here is for an independent surveyor to carry out the assessment. Im pleased Fairmead 
agreed to this course of action. Once such an inspection has taken place, Id expect 
Fairmead to promptly reassess the claim in line with the report and let Mrs C know whether 
her claim will be settled.
I appreciate Mrs C feels it isnt reasonable that if shes unhappy with the outcome of the 
further inspection, shell need to make a new complaint to Fairmead. I do appreciate this 
claim has been going for over a year now and that shes understandably frustrated. But our 
rules do say that we can only look into a complaint once a financial business has been given 
the chance to investigate and put things right if necessary. Ive considered Mrs Cs complaint 
points about the handling of her claim to date and Ive decided its fair for Fairmead to 
appoint a new surveyor. If Mrs C is ultimately unhappy with the decision on her claim 
following a reinspection, she will need to complain first to Fairmead before were potentially 
able to help.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above, my final decision is that I uphold this complaint in part.
I direct Fairmead Insurance Limited to:
- Appoint an independent surveyor to inspect Mrs Cs shower and chipboard flooring to 
assess whether it needs to be replaced because of something the policy covers; and
- Pay £100 compensation.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs C to accept or 
reject my decision before 24 November 2020.
 
Lisa Barham
Ombudsman