DRN-4016040
The complaint
Mrs H complains that Clydesdale Bank Plc trading as Virgin Money lent irresponsibly when it 
approved her credit card application. 
What happened
In February 2017 Mrs H applied for a credit card with Virgin Money. In the application, Mrs H 
gave a household income of £63,000. Virgin Money says it carried out a credit search and 
looked at how much Mrs H owed elsewhere. Virgin Money says the credit card was 
approved in line with its lending criteria and Mrs H went on to complete a balance transfer of 
£2,500 from another credit card with a different business. 
Last year, Mrs H complained to Virgin Money that it had lent irresponsibly when it approved 
her credit card. Mrs H explained that shes since been diagnosed with mental health issues 
that impacts her spending. 
Virgin Money sent Mrs H a final response but didnt agree it had lent irresponsibly. Virgin 
Money said it had taken a range of factors into account when deciding whether to lend and 
that the credit card application was approved in line with its criteria. Virgin Money said Mrs H 
completed a balance transfer when the account was opened in May 2017. Mrs H went on to 
settle the outstanding balance in December 2017 and the account was closed. 
An investigator at this service looked at Mrs Hs complaint. They thought Virgin Money had 
completed reasonable and proportionate checks before approving Mrs Hs credit card and 
didnt agree it had lent irresponsibly. Mrs H asked to appeal, so her complaint has been 
passed to me to make a decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Our general approach to complaints about unaffordable or irresponsible lending  including 
the key rules, guidance and good industry practice  is set out on our website.
Before agreeing to lend, Virgin Money needed to complete proportionate checks to be able 
to understand whether the borrowing was sustainable for Mrs H. Theres no specific list of 
checks a lender has to complete. While it is down to the lender to decide what specific 
checks to carry out, these should be reasonable and proportionate to the type and amount of 
credit being provided, the length of the term, the frequency and amount of the repayments, 
the total cost of the credit and what it knew about Mrs H at the time of application.
Here, Mrs H was applying for a credit card. Virgin Moneys confirmed it took information Mrs 
H gave in the application about her circumstances and checked her credit file to get a picture 
of how much she owed elsewhere. Virgin Money says it took the available information and 
carried out an affordability assessment that showed Mrs H was able to sustainably manage 
credit card repayments. 
Ive looked at the information available. In addition to the evidence supplied by Virgin Money, 
Mrs H has sent us a copy of her credit report. Ive also seen current account statements from 
the period in question. I can see Mrs H gave details of the household income. And Mrs Hs 
credit file doesnt show evidence of arrears or other adverse credit. I havent seen anything 
that suggests Mrs H was experiencing financial difficulties when applying for her credit card. 
Virgin Money applied its lending criteria to the application and completed an affordability 
assessment. Virgin Moneys confirmed the application passed its lending checks so the 
credit card was approved with a limit of £4,200. Im satisfied the application met Virgin 
Moneys lending criteria and was reasonably approved. Im very sorry to disappoint Mrs H 
but I havent been persuaded that Virgin Money failed to complete proportionate checks or 
that it lent irresponsibly by approving the credit card application. 
Mrs H has told us that she was later diagnosed with mental health issues that impact how 
she spends and her ability to manage her finances. I dont doubt what Mrs H has told us. But 
I think its reasonable to note that Mrs Hs diagnosis wasnt made until some years after she 
applied to Virgin Money for a credit card and repaid the balance. I havent seen anything that 
shows Virgin Money was aware of Mrs Hs mental health issues when she applied for the 
credit card. Im sorry to disappoint Mrs H but I havent found anything that shows Virgin 
Money treated her unfairly. 
As Im satisfied Virgin Money dealt with Mrs Hs complaint fairly Im not telling it to do 
anything else. 
My final decision
My decision is that I dont uphold Mrs Hs complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs H to accept or 
reject my decision before 24 April 2023.
 
Marco Manente
Ombudsman