DRN-4075703
The complaint
Mr R complains that Brent Shrine Credit Union Limited trading as My Community Bank 
(MCB) lent to him irresponsibly. 
What happened
In October 2021, Mr R applied to MCB for a loan of £5,000. It was agreed and was to be 
repaid in 48 monthly instalments of approximately £178. Mr R says at the time he was 
experiencing issues with his mental health, his finances, and a gambling addiction. He says 
he had taken two other loans shortly before this one, totalling £10,000. Mr R believes that if 
MCB had checked his application properly, it ought to have refused it. He says it was lent 
irresponsibly.  
MCB looked into his complaint. It said it conducted its usual checks and the results hadnt 
caused any concerns. MCB said the two loans Mr R had taken recently didnt show on his 
credit report at the time as they were too new. It said it had no way of knowing Mr R was 
struggling with his mental health. MCB rejected Mr Rs complaint. 
Mr R didnt agree with MCBs response, so he referred his complaint to us. One of our 
investigators looked into it. She said MCB had carried out reasonable checks on Mr Rs 
application. Shed seen nothing to suggest MCB ought to have asked further questions, so 
she felt it had reached a fair decision to lend to Mr R. 
MCB accepted what our investigator said, but Mr R didnt. He said, in summary, MCB ought 
to have reviewed his accounts through open banking and therefore should have identified 
his gambling addiction. If it had, he feels it ought to have refused to lend to him. He also said 
a complaint he raised about another loan with another provider was upheld by this service in 
similar circumstances, so he feels this one should be too. 
As there was no agreement, the complaint has been passed to me for a decision.   
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our approach to complaints about unaffordable and irresponsible lending 
on our website  including the key relevant rules, guidance, good industry practice and 
law. Ive considered this approach when deciding this complaint.
MCB needed to carry out reasonable and proportionate checks to ensure that it didnt 
lend to Mr R irresponsibly. I think there are key questions I need to consider in order to 
decide what is fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint: 
Did MCB carry out reasonable and proportionate checks to satisfy itself that Mr R 
was in a position to sustainably repay the loan?
oIf not, what would reasonable and proportionate checks have shown at the 
time?
oDid MCB make a fair lending decision?
Did MCB act unfairly or unreasonably towards Mr R in some other way?
There is no set list of checks that MCB had to do, but it could take into account several 
different things such as the amount and length of the loan, the amount of the monthly 
repayments and the overall circumstances of the borrower.
Did MCB carry out reasonable and proportionate checks?
MCB gathered information from Mr R at the application stage and carried out a 
creditworthiness assessment as it is obliged to do by the regulations. As part of that check, it 
used a credit reference agency to verify Mr Rs income which hed quoted as £35,000 a 
year, and used information published by the Office for National Statistics (ONS) to estimate 
his expenditure. 
It also conducted a review of Mr Rs credit report which showed he was paying just under 
£600 per month to other creditors. He had no defaults or County Court Judgments, and his 
payments were up to date on all accounts. The credit report obtained doesnt show the very 
recent loans Mr R has mentioned as part of his complaint
I dont think its unusual that MCB were unaware of the recent loans Mr R had taken 
because, in my experience, it can take up to eight weeks for accounts to appear on a credit 
report. So I dont think the information it found would have given it any cause to ask for 
further information such as Mr Rs bank statements etc. In my view, the checks carried out 
by MCB were sufficient to be considered reasonable and proportionate in the circumstances. 
Ive seen nothing to suggest it was aware (or ought to have been aware) of his gambling or 
mental health issues.
Given that I think MCB carried out reasonable and proportionate checks before agreeing to 
lend to Mr R, I think it made a fair decision to lend to him.
Did MCB act unfairly or unreasonably towards Mr R in some other way?
Ive carefully read and thought about all the evidence provided by each party to this 
complaint. Having done so, I dont think MCB has acted unfairly or unreasonably towards 
Mr R in some other way. 
Ive noted Mr Rs comments that MCB ought to have reviewed his accounts through open 
banking. But as Ive explained, given the information it found while conducting its usual 
checks, I see no reason for it to have taken that extra step. 
I note too his concerns that another loan he complained about was found to be unaffordable 
by this service. It wouldnt be right for me to comment in detail on another cases, but it may 
be that the investigator in the other case felt the lender hadnt carried out reasonable and 
proportionate checks, which led to a different decision. 
Im sorry to disappoint Mr R, but I dont uphold his complaint about MCB. If he finds himself 
in financial difficulty, Id encourage him to work with MCB to reach an affordable repayment 
plan. Id also remind MCB of its obligation to treat customers in financial difficulty fairly. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision before 30 August 2023. 
Richard Hale
Ombudsman