DRN-3564474
The complaint
Mr H complains that Revolut Ltd withheld funds he had received into his account.
What happened
Mr H owns and rents out a holiday property. In July 2021 he rented it out to a client who paid 
the rental fee of €9,000 to his Revolut account.   
Revolut asked to see evidence of the source of the funds and indicated that, without that 
evidence, it might not be able to release funds to Mr H. Specifically, it asked to see copies of 
the clients bank account statements. Mr H thought that was unreasonable and said he 
thought it unlikely that his client would provide them. When the client did provide account 
extracts, Revolut said they werent sufficient. 
After further discussion, Revolut did agree to release funds on sight of the rental agreement. 
Mr H said however that he had been put to unnecessary inconvenience for which he should 
be compensated. He had also been concerned that the funds might not be released at all. 
Revolut offered £20 and an upgrade of Mr Hs account, which he did not accept. He referred 
the matter to this service, where our investigator recommend compensation of £100. Again, 
Mr H did not accept that and asked that an ombudsman review the case. 
I did that and agreed with Mr H that £100 was not enough compensation in the 
circumstances. I recommended that it be increased to £250. Mr H said that he had nothing 
further to add; Revolut accepted my recommendation.      
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I noted in my provisional decision that Revolut is entitled to carry out checks to ensure that 
money received into its customers account comes from legitimate sources. It may be 
obliged to carry out such checks in some cases. I noted too that it is primarily for Revolut to 
decide what is appropriate, both generally and in specific cases. My role is to decide whether 
Revolut treated Mr H fairly in this case.
My concern here was that Mr H had pointed out  with some justification in my view  that 
his client would be unwilling to comply with Revoluts request. Most clients in a similar 
position might be reluctant to send bank statements to someone from whom they were 
renting holiday accommodation, especially if they knew too that those statements would be 
passed to a third party with which they had no relationship  in this case, Revolut. However, 
Revolut failed to address those concerns, instead repeating the request for copy bank 
statements. For these reasons, I thought Mr H should receive more compensation than that 
recommended by the investigator. 
Revolut accepted my provisional decision, but I will nevertheless make a formal award, so 
that Mr H can enforce it if necessary.    
My final decision
My final decision is that, to resolve Mr Hs complaint, Revolut Ltd should pay him £250.  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 25 July 2022. 
Mike Ingram
Ombudsman