DRN-3192934
The complaint
Mr H complains about the increase in premium he was quoted by Admiral Insurance 
Company Limited, when insuring a new car, under his motor insurance policy.
What happened
In May 2021 Mr H contacted Admiral as he wanted to understand what it would cost to 
insure a new car under his policy. He was told the additional premium he would need to pay 
to insure his new car was £1,407.99. Mr H thought this was too expensive. Mr H agreed to 
reduce the mileage allowed under his policy to 10,000 miles per year. This brought the 
additional premium down by around £120. 
Mr H remained unhappy. Admiral offered a discount and to remove the administration fee for 
making the change to the policy. This brought the additional premium down by around 
another £150. Admiral couldnt lower the additional premium any further and explained Mr H 
would need to pay an additional fee of £1,136.30 to change his policy to add his new car.
Mr H visited a price comparison website and says he was quoted annual premiums by a 
number of insurers for around £1,400. He didnt understand why Admiral wanted to charge 
so much more and raised a complaint about this and for the time he had spent dealing with 
the matter. 
Admiral says it calculated the additional premium correctly. It apologised it wasnt able to 
match the price Mr H says he was quoted. It explained the new car represented a higher risk 
and this is why the additional premium was set at the level it was. It says it ensured call 
backs took place as requested but apologised for the upset caused when Mr H was trying to 
get through by phone. To acknowledge this, it removed the fee for cancelling the policy when 
he obtained insurance with another provider.
Mr H wasnt satisfied with this outcome and referred his complaint to our service. Our 
investigator didnt uphold his complaint. She thought Admirals explanation for the additional 
premium was reasonable. This is because the new car belonged to a higher insurance group 
and it was more expensive amongst other factors. She thought Admiral had been fair in 
calculating the price it had and the removal of the cancellation was reasonable in the 
circumstances described. 
Mr H disagreed and asked for an ombudsman to review his complaint.
It has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I have decided not to uphold Mr Hs complaint. I understand he will be 
disappointed, but I will explain why I think my decision is fair. 
The premium an insurer charges is based on an assessment of the likelihood of a customer 
making a claim and how much this is likely to cost. A wide range of factors are considered, 
and each insurer will have its own approach and appetite for taking on risk. 
There are some common factors that an insurer will consider, which includes the insurance 
group. All cars fall into one of these groups from 1 to 50. The highest and most risk is 
associated with group 50. The new car Mr H had bought is classed in group 49. This is in a 
higher group than the car he had previously insured with Admiral. Its estimated market value 
was also significantly more expensive than the car it was replacing.
I have listened to the phone calls between Mr H and Admiral. During these calls the 
additional premium clearly comes as a shock to him. Admiral reduces the cost by amending 
the annual mileage, with agreement from Mr H, as well as applying a discount and removing 
an administration fee. Mr H wasnt satisfied with this. As a result, he obtained comparison 
quotes online and spoke to Admiral again to discuss this point. 
The annual premium Mr H says he was offered was around £1,400, which is far lower than 
the combined cost of his annual premium plus the additional charge with Admiral. It says a 
new policy will often include a new customer discount, which can bring the price down 
significantly. As Mr H was an existing customer, the best price it could offer was an 
additional premium of £1,136.30 for adding his new car to the policy.   
We asked Admiral for its underwriting information to understand how it calculated this 
additional premium. Were not the regulator and arent able to tell an insurer how it should 
calculate premiums or how much it should charge. But we can consider whether an insurer 
treated its customer fairly. I have read the information it supplied to determine whether it 
used its established underwriting criteria when assessing the risk and calculating Mr Hs 
additional premium. 
Admirals underwriting criteria is sensitive commercial information, so I cant share it. But Ive 
considered the information it provided, and Im satisfied it did follow its established process 
when calculating Mr Hs additional premium. As above a big factor in the cost was the higher 
insurance group and higher value of his new car.
I can understand why Mr H was shocked and disappointed with the additional premium he 
was quoted by Admiral. This was a significant amount of money to have to pay and more 
than the quotes he says he found online. I dont dispute that Mr H was quoted a cheaper 
premium by other insurers. But this doesnt mean Admiral treated him unfairly. The level at 
which it sets its premiums is a decision for it to make. But Im satisfied it treated Mr H the 
same as it would any other customer when calculating his additional premium. 
I understand Mr H found it frustrating dealing with Admiral and wanted compensation for his 
time and for difficulties in getting through on the phone. Based on the records I have seen 
Admiral did carry out several call backs when requested. But I acknowledge Mr H found the 
situation frustrating, and I think the business behaved fairly when removing its cancellation 
fee to acknowledge this. 
In summary, I think Admiral treated Mr H fairly when calculating his premium and in 
providing an apology and waiving its cancellation fee. So, I cant reasonably ask it to do any 
more to resolve his complaint.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 4 April 2022.
 
Mike Waldron
Ombudsman