DRN-3809324
The complaint
Mr S complained that his claim was unfairly declined by Royal & Sun Alliance Insurance Plc 
(RSA) under his home insurance policy and he thought it was unreasonable that RSA 
decided to subsequently cancel his policy.
What happened
Mr S made a claim to RSA for damage to two pieces of furniture. Mr S explained that the 
damage had occurred accidentally when a paint pot was knocked over whilst the room was 
being decorated.
Mr S provided photographs and a video of the damage, but RSA explained that it was 
normal as part of its claim validation process to arrange a physical inspection of the damage 
by one of its representatives. However, due to the Covid-19 pandemic, RSA said it would do 
this by a video call so not to delay the claim.
RSA said it was unable to fully validate the claim  it wanted to discuss the claim with Mr S 
to fully understand the circumstances. Therefore, it declined the claim, but said if it is given 
the opportunity to further validate the claim it would re-consider it.
Mr S explained that his vulnerable circumstances meant that he wasnt keen on doing a 
video call, but he never said he wouldnt do it. However, RSA felt that Mr S wasnt co-
operating with the validation of the claim, so it decided to cancel the policy.
Mr S believes he has done everything he can to co-operate with RSA and thinks its actions 
are unfair.
Our investigator decided to uphold the complaint. She thought it was fair that RSA should 
want to fully validate the claim and due to the pandemic she thought the approach to carry 
out a video interview was reasonable. However, she didnt think RSA had fairly considered 
Mr S vulnerable circumstances when cancelling the policy, so thought the cancellation was 
too harsh for what had happened. RSA disagreed, so the case has been referred to an 
ombudsman. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
This complaint has been ongoing for a long time so there has been a lot of communication 
back and forth between the parties. In setting out my decision, I wont commentate on every 
piece of evidence that I have reviewed. I will focus on the key points that has led me to my 
decision.
I have first considered RSAs decision to decline the claim. I have read the policy and it 
explains how to make a claim. It states, youll need to give us any help and evidence we 
need about the cause of your claim and its value. Later the policy states the claim 
conditions well arrange for the damage to be inspected by one of our representatives or an 
independent loss adjuster or other expert. The policy states Mr S responsibilities you must 
give us any information and assistance we require.
The validation process was restricted due to the Covid-19 pandemic, so RSA wasnt able to 
physically visit Mr S property to review the damage. It reviewed the photos and video that 
Mr S provided, which I think was a reasonable approach. However, I can see that RSA 
wasnt comfortable to settle the claim based on this evidence  it also had some other 
concerns based on investigations carried out by one of its experts.
I think RSA had genuine cause to question the circumstances of the claim, so it wanted to do 
further validation on the claim. I think this is reasonable and is consistent with what its 
allowed to do under the terms and conditions of the policy. Due to the constraints of the 
pandemic, a video call was a sensible approach  I dont see any other way the claim 
couldve been progressed at this time.
As RSA couldnt complete its validation of the claim, I dont think it has been unfair in not 
settling the claim. There were fair reasons it wanted to carry out further validation and as this 
wasnt possible, I dont think RSA has done anything wrong here. So, I dont uphold this 
aspect of the complaint.
I did observe that Mr S had concerns with how he was treated by one of RSAs 
representatives. For me to consider a complaint like this, I would need to see clear evidence 
that RSAs representative had behaved inappropriately. This is difficult to prove and 
unfortunately, I only have Mr S testimony to go on. Whilst, Im not saying I dont believe Mr 
S, it also wouldnt be fair for me to conclude RSA had acted unfairly without strong evidence 
to show it has. Therefore, I know this will be frustrating for Mr S, but I wont be able to 
consider this point without clear evidence.
Ive then considered whether RSA has been fair in cancelling the policy based on them 
determining Mr S had not been co-operating on the claim. I have checked the policy to 
understand what it states about this. The policy states:
we may cancel your policy for the reasons explained in the Changes in your circumstances 
condition on page 19 and the Fraud condition at the top of this page. We may also cancel 
your policy if we identify serious grounds for doing so, including but not limited to: failure to 
provide us with information weve requested thats directly relevant to your cover or any 
claim.
RSA decided to cancel the policy as it said weve confirmed that we required a recorded 
video interview to alleviate some concerns about your claim, however, youve failed to co-
operate with our request. As such, weve taken the decision to invoke the 14-day 
cancellation clause on your policy.
Cancelling Mr S policy could have long lasting consequences on Mr S as the cancellation 
will be recorded against his policy history. It could impact his ability to get insurance in the 
future and it could impact the price he has to pay for future cover. Therefore, Id expect RSA 
to make certain this was a fair course of action before implementing it.
I dont think it has and for that reason, I uphold this aspect of the complaint. RSA said it can 
cancel the policy base on poor co-operation and this is no different to the reasoning for it 
declining the claim.
Whilst I can understand why RSA may have reached this conclusion, I dont agree with it 
and I dont think its fair in the circumstances. Whilst, I think it was fair for RSA not to settle the claim for Mr S failing to attend a video call as it couldnt carry out the validation  I dont 
think its fair to cancel the policy for this reason.
Mr S had vulnerable circumstances which meant he may find a video call difficult. I havent 
seen any evidence that Mr S wouldnt do the call. I appreciate RSA said Mr S didnt attend 
on the specific meeting time that was set-up. However, Mr S has explained hes not great 
with technology. RSA said he had logged onto the technology before with the help of a 
relative  but this doesnt prove he wasnt having difficulties logging on at the later date.
I think Mr S has provided a lot of information to RSA for this claim including video footage 
and photographs, so I dont think its fair to say he wasnt co-operating. I think given the 
circumstances RSA couldve done more to try and re-arrange the interview and to check Mr 
S didnt need any support. As RSA cancelled the policy as it said Mr S didnt co-operate, I 
think it did this unreasonably, so I uphold this aspect of the complaint. I require RSA to undo 
the cancellation, so it doesnt appear on Mr S history. It should also consider any claims that 
may arise related to the cancelled period. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint. I require Royal & Sun Alliance Insurance Plc 
to:
Undo the cancellation of Mr S policy.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 11 January 2023.
 
Pete Averill
Ombudsman