DRN-4078842
The complaint
Mr S has complained that The Co-operative Bank Plc (Co-op Bank) included the wrong 
opening times for the Everyday Extra Account travel insurance claim line.
As Mr S believes that the opening times stated in the travel insurance literature on Co-op 
Banks website are incorrect, Mr S would like Co-op Bank to explain all of the other 
deviations that may exist between the published terms and conditions and the ones that the 
insurer is using when considering claims.
What happened
In responding to Mr Ss complaint, Co-op Bank said that it had passed on his concerns to the 
travel insurer.
Unhappy with the response, Mr S referred his complaint to our service.
Since referring his complaint to this service, Co-op Bank has since acknowledged that it 
shouldve addressed Mr Ss concerns, rather than referring his concerns to the travel insurer. 
Co-op Bank reviewed the travel documentation and confirmed that the opening times stated 
in the terms and conditions are correct. And it has confirmed that the terms and conditions it 
has published on its website are the current terms and conditions applicable for the 
Everyday Extra travel insurance cover.
Co-op Bank agreed to pay Mr S £50 compensation for incorrectly referring him to the insurer 
in its final response letter.
One of our adjudicators assessed the complaint and they thought that £50 was a reasonable 
amount of compensation for Co-op Banks failure to address Mr Ss concerns in its final 
response letter.
Mr S disagreed with the adjudicators assessment, so the matter was referred for an 
ombudsmans decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve explained our approach to complaints about packaged accounts on our website, and 
Ive used that to help me decide this complaint.
I think it may also help to explain that I can only consider whether Co-op Bank has acted 
fairly and reasonably in this matter. I cant consider anything that the travel insurer is 
responsible for (such as how it handled Mr Ss travel insurance claim).  
Firstly, I understand that Mr S says that the opening times stated on the travel insurance 
documentation for his Everyday Extra account are incorrect. Mr S says that the 
documentation says the opening times for the travel insurer telephone number operate 
between 8am and 8pm  whereas when he called up to make a claim, the line was only 
available up until 5pm. 
I have looked at the document in question and Ive not seen anything to suggest that the 
information is incorrect. The documentation states that for general queries the telephone line 
is available between 8am  8pm Monday to Friday, and 9am  6pm Saturday and Sunday. 
Although it says that in the event of a medical emergency, the telephone line is available 
24/7. Under the section that explains how to make a claim, it gives more detail and says that 
for all other claims (i.e. claims not relating to a medical emergency), the line is available 
between 9am and 5pm, Monday to Friday.
As such, I cant see that the documentation does contain incorrect information. On the 
contrary, it seems that Mr S presumed that because the general enquires line was open from 
8am to 8pm, that was also the case for the claims line. 
Because Mr S thought that the opening times information was incorrect, he asked Co-op 
Bank to explain any other variation that may exist. Co-op Bank has confirmed that the terms 
and conditions available on its website are the correct terms that the insurer is using.
As such, I cant see that Co-op has done anything wrong in relation to the travel insurance 
terms and conditions.
Having said that, Co-op has acknowledged that it shouldve addressed Mr Ss concerns in its 
final response letter, rather than say that it had informed the insurer about his concerns. Co-
op Bank has since acknowledged that this was not helpful and is therefore prepared to pay 
Mr S £50 for any distress and inconvenience this mayve caused him.
Overall, this doesnt seem to be an unreasonable amount of compensation to reflect the 
frustration that Mr S no doubt felt because Co-Op Bank didnt address his concerns in its 
final response letter.
Putting things right
Because of the reasons given above, I require The Co-operative Bank Plc to pay Mr S £50 
compensation, for the frustration caused by it incorrectly referring his complaint back to the 
travel insurer, rather than addressing his concerns itself.
My final decision
Because of the reasons given above, I uphold this complaint and require The Co-operative 
Bank Plc to do what I have set out above to resolve this matter.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 23 May 2023.
 
Thomas White
Ombudsman