DRN-3095683
The complaint
Mr B complained that Bank of Scotland plc (BoS) had decided to make a refund from an 
old credit card account that was closed many years ago. But instead of paying the money to 
him, BoS paid it to the company that had bought this debt from BoS.
 What happened
Mr B said BoS had decided to make a refund on his account, but he said instead of giving 
him this money, BoS had paid the refund to the debt collection company that bought the debt 
may years ago. Mr B said that the money BoS was refunding was his, so he should decide 
where it went, and who it was (or wasn't) transferred to. He said BoS shouldnt have sent 
this money to debt collectors without consulting him, or getting his authorisation. He felt that 
was a decision BoS did not have authority to make, and should not have assumed. 
Mr B wanted us to ensure BoS paid him back his money, and apologised for what it had 
done. He said at the time BoS sent this money the debt was statute barred, so paying the 
debt collector was both unnecessary and not something he would have agreed to.
BoS didnt think it had done anything wrong. It said that this refund was of interest applied to 
Mr Bs card just before the account was closed. It didnt think that interest shouldve been 
incurred, so it had decided to refund it. But because this was part of the debt that BoS had 
sold to debt collectors, it said that this money would be used to reduce that debt. 
BoS said that Mr B wasnt entitled to this unless hed paid all the debt off. If hed done that, 
then the debt collector would pay him back. 
Our investigator didnt think this complaint should be upheld. He said it seems reasonable 
that BoS would pass the funds onto the company who bought Mr Bs debt, to be offset 
against any outstanding debt. Our investigator said that if Mr B hadnt been in debt, then the 
money would have been paid to him. But he was, so the money went to reduce that debt. 
Our investigator didnt think that BoS had to do anything more. 
Mr B didnt agree. He said that BoS shouldnt be able to direct funds that belong to him, to a 
source he had not authorised. He repeated that this was his money. And a bank shouldnt be 
able to use his money in a way he had not allowed it to.
Mr B said that this debt was statute barred, so it was no longer due. The money was his, and 
should have been returned to him.
But our investigator didnt change his mind. Mr B asked for his case to be considered by an 
ombudsman, so this case was then passed to me for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive reached the same overall conclusion as our investigator.
Mr B has explained that the reason he feels this is his money is because this debt was 
statute barred, so he didnt have to pay it. But what Mr B is asking me to do here is to make 
a legal decision, that he doesnt owe this money. 
I dont have full information on that debt. And even if I did, our service isnt a court, and its 
not for us to decide whether a debt is legally enforceable. Only a court can decide this. 
What I have to look at is whether the business that Mr B complained about, BoS, has acted 
reasonably.
And I think it has. I would still say that BoS has acted reasonably here, whether or not this 
debt is enforceable now. And thats because I dont think this was ever Mr Bs money. It was 
money that BoS had lent him, that he wasnt able to pay back. 
As Ive said, I dont have full information on what happened here, and how Mr B ended up in 
financial difficulties some years ago. That can happen for all sorts of reasons, including 
things where no one is really to blame.
But we do know that Mr B ran up a credit card debt. And we know he didnt pay it. 
BoS has told us that the debt was made up both of money Mr B had spent, and interest and 
charges applied for using the card. 
BoS has decided that some of that debt, a bit of the interest it applied, shouldnt be there. So 
its made a refund. But what its done is to pass the money to the debt collection company 
that bought this debt. 
So I think that what BoS has done is to put Mr B in the situation he should have been in, if it 
had taken the right approach to this debt years ago. Mr Bs debt would have been a bit 
smaller, if BoS had done the right thing then. And now, it is a bit smaller.
I dont think that BoS should have behaved differently because of things that happened after 
this, like whether Mr B paid off the debt, or whether its still enforceable now.
BoS has been clear that it would always have paid this money to the debt collection 
company, and if Mr B had paid off the debt, then that company would have passed the 
refund on to him. I think thats the right approach.
Mr B might also like to know that this is the same approach our service routinely takes in 
similar situations. So if Mr B had complained to us about interest applied to his card, and Id 
decided that complaint in his favour, any refund of interest would still have been used in the 
same way  to reduce his debt. It wouldnt have been paid to him.
For these reasons, I dont think that BoS did anything wrong here. I know that Mr B will be 
disappointed, but I dont think this complaint should be upheld.
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint. Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 29 November 2021.
 
Esther Absalom-Gough
Ombudsman