DRN-3641021
The complaint
Ms M complains U K Insurance Limited (UKI) is treating her unfairly by only offering one 
payment method in relation to her landlord insurance policy. 
What happened
Ms M didnt want her policy to renew, so she cancelled the direct debit. However, the last 
monthly payment hadnt yet been taken, so UKI is asking for the outstanding amount.
Ms M is happy to make the final payment. But she says she cant pay by debit card, because 
she doesnt have one for the bank account that she uses for the let property. Ms M says she 
doesnt want to use another account as that would cause problems when reconciling her 
business expenses for tax purposes. 
UKI says it can only accept funds for a failed direct debit by card. Ms M is unhappy UKI 
wont accept other forms of payment for the outstanding amount.
Ms M also says the problem was caused by UKI, because she asked if she owed anything 
further before she cancelled her direct debit.
One of our investigators has considered the complaint, but she didnt think UKI had done 
something wrong. Ms M disagreed, so her complaint has been passed to me for a final 
decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The information provided by UKI shows the collection date of the final direct debit payment 
was 10 January 2022 and the due date was 13 January 2022. The information also shows 
Ms M spoke to UKI about whether she owed anything on 27 January 2022. Therefore, the 
information suggests Ms M had already cancelled the direct debit before speaking to UKI. 
Had the direct debit been cancelled on or after 27 January 2022, the final payment would 
have likely already gone through (given it was scheduled on 10 January 2022).
But in any event, UKI didnt confirm Ms M didnt owe anything, and nor did Ms M ask if she 
could cancel her direct debit. Ms M simply said she wanted to cancel the renewal, and UKI 
confirmed it would do so. Ms M also asked UKI to confirm she hadnt paid more than she 
should have, and UKI explained that whilst there wasnt anything showing on her profile, 
when the policy ends (on 12 February 2022) any amounts owed or needed would be 
calculated. So, I dont find UKI gave Ms M incorrect or misleading information.
I can understand Ms Ms frustration that UKI will only take the payment by card, but overall, 
Im not persuaded UKI is acting unfairly or unreasonably here. Whilst Ms M doesnt have a 
card for the account she wishes to use, she has the option of arranging a card for that 
account, or the option of paying with an alternative account.
I accept arranging a card for the account in question will cause Ms M some inconvenience. 
I also accept that by making the payment from another account, she may have to provide 
additional information to her accountant and/or HM Revenue & Customs. However, such 
inconvenience doesnt lead me to conclude UKI should change its payment options for 
Ms M or waive the outstanding payment. 
My final decision
Im sorry to disappoint Ms M. But for the reasons Ive set out above, I dont uphold this 
complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms M to accept or 
reject my decision before 18 October 2022.
 
Vince Martin
Ombudsman