DRN-4036290
The complaint
Ms C complains that Clydesdale Bank Plc trading as Virgin Money didnt give her notice that 
the interest rate on her buy to let mortgage was coming to an end. And she complains it 
gave her inaccurate information about how to apply for a new rate, which caused further 
delay. She complains that she ended up with a higher interest rate as a result. 
Clydesdale Bank Plc has a number of trading styles  the primary one is Virgin Money; it 
also includes Yorkshire Bank. As Ms Cs mortgage was branded as a Clydesdale mortgage, 
Ill refer to the firm as Clydesdale in the rest of this decision. 
What happened
Ms C has a buy to let mortgage with Clydesdale. Her existing fixed rate was due to end in 
December 2022. She says she expected Clydesdale to write to her to notify her of the expiry 
date  as she says other lenders with whom she also has mortgages do. 
Ms C says that she was delayed in making an application for a new rate because she didnt 
receive a notification. When she realised, in September 2022, Ms C called Clydesdale to 
switch and was directed to its website  she says she was given an incorrect web address 
(one for Yorkshire Bank, a separate part of Clydesdales business) and had to call again to 
get the right one, spending an excessive amount of time on the phone. By the time Ms C 
says she had all the information she needed to complete her online application, the rates 
available had increased. Ms C ended up taking a new rate of 5.14% rather than the 3.89% 
that was available before the rates increased  she says this meant her monthly payments 
were around £300 higher than they could have been. 
Ms C complained. She said that to put things right she wanted Clydesdale to give her the 
3.89% fixed rate, and to change its processes so that it would notify customers before their 
rates expire in future. She also said that she wanted it to pay her £1,000 compensation for 
the stress, upset and waste of time it had caused  including delays in resolving her 
complaint as well as problems with the rate switch process. 
Clydesdale said it did send rate expiry letters  but around three months before the expiry of 
a rate, and Ms C had contacted it before that point. It said that when Ms C first called on 
12 September, she had been sent the correct weblink. But it accepted that she had spent 
long periods waiting to speak to its call centre. And it accepted it had taken more than the 
standard eight weeks to respond to her complaint. It offered £50 compensation for these 
failings. 
But Clydesdale said it would not offer Ms C the 3.89% rate, since rates had increased 
between 12 September when she first called and 15 September when she called back. 
Rates had increased in the meantime and Ms C had been given the rate available at the 
time she completed her application. It said it was up to a customer to make sure that if they 
wanted to take a new rate they completed their application as quickly as possible. Ms C had 
been given the correct link on 12 September, and if she was experiencing problems with it 
hadnt called back until 15 September, after rates had increased. Rates could change at any 
time depending on market conditions.
Ms C wasnt happy with that and brought her complaint to us. Our investigator thought 
Clydesdale had made a fair offer. Ms C didnt agree and so her complaint comes to me for a 
final decision to be made.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ms C took out her mortgage in late 2020, borrowing around £300,000 over 21 years on 
interest only terms, secured over a buy to let property valued at around £400,000. The 
mortgage came with an initial fixe rate of 2.59% which expired on 31 December 2022. 
Clydesdale allows customers to book a new rate up to 180 days before the old one expires  
which in this case meant Ms C could apply for a new rate from early July 2022. And it writes 
to customers to remind them that their existing interest rate is due to expire, but only does so 
around three months before the end date. That means that in this case Clydesdale was due 
to write to Ms C around the end of September 2022. But she had already applied for a rate 
by then, first contacting Clydesdale on 12 September and completing her application on 15 
September.
Theres no obligation on a lender to write to customers in these circumstances, either when 
they can first apply for a new rate or at all. Customers of regulated mortgages  secured 
over their residential property  are covered by the rules of the regulator, the Financial 
Conduct Authority (FCA). Those rules do not require lenders to notify customers that a fixed 
rate is due to expire or that they can apply for a new rate. But they do require lenders to give 
customers reasonable notice in advance that their monthly payments are due to change  
one of the reasons for which might include the expiry of a fixed rate.
This is not a regulated mortgage. Buy to let mortgages are not regulated. So that rule 
doesnt apply in Ms Cs case. But nevertheless I think its good practice to let a borrower 
know that their payments are due to change so that they can plan for that and ensure they 
have sufficient funds available.
Ms Cs mortgage offer from 2020 set out the initial interest rate applicable to her mortgage, 
including when it expired. So Im satisfied Clydesdale did make her aware her rate expired 
on 31 December 2022. As a customer of a buy to let mortgage, Ms C is running a business  
letting out a property with a view to making a profit from the rental income and capital gain. 
Id expect a reasonably diligent businessperson to be aware of significant commitments and 
key dates which impact substantial business expenditure and act accordingly. And thats 
what Ms C did  she contacted Clydesdale almost four months before her existing rate 
expired to begin the process of expiring for a new one.
As I say, there is no obligation on Clydesdale to write to Ms C telling her that her interest rate 
is expiring and that she could apply for a new one. So it wasnt unfair or unreasonable that it 
didnt write to her in June telling her that she could apply for a new rate from July. It is good 
practice for it to write to her telling her that her monthly payments were about to change. It 
would have sent that letter  telling her not only about a change to the payments but also 
that it was because of the expiry of her rate  in late September. Thats fair and reasonable, 
but Ms C had already acted herself by then. I dont think there was any failing on 
Clydesdales part that meant Ms C didnt contact it before 12 September.
That brings me on to what happened when Ms C did make her application. She called 
Clydesdale on 12 September. She says that she spoke to an adviser who directed her to 
apply via the website and emailed her a link. But she says she was given the wrong web address  she was given details for Yorkshire Bank not Clydesdale. 
Ive seen the email Ms C was sent on 12 September. It directs her to a web address with the 
domain of secure.cbonline.co.uk. Ive tried the full link as set out in the email sent to Ms C 
and it takes me to a webpage headed Switch to a new deal New deals for existing 
Clydesdale Bank mortgage customers.
Clydesdale says it was the right address. That appears to me to be correct  following the 
link in the email it sent Ms C takes me to a page I would expect to see if I was an existing 
Clydesdale customer looking for a new rate. I dont think its likely Ms C was given a link to a 
Yorkshire Bank website rather than a Clydesdale Bank website, since Yorkshire Banks 
website domain is ybonline.co.uk not cbonline.co.uk  but the address in the email is a 
cbonline.co.uk address.
Ms Cs mortgage was a Clydesdale Bank mortgage not a Yorkshire Bank mortgage. The 
email on 12 September directed her to the Clydesdale Bank switching site not the Yorkshire 
Bank switching site. Im therefore satisfied that Clydesdale gave Ms C the correct 
information when she called on 12 September.
I dont know why Ms C was unable to complete her switch online following the 12 September 
email. It wasnt because Clydesdale had given her the wrong website, so whatever the 
reason it wasnt Clydesdales fault. So I cant hold Clydesdale responsible for Ms C being 
unable to switch on 12 September.
I also cant hold Clydesdale responsible for Ms C not getting back in touch until 
15 September. Its unfortunate that interest rates had increased in the meantime. But rates 
can change at any time, and a lender is only required to honour the rates available when a 
customer completes their application. Ive found that Ms Cs application wasnt completed 
until after the rates changed overnight on 14 / 15 September, and that it wasnt because of 
something Clydesdale did wrong that the application wasnt completed sooner. It follows that 
I cant fairly require Clydesdale to honour the rate Ms C saw before the increase, on 
12 September.
Finally, Ive thought about Ms Cs complaint about problems getting through to Clydesdale 
on the phone. Im sure it was very frustrating and inconvenient for Ms C to have to wait on 
hold to be connected. But Ive also borne in mind that some frustration of this sort is part of 
life  not every firm has call handlers available at all times, and some waiting in queues is 
inevitable. And around this time, in September and October 2022, the mortgage market was 
moving quickly with interest rates increasing rapidly and deals being withdrawn all the time. 
As a result, many people were trying to get in touch with their lenders to secure deals, and 
banks call centres were under particular pressure  with waiting times increasing as a result. 
I recognise it was frustrating for Ms C, but I have to take the wider context into account too. 
Im satisfied Clydesdales offer is fair in the circumstances. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint as Im satisfied Clydesdale Bank Plc 
trading as Virgin Money has made a fair and reasonable settlement offer.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms C to accept or 
reject my decision before 4 December 2023.
 
Simon Pugh
Ombudsman