DRN-2963282
The complaint
Ms A has complained about her previous car insurer Calpe Insurance Company Limited 
because it settled a third-party (TP) claim for an accident, which she says she wasnt 
involved in, on a split liability basis. 
What happened
Calpe was contacted by a TP insurer in April 2018. The TP insurer stated that Ms A had 
crossed into the path of a car it insured. Ms A denied involvement. Calpe defended that 
position but later, when further evidence was received, it settled the claim on a 50/50 basis. 
In June 2020 it asked Ms A to pay it the £3,000 policy excess. Ms A felt this was unfair. She 
said Calpe hadnt defended her properly and had failed to communicate with her  such that 
its request for payment two years after the accident was an incredible shock to her. 
 
When Calpe wouldnt accept it had done anything wrong, Ms A complained to us. Our 
investigator reviewed the evidence Calpe had seen and the policy terms. He noted that the 
claim had taken a while to progress but felt that Calpe had done what it could to keep it 
moving on. He felt Calpe had acted fairly and reasonably so didnt uphold the complaint. 
Ms A was unhappy. She said the fact that her car had been photographed by the TP driver 
didnt mean she had been involved in the accident. She felt it was unfair for her to have to 
pay £3,000 for something she didnt do.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I know this has been a difficult time for Ms A and that she feels strongly that she is not liable 
for this accident. But with regret for the upset I know this will cause Ms A, I dont intend to 
uphold her complaint against Calpe. 
Ms As policy is whats known as an all sections excess policy. That means shes required to 
pay her excess even if she doesn't make a claim for damage to her own car. So, for any 
claim against her policy, including a claim from a third party, Ms A has to pay an excess of 
up to £3,000, regardless of whos at fault.
I know Ms A has asked that we should advise how she can prove her innocence in this 
matter. But I cant offer advice. I would, however, explain that I am not determining whether 
Ms A was liable for this accident. That is not my role and not something Id be able to do. But 
what I have to do is to look at what is said to have happened, what evidence there is, what 
Calpe did and whether, given all of that, I think what it did was fair and reasonable. 
In this context fair and reasonable takes into account the policy term which allows Calpe to 
settle matters on behalf of Ms A, even if she doesnt agree with the outcome. But to have 
used that term fairly, Calpe must have reasonably assessed that its prospects for defending 
the claim made against Ms A were poor. In other words that if it pursued the position that 
Ms A was not at fault, it would likely  based on the balance of probabilities  lose. Losing 
such an action could leave Calpe open to paying significant costs. Its understandable that 
Calpe wouldnt want to leave itself vulnerable to that  and that is a position taken by most 
insurers. Its not unusual and, as long as Calpe uses this right fairly and reasonably, its not 
something this service would find fault with.
I note Ms A feels that photos of her car on the day and in the vicinity of the reported accident 
dont show she was involved in it. In this case the photos show her car driving in the vicinity 
of the TPs car. The accident was a bump that didnt stop the parties proceeding in their 
journey, so the photos arent of the type that might show two cars pulled over at the side of 
the road. So I can see why Ms A thinks these photos dont show, even on balance, that she 
was involved in the accident the TP reported. 
I think if the photos alone were the only evidence Calpe had obtained, then Id be 
questioning the reasonableness of it having settled the claim on a shared liability basis. 
However, Calpe also received an assessment of damage on both cars and obtained a 
damage consistency report from an engineer which compared the damage and markings 
present on both cars. I know Ms A says her car had dirt marks on it only, which had maybe 
been caused by another accident, but which washed off. But the engineer felt those marks 
were likely paint transfer consistent with the details of the accident and the TPs car (colour 
and size given the positioning of the markings on Ms As car). Further he noticed paint 
transfer on the TPs car consistent with Ms As car. Reading his report he seems to have no 
doubt that the two cars collided  but the one thing he said he couldnt say was which car 
went into the other. In other words whether Ms A crossed into the TPs lane, or vice versa. 
That is compelling evidence. And I can understand why, having seen this report, whilst 
taking into account the photos, Calpe sought to settle the claim on the most favourable terms 
 that being split liability. I dont think Calpe did anything wrong in this respect. 
I know Ms A thinks Calpe should have gathered more information, perhaps sought CCTV 
evidence from the area at the time she feels she was wrongfully accused of being involved in 
the accident. I note that Ms A felt this would show she was not involved in the crash at all. 
But Ive seen no compelling evidence that CCTV would have provided any footage of the 
incident. And given the engineers report, it seems that the cars did come together. I know 
Ms A thinks the claim from the TP is a scam which Calpe should have uncovered. But Im 
not persuaded, given the engineers report, thats likely the case, or something Calpe should 
have believed was likely the case. I say that as it seems unlikely to me that a car driver, who 
has damage to their car, would drive around with that damage until one day they fortuitously 
spotted a car, which theyd accurately determined fits the bill in terms of colour and size for 
the damage their car had previously sustained. And then that they would have contrived to 
take photos of that car and make a claim. Based on the evidence Calpe received, I think it 
acted fairly and reasonably. 
This claim did take a long time to progress. But I see that Calpe did obtain a report on 
Ms As car early on and that it often had to wait for replies and evidence to be sent by the TP 
insurer. I also note that Calpe told Ms A it was accepting the claim in March 2019  following 
receipt of its engineers report and that it made an offer to settle for the damage to the TPs 
car shortly thereafter. However, the TP also had a personal injury claim and Calpe wanted 
evidence before looking to settle that. It was some while before that evidence was received. 
Ideally Calpe would have kept Ms A more informed about what was going on, and perhaps 
reminded her that her excess was still outstanding. And if the personal injury claim was 
settled, she might have to pay her excess in full (the settlement for the TPs car was less 
than the full excess amount). But that doesnt mean I can reasonably say Calpe should be 
made to forego the excess payment it is entitled to from Ms A under the policy. And, given 
this is not an insubstantial amount and that Ms A believes she was not at fault, I think she was always going to have been upset by Calpes request for payment. Calpe not having 
been clear this would possibly still be due, didnt change that. 
I know that Calpe had dealt with Ms A by phone and email before. But that its request for the 
excess payment was sent by letter which Ms A did not receive. This meant that by the time 
Ms A found a chaser email from it, its debt recovery team were dealing with the matter. As 
Ms A wasnt insured with Calpe by this time she hadnt needed to tell it she had moved 
house. But I dont think it was unreasonable for Calpe to have requested the excess 
payment by postal letter. Whilst the parties had, at times, communicated by email, I dont 
see that Ms A had told Calpe not to send her letters.  
 
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint. I dont make any award against Calpe Insurance Company 
Limited.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms A to accept or 
reject my decision before 2 November 2021.
 
Fiona Robinson
Ombudsman