DRN-4063968
The complaint
Mr S complains that Barclays Bank UK PLC, who Ill call Barclays, led him to believe he was 
signing up for a top up loan, and he wasnt aware he was agreeing to two loans.
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here. Instead, Ill focus on giving my reasons for my decision. 
 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I know it will disappoint Mr S, but I dont think Barclays have done anything wrong here and 
Im not asking them to take any further action. Ill explain why.
Where the information Ive got is incomplete, unclear, or contradictory, as some of it is here I 
have to base my decision on the balance of probabilities.
Ive read and considered the whole file, but Ill concentrate my comments on what I think is 
relevant. If I dont comment on any specific point its not because Ive failed to take it on 
board and think about it but because I dont think I need to comment on it in order to reach 
what I think is the right outcome.
Mr S was paying a little over £574 per month for a loan he took out in December 2021. That 
loan was due to end in December 2024.
In or around July 2022 Mr S says Barclays sent him an email. Hes provided a copy of that 
correspondence in which they offered him £10,487 on top of the debt he owed them from his 
first loan. He says he was happy to sign up for that as the App explained his monthly 
payments would only rise by about £9, although the term would be extended to 60 months. 
Mr S says he merely followed the link in that correspondence and that the new loan should 
therefore have been a top up.
Ive seen a copy of the welcome letter sent to Mr S, at the same address as we have for him, 
on 5 July 2022 shortly after he registered for the second loan. That explains that hed be 
paying £234.36 for the next 60 months to repay the £10,700 loan and its associated interest. 
The letter explains:
If you change your mind
When you sign and return this Agreement well send you a letter confirming that the loan has 
started. From the day after you receive this letter, you have up to 14 days, to let us know if 
you dont want the loan.
I think it should have been clear to Mr S, when he received the welcome letter, that the loan 
he had signed up for was a new, additional loan. There was no mention of a top up and the 
monthly repayments were much lower than the £583 Mr S says he expected to pay. I think 
its reasonable to suggest that there was sufficient information in that letter to demonstrate 
the loan was a new one, and that had Mr S not wished to be tied to the repayments he had 
14 days within which to withdraw from the agreement.
I dont therefore think Barclays have done anything wrong as Im not persuaded the top up 
loan offer Mr S has provided a copy of was ever taken up by Mr S, and the details of the loan 
he did sign up for were adequately explained to him. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 18 September 2023.
 
Phillip McMahon
Ombudsman