DRN-2411463
Complaint
Mrs D has complained that she was mis-sold a payment protection insurance (PPI) policy. 
Its been agreed in this case that AXA France IARD (AXA) as the insurer, should accept 
the responsibility for the complaint. To keep things simple, Ill refer to AXA in my decision. 
Background
Mrs D bought the policy in 2001 at the same time as taking out a store card. 
Our adjudicator didnt uphold the complaint. Mrs D disagreed with the adjudicators opinion, 
so the complaint has been passed to me.
My findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding Mrs Ds case. Having done so, Ive decided not to 
uphold Mrs Ds complaint. Ill now explain why.
AXA should have taken reasonable steps to make it clear the PPI was optional and gain  
Mrs Ds consent before adding it to her store card. Mrs D said she was not told about it and 
did not agree to it.
 
AXA has provided a copy of Mrs Ds application form completed at the time. The form has a 
section for the PPI titled Protecting your Account and applicants have to sign this section if 
they wish to take the policy. The section reads (Only sign this box if you require Account 
cover) and you had to sign underneath Yes, I would like to protect my Account with 
Account Cover (subject to eligibility). . Mrs D has signed this section, indicating she 
wanted to add the cover.
Ive also noted that on the application form Mrs D had the option of selecting whether or not 
she wanted Card Protection Plan. Mrs D didnt select this product, so I think she would 
have known she had a choice about taking out either product. 
Ive thought about what Mrs D has said about feeling pressured into taking out the PPI and  
not really knowing or understanding what she was agreeing to. Pressure is subjective and in 
order for me to conclude that Mrs D was pressured by the sales assistant to take out the 
PPI, I would need to see persuasive evidence to support this. The difficultly I have is that I 
cant be sure what was discussed between Mrs D and the store assistant when the policy 
was sold. Im also mindful that these events took place many years ago, and that exact 
recollections of what happened can fade over time. Based on what Ive seen, I think its more 
likely than not that Mrs D agreed to take out the PPI knowing she had a choice and I havent 
seen anything persuasive to suggest Mrs D was pressured by the store assistant into taking 
the PPI. 
Taking all of this into consideration, in the absence of anything else to support what Mrs D 
has told me, I dont think it would be fair or reasonable for to me to say that AXA didnt make 
Mrs D aware that she had a choice about buying the PPI. And I dont think she would have 
signed for the PPI if she didnt want to take it out. 
Both parties agree that the policy wasnt recommended, which means AXA didnt have to 
check if it was right for Mrs D. It was up to Mrs D to decide if it was right for her. 
Its possible the information AXA gave Mrs D about the PPI wasnt as clear as it shouldve 
been. But Mrs D doesnt appear to have been affected by any of the main things the policy 
didnt cover  such as pre-existing medical conditions. I also havent seen anything to 
suggest the policy wasnt affordable for Mrs D.
Mrs D has told us she wasnt entitled to any pay from her employer if she was too unwell to 
work. She has however said she had between three and six months worth of savings which 
she could have used to help cover her store card repayments if she was unable to work. But 
I dont think this means the PPI wouldnt have been useful for her. The PPI would have paid 
a benefit if Mrs D was too unwell to work or made redundant. And it would have enabled Mrs 
D to use her savings to cover any other financial commitments she may have had at what 
could be a difficult time.  
So overall, I think Mrs D could have found the policy useful if she ever fell on hard times and 
I dont think that any better information would have put her off from taking out the policy.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold Mrs Ds complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs D to accept or 
reject my decision before 20 May 2021.
 
Donna Parsons
Ombudsman