DRN-1095947
 
The complaint
Ms C and Mr W complain that the fixed rate on a mortgage they took out in June 2017 with 
National Westminster Bank Plc ended on 31 January 2019 rather than two years from when 
the mortgage completed.
What happened
In December 2016 Ms C and Mr W applied for a mortgage with NatWest. The mortgage 
completed in June 2017 and was on a fixed rate of 1.41%, running until 31 January 2019.
Ms C and Mr W complained to NatWest in January 2019 saying theyd lost out on so much 
of the fixed rate, and the adviser should have offered new rates to them when completion 
was delayed by so long. To be clear, the delayed completion was due to legal issues and 
nothing to do with NatWest.
NatWest rejected the main thrust of the complaint. It paid £250 compensation for the fact it 
hadnt responded to a customer service complaint Ms C and Mr W had raised in 2016 and 
offered a further £100 because it hadnt responded to an update request from them.
Our adjudicator didnt think NatWest had done anything wrong in respect of the rate, and 
said the offer for the customer service elements was fair. Ms C and Mr W didnt agree and 
so the complaint has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. I trust Ms C and Mr W wont take it as a 
discourtesy that Ive condensed their complaint in the way that I have. Although Ive read 
and considered the whole file Ill keep my comments to what I think is relevant. If I dont 
comment on any specific point its not because Ive not considered it but because I dont 
think I need to comment on it in order to reach the right outcome. 
This service is impartial between, and independent of, consumers and businesses. What this 
means is that we dont represent either party, and I dont act under eithers instructions or 
take directions on how a complaint will be looked at or answered.
The fixed rate Ms C and Mr W applied for was always due to end on 31 January 2019. That 
was explained in the contractual mortgage offer of 19 December 2016, the illustration of 2 
December 2016 and the advisers recommendation letter of 2 December 2016. It didnt 
matter whether the mortgage completed in January 2017 or June 2017, the fixed rate would 
always run until 31 January 2019.
Some lenders offer their fixed rates for a set time period (such as 24 months), others offer 
their fixed rates until a set date in time (such as until 31 January 2019). Neither is right or 
wrong, and both are completely acceptable ways to set up a fixed rate, provided the 
documentation sets out the details clearly. Its clear from the mortgage offer, recommendation letter and illustration in this case that the fixed rate would end on a set date 
regardless of when it started and Ms C and Mr W accepted that offer.
Ms C and Mr W say NatWest should have advised them to change the interest rate due to 
the delayed completion date, but thats not how it works. NatWest gave them mortgage 
advice in December 2016, which led to a mortgage offer being produced that Ms C and Mr 
W accepted. There was no regulatory requirement for NatWest to proactively contact them 
to change that advice (and the product) as the product was still available to them to 
complete the mortgage on. If Ms C and Mr W wanted updated advice based on the delayed 
completion date then they were free to contact NatWest to request that. But NatWest had no 
responsibility to contact Ms C and Mr W (or any other of its thousands of mortgage 
applicants) to update mortgage advice once an offer has been produced. I cant hold 
NatWest liable for not doing something it simply didnt have to do, that would be grossly 
unfair and inappropriate however Ms C and Mr W feel about it. 
The documents clearly show the fixed rate was until a set date, that is 31 January 2019. Its 
not written in small print or hidden away; its shown as a key feature of the mortgage product 
and is stated repeatedly throughout the documents. NatWest did everything it was required 
to do and set the terms of the contract out in a way thats prescribed by the regulator. For all 
the reasons given Ive got no reasonable grounds to uphold this complaint.
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint. My final decision concludes this services consideration of the 
complaint, which means well not be engaging in any further consideration or discussion of 
the merits of it. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms C and Mr W to 
accept or reject my decision before 11 June 2020.
Julia Meadows
Ombudsman