DRN-2873350
The complaint
Mr S has complained that Everyday Lending Limited trading as Everyday Loans acted 
irresponsibly when it provided him with a loan in July 2019.
Background
Mr S borrowed £1,500 from Everyday Loans in July 2019. The loan was for 18 months and 
the monthly repayments were £177.73, which means Mr S would repay a total of £3,199.14 
by the end of the loan term. The declared purpose of the loan was debt consolidation. 
Mr S has told us that the loan was unaffordable to him and believes Everyday Loans 
shouldnt have approved it. He says that at the time of lending he was already struggling 
financially, had a number of existing payday loans in his name, and was gambling 
compulsively. He believes Everyday Loans acted irresponsibly when it provided him with the 
additional funds. 
Everyday Loans has said that it ran all the necessary checks at the time Mr S applied for the 
loan, including reviewing bank statements, Mr S credit file and asking for proof of earnings 
as well as completing an income and expenditure form. Having done that it was satisfied that 
the loan was affordable and would reduce Mr S monthly outgoings as it would consolidate 
his existing debt for a lower monthly amount. It said it did ask Mr S if he gambled regularly 
but Mr S said he didnt and it also noted there were only two or three gambling transactions 
across the two months of bank statements it reviewed. For those reasons it didnt think it had 
done anything wrong and didnt uphold Mr S complaint. 
Mr S disagreed and brought his complaint to our service. One of our investigators looked 
into Mr S complaint already. She found that based on the information available to Everyday 
Loans at the time, including evidence for Mr S outstanding debt, income and bank 
statements, that the business hadnt done anything wrong when it agreed to give Mr S the 
loan. So, she didnt uphold his complaint. 
Mr S asked for an ombudsman to review his complaint afresh and so its been passed to me 
to consider. 
My findings 
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I agree with the outcome reached by our investigator and for much the same 
reasons. I have set out my explanation below.
At the time of applying for the loan from Everyday Lending, Mr S was working two jobs, with 
a combined monthly income of over £1,850 and had some existing debt through open 
payday loans and credit cards, which came to just under £700 a month. He has explained he 
was living with family and was paying £250 a month towards bills and rent. So, on the face of 
it, it seems as though the loan was affordable, and Mr S shouldve had sufficient funds 
available to him to meet the monthly repayments of £177.73 without problem.
However, its also important to consider whether or not the loans would be sustainable over 
the full loan term. Mr S has said that he initially applied for £500 online and was approved for 
that. He then spoke to an agent from Everyday Loans over the phone and arranged to meet 
him in store to complete his application there. Neither party has confirmed this but I am 
assuming that during that meeting the loan amount was increased in order to consolidate all 
of Mr S existing debt, repaying the payday loans and leaving some funds left over once that 
was done. 
Mr S has told us that he was gambling heavily at the time in a way that was both compulsive 
and damaging. I dont doubt this was the case. However, in order for a business to provide 
proper support or consideration for consumers who may be spending money in a harmful 
way, it has to be aware of the problem. Mr S has told us that he would withdraw cash from 
ATMs to gamble with. This means there was little to no evidence of gambling on Mr S bank 
statements. So, the only way the business couldve become aware of it is if Mr S told it 
directly what he was doing. 
Ive listened to a number of calls between Mr S and the Everyday Loans agent he was 
dealing with. I note that in the first detailed call between them the agent asks Mr S directly if 
he likes to bet, and if he does how frequently he does it. Mr S answers the question saying 
he only gambles once in a while and not very much. He goes on to say he may make about 
three bets a month or so. 
I appreciate that Mr S was likely trying to minimise his gambling spend in order to get the 
loan approved. But I can only consider the lending decision made by the business based on 
the information it had available to it at the time. If the business was given incorrect 
information, that it wasnt able to disprove by other means, for example bank statements that 
show lots of gambling, then I cant say it was wrong to take Mr S on his word. And looking at 
the other information available to the business at the time, I cant see how it couldve been 
aware that Mr S was gambling compulsively when he applied for the loan. So I cant uphold 
Mr S on this basis as it wouldnt be reasonable to do so. 
Therefore having taken everything Mr S has told us into consideration, as well as everything 
Everyday Lending has told us, I cant say that the business failed to run sufficient checks 
when Mr S applied for the loan, or  that it shouldve realised that he had a gambling problem. 
And for those reasons I cant uphold his complaint. 
I appreciate this outcome will disappoint Mr S and I hope he is doing better now. 
Organisations like Gamcare and the Gambling commission offer additional support to 
consumers who find themselves in difficult situations related to gambling. Mr S may find 
some of their information helpful. 
My final decision
For the reasons set out above I dont uphold Mr S complaint against Everyday Lending 
Limited trading as Everyday Loans.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 6 May 2022.
 
Karen Hanlon
Ombudsman