DRN-2600708
The complaint
Miss O has complained that esure Insurance Limited refused to contact the third party 
insurer when she contacted it to report an incident. Miss O held a car insurance policy with 
esure. 
What happened
In March 2018 Miss O was involved in an incident with another driver. She says she was 
stationary when the other driver hit her car from behind. 
Miss O contacted esure and asked it to contact the other drivers insurer to admit liability. But 
she didnt want to make a claim under the policy. So esure said if Miss O didnt want to 
claim, it wouldnt contact the other drivers insurer. It gave Miss O details of the excess she 
would need to pay if she decided to claim. It explained that an additional excess was 
payable if she didnt use an approved repairer. 
Miss O wasnt happy with what esure told her. In September 2019 she complained to esure. 
In March 2020 she contacted esure as she hadnt heard from it. 
esure replied to Miss O in July 2020. But she says she no longer used the email address 
esure sent the response to. So she didnt receive it until we sent her a copy. 
esure said it had correctly dealt with the claim. It said it couldnt contact the other drivers 
insurer to claim for the costs to repair Miss Os car until shed had the outlay for having the 
car repaired and there were costs to claim for. As Miss O wasnt happy to pay the additional 
excess in order to use her preferred garage, esure said it had acted correctly. 
However, esure accepted that it had caused a delay in replying to Miss Os complaint. For 
this it apologised and agreed to waive the standard excess of £200 if Miss O wished to make 
a claim for the repairs to her car. 
In October 2020 Miss O asked us to look at her complaint. She doesnt feel esure did 
anything to help her. In February 2021 our investigator didnt recommend the complaint 
should be upheld. She thought esure had acted reasonably. 
Miss O didnt agree and made a Subject Access Request. This has been dealt with. We 
asked Miss O if she had any further comments to make having received the file from this 
service. 
Miss O hasnt provided any further comments. So the case has been passed to me to 
decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Miss Os policy with esure says if she chooses to use a non-approved repairer, an additional 
excess will apply. So I dont think esure acted unreasonably when it explained this to Miss O 
when she called about the incident. 
As Miss Os insurer, esure provides indemnity in the event of a claim made against the 
policy. As Miss O didnt wish to claim under the policy, I dont think its decision not to contact 
the other drivers insurer to make enquiries was unreasonable. 
esures offer to waive the excess of £200 for the delay in replying to her complaint meant 
Miss O would only need to pay the non-approved repairer excess if she wanted to claim for 
the repairs to her car. 
As the investigator explained, this service cannot investigate all complaints that are brought 
to us. The Financial Conduct Authority sets the rules about what we can and cannot look at. 
This service cannot look at complaints about complaint handling as it isnt a regulated 
activity. So I cannot make a finding about the way esure handled Miss Os complaint.
I realise Miss O will be very disappointed. But from what Ive seen, I dont think esure acted 
unreasonably or outside the terms of the policy. So Im not asking it to do any more. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss O to accept 
or reject my decision before 6 December 2021.
 
Geraldine Newbold
Ombudsman