DRN-2134008
The complaint
Miss J has complained that National Westminster Bank Plc (NatWest) wont refund 
transactions she says she didnt make or otherwise authorise.
What happened
In August 2019, Miss J went abroad on holiday. She says while she was away, her card was 
stolen from her home, amongst many other things. Her card was then used for £655.81 of 
transactions in the UK, which she says were made without her permission.
While she was away, NatWest texted Miss J to query the activity on her account. Miss J 
checked her online banking, then called the bank to report the fraud. Back at home, a family 
member went to check the house and found it had been burgled. She reported this to the 
police.
Miss J explained shed left her card in a purse in her bedroom. She didnt need it, as a 
parent was paying for the holiday. It was her only card. She said her PIN wasnt recorded 
anywhere, she hadnt told it to anyone, and it was an automatically-generated number.
NatWest held Miss J liable for the payments in dispute, mainly because they couldnt see 
how someone had learned her PIN without her consent. They also noted that the fraudsters 
had waited a whole day to withdraw cash. They did pay Miss J £100 compensation for some 
customer service failings, such as not keeping her updated and sending out a new card 
when she didnt want one.
I sent Miss J and NatWest a provisional decision on 3 August 2020, to explain why I didnt 
think the complaint should be upheld. In that decision, I said:
Firstly, I will say that I understand that Miss J has been the victim of a crime here, and so 
she has my sympathy. I know this will have been an exceptionally stressful time for her.
To explain, NatWest broadly have to refund unauthorised payments. But they can hold 
Miss J liable for the payments in dispute if she authorised them, or if she failed to keep her 
account safe either intentionally or through acting with gross negligence.
Im satisfied from NatWests technical evidence that the payments in dispute used Miss Js 
genuine card, and the correct PIN  aside from an online payment that used her card details. 
Now this is not enough, on its own, for NatWest to hold Miss J liable, but its important in 
establishing what happened. I also need to think about whether the evidence suggests that 
its most likely Miss J consented to the transactions or failed to keep her account safe.
Having carefully considered everything that both sides have said and provided, I dont think 
its unreasonable for NatWest to hold Miss J liable for the transactions in dispute. Ill explain 
why.
The person using the card tried some online payments at first, which were declined except 
for one relatively small one. They then didnt try to use the card again until the evening of the 
next day, which is when they started withdrawing money. This seems unusual, since clearly 
the person using the card knew the PIN. I mightve expected a thief to try to withdraw as 
much money as possible, as quickly as possible, before Miss J realised her home had been 
broken into and cancelled the card. Instead, they waited a relatively long time before trying 
any withdrawals or other payments. This makes it seem less likely that an unknown thief was 
using Miss Js card. This is a more minor point, but worth pointing out.
The more important issue is Miss Js PIN. Aside from the online payment, the disputed 
transactions all used Miss Js correct PIN, and on the very first try. Miss J said the PIN 
wasnt written down anywhere and she didnt tell it to anyone. It wasnt a memorable PIN or 
one that was easy to guess, it was an automatically-generated number. And its extremely 
unlikely that someone would guess it correctly on the first try. Before the disputed payments, 
the last time Miss J had used her card and PIN was 15 days prior. And its not likely or 
plausible that someone watched her making that payment and then tracked her for 15 days 
and waited to steal the card, nor that they stole it at the time and waited 15 days to use it.
So there doesnt seem to be a likely way that an unknown thief couldve learned Miss Js PIN 
without her permission.
Ive also considered the possibility that someone close to Miss J may have overlooked her 
entering her PIN in the past and then made the transactions without her permission. But 
I dont think its likely that a close friend or family member would commit a full burglary in 
order to take the card, and Miss J hasnt told me about anyone she knows who she suspects 
of doing this.
That leaves two possibilities  either that the payments were made with Miss Js consent, or 
that she did in fact keep a record of the PIN somewhere where the burglars could find it and 
match it to the card on the first try.
Taking into account Miss Js flight records and the records of her calling and checking her 
online banking from abroad, Im satisfied that she wasnt present at the transactions. Of 
course, it was still possible for her to have given someone else permission to make the 
payments on her behalf while she was away. That does seem more likely than a thief 
guessing the PIN on the first try. But given Miss Js behaviour in checking her account and 
reporting the fraud, and given her police report and the evidence of a burglary, I dont think 
this is whats most likely to have happened.
I think its more likely that there was, in fact, a record of the PIN in some form where the 
thieves could find it, recognise that it was a PIN number, and match it to Miss Js card. This 
would fit the circumstances of the burglary, and explain how the thieves were able to use 
Miss Js correct PIN without any problems.
If thats the case, that would mean Miss J failed to keep her account safe in line with the 
terms and conditions. It may be that she kept this PIN record knowingly, or that she left it 
with the card by mistake and didnt take enough care. But it is widely understood that 
keeping a note of the PIN with the card is very risky, since anyone who has the card is then 
able to use it without further checks  which seems to be what happened here. And there 
isnt a more plausible conclusion I can reasonably reach given the evidence I have.I do appreciate why Miss J would like to see CCTV footage. Theres some disagreement 
between the police and NatWest about what the relevant CCTV footage was and who had 
access to it. I dont think it would be appropriate for me to decide a dispute between the 
police and NatWest. But in terms of Miss Js dispute with NatWest, the CCTV was unlikely to 
have made a difference. Im already satisfied that Miss J was not present at the disputed 
transactions. My concerns are whether Miss J gave someone else permission to make the 
payments, or whether she kept a recognisable record of her PIN somewhere where it could 
be matched with the card  and the CCTV footage wouldnt show those things either way.
In summary, Im satisfied that Miss Js genuine card and PIN were used. Based on the 
evidence, there isnt a likely way that an unknown person couldve done this without some 
record of the PIN, and it seems unlikely that someone known to Miss J did this without her 
permission. This leaves only the possibilities that Miss J either gave someone consent to 
use her card and PIN while she was away, or that she failed to keep her account safe either 
intentionally or through gross negligence by keeping a recognisable record of the PIN. This 
is a difficult message for me to give, and I know its a difficult message for Miss J to receive. 
But given the evidence I have, and the balance of probabilities, Im unable to reasonably 
reach any other conclusion.
So based on everything Ive seen so far, I think its fair for NatWest to refuse a refund in this 
case.
Lastly, I understand that NatWest had some customer service problems here, such as 
sending out a new card when Miss J didnt want one, not being able to find phone call 
recordings at first, and in not keeping her updated. Again, I empathise with Miss J, as I know 
this wont have helped when she was already distressed about the burglary. But I think the 
£100 compensation theyve paid Miss J is sufficient to put those things right.
I said Id consider anything else anyone wanted to give me  so long as I received it before 
31 August 2020. NatWest didnt send me anything new to consider, but Miss J made a 
further point, which Ill discuss below.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In response to the provisional decision, Miss J suggested that the fraudsters couldve 
somehow got the PIN from NatWest. While I understand where shes coming from, I dont 
find this to be a likely or plausible possibility. From the electronic records of Miss Js card, no 
one had generated a PIN reminder since the one she got when she first ordered the card. 
And the evidence here does not substantiate any staff involvement or data leak, nor any link 
at all between the fraudsters actions and NatWests staff.
Miss J also reiterated that she never kept any record of the PIN. As I explained in my 
provisional decision, it may be that Miss J kept such a record knowingly, or that it was 
forgotten about or left with the card by mistake. But either way, that would mean that Miss J 
had failed to keep her account safe either intentionally or through gross negligence. And Im 
afraid I dont see any other more likely or plausible explanation for how the thieves knew her 
PIN. And so, while I do sympathise with Miss J, I cannot hold NatWest liable for the 
payments in dispute.My final decision
For the reasons I explained, I dont uphold Miss Js complaint in this particular case.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss J to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 September 2020.
 
Adam Charles
Ombudsman