DRN-3866996
The complaint
D is unhappy that ClearBank Limited, trading as Tide, will not refund the money it lost as the 
result of an authorised push payment (APP) scam.
Miss R has brought this complaint on behalf of D and has a representative. For ease of 
reading I will refer solely to Miss R in this decision.
What happened
On 14 April 2022 Miss R received a call she believed to be from the fraud team at Tide. The 
caller explained Miss Rs account was at risk of fraudulent activity and advised she transfer 
the funds in it to another account in her name. The phone number had been spoofed so 
when the caller instructed Miss R to check the Tide FAQs online for reassurance, it matched 
the number for the Tide fraud team. Miss R was then sent text messages, again from a 
spoofed Tide number, instructing her to set up a new payee using her own name and to 
make two separate payments to that payee. She was then told to delete her Tide app and 
reinstall it in two hours. 
Miss R followed these instructions and made two faster payments, one for £3,851.25 at 
12.48 and one for £4,583.75 at 12.52. Later that day Miss R contacted Tide to say she was 
concerned she had been the victim of a scam.
Miss R says Tide ought to have intervened as the transactions were unusual for her account. 
Had it done so it could have prevented the fraud. She asks for the money to be refunded, 
with interest.
Our investigator did not uphold Miss Rs complaint. She said the transactions were not out of 
character for the account and so Tide was not wrong to process them without contacting 
Miss R.
Miss R disagreed and asked for an ombudsmans review. She asked which other payments 
make us think the payments were not unusual  they also drained the account in a short 
space of time. Also, she said the wording in the text Tide sent when the new payee was set 
up fell short of the anti-fraud warning it now provides. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I am not upholding Miss Rs complaint.
Theres no dispute that Miss R made and authorised the payments. Miss R understood why 
she was making the payments and where she was sending the money to. At the stage she 
was making these payments, she believed she was moving money to a safe account in 
order to protect it. I dont dispute Miss R was scammed and she wasnt making the transfers 
for the reasons she thought she was, but I remain satisfied the transactions were authorised 
under the Payment Services Regulations 2017.
Its also accepted that Tide has an obligation to follow Miss Rs instructions. So in the first 
instance Miss R is presumed liable for her loss. But there are other factors to take into 
account.
I have considered the law, regulators rules and guidance, relevant codes of practice and 
what I consider to have been good industry practice at the time. To note, as Tide has not 
subscribed to the Contingent Reimbursement Model (CRM) the principles of that code do not 
apply in this case.
So, overall, I think that Tide should have:
been monitoring accounts and payments made or received to counter various
risks, including fraud and scams, money laundering, and the financing of terrorism.
had systems in place to look out for unusual transactions or other signs that
might indicate that its customers were at risk of fraud (amongst other things). This is
particularly so given the increase in sophisticated fraud and scams in recent years,
which financial institutions are generally more familiar with than the average
customer.
in some circumstances, irrespective of the payment channel used, taken
additional steps or made additional checks before processing a payment, or in some
cases declined to make a payment altogether, to help protect its customers from the
possibility of financial harm.
In this case I dont think Tide ought to be held liable for the transactions. Ill explain why.
Im not persuaded that the transactions were unusual based on what I have seen of Miss Rs 
historic account activity. In the months prior there are frequent transactions of not dissimilar 
values made by different methods of payment, including faster payments. I could reference 
multiple payments but to give one example as Miss R has asked, on 19 January 2022 there 
were three faster payments to one payee totalling £10,934.46. In addition, there were also 
other days when the closing balance was minimal - as it was here, and significantly lower 
than the opening balance - for example it was £18.20 on 29 March 2022 and £33.31 on 7 
April 2022.
In the round, this means I dont think Tide should have seen the payments as unusual and 
contacted Miss R before transferring the money. Miss R argues that the payments exhibited 
certain characteristics that this service has listed as reasons to intervene  such as emptying 
an account. But each characteristic has to be considered in the individual context of a 
complainants account history. So for the reasons set out above I havent found Tide ought 
to have identified the payments here as out of character.   
Miss R also commented on how Tides standard text message about setting up new payees 
has been improved. She said the one she received carried no warning that Tide would never 
call asking you to move funds  as it now does. But I cant find that this shows Tide acted 
unfairly towards Miss R as this was the message all its account holders would have received 
at that time in the same circumstances. In any event, I dont need to consider how 
meaningful Tides warning was as I dont find it ought to have intervened in any of the 
transactions or reasonably suspected that Miss R was the potential victim of financial harm.
I have also considered if Tide did enough to try to recover Miss Rs money once she 
reported the scam. Tide says Miss R contacted it first at 13.46 that day and that it contacted 
the receiving bank at 15.03 to attempt recovery. By this time the money was gone  it had reached the receiving account at 13.31 and been moved out at 13.32 meaning there were no 
funds available to be recovered. I think Tide could have acted faster, however given the time 
at which the receiving account was emptied it would have made no difference as the money 
had gone prior even to Miss R first contacting Tide.
It follows I am not instructing Tide to refund any money to Miss R. This is a difficult decision
to make, Im sorry Miss R has lost a considerable amount of money and I can understand 
why she would like to be compensated for her losses. I do accept she has fallen victim to a
sophisticated scam. But I can only consider whether Tide, which had no involvement in
the scam itself, should be held responsible for what happened. For the reasons set out
above I do not find Tide can be held liable in the circumstances of this case.
My final decision
I am not upholding Miss Rs complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss R, on behalf 
of D, to accept or reject my decision before 4 May 2023.
 
Rebecca Connelley
Ombudsman