DRN-2184647
The complaint
Mr A has complained that Barclays Insurance Services Company Limited (Barclays) mis-
sold him a home insurance policy because it told him that if he lost his laptop away from 
home, it would be covered.
What happened
I have previously issued a provisional decision regarding this complaint. The following 
represents excerpts from my provisional decision, outlining the background to this complaint 
and my provisional findings, and forms part of this final decision:
In 2017, Mr A visited a branch of Barclays and was sold home contents insurance. As I 
understand it, shortly after taking out the policy Mr A chose to add Personal Items cover, 
which provided for loss or damage for certain items away from the home. 
Mr A has said that when adding Personal Items cover, he was told by the Barclays 
representative that this would provide cover if his laptop was lost or stolen away from the 
home.
Mr A subsequently made a claim under the policy for a stolen bag which contained his 
laptop, wallet, sunglasses and cash. I understand that the insurer made a payment to Mr A 
in respect of all of these items except for the laptop. It stated that the laptop was not covered 
for loss away from the home because Mr A had not taken out cover for gadgets, which was 
an additional extra available under the policy.
Mr A complained to Barclays that as part of the sale, he had been told items such as laptops 
would be covered for loss away from the home. Barclays considered this was not the case, 
and Mr A brought his complaint to this service.
Our investigator concluded that the policy didnt cover a loss of a laptop away from the 
home, and that Mr A should have checked his policy documents to see if it did. However, 
because she didnt know what was discussed during the meeting when the policy was sold, 
she recommended that Barclays pay Mr A £100 compensation for trouble and upset caused.
Barclays agreed to offer £100 compensation.
Mr A did not accept the investigators view. He reiterated that the Barclays representative 
who sold him the policy told him very clearly that his laptop would be covered if lost away 
from the home. Highlighting that the Personal Items cover was added after the policy had 
first been set up, Mr A has said that it is not logical to think that he would have chosen to add 
cover for items away from the home, but not chosen to include in that cover for an item such 
as a laptop. 
Looking at the policy definition of Personal Items, Mr A has noted that it states these are 
items that you might normally wear or carry with you. He says that taking this definition into 
account, the Barclays representative told him that a laptop would be covered away from the 
home under Personal Items. Mr A has also questioned why Barclays does not have better 
records relating to the discussions that took place between him and the representative.
What Ive provisionally decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The crux of Mr As complaint relates to his belief that when he added Personal Items cover 
to his policy, Barclays told him that his laptop would be covered if lost away from the home.
I think it would be helpful to clarify what the policy wording actually says about what items 
are covered away from the home, before considering Mr As specific concerns about what he 
was told when sold the policy.
Mr A chose to include Personal Items cover. Personal Items are defined under the policy as 
(l)uggage, clothing, jewellery, watches and other items that you might normally wear or 
carry with you. The definition goes on to confirm that Personal Items do not include 
gadgets.
Gadgets is itself a defined term, including items which are portable electronic devices 
designed to have a main function ofcomputing.  In my view, a laptop would fall within the 
policy definition of a gadget.
Under the Personal Items cover section of the policy, it confirms that this insures your 
personal effects both in and away from the home. It also reiterates that this does not include 
gadgets, and that specific cover for gadgets is available separately under the policy.
Overall I am satisfied that Personal Items cover, which Mr A chose, does not include the loss 
of a laptop, based on the policy wording. But I need to decide whether in my view, on the 
balance of probabilities, Barclays misled Mr A so that he believed a loss of his laptop away 
from the home was covered under the Personal Items section of his policy.
The sale of the policy was several years ago, and of course I cannot know for certain what 
was discussed between Mr A and the Barclays representative about Personal Items cover. 
Mr A has suggested that Barclays should have records relating to this meeting that confirm 
exactly what was discussed. Although I accept the records that Barclays has managed to 
provide for the meeting are limited, it has forwarded a statement from the representative 
confirming her recollections. The representative has stated: I do know that his laptop is not 
covered based on his policy away from the property so wouldnt have assured him 
otherwise(H)e would have needed the Gadget cover aspect of Home Insurance.
To uphold Mr As complaint that Barclays misinformed him about the scope of cover away 
from home for an item like his laptop, I would need to conclude on balance either that the 
representative did not fully understand the cover provided by different sections of the policy, 
or simply failed to explain the different sections accurately and clearly.
I accept that it is possible that the representative did make an error when describing what 
cover the policy provided for a lost laptop away from the home. But it seems the 
representative was aware of the need to take gadget cover for an item like a laptop. On 
balance, my current view is that the representative did correctly explain policy cover in 
relation to how to insure a laptop for loss away from the home, but that unfortunately Mr A 
misunderstood what he was covered for by choosing Personal Items cover, and not 
choosing Gadget cover.I appreciate Mr A is likely to be disappointed with my conclusions, and I am sorry to learn 
about the loss of his laptop that he suffered. My current view however is that Barclays did 
not mislead Mr A in relation to whether he was covered for a laptop away from the home, 
and consequently I dont intend to uphold this complaint.
Barclays has made an offer to pay Mr A £100 for trouble and upset caused to him. Mr A 
should contact Barclays directly if he wishes to accept this.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Neither party has responded to my provisional decision. Overall I do not consider that I have 
reason to alter my findings as outlined in my provisional decision.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint, and I make no award.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision before 27 October 2020.
 
John Swain
Ombudsman