DRN-4110657
The complaint
Mrs R complains that she didnt benefit from a price reduction on her car for taking out 
finance brokered by Jardine Automotive Limited., who Ill call Jardine.
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here. Instead, Ill focus on giving my reasons for my decision. 
 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I know it will disappoint Mrs R, but I agree with the investigators opinion. Ill explain why.
Where the information Ive got is incomplete, unclear, or contradictory, as some of it is here I 
have to base my decision on the balance of probabilities.
Ive read and considered the whole file, but Ill concentrate my comments on what I think is 
relevant. If I dont comment on any specific point its not because Ive failed to take it on 
board and think about it but because I dont think I need to comment on it in order to reach 
what I think is the right outcome.
Mrs R has explained that she wanted to pay for her car, in full, but she was told she would 
get a £1,000 discount if she took out finance to fund the purchase, which she could then pay 
back in order to withdraw from the finance agreement within 14 days.
It's not disputed that Mrs R paid the requisite amount to settle her finance agreement and 
withdraw from it in March 2021. But, unfortunately, she made the payment to Jardine and not 
to the finance company. Rather than paying off the finance the money was simply returned 
to her in November 2021 and that meant that the agreement went live.
Mrs R has not been able to provide much evidence she was offered £1,000 to take out the 
finance. Its therefore difficult to demonstrate that was the offer made. The invoice details a 
Jardine Sales Offer of £1,195 and that could have been the discount Mrs R is referring to. If 
thats the case, Mrs R did benefit from that offer as £1,195 was deducted from the sales 
price. But she had to pay some interest on the finance agreement when it went live and the 
money shed paid Jardine wasnt immediately returned to her (between March and 
November 2021). The investigator has calculated that interest to be about £425 and that 
seems sensible. 
So, if the Jardine Sales Offer was the discount Mrs R says she was offered to fund her 
purchase through credit, it and the compensation of £400 Jardine have offered, more than 
offset the amount she had to pay in interest before the funds were returned to her; the point 
she would have been put back in a position to pay off the finance.
I dont think there is sufficient evidence that Mrs R has been financially disadvantaged by the 
arrangement, or that she hasnt been sufficiently compensated for any distress or 
inconvenience caused.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs R to accept or 
reject my decision before 14 September 2023.
 
Phillip McMahon
Ombudsman