DRN-1273272
 
The complaint
Mr D complains that U K Insurance Limited (UKI) held him liable for two claims made on his 
motor insurance policy. Hes also unhappy that it wont renew his insurance. He wants to be 
held not liable and to receive compensation for his injuries. 
What happened
Mr D was involved in two incidents, one in 2016 and the other in 2017. In the 2016 incident, 
Mr D said his car had been vandalised by a neighbour. But UKI didnt think there were 
reasonable chances of holding the neighbour liable, so it recorded a fault against Mr D. In 
the 2017 incident, Mr D and another car collided whilst he was making a three point turn. 
The other drivers insurer threatened legal action. Mr D was away and so UKI settled the 
claim as it didnt think it could defend it. UKI said it had decided not to renew Mr Ds policy as 
their relationship had broken down. 
Our investigator didnt recommend that the complaint should be upheld. She thought UKI 
had reasonably dealt with the two claims and held Mr D liable, as it was entitled to do by the 
policy terms and conditions. She thought it was for UKI to decide if it no longer wished to 
offer Mr D cover.
Mr D replied reiterating his points of complaint. He said he wanted his complaint reviewed by 
an ombudsman, so its come to me for a final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr D complained about the actions of the other drivers solicitors and those appointed by 
UKI. But this isnt something we can consider. The investigator has already explained that 
Mr D should raise these concerns with the legal ombudsman if he so wishes.
Mr D was unhappy that UKI held him liable for the two incidents. The investigator has 
already explained that it isnt our role to decide who was responsible for causing the 
incidents. This is the role of the courts. Instead, our role in complaints of this nature is simply 
to investigate how the insurer made the decision to settle the claims. Did it act fairly and 
reasonably and in line with the terms and conditions of the policy?
UKI is entitled under the terms and conditions of its policy with Mr D to take over, defend, or 
settle a claim as it sees fit. Mr D has to follow its advice in connection with the settlement of 
his claims, whether he agrees with the outcomes or not. This is a common term in motor 
insurance policies and I dont find it unusual. Insurers are entitled to take a commercial 
decision about whether its reasonable to contest a third party claim or better to compromise.
I can see that for the 2016 incident, UKI had to consider Mr Ds version of events. He said 
hed witnessed the vandalism and chased the vandal to a neighbours house. He said the vandal had kicked him. But he said the police were reluctant to take a statement or 
prosecute. Mr D thought UKI should contact the police. 
But UKI said it would only do this if there was a realistic prospect of a successful defence of 
the claim. It said that because the police didnt take a statement or any action against the 
vandal, there was no benefit in obtaining a report. I can see that UKI took legal advice before 
deciding this. And so it held Mr D at fault as it couldnt recover its losses following his 
repairs.  
In its investigation of the 2017 incident, I can see that UKI considered Mr Ds statement that 
the other driver was driving anti-socially. But it didnt have evidence to back this up, such as 
CCTV or dashcam footage. The other drivers insurer was threatening legal action. UKI was 
unable to speak to Mr D further as he was away for three months. And so it settled the claim 
to minimise costs and it held Mr D at fault. It said Mr D would always be held at least partly 
at fault as he was the manoeuvring party. 
I can understand Mr Ds frustration. But I think for both claims UKI fairly and reasonably 
considered the evidence available before making its decision. I think its entitled to do this by 
the policy terms and conditions. So I cant say its done anything wrong or needs to change 
its decisions. 
Mr D raised various concerns with UKI about racist behaviour based on his ethnicity or 
religious difference. Ive read UKIs file and I havent seen any evidence of racist behaviour 
by UKI staff. Mr D was also unhappy that UKI declined to renew his policy. I think this is 
UKIs commercial decision, and so its not something that I can interfere with. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision before 17July2020.
Phillip Berechree
Ombudsman