DRN-3625319
The complaint
Ms A complains about negative entries recorded on her credit file by Barclays Bank UK PLC 
trading as Barclaycard.
What happened
Ms A holds a credit card account with Barclaycard. She says she received paper statements 
until around August 2020, when she says that Barclaycard changed the statements to online 
versions without telling her. Ms A says that, as a result, she wasnt aware that there was a 
small balance outstanding on her account until Barclaycard wrote to her in around February 
2021 demanding payment. Ms A says she paid the balance in full and thought that was the 
end of the matter.
But, in around March 2022, Ms A was refused credit and discovered that Barclaycard had 
recorded late payment markers on her credit file for the period from September 2020 to 
February 2021. She says thats why her credit application was declined.
She complained to Barclaycard and asked it to remove the adverse entries from her credit 
file. But Barclaycard said the late payment markers had been recorded correctly, so it 
couldnt remove them. It said it was clear from Ms As monthly statements that there had 
been an outstanding balance on her account during that period. And it said that alerts had 
been sent to her each month telling her that the statements were available to view. 
Ms A wasnt happy with Barclaycards response and brought the complaint to this service. 
Our Investigator didnt think Barclaycard had acted unfairly, but Ms A didnt agree and asked 
for the complaint to be reviewed by an Ombudsman.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive looked at the statements of Ms As account. The balance on the July 2020 statement 
was due for payment by 14 August 2020. Ms A made the payment on 17 August 2020, so 
Barclaycard applied interest and a late payment fee to the account. This meant there was an 
outstanding balance on the August 2020 statement, which was due for payment by 14 
September 2020. Im satisfied that the late payment charge and interest were applied in line 
with the terms and conditions of Ms As account, which she agreed to when opening it. 
As Ms A didnt make any payments to the account after 17 August 2020 until February 2021, 
the balance remained outstanding over this period, with interest accruing each month. I find 
that to be reasonable and in line with the terms and conditions.
But Ms A says she didnt know there was an outstanding balance as she didnt receive any 
statements during that time. I dont doubt that Ms A didnt see the statements during that 
period. But Im satisfied that they were produced by Barclaycard. 
Ms A says that Barclaycard changed her statement preference from paper to online without 
telling her. Barclaycard says it has no record of having changed Ms As statement 
preference. I havent seen anything which conclusively explains why the statements were 
switched to online only. But I note that the statements contain a standard message which 
says that paper statements will be switched off when a customer first registers for online 
services. I think that may be what happened here.
Ms A says she has never had an online account with Barclaycard. But Barclaycard says she 
does have one. It has provided a screenshot from its system showing that there is an active 
online account related to Ms As credit card. This shows that the last login date was in 
August 2020. From the evidence Ive seen, Im satisfied that Ms A did have an online 
account. I dont know when it was first set up, but if it was around July or August 2020, I find 
it likely that the registration was the reason the paper statements stopped.
Ms A says that the screenshot of the online account isnt proof that she was fully aware of 
her missed payments. I agree that it doesnt show she knew about the missed payments. 
But it does show that she was registered for online services. So Im satisfied that she had 
access to the statements online. 
The terms and conditions of Ms As account say that Barclaycard will tell Ms A when her 
statement is ready to view and that it will use her most recent contact details to do this. 
Barclaycard says it sent text messages to Ms A to tell her when the statements were ready. 
But Ms A says that Barclaycard hasnt proved it sent them and she has queried whether text 
messages were a suitable form of communication. Im satisfied that Barclaycard held the 
correct mobile telephone number for Ms A. It has provided screenshots from its system 
which show the dates and times of text messages sent to her from July 2020 onwards 
confirming that her new monthly statement was available. Im satisfied that the text 
messages were sent. So I find that Barclaycard told Ms A that her statements were ready to 
view. I think text messages were a reasonable way to communicate this.
Ms A asked in her initial complaint email who, in a world of fraud and scams, would respond 
to a text message suggesting she access her online account when she didnt have one. As I 
have said above, I find that she did have an online account. But, if she didnt think she had 
one or suspected the text messages were a scam, she could have contacted Barclaycard to 
find out and check whether the messages were genuine. As she had stopped receiving 
paper statements at around the same time, I think its reasonable to suggest that the text 
messages could have prompted her to contact Barclaycard or try logging in. 
I dont doubt that Ms A didnt access the statements. But I find that Barclaycard made them 
available to her and communicated to her that they were available. The statements 
contained all the necessary information and notices for Ms A to be fully aware of the status 
of her account, including details of the overdue payments. But, even without accessing the 
statements, I think Ms A could reasonably have known that there would be something to pay 
on the account, as she knew she had made the August payment late. So I dont think it was 
Barclaycards fault that Ms A didnt know about the outstanding balance. 
As no payments were made to the account between September 2020 and February 2021, I 
think it was reasonable for Barclaycard to report missed payments to the Credit Reference 
Agencies. I havent found it to be Barclaycards fault that the payments were missed, so I 
cant fairly ask it to amend the entries on Ms As credit file.
I know Ms A feels strongly about this complaint so Im aware that she will be disappointed by 
my decision. But, taking everything into account, I dont think Barclaycard acted unfairly 
here, so Im not going to ask it to do anything.My final decision
For the reasons above, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms A to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 December 2022.
 
Katy Kidd
Ombudsman