DRN-3777181
The complaint
Mr G has complained about the poor service he received from ITI Capital Limited (ITI). He 
wants to know what dividends were received on his account, and when, what charges have 
been incurred, plus the whereabouts of the £2,000 it is still holding. He would also like 
£1,000 compensation for the time and effort spent in getting clarification from ITI about his 
account and complaint. 
What happened
In June 2020, Mr Gs account, which had been held with a previous firm that had gone into 
administration, was transferred over to ITI. Mr G suffered significant problems in onboarding 
his account and other subsequent issues with ITI so tried to transfer his account to a new 
platform provider  who I shall refer to as Company B in my decision  where again he 
suffered significant issues.
Because of this Mr G raised a complaint with ITI. In its response ITI recognised that it had 
fallen short in meeting his expectations in carrying out the transfers for him. It hadnt been 
able to quickly resolve and the address the issues for him. It offered £300 for the distress 
and inconvenience Mr G had suffered and a further £50 for the delay in responding to his 
complaint.
Mr G wasnt happy with the outcome and brought his complaint to his service. He raised 
several heads of complaint including  but not limited to  the onboarding of his account, a 
lack of visibility of his holdings and dividends, delays and problems with the transfer of his 
account to another platform provider, inability to make any sales, confusion about and 
missing Rolls Royce rights shares, a missing holding of UKDV Dividend Aristocrats and the 
number of Tesco shares and ITI retaining a balance on his account which is reducing.
Our investigator who considered the complaint thought it should be upheld. He said;
He thought the offer of £350 for the trouble and upset caused to Mr G was fair.
ITI should provide a breakdown of the account to ensure the transfer was completed 
correctly and dividends accounted for and that ITI wasnt taking charges while the 
transfer was delayed because of errors it caused. 
There was a cash balance left on the account which should have been transferred. 
That amount should be transferred with an additional 8% simple interest for Mr G 
being deprived of the cash. 
Mr G agreed with the outcome but thought he should receive more than £350 for the time 
spent correcting a string of errors. There had been a series of complaints.
Mr G asked that the case be reviewed by an ombudsman, so it has been passed to me for a 
decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I very much recognise Mr Gs strength of feeling about his complaint. Its clear he is, and has 
been, extremely frustrated and stressed by the process. Ive considered the detailed 
submissions he has made carefully. And I hope he wont think I am being discourteous by 
not addressing all of the points he has made in any great detail. Ive kept my focus in this 
decision on the core matters to the complaint.
Below I have provided details of some of the problems Mr G has experienced and where 
appropriate how the matter should be put right. 
In June 2020 Mr Gs account was transferred from the previous provider which had gone into 
administration. In July 2020 Mr Gs account was showing a value of around £11,000 
whereas is should have been nearer £100,000 so he assumed that several shares hadnt 
been transferred. He had a valuation from the administrators of the previous business. And 
at one point all of his assets disappeared from his account in August 2020. 
No doubt this must have been concerning to Mr G and below I am directing ITI to provide 
him with an audit of his account since inception to transfer to Company B. He will be able to 
ensure that all of his shareholdings and cash are accounted for. 
Mr G has said that his account was split into two and he doesnt know why. I can see from a 
screenshot he has provided that at one point one of his accounts appeared to be in credit 
and the other in debit. Mr G doesnt understand what happened. Again, this must have been 
frustrating for Mr G. As above, ITI are to provide an audit of his account and this will include 
a cash trail so Mr G can check his cash position. 
Mr G was in contact with ITI as he couldnt view his holdings and whether they had been 
correctly transferred to Company B. He also couldnt see what dividends had been credited 
to his account and also whether they had been transferred as instructed. He wants 
transparency about what was transferred from the predecessor business and an audit trail 
on what happened to his account subsequent to that. 
Mr G has also said that he hasnt been told what charges had been taken from his account 
and didnt know what dividends had been credited to his account while it was with ITI. This 
will be covered off in the account information I am directing ITI to provide. 
Mr G hasnt been able to accurately view his cash position. And in any event all cash should 
have been transferred to Company B. He believes the cash position was originally around 
£2,500 but has been reducing  he assumes through charges being taken by ITI. The 
account information to be provided by ITI should enable Mr G to identify whether it has been 
taking charges after his transfer request. 
I asked Mr G what he would have done with the cash still held on the account if it had been 
transferred when he instructed ITI. He says he would probably have invested into his 
favourite tracker fund which has gone up in value. However, I cant know for sure this is the 
action Mr G would have taken or what day he potentially would have carried out any 
transaction. But in recognition of Mr G not having use of that money I think an interest award 
would be fair and reasonable in this case.Sometime in February 2021 Mr G requested that his account be transferred to Company B. I 
can see that amongst other issues in August 2021 Company B still hadnt received a 
valuation from ITI in order to complete the transfer.  
A further replacement request was made in September 2021. Mr G was advised that 
because of ITI having dialogue with the regulator, transfers were temporarily put on hold. 
When the transfer was eventually completed Mr G was able to view his account for the first 
time for some years. But he still didnt have the dividend or charges information from when 
his account was with ITI. 
I think it was clear from Mr Gs first instruction made in February 2021 that he wished to 
transfer his account. ITI hasnt given us any reason for the delays Mr G experienced. I am 
aware that Mr G was advised of ITIs dialogue with the regulator later in 2021 and that 
transfers had been put on hold. But I dont have any reason to think that the February 2021 
request to transfer the account couldnt have been completed by then if ITI had acted on that 
instruction in a timely manner. If Mr G doesnt agree with any account charges he has 
incurred after his request to transfer his account, he can raise this with ITI if he wishes to. 
Mr G told us about the shareholdings that werent included in the transfer of his portfolio to 
Company B  the shares taken up in the Rolls Royce rights issue and his holding of      
UKDV Dividend Aristocrats valued at around £50,000. And Mr Gs shareholding of Tesco 
didnt seem correct. 
Mr G had to chase ITI many times about this. But I note that the UKDV Dividend Aristocrats 
holding was sent by ITI on 18 October 2021 and Mr G confirmed on 27 October 2021 that it 
had been received by Company B.
With reference the difference in the number of shares in Tesco, I see that on                       
28 October 2021 ITI confirmed that there had been a share consolidation in February 2021 
on the basis of 15 new shares for every 19 existing shares. Mr G should be able to identify 
this on the audit information. 
ITI hadnt taken up the rights in Rolls Royce as it should have done for Mr Gs account in 
2020. But it put that matter right by repurchasing those shares and adding them to his 
account in October 2021. I understand Mr Gs holding of Preference C class shares were 
transferred to Company B on 15 November 2021 and 8,256 Ordinary shares were 
transferred in December. 
The account information I am asking ITI will also allow Mr G to check the Rolls Royce rights 
position that should have been taken up in November 2020 and make sure the correct 
amount was charged to his account and there were no additional debits when ITI had to 
purchase the shares on its own account for him at a later date. 
Mr G has complained that he experienced long delays due to the intervention by the 
regulator and he was unable to sell any of his stocks, but I dont have any evidence of what 
transactions he wanted to make. And I cant comment on this point as Im not privy to the 
details of that intervention. But I would say if ITI was in dialogue with the regulator then I 
would have expected it to act on any instructions it was given. 
While I acknowledge the considerable efforts Mr G had to make in order to find out what 
happened to his shareholdings ITI did eventually provide responses to those queries and the 
matters were put right as necessary.  The investigator recommended that ITI pay Mr G £350 for the distress and inconvenience he 
had suffered. This would include the £50 that had previously been offered by ITI in respect of 
it not responding to her complaint within the regulatory eight-week time limit.
That offer of £50 was for the handling of Mr Gs complaint and is not something this service 
can consider. 
Any award I make is for the complaint as it is put to me, taking into account what I can and 
cant consider. The award I am recommending is for the aspects of the complaint that I can 
consider  the delays and inconvenience etc that Mr G has experienced in his dealings with 
ITI about his account and its transfer to Company B.
I do agree that Mr G should receive a payment for the considerable frustration he has been 
caused while his account has been with ITI and during the transfer process. Ive carefully 
considered Mr Gs points and I am aware he feels strongly about his complaint and the 
award for the distress and inconvenience he has been caused. But I have also borne in mind 
our long-standing approach awards for distress caused. Taking all of the above into account, 
I think the £300 already offered by ITI is a fair reflection of the distress and inconvenience 
caused to Mr G.
I dont know the size of the client base that ITI took over from the previous provider that went 
into administration. But I think its likely that the new additional accounts and investments will 
have had an impact on ITIs capacity and ability to deal with new customers and increased 
requests. 
In any relationship between a consumer and a business there are always opportunities for 
errors or misunderstandings. And it is how a business responds to that that is important and 
despite Mr Gs evident frustration, I dont think ITI intended to cause this. 
However, its clear that Mr G has had a very difficult time while his account has been with ITI 
 from the initial onboarding from the predecessor business until the transfer out which still 
isnt complete. Mr G has provided plenty of evidence of his proactivity in trying to get action 
and responses from ITI. He must have been extremely frustrated throughout his relationship 
with ITI.  
Considering all, I uphold Mr Gs complaint and ITI has to put the matter right. 
Putting things right
To put the matter right ITI should;
Pay Mr G £300 for the distress and inconvenience he has been caused plus the 
additional £50 for the delay in ITI responding to his complaint if he wishes to accept 
it.
ITI should provide Mr G with an audit trail of his account from the time it was 
transferred in from the previous business to the date it is fully transferred to   
Company B. This should include all shareholdings and a cash trail so that Mr G can 
identify all corporate actions, credits and debits, dividends received, charges taken 
by ITI plus the payment for Rolls Royce rights issue etc.
Any cash left of the account should be transferred immediately to Company B. 
As a result of the delays caused by ITI, Mr G was unable to use the money as he 
wished during this time and I think ITI should pay him interest to make up for that. I 
think its fair that ITI pays simple interest at the rate of 8% per year on the amount retained on his account from two days after his February 2021 instruction  ITIs own 
guidelines for cash transfers  to transfer to the date of payment. Mr G should 
provide ITI with evidence of the date he made that transfer request.
ITI must pay the compensation within 28 days of the date on which we tell it Mr G accepts 
my final decision. If it pays later that this it must also pay interest on the compensation from 
the date of this final decision to the date of payment at 8% a year simple. 
My final decision
For the reasons given, my final decision is that I uphold Mr Gs complaint and                     
ITI Capital Limited should put the matter right as outlined above. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision before 30 August 2023.
 
Catherine Langley
Ombudsman