DRN-2938074
The complaint
Mrs T complains about the way that Aviva Insurance Limited dealt with her home insurance
claim for storm damage to her home, and about the quality of repairs done to her guttering.  
What happened
In November 2019 following a heavy storm and gale-force winds, the gutter at the rear of
Mrs Ts property became detached from the downpipe. As a result when it rained water
came down the wall and caused damp in the house. At first Aviva said it wouldnt pay for the
actual guttering/downpipe to be replaced. This was because it regarded the claim to be for
an escape of water, so the damaged pipe and guttering were Mrs Ts responsibility. It said
there wasnt a storm on the day in question. It did subsequently agree to replace the gutter
and downpipe  this work was carried out in late January 2020.
Aviva wasnt willing to carry out the internal repair work, as it said Mrs Ts walls suffered from
a lack of damp proofing and any repair work it did couldnt be guaranteed. It offered Mrs T a
cash settlement to carry out the internal repairs. However Mrs T indicated that the walls
continued to bleed when it rained. Avivas surveyor said that there were other patches of
damp on the walls not related to the damage from the drainpipe so it was likely that this was
due to a pre-existing problem.
On referral to this service our investigator initially said that Avivas position was reasonable.
Mrs T then employed a builder, Mr T (no relation), to look at the damage and he discovered
that the downpipe had become displaced, and hadnt been fixed properly by Avivas
contractors. This had caused water to run down the walls rather than into the downpipe. He
said it was likely that the wall had become saturated causing rain to come through every
time it rained. He further said that this had caused additional damage to the internal parts of
the property, including to the ceilings at ground and first floor level, flooring, and the
staircase where it abutted the outside wall. He also said that Mrs T had suffered damage to
her sofa, and other items which she needed to replace. He drew up a report to that effect
and took over dealing with the claim for Mrs T. He has also supplied an estimate for repair to
include all the building and contents items and his costs for reports and acting for Mrs T.
Aviva agreed that we could look at those issues, as part of Mrs Ts original complaint. It sent
Mr Ts report to its surveyor for comment. However relying on that report it declined to pay
for the repair to the downpipe and gutter, as it said it should have been drawn to its attention
earlier and that it was now out of warranty. The surveyor repeated his view that the damp
problems at the property were likely to be pre-existing and the subsequent reported damage
was likely due to this rather than the problems with the downpipe.
Our investigator reviewed the matter and said that Aviva was responsible for the downpipe
and gutter repairs failing, He said it should pay for the cost to Mrs T of investigating and
fixing that. As regards the internal damage our investigator still said that it was likely that this
was due in part to pre-existing issues, noting in particular that while the downpipe joint had
come away it was still directly beneath the hole in the gutter. So for the repairs to the house,
and contents he said that Aviva should pay for a quarter of the relevant costs and interest
from when Aviva was made aware of the problem. He said that it should pay for Mr Ts
report and estimate, and £500 for the costs of representing Mrs T (rather than the £2,500
claimed for). With regard to compensation for distress and inconvenience he said that Aviva
should pay £500.
I issued a provisional decision. In it I said that Aviva should pay the full cost of the repairs as 
I was satisfied that these arose out of the faulty repair work. I said it should pay £500 
compensation and £325 for the cost of Mr Ts report, but not his costs for representing 
Mrs T. 
Mrs T accepted my provisional decision. She pointed out that the photos of the property 
were taken with her daughters phone as her phone doesnt have a camera.
Aviva hasnt responded to my provisional decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I made the following provisional findings:
repair to downpipe/guttering
Aviva did eventually accept that it would repair this despite saying initially that there was no
storm on the day of the claim. However Ive noted that there were 68mph winds at the time
which could easily have caused the damage to the gutter. Ive noted that Aviva did make an
offer to cash settle the internal damage. But it hasnt accepted responsibility for the
downpipe being displaced, saying it should have been drawn to its attention earlier.
Ive noted that Ms T lives in a three storey property so to be able to see damage to the
guttering from the ground would have been difficult. She did repeatedly tell Aviva that the
walls were bleeding every time it rained and that was dismissed by it, even when her
builders report was sent to it. To be clear this isnt a warranty issue. The repairs to the gutter
and downpipe were not lasting and effective, as they should have been. The new brackets
were affixed to the soft mortar rather than the stone bricks. So I think Aviva should pay for
the cost of the repair, which includes scaffolding and repointing of the affected area, with
interest at 8% per year from the date Mr Ts report was sent to it (8 March 2021) until
payment.
internal repairs
I think it follows that Aviva should also pay for the internal repairs where the damage was
caused by the rain running down the walls and into the property.
Aviva has said that there are pre-existing damp issues with the property so denies liability for
any damage subsequent to that caused initially after the November 2019 storm. Ive noted
its surveyors view that this would need to be looked at by a damp specialist but that Aviva
was unwilling to pay for this.
As the property is very clearly affected by damp I dont think its for me to speculate how or
why this damp problem arose. Rather I will base my conclusions on the expert evidence. I
have the reports of two experts  Avivas surveyor and Mr T, who specialises in restoration
of properties of Mrs Ts property type. In considering those reports I prefer the evidence of
Mr T. This is largely because he inspected the property and was able to assess it after it had
suffered over 15 months of rainfall. Avivas surveyor, despite being invited to do so did not
reinspect the property. His report sets out that there are other areas of damp away from thedownpipe but his view of the reasons for the damp to the back wall is largely speculative.
Mr T has reported on and estimated for the areas of the back wall and those parts of the
house immediately abutting it, the flooring, ceilings and top of the staircase.
Aviva hasnt commented on the scope of Mr Ts estimate. So I dont think it right to try and
apportion the damage between that immediately caused by the broken or poorly repaired
downpipe and what might have been pre-existing. Ive noted in particular Mrs Ts evidence
that the walls were bleeding every time it rained which wasnt happening before the
downpipe was damaged. Mr Ts report is persuasive that all the repairs to the building
estimated for were caused by this damage/poor repair. So I think that Aviva should pay for
the damage to the building as set out in Mr Ts estimate together with interest at 8% per year
from the date Mr Ts report was sent to it (8 March 2021). Ive noted the estimates dont
include VAT, so Aviva should pay VAT on presentation of the invoice from Mr T.
damage to contents
Mrs T claims for damage to her contents, including a sofa, a television set and stand and
tables. Mr T says Mrs T paid to replace those items but didnt get proper receipts. She was
very stressed at the time. He also says she isnt technically minded so couldnt take photos.
Unfortunately Mrs T didnt tell us or the insurers about this at the time. Ive noted that at our
investigators request Mrs T was able to take a large number of photos of the damage to her
property, and was able to send them to us electronically. So I dont accept that she couldnt
have taken photos of the items. So Ive seen no proof the items were damaged, no evidence
of their value and no evidence of the cost of replacements. So Im not inclined to award this
cost.
hotel costs
Mr T says the work will take four weeks with the drying process, and that Mrs T and her
daughter wont be able to live in the house while this is being done. Ill accept that, so Aviva
should also fund the cost of a hotel for the duration of the repairs.
costs of reports and representation
Mr T claims £325 x 2 for his initial report and later estimate. On the basis that Mr T is likely to
carry out the work, I wouldnt expect an estimate to be charged for, but if Mrs T has paid for
this, I would ask him to provide a receipted invoice in response to this provisional decision.
Otherwise I propose to award £325 for the cost of the report. If Mrs T has paid for that Aviva
should additionally pay 8% per years interest.
As for representation, I wouldnt normally award the cost of this and Ive not seen any
contract whereby Mrs T agreed to pay £2,500. And while I appreciate that she felt the need
to be represented, this service is set up so consumers dont have to pay for professional
help in dealing with a complaint. The report itself was in my view sufficient to change the
position in this case. So I dont propose to award any costs of representing Mrs T.
distress and inconvenience
I accept that this has caused Mrs T a good deal of distress and inconvenience, especially as
she tried to tell Aviva of the ongoing damage and it simply wouldnt take any further action.
But I must bear in mind awards we have made in other similar cases. And I think that an
award of £500 compensation is appropriate in this case.
In respect of Mrs Ts comment about the photos, as her daughter was able to take a large 
number of photos she should have been able to take photos of any damaged contents. So I 
wont change my finding in that respect.My provisional findings are now final and form part of this final decision.
Putting things right
Aviva must pay to Mrs T:
The cost of inspecting and carrying out external
repairs including scaffolding for both: £  5,502
All other internal repairs £25,373
Total £30,875
simple interest* at 8% per year on the above from 8 March 2021 until it pays Mrs T.
VAT on the above, on presentation of the invoice from Mr T.
Mrs T and her daughters hotel costs for the four week duration of the repair.
Mr Ts report at £325 plus, if Mrs T has paid this, simple interest* at 8% per year 
from the date she paid it until Aviva reimburses her.
£500 for distress and inconvenience.
*Aviva Insurance Limited is required by HM Revenue and Customs to deduct tax from any
interest paid. Should Mrs T request it, Aviva should provide her with a certificate showing
how much tax has been taken off so that, if appropriate, she can reclaim it.
My final decision
I uphold the complaint and require Aviva Insurance Limited to act in accordance with what 
Ive set out in Putting things right above.
 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs T to accept or 
reject my decision before 30 August 2021.
 
Ray Lawley
Ombudsman