DRN-4212032
The complaint
Mr M complains Bank of Scotland plc trading as Halifax didnt send him a personal 
identification number (PIN).
What happened
Mr M switched his account from his previous bank to Halifax. Mr M received his card for the 
Halifax account but didnt receive his PIN.
Mr M went on holiday, and the card for his previous bank stopped working, as the switch 
was completed. Mr M wasnt able to use his Halifax card.
Mr M says he wrote to Halifax but didnt receive a response. Mr M then used a webchat and 
Halifax told Mr M he could see his PIN using the mobile application.
Mr M was able to then use his card but complained not having the PIN caused lots of 
inconvenience and embarrassment whilst he was on holiday.
Halifax responded to say it had sent the PIN and couldnt be held responsible for issues with 
the post. Halifax said when Mr M spoke to an advisor, he was able to access his PIN quickly. 
Halifax offered Mr M £15 without any admission of liability.
Mr M wasnt happy with this response so he brought his complaint to this service. An 
investigator looked into things and didnt think Mr Ms complaint should be upheld.
The investigator thought Halifax had evidence to show it sent the PIN and wasnt responsible 
for any issues with the post.
The investigator said Mr Ms letter hadnt been received by Halifax. But, once Halifax was 
aware of the issue, via webchat, the issues with the PIN had been fixed quickly. The 
investigator thought the £15 offer was fair.
Mr M responded to say it was unfair to say Halifax didnt receive his letter, but that wasnt its 
problem. But when Halifax showed it had sent Mr M a letter, and hed not received it, that 
also wasnt Halifaxs problem.
The investigator responded to say Mr M was expecting Halifaxs letter with the PIN. Halifax 
wasnt expecting Mr Ms letter. So whilst the investigator thought Mr M had sent the letter, it 
was up to him to contact Halifax to get his PIN.
Mr M asked for an ombudsman to decide things.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive looked at the system notes Halifax has sent in, and Im satisfied it sent a PIN to Mr M.
I dont think its Halifaxs fault Mr M didnt receive his PIN. I acknowledge not having the PIN 
will have caused a lot of inconvenience for Mr M, hes said it took up time when he was on a 
family holiday and caused embarrassment as he had no working card.
I believe Mr M sent Halifax a letter about his PIN. I also believe Halifax when it says it didnt 
receive it. But, in the circumstances, Im not sure Halifax receiving the letter would have 
made a difference to what happened.
Mr M says he spent time, on his holiday, messaging Halifax. So, I assume Mr M was still on 
holiday when he spoke to Halifax via webchat.
If Halifax had received Mr Ms letter its likely it would have responded the same way, and 
sent a further PIN by post. This wouldnt have helped Mr M, he was on holiday.
When Mr M contacted Halifax via webchat it told him he could find his PIN using the mobile 
application, and this is what Mr M did. Im unsure why Mr M didnt choose to speak to Halifax 
by phone or webchat before sending the letter in, especially since he needed a PIN quickly.
The inconvenience Mr M was caused isnt, I think, the fault of Halifax. Im persuaded Halifax 
sent Mr M a PIN and I cant it hold it responsible for any issues with the post. Im also 
persuaded Halifax didnt receive Mr Ms letter.
But, once Halifax knew Mr M hadnt received his PIN it told him how to access it.
Halifax offered Mr M £15 in compensation, but since I dont think Halifax did anything wrong, 
I cant endorse this payment. If, on reflection, Mr M wants to accept this payment he should 
contact Halifax directly.
My final decision
My final decision is I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 22 August 2023.
 
Chris Russ
Ombudsman