DRN-4118907
The complaint
Mr M has complained about Family Assurance Friendly Society Limited (trading as 
OneFamily)
Mr M has been represented by his father throughout, and he has provided submissions to 
support his sons complaint. I have referred to Mr Ms father as his representative.
What happened
Mr M was the beneficiary of a child trust fund (CTF). He held this fund with OneFamily. The 
fund matured on 3 December 2021.
Mr M said no information was provided to him or his parents prior to maturity of the fund. He 
said no information was received on the value, options, or the process of transferring the 
funds. Mr M said he phoned OneFamily in February 2022 and was given incorrect advice. 
He said he was told he could keep the funds in an ISA with OneFamily invested in a tracker 
fund or he could withdraw the funds to cash. He said this was incorrect as he would lose the 
tax-free status of the funds if he withdrew it. He said OneFamily didnt advise that he could 
transfer the funds to another ISA provider. 
Mr M said he wanted to transfer the funds to another party, an equity ISA provider but he 
was given incorrect advice about this. He said he was given a valuation on 6 February 2022 
by OneFamily, and this was around £24,117. He said he would eventually find out that he 
could transfer the funds to another provider, after he discussed this with the third party. He 
said he eventually transferred the funds to the third party on 22 September 2022. 
Mr M said he would have transferred the funds a lot sooner if OneFamily have provided the 
correct advice back in February 2022. He said the amount transferred came to around 
£23055. He said he would like OneFamily to pay the difference to him between the valuation 
in February 2022 and the realised amount that was transferred. This, he said, is because 
OneFamily gave him incorrect advice, and this made him investment losses. 
OneFamily said in response that it would have sent information out to Mr M two to three 
months before maturity. It said its website also holds information about maturity. OneFamily 
said it had reviewed the phone call from February 2022 between the parties and said it is 
sorry that its adviser gave incorrect information. It said they advised he couldnt transfer the 
funds to another ISA, and this was incorrect.  
OneFamily said it is grateful Mr M didnt act on the advice given and instead sought advice 
from a third party. It said it processed the transfer forms from the third party on 21 
September 2022 and a cheque cleared with it on 12 October 2022. It said government 
guidelines state a transfer of this nature should take no more than 30 days and this deadline 
was met.
OneFamily offered £200 compensation as a gesture of goodwill for providing incorrect 
advice on the telephone. 
Mr M was not happy with OneFamilys response and referred his complaint to our service.  
An investigator looked into Mr Ms complaint. She said she felt OneFamilys offer of 
compensation was fair in the circumstances. She said she could see that OneFamily had 
recognised the errors it had made and was prepared to pay some compensation for this. 
She didnt think the losses Mr M had stated were to do with these errors but were to do with 
the fall in market value of his invested funds. She said OneFamily had acted within the terms 
and conditions associated with the account that Mr M held. She didnt think it needed to do 
anymore.  
Mr M is not in agreement with the investigators view. So as this is the case his complaint 
has been passed to me, an ombudsman, to look into.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I have read submissions by Mr Ms representative and in doing so I think it is worth 
explaining from the outset about the role of The Financial Ombudsman Service as an 
informal dispute resolution service. Mr Ms representative said as the policeman for the 
public with the FCA, I should be stepping back and looking at what he described as 
systematic failings from OneFamily. I understand what Mr Ms representative is saying, but 
that is not my role. As an ombudsman, I make decisions on the balance of probabilities, and 
as an impartial decision maker I look to make findings that are fair and reasonable in the 
circumstances of Mr Ms complaint. My role does not involve applying any regulatory or 
disciplinary powers and it is not in my remit to tell a business how it should or shouldnt 
operate. 
Ive looked at the complaint afresh and Ive independently reached the same conclusions as 
our investigator. I will explain why:
Mr M said he didnt receive any information from OneFamily about the maturity of 
the child trust fund. OneFamily on the other hand said they would have sent the 
information two to three months before maturity and that documentation was also on 
their website. I have not seen enough evidence to show that OneFamily didnt send 
information about the maturity of the child trust fund as it says it normally would do. 
It maybe the case that the information went astray when it was sent to Mr M, but I 
dont think I could hold OneFamily responsible for this, if this happened. 
In February 2022, Mr M called OneFamily to discuss his options. OneFamily has 
reviewed this call and said it made mistakes in the advice it provided to him. It said it 
gave the wrong advice and said he had two choices: either keep the money invested 
within a tracker fund in its ISA or withdraw the money to cash. Mr Ms representative 
said at that time that this couldnt be right as Mr M would lose the tax efficient nature 
of the funds. 
Mr M said he wanted to, at that time, move his funds to an equity ISA with a third 
party. On balance, I think if he had acted on OneFamilys incorrect advice he would 
have withdrawn the money from the account, as it had suggested, and then 
transferred the money to the third party. But Mr M didnt act on OneFamilys 
incorrect advice. 
Mr M has then said through his representative, that he had a busy time with his 
education and had to prioritise that. It wasnt then until September 2022 that Mr M discussed a transfer with a third party. The third party then put in transfer forms, and 
I can see from this point that OneFamily on receipt of these, carried out the transfer 
within a reasonable timeframe. 
When I look at what has happened here, on balance, I have not seen enough 
evidence to safely conclude that Mr M would have arranged a transfer sooner than 
he did if he had been given the correct advice by OneFamily. I think if Mr M was 
looking to make the transfer earlier he wouldve either contacted the third party 
sooner, discussed things further with OneFamily or acted on its incorrect advice. 
Instead, I think other priorities took over for Mr M and it wasnt until September 2022 
that he was able to look into his options again, and then request the transfer. So, I 
dont uphold his complaint here for the reasons I have just given.
OneFamily offered £200 compensation as a gesture of goodwill for providing 
incorrect advice on the telephone to Mr M. I think this is a fair and reasonable 
amount in the circumstances of Mr Ms complaint. 
I appreciate that my decision will be disappointing for Mr M and his representative, and I 
acknowledge the strength of his feelings in the submissions provided. But based on 
everything I have read and the findings I have given, I dont uphold his complaint about the 
investment losses he said he has incurred. I do think OneFamilys offer of compensation is 
fair and reasonable. 
My final decision
Family Assurance Friendly Society Limited has already made an offer to Mr M to pay £200 to 
settle the complaint. I think its offer is fair and reasonable.
So, my decision is that Family Assurance Friendly Society Limited should pay £200 in total if 
it hasnt done so already. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 11 January 2024.
 
Mark Richardson
Ombudsman