DRN-2926734
The complaint
Ms B is unhappy a storm damage claim made to Fairmead Insurance Limited (Fairmead)
under her home insurance policy has been declined.
What happened
In October 2020 water entered Ms Bs property through the roof and she made a claim for
storm damage to Fairmead, the provider of her home insurance policy.
Fairmead declined the claim for storm damage as they said there werent storm conditions at
the time so no insured event, under Ms Bs policy, had occurred. And they said more
generally the policy doesnt cover wear and tear or anything that happens over time.
Ms B was unhappy with this and approached this service.
Our investigator looked into things, but she didnt uphold the complaint. She said there
werent storm conditions at the time the damage was reported. So she was satisfied that
Fairmead has acted fairly by declining the claim on this basis. She also said that Fairmead
had briefly mentioned wear and tear or gradual damage wasnt covered more generally, she
was provided with images of the roof and she thought it possible in the absence of storm
conditions that the bad weather couldve highlighted existing issues with it.
Our investigator also said that the accidental damage cover under the policy excluded water
entering the property, so in the absence of storm damage, the internal damage wouldnt be
covered under this section either.
Ms B didnt agree and asked for a final decision from an ombudsman.
What I provisionally decided  and why
In my provisional decision, I said:
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im minded to reach a different outcome to our investigator. But to 
manage Ms Bs expectations, there isnt enough at this stage to say Fairmead should 
be covering her claim for storm damage. Rather I think Fairmead need to do more in 
order to decide whether Ms B has a valid claim or not. And I think they shouldve 
done this sooner. Ill explain why.
When we look at complaints about storm damage claims, we consider three main 
questions. If any of the answers to the three questions are no then its likely a claim 
wont succeed.
Were there storm conditions
Ms Bs policy covers storm damage. And the policy defines a storm as:
Wind speeds with gusts of at least 47mph/75kmh or torrential rainfall at a rate of at 
least 25mm/one inch per hour or snow to a depth of at least one foot/30cm in 24 
hours or hail of such intensity that it causes damage to hard surfaces or breaks 
glass.
Fairmead says the weather conditions at the time didnt reach storm force conditions 
as defined in the policy as the windspeed wasnt high enough, so they declined the 
claim outright at the start. Our investigator agreed with this based on the date of loss.
However, Ive also considered the weather records at the time. I agree on the specific 
date reported  3 October 2020, that the overall weather conditions at the nearest 
weather station didnt show storm conditions.
But shortly before this, on 25 September 2020, the weather records do indicate 
windspeeds of up to 49mph at the nearest weather station. Which is in line with 
Fairmeads definition of storm conditions. There was then a short period of heavy rain 
leading up to when the damage was reported on 3 October 2020, after water had 
caused damage internally.
Fairmead also noted in their claim notes that Ms Bs property is in an exposed 
coastal location, which could also affect the weather conditions in that area 
specifically.
So Im not minded to agree that it was fair to decline the claim outright on the basis of 
no storm conditions, as shortly before the water entered Ms Bs home, the weather 
records do indicate storm force conditions, as defined, occurred.
Is the damage consistent with storm
Ms B has provided this service with images of her roof externally, and shes indicated 
on these where the water has entered her property. This shows an area of lifted tiles 
in that precise area. Shes also provided images of where the water has entered and 
caused damage internally. Tiles being moved and lifted, and water then entering a 
property is consistent with storm damage  in the right conditions.
Was the storm the dominant cause of damage
Fairmead didnt inspect the roof or internal damage, as they outright declined the 
claim based solely on the weather conditions on the date of loss. As mentioned 
above, I think storm conditions did occur just before the loss was reported, so the 
claim shouldve at least been considered further at that stage to determine whether 
the storm was the cause of damage, rather than being declined outright. But the 
claim didnt get that far.Fairmead mentioned gradual damage and wear and tear isnt covered under Ms Bs 
policy more generally. They didnt use this exclusion to decline the claim, and they 
didnt view the property or images of the damage to reach that conclusion, they solely 
based the claim decision on weather conditions  incorrectly based on the weather 
records Ive seen.
Ms B hasnt provided a report from an expert which demonstrates the storm was the
dominant cause of damage. But Ms B has provided images which do show lifted tiles 
and water damage inside, which, as I say, could be consistent with storm type 
damage.
But here and based on all the information provided, Im not able to conclude that the 
storm was the dominant cause, or whether there is any other issue with the roof, 
such as gradual damage or wear and tear which couldve been the dominant cause. 
So Im not at this stage able to conclude Fairmead should accept and deal with the 
claim.
But equally, I dont think Fairmead has fairly declined the claim, as they said there 
werent storm conditions, which the weather records indicate is incorrect.
Therefore, unless anything changes as a result of the responses to my provisional 
decision, Im minded to say that Fairmead needs to reconsider the storm damage 
claim in line with the remaining policy terms.
Ms B may also need to provide additional information in order for Fairmead to do so, 
or Fairmead may need to inspect the damage further to establish if it is covered 
under Ms Bs policy. So in response to my provisional decision, Im asking both 
parties to confirm if they are in agreement with Fairmead reconsidering the claim in 
line with the remaining terms.
If my final decision then remains the same as my provisional decision, and if after 
Fairmead has done this Ms B is unhappy with whatever decision is ultimately 
reached, we may be able to consider this as a new separate complaint based on that 
new position and information.
I dont think the service Ms B has received has been in line with her reasonable 
expectations and Fairmead should have done more in considering the claim earlier 
on. Having your home damaged will be upsetting in itself, but this has been added to 
by Fairmead outright declining the claim incorrectly. So in addition to reconsidering 
the claim, Im also minded to say Fairmead should compensate Ms B £100 for the 
additional distress caused.
So I was minded to uphold the complaint and to direct Fairmead to reconsider Ms Bs storm 
damage claim in line with the remaining policy terms and to pay £100 compensation.
The responses to my provisional decision
Fairmead responded and said they didnt have anything further to add.
Ms B accepted my provisional decision. She asked if she should obtain her own roof report 
to submit to Fairmead, or whether they would be carrying out their own inspections.What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
And Ive thought carefully about the findings I came to in my provisional decision. Having 
done so, and as neither party provided any comments which would lead me to depart from 
those, they remain the same and for the same reasons outlined.
As I said in these, Fairmead need to reconsider Ms Bs claim in line with the remaining terms 
and conditions. And Ms B may need to provide more information to Fairmead to enable them 
to do so. But at this stage, I cant say whether Fairmead would need Ms B to provide her 
own report, or whether Fairmead would want to carry out their own inspection. Fairmead has 
indicated that they may wish to inspect themselves, but this is something that Ms B will need 
to discuss with Fairmead directly in the first instance.
But as I outlined in my provisional decision, once Fairmead has reconsidered the claim in 
line with the remaining terms, and if Ms B remains dissatisfied whatever position is ultimately 
reached, we may be able to consider that as a new complaint based on that new 
information.
Neither party has provided anything which would lead me to depart from the £100 
compensation I was also minded to say Fairmead should pay Ms B, so this remains the 
same, and for the same reasons.
My final decision
Its my final decision that I uphold this complaint and direct Fairmead Insurance Limited to:
Reconsider Ms Bs claim in line with the remaining policy terms
Pay Ms B £100 compensation
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms B to accept or 
reject my decision before 12 August 2021.
 
Callum Milne
Ombudsman