DRN-2421796
The complaint
Mr G complains that American Express Services Europe Limited rejected his claim under s 
75 Consumer Credit Act 1974 in respect of a faulty car.
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties and are set out in our 
investigators view letter of 20 November 2020, so I wont repeat them again here. The facts 
are not in dispute so instead Ill focus on giving the reasons for my decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the conclusions reached by the investigator for the following 
reasons: 
In considering what is fair and reasonable, I need to have regard to the relevant law and 
regulations, regulators rules, guidance and standards and codes of practice and (where 
appropriate) what I consider to have been good industry practice at the time. 
The finance agreement, that is the credit card agreement, in this case is a regulated 
consumer credit agreement. As such this service is able to consider complaints relating to it. 
American Express is also the supplier of the goods under this type of agreement, and 
responsible for a complaint about their quality.
The relevant law says that under a contract to supply goods, there is an implied term that 
the quality of the goods is satisfactory.
The relevant law says that the quality of the goods is satisfactory if they meet the standard 
that a reasonable person would consider satisfactory taking into account any description of 
the goods, price and all other relevant circumstances. So it seems likely that in a case 
involving a car, the other relevant circumstances a court would take into account might 
include things like the age and the mileage at the time of sale and the vehicles history.
Under the relevant law the quality of the goods includes their general state and condition and 
other things like their fitness for purpose, appearance and finish, freedom from minor 
defects, safety, and durability can be aspects of the quality of the goods.
The car was some nine years old and had covered 105,000 miles so a degree of wear and 
tear is to be expected. It is also the case that wear and tear can lead to significant faults 
arising which appears to be what has happened here.
There were initial faults and these were repaired by a third-party garage. Mr G says the 
selling dealer wasnt helpful, but it disputes that claim. I note Mr G lived some distance from 
the dealer and it may be that having the work done locally was preferable to taking the car 
back. The warranty covered the cost of the washer motor and American Express offered to 
cover the cost of repairs to the breather hose and throttle actuator as it agreed these faults 
were most likely present at the point of sale. I consider that to have been a reasonable 
response.
I note that in late May 2019, some 10 weeks after purchase and after it covered a further 
3,000 miles the car passed its MOT. There was no indication at that point of any further 
issues, but in July the EGR valves needed to be replaced. I think it likely that if these had 
been faulty at the point of sale then this would have shown up in the MOT. 
In August it broke down and Mr G was advised to have the engine replaced. This was done 
at a cost of £7,194. Given the cost of the car of £8,500, its age and mileage this seems to be 
an unusually large expense to have incurred. I note American Express considers it 
disproportionate and I am inclined to agree. Again, this work was done by another garage 
and I am not aware that the dealer was given the opportunity to accept the diagnosis or 
effect a repair.
I note in recent correspondence Mr G has said the garage which replaced the engine said it 
had been rebuilt before, but I have seen no documentary evidence to support that claim. I 
agree that durability is an aspect to be considered, but that doesnt mean that an elderly car 
can be expected to be fault free, even if those faults turn out to be significant. 
Subsequently Mr G had work done on the hub bearings, oil changes and filters, new keys 
etc. As our investigator has pointed out there is no evidence to link these to the early faults 
which have been accepted as being present at the point of sale.
While I have seen numerous invoices and job cards for the work done, I have not been 
presented with any independent report into the cause of the faults. Normally I would expect 
to see some independent evidence to show why the car developed the faults and it they 
were likely to have been present at the point of sale.
I appreciate there have been numerous issues and Mr G has suggested that since they 
occurred in the first six months of ownership that they must have been present when he 
bought the car. However, the car was elderly and had a high mileage and it is quite possible 
that the wear and tear after March 2019 led to these faults appearing.
In summary, I am not persuaded that, apart from the issues accepted by American Express, 
the remaining faults were present at the point of sale. If they had been, I do not believe the 
car would have covered the miles it did and I doubt if it would have passed its MOT.
So, while I have every sympathy with Mr G I do not consider I can uphold his complaint.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision before 4 August 2021.
 
Ivor Graham
Ombudsman