DRN-3245086
The complaint
Mr B complains that HSBC UK Bank Plc wont refund money he lost after he had fallen 
victim to a scam. 
What happened
The background to this complaint is well known to both parties, so I wont repeat it in detail 
here. But in summary, and based on the submissions of both parties, I understand it to be as 
follows. 
In May 2020, Mr B was looking to invest. He searched for savings accounts online and came 
across a website for an Investment Firm that was offering bonds in a well-known high street 
bank. Mr B expressed his interest, by completing an online form, and shortly after was 
contacted by who he thought was the Investment Firm. Mr B has said, although he was 
looking for the best interest rate he could get, this bond wasnt the best one he saw, which 
gave him confidence that the rate wasnt suspicious. Unknown to Mr B at the time, he was 
now communicating with fraudsters, who had cloned a genuine Investment Firm.
 
Mr B has told us that prior to making the investment, he contacted HSBC, via its online chat 
service, to discuss the bond and the firm that he was interested in investing through. Mr B 
has said HSBC explained that it wasnt able to discuss other companies, but directed Mr B to 
check the Financial Conduct Authoritys (FCA) register. Mr B has said he did this, but found 
nothing of concern about the firm and everything looked ok.
Mr B has said he agreed to invest in a £25,000 bond. He was waiting on a savings account 
maturing, so agreed to make an initial payment of £5,000, with the balance being paid 
around 10 days later, when his savings account matured. Mr B has said he spoke with the 
fraudsters on the phone and received emails and documentation about the investment he 
was making.  
On 15 May 2020, Mr B made a payment for £5,000 through his online banking. Hes said 
that he noticed a Confirmation of Payee (CoP) warning stating the bank had been unable to 
check name and so he contacted HSBC to question this, but hes said he was told by HSBC 
this sometimes happened. The payment for £5,000 was then returned by the receiving bank. 
HSBC has sent evidence to show a letter was sent to Mr B indicating the payment was 
reversed due to the beneficiary account being stopped. Mr B has said he didnt receive this 
letter, but he contacted the fraudsters and was told it had been returned as he had not sent 
the full amount of the bond, and so the bank had not recognised the payment.
The fraudsters provided Mr B with new bank details and still believing everything to be in 
order, Mr B went ahead and made a payment of £25,000 on 26 May 2020, via his online 
banking. Mr B came across a CoP no match warning, but as hed previously been told this 
sometimes happened, he proceeded with the payment. Hes said that following the payment, 
he received further documentation from the fraudsters, pertaining to be genuine details 
about the bond.
 
Mr B was considering making a further payment, to invest more. But he became suspicious 
after a conversation with his son, who had some concerns. Mr B and his son carried out 
some research and it became evident that Mr B had been dealing with fraudsters who had 
cloned a legitimate firm and Mr B, despite attempts, was then unable to connect with the 
fraudsters he had been dealing with. 
Mr B reported the incident to HSBC and it investigated his fraud claim. It tried to recover the 
funds from the recipient bank but found there was no money left; it had already been 
removed from the beneficiary account.
 
HSBC went on to consider its obligations to provide Mr B with a refund. It is a signatory of 
the Lending Standards Board Contingent Reimbursement Model (CRM) Code which 
requires firms to reimburse customers who have been the victims of APP scams like this in 
all but a limited number of circumstances. HSBC says one or more of those exceptions 
applies in this case. HSBC acknowledged it ought to have given Mr B more effective 
warnings on the risk of scams when making the payment. And so, recognising the provisions 
of the CRM Code, it agreed to refund Mr B 50% of his loss. But it said it thought Mr B should 
be jointly liable, because it said he could have carried out more checks before making the 
payment.
Unhappy with HSBCs response, Mr B brought his complaint to this service. One of our 
investigators looked into things and thought HSBC had fairly held Mr B liable for 50% of the 
loss. In summary he said this because, although Mr B has said hed checked with the FCA, 
our investigator found there was a scam warning published, by the FCA, before Mr B had 
made his payments. Our investigator thought this warning would have been visible to Mr B 
had he checked the FCA and should have prompted him to carry out further research, 
something Mr B confirmed he didnt do. Alongside this, our investigator also thought there 
were other red flags, that should have prompted Mr B to carry out further checks, such as; 
HSBC telling him the first payment had been returned due to the beneficiary account being 
stopped, different payee details being given for the second payment and the CoP details, for 
the bank account Mr B was paying, not returning a match.
Mr B didnt agree with our investigators view. As agreement couldnt be reached the 
complaint has now been passed to me for a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Theres no dispute that Mr B authorised the payment that is the subject of this complaint, 
even though he did so as a result of being deceived by fraudsters. Broadly speaking, under 
the account terms and conditions and the Payment Service Regulations 2017, he would 
normally be liable for them. But that isnt the end of the story. Where a customer has been 
the victim of a scam it may be appropriate for the bank to reimburse the customer, even 
though payments have been properly authorised. Of particular relevance is the CRM Code 
which, as mentioned above, HSBC has signed up to. Under the CRM Code, the starting 
principle is that a firm should reimburse a customer who is the victim of an APP scam, like 
Mr B. 
The circumstances where a firm may choose not to reimburse are limited and it is for the firm 
to establish that a customer failed to meet their requisite level of care, as set out in the Code. 
One such circumstance might be when a customer has ignored what the CRM Code refers 
to as an Effective Warning. HSBC has already acknowledged it didnt provide an Effective 
Warning to Mr B. Thats why its refunded 50% of his loss, accepting that it ought to have done more and recognising that means it bears some responsibility for Mr Bs loss. Ive seen 
no evidence to suggest this isnt a fair conclusion and I see no reason to make further 
findings given HSBC has already accepted partial responsibility here. 
A second circumstance in which a bank might decline a refund is if it can be demonstrated 
that the customer made the payments without having a reasonable basis for believing that: 
- the payee was the person the Customer was expecting to pay; 
- the payment was for genuine goods or services; and/or
- the person or business with whom they transacted was legitimate. 
In considering these points account should be taken of all of the circumstances of the case, 
including the characteristics of the customer and the complexity of the scam. HSBC has said 
it wont refund the remaining 50% of Mr Bs loss as it doesnt think he did have a reasonable 
basis for belief. In particular, it thinks Mr B ought to have carried out more checks given the 
CoP check didnt match and that there was a warning on the FCA website, which advised 
this company was cloned before Mr B made his payments.
 
Ive thought about all of this carefully, having done so, while Im sorry to disappoint Mr B, Im 
not going to order the bank to do anything more. Having considered all the available 
evidence and information, I dont find its fair and reasonable to say HSBC ought to make up 
Mr Bs remaining loss. Ill explain why.
It doesnt seem in dispute that Mr B contacted HSBC and hes said that HSBC told him that 
he should check the company, he was intending to invest in, through the FCA. Mr B has said 
that he did actually check the FCA website and found nothing concerning. But there were 
live warnings about cloned and unregulated companies for the business he was intending to 
invest in, which were published on the FCA website in April 2020. The FCA warning 
contained some of the contact details Mr B was using to correspond with the fraudsters. And 
so its difficult for me to understand why these warnings werent found and why they didnt 
prevent Mr B from proceeding to make the payments.
 
It seems to me that one of two things is more likely than not to have happened. Either Mr B 
did check the FCA website, saw the warnings but decided to proceed anyway, which 
wouldnt be a reasonable course of action. Or he didnt take note of the banks warning and 
didnt check the FCA website, thereby not carrying out an important piece of due diligence 
that would more likely than not have revealed the scam. Whichever it may be, the outcome 
would be the same. It would mean Mr B proceeded to make the payments without a 
reasonable basis for belief, even though I acknowledge this was a sophisticated scam, that I 
dont doubt was very convincing up to that point. Given HSBC had instructed Mr B to check 
the FCA website, I believe its fair and reasonable to say the warning on the FCA website 
ought to have resonated with him, given it matched his circumstances.
 
Alongside this, for each payment he made Mr B was provided with a CoP warning, the first 
payment showing unable to check name, and the second payment a no match result, 
showing that the account he was transferring the funds to wasnt in the name of the 
company he was expecting to pay. Im mindful that Mr B did contact HSBC regarding the first 
CoP warning, but find it surprising that Mr B would continue with the second payment he 
made. I say that as, in the specific circumstances of this case, I cant see that the fraudsters 
had given Mr B any plausible explanation as to why he had been given different bank details 
to use for the second payment. I also think it ought to have been of some concern to him that 
he may not be making a payment to who he was expecting to.I say that especially as the first payment Mr B had made, had been returned. The fraudsters 
told him this was because he hadnt paid the full amount. But Mr B has said that hed agreed 
to pay a deposit, with the remainder of the bond payment to be made at a later date. So, I 
think this reasonably ought to have given Mr B cause for concern that a legitimate company 
had seemingly reneged on its word to accept a deposit. As well as this, HSBC has provided 
evidence to show that it wrote to Mr B advising that the payment had been returned due to 
the beneficiary account being stopped. That this wasnt consistent with what he was being 
told by the fraudster, ought to have caused some concern. Although, I should add, I have 
placed little weight on this specific point, as I recognise Mr B has said he doesnt recall 
receiving the letter.
Overall, for the reasons explained, I cant fairly say that Mr B had a reasonable basis for 
believing that he was making a payment towards a legitimate investment or that he was 
sending money to who he thought he was.
Is there anything else HSBC ought to have fairly and reasonably done? 
Its arguable that HSBC ought to have done more to question the payments Mr B was 
making, particularly the second one. He was sending a large sum of money to a new payee. 
And so there could be an argument to say the bank ought to have questioned Mr B directly, 
either on the phone or in branch. But in any event, Ive already made the finding that Mr B 
should bear some responsibility for the loss as he didnt have a reasonable basis for belief. 
That responsibility isnt diminished or removed by a possible further omission on the banks 
part. And so, even if it might be said the bank ought to have done more, it would remain the 
case that Mr B would only receive a refund of 50% of the total loss.
Finally, Ive thought about whether HSBC did what it should have done, when Mr B reported 
the scam. HSBC did try to recover the money he had sent to the fraudsters. Ultimately this 
was not successful. But that outcome is not surprising given that fraudsters tend to move the 
funds on as quickly as possible.
 
Overall, I dont think HSBC is liable to refund Mr B for the remainder of the money he lost. 
While I know this outcome will be disappointing for Mr B, I hope hell understand my reasons 
for reaching it.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint against HSBC UK Bank Plc.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 22 September 2022.
 
Stephen Wise
Ombudsman