DRN-3655406
The complaint
Mr C complains that Barclays Bank UK Plc refuses to refund money he lost to an investment 
scammer.
What happened
Mr C has explained that in 2021 he made the following debit card and bank transfer 
payments from his Barclays current account, for what he thought was a legitimate 
investment.  
Transaction 
number DateMethod of 
paymentMerchant
Amount (£)
1 22 February 2021 Debit card Cmama Limited £314.82
2 26 February 2021 Bank transfer Cmama Limited £498.29
3 1 March 2021 Bank transfer Cmama Limited £624.89
4 1 March 2021 Bank transfer Cmama Limited £72.12
5 2 March 2021 Bank transfer Cmama Limited £1,070
6 4 March 2021 Bank transfer Cmama Limited £1,135
Total £3,715.12
When Mr C subsequently got in touch with Barclays to explain hed been scammed, 
Barclays didnt reimburse his lost funds. It did however pay him £150 for the delay in 
responding to his complaint. Remaining unhappy, Mr C referred his complaint about 
Barclays to this office. As our investigator couldnt resolve the matter informally, the case 
has been passed to me for a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive decided to not uphold this complaint, for materially the same reasons as the investigator. 
Ill explain why.
At the time Mr C made his payments, banks were expected to process payments a
customer authorised it to make; but as a matter of good industry practice, a bank should
have taken proactive steps to identify and help prevent transactions  particularly unusual or
uncharacteristic transactions  that could involve fraud or be the result of a scam.
Ive reviewed the prior operation of Mr Cs Barclays account. I dont think I can say  given
the payments in question here, taken singularly or collectively  that Barclays unreasonably 
failed to intervene before executing Mr Cs instructions, or that it would be reasonable here 
to hold Barclays responsible for Mr Cs loss.
There is a balance to be struck  banks had (and have) obligations to be alert to fraud and to 
act in their customers best interests. But they cant reasonably be involved in every 
transaction. I think the payments in question here were of relatively low value and were not 
sufficiently unusual or uncharacteristic to say that Barclays ought to have been concerned 
that Mr C could be at risk of financial harm. The payments were in keeping with the normal 
operation of the account as Mr CF had also sent undisputed payments towards high risk 
investments, for example £1,000 on 26 February 2021. I dont think any of the payments 
were remarkable enough for Barclays to suspect that Mr C could be at risk of financial harm. 
I understand when Mr C reported the scam to Barclays, it considered whether it should 
refund Mr Cs payments in accordance with the Contingent Reimbursement Model (CRM) 
Code. It concluded that as the payments went to an account in Mr Cs own name the CRM 
Code wasnt applicable. Im satisfied this was correct and the CRM Code wouldnt apply in 
this scenario. Ive also seen that Barclays made attempts to recover payments two to six 
when Mr C reported the scam but the beneficiary bank replied stating no funds remained in 
the account. 
I cant see that Barclays attempted to recover the first payment but this was a debit card 
payment and not an online transfer. Therefore, Barclays only option would have been to use 
the Visa chargeback scheme. As Mr C made this payment to his crypto account (with 
Cmama Limited), they would have converted his £sterling to crypto before sending it onto 
the scammers wallet. Cmama Limited would have therefore provided a service to Mr C and I 
dont think a chargeback claim could have likely succeeded.  
I therefore dont think Barclays could have done anymore than it did to recover Mr Cs 
payments. 
Barclays paid Mr C £150 compensation for the delay in dealing with his complaint, I think this 
was fair and reasonable in the circumstances. 
I appreciate Mr C will be disappointed with this outcome. But I can only uphold this complaint 
if Im satisfied Barclays did something wrong that caused his loss. And in this case, whilst I 
sympathise with Mr Cs position, for the reasons Ive explained, Im not persuaded Barclays 
can fairly be held responsible for his losses. 
My final decision
My final decision is, despite my natural sympathies for Mr Cs loss, I dont uphold this 
complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 3 January 2023.
 
Dolores Njemanze
Ombudsman