DRN-1601365
The complaint
Ms F complains that her critical illness claim was unfairly declined by Legal and General 
Assurance Society Limited (L&G). To resolve her complaint, she wants her claim to be paid 
in full.
Ms F is represented by a solicitor in bringing her complaint to this service.
What happened
Ms F applied for critical illness cover in July 2018. It has an initial £50,000 of level cover for a 
32-year term, with an annually increasing premium and sum assured. The policy was taken 
out through a third party broker, as a replacement for an existing policy she had held with a 
different insurer since 2008. Ms F reviewed her policy because she was taking out new 
mortgage lending. The L&G policy came into force in October 2018. 
In March 2019, Ms F contacted L&G to make a claim for critical illness benefit. She had 
sadly been diagnosed with multiple sclerosis in January 2019 following the onset of 
neurological symptoms in November 2018.
In May 2019, L&G declined Ms Fs claim. It said she had failed to disclose relevant 
information regarding her vision when she had applied for her policy. Specifically, Ms F had 
visited an ophthalmologist in March and June 2016 regarding an episode of eye pain, visual 
disturbance and possible optic neuritis. One question on the policy application asked about 
neurological conditions including optic neuritis and visual disturbances.
L&G said that if it had known about that, it would not have been able to offer her cover for 
MS. It would have still offered Ms F critical illness benefit, but with an exclusion for MS. It 
therefore amended her policy terms to exclude MS. It also declined her claim.
Ms Fs solicitor complained on her behalf. It said though it was believed at first that Ms F 
might have been suffering from optic neuritis, this was discounted once she was examined. 
The solicitor said it wasnt fair to use a suspected diagnosis to apply an exclusion now. It 
likened it to a person attending a hospital with chest pain, being told he or she has a 
suspected heart attack and then being diagnosed with indigestion. The solicitors point was 
that the investigation and eventual diagnosis ought to be considered over any suspected 
diagnosis.
The solicitor also said Ms F was told she did not have visual disturbance or optic swelling. 
She suffered from headaches and pain behind the eyes, and she was discharged with a 
diagnosis of likely migraine. It said that it followed that Ms F didnt have anything to disclose 
in relation to the specific question when applying for her policy in 2018 as she did not suffer 
from any visual disturbance. It noted that Ms Fs employment concerned financial regulation 
and she knew the importance of making accurate disclosures about her health.
L&G wouldnt change its view. It said that taking the solicitors example of chest pain would 
still lead a policyholder to have to disclose the symptom of chest pain that he or she had 
suffered. And the same applied to Ms F  she wasnt asked about a diagnosis. L&G said she should have told it that shed had visual disturbance in 2016. It reiterated that it believed it 
had taken a fair retrospective underwriting decision.
The solicitor brought Ms Fs complaint to this service.
An investigator reviewed the complaint but did not think it should succeed. He felt Ms F 
ought to have answered one application question differently regarding visual disturbances. 
And because of this, he said L&G had reacted reasonably by amending the policy and 
refusing the claim. 
L&G didnt have anything further to add. 
The solicitor said Ms F disagreed with the outcome and that she wanted the matter to be 
referred to an ombudsman. The solicitor made several additional comments:
 
Ms F forgot the symptoms when asked, because they were transient and because 
they were fully resolved by the follow up appointment of June 2016;
the visit to the ophthalmologist was never reassessed until November 2018 when a 
differing symptom of neurological origin appeared, and this was then connected back 
to the brief issue of 2016;
no treatment or follow up of the eye pain was required because it resolved;
the relevant law on consumer disclosures must be followed;
and the law says a consumer must have taken reasonable care to ensure he or she 
has not made a misrepresentation;
Ms F did this, because she was diagnosed with migraine;
she was not diagnosed with optic neuritis;
there was a perfectly good explanation for her symptoms and she had no reason to 
recall them when asked because of that diagnosis;
a relevant court case sets out that unrelated symptoms which might later be 
connected to MS should not be used as a means to refuse a claim;  
there was no reason for Ms F to have lied or misled L&G  she previously had a 
policy with the same benefit that she could have claimed on;
the guidance from the Association of British Insurers (ABI) regarding 
misrepresentation says that little weight should be given to catch all or memory test 
questions. 
even if there was a misrepresentation (which the solicitor does not accept), it must be 
the case that Ms F acted innocently in the circumstances.  
 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I was sorry to learn of Ms Fs diagnosis. I know this decision will be disappointing for her, but 
I agree with the outcome reached by our investigator. Im not going to be asking L&G to pay 
her claim or amend the application of the retrospective exclusion.
Though I am mindful of relevant law, no two complaints are factually identical and for that 
reason I do not consider the case that the solicitor has referred to sets out any precedent that I must be bound to follow. My role is to look at the specific facts of this complaint and 
decide if L&G has acted reasonably when refusing the claim and applying the policy 
exclusion.  
When applying for insurance, if an applicant doesnt tell his or her insurer relevant 
information in response to a clear question its known as misrepresentation. I can see from 
Ms Fs email to L&G in June 2019 she explains how she has not made any attempt to 
mislead L&G. She believes she has clearly answered the question to the best of her 
knowledge at the time. 
If the circumstances around a claim prompt an insurer to believe a misrepresentation may 
have occurred within an application, its entitled to consider what ought to have happened at 
that time. That is what L&G has done. When it received the medical information to process 
Ms Fs claim, it was prompted to review the matter of 2016 as reference to optic neuritis was 
given in the report issued by Ms Fs GP.
L&G says if it had seen the medical evidence from the ophthalmology assessments in 2016, 
it couldnt have insured Ms F for MS. Because of this, it cant pay a claim now. I agree with 
this conclusion, for the reasons Ill set out below. 
When Ms F applied for the policy, she was asked:
 
Have you ever: - had any neurological condition or visual disturbance, for example, 
epilepsy, multiple sclerosis, muscular dystrophy, cerebral palsy, motor neurone 
disease, Parkinson's disease, optic neuritis?
Ms F said no to this question. Like our investigator, I believe that she should have said 
yes to the question.
I agree with the submissions both the solicitor and Ms F have made regarding optic neuritis. 
When it first refused the claim, L&G unhelpfully suggested that the reference to optic neuritis 
ought to have elicited a positive response. It now accepts that when first reporting to the 
ophthalmologist in March 2016, the provisional diagnosis was possible optic neuritis. But, by 
the time Ms F returned for the follow up, this had been expressly discounted. The diagnosis 
was, as Ms F explained, likely migraine. 
Nonetheless, the question set out above does not only ask about optic neuritis. It asked Ms 
F if she had ever (and by this time it was two years prior) had any visual disturbance. It then 
went on to list examples of that including optic neuritis, as well as examples of types of 
neurological conditions.
I appreciate Ms F would not have known in 2016 that she would go on to be diagnosed with 
MS. But, she needed to tell L&G any relevant information in response to being asked a clear 
question. And I think the question is clear about visual disturbance.
I understand a visual disturbance to be any change to a persons vision that is not indicative 
of normal function. I understand that Ms F and her solicitor assert now that Ms F only had 
pain behind her eye and no concerns with her vision specifically that would require her to 
give more detail to the question. 
I disagree with that. Firstly, in her correspondence with L&G during her claim, Ms F 
explained that by the time she was assessed by an ophthalmologist, her vision had returned 
to normal. This was because it was previously recorded that she had suffered with an issue 
with her vision, at that time in her right eye.  The medical evidence from the first ophthalmologist appointment says:
Thank you for referring this lady who complains of a right sided peri-ocular headache 
for the past four days with some slightly reduced vision and pain on eye movement. 
On examination her vision is slightly reduced on the right side. Her colour vision is 
normal and her visual fields are full. Dilated fundoscopy showed some slight fullness 
of her right optic disc and I think it is likely that this lady has a mild optic neuritis. I have 
suggested reviewing her in four weeks time and havent carried out any further 
investigations at present.
Ms F suffered visual disturbance between the two appointments as well, this time in her left 
eye. The ophthalmologist records in June 2016 that:
 
"DIAGNOSIS: Bilateral visual disturbance, now settled.
This lady was reviewed at clinic today and since her last visit her right eye has settled 
and she had one episode of inferior left visual field disturbance while on holiday since 
her last visit. This was short-lived and since then she has had no problems with her 
eyes and she feels they are back to normal. On examination there is no evidence of 
any optic disc swelling and I now feel that she probably has not had an episode of 
optic neuritis and she may have had some ocular migraine.
As L&G has pointed out, the question doesnt ask about diagnoses  it asks if an applicant 
has ever had any neurological condition or any visual disturbance. And the medical records 
show Ms F did have visual disturbance, whatever the cause for that might have been. So 
while I realise Ms F quite understandably had nothing to be concerned about once she was 
discharged in June 2016, that doesnt alter that she did experience something L&G had 
expressly asked her about. It needed to know that she had suffered from visual disturbance. 
And I believe she was likely aware that her vision was reduced on the two recorded 
occasions. 
This is supported by the fact that when Ms F underwent initial investigations with a 
neurologist in November 2018, she was able to recall the visual disturbance she had 
suffered in 2016  which whilst she sought help over eye pain, she recalled that she was told 
on examination that she had reduced vision.
L&G needed to know about that. It needed the information to decide if it was going to offer 
her cover and on what terms.
I therefore believe there was a misrepresentation. And once thats been established, 
relevant law on disclosure in consumer insurance contracts says that it should be classed as 
deliberate/reckless or otherwise as careless. 
I appreciate why Ms F likely forgot or did not appreciate what the question was asking of her. 
And I believe that she did not intend to deceive or mislead L&G. 
But she needed to show more care when answering and checking the question. L&G relied 
on Ms F answering questions accurately. As she applied through a third party, she was sent 
a copy of her answers to reflect upon. They were issued on 18 October 2018 and the 
correspondence made clear of the importance of ensuring accurate answers. I recognise it 
was an oversight to disregard her two episodes of reduced vision as visual disturbances and 
so I think Ms Fs actions best fit the careless category.  In the event of careless misrepresentation, an insurer should consider a proportionate 
remedy. This means the outcome will depend on what the underwriting decision would have 
been had the misrepresentation not occurred at the time. If insurance could have been 
offered under different terms or for a different cost, an insurer can amend the contract to 
reflect this.
Ms Fs policy terms expressly allow for this, noting that if we would have issued your policy 
on different terms and conditions (other than those relating to premiums) had the accurate 
information been provided, we may make changes to your policy terms and conditions and 
treat your policy as if it had been issued on the different terms and conditions.
I have looked at the retrospective underwriting information from L&G. The information 
reflects that L&G has made changes based on the terms it could have offered, that being to 
apply an exclusion where an applicant has had symptoms which could be considered 
possible optic neuritis (noting Ms F did not have that diagnosis) if the applicant has not 
undergone further neurological assessment.
Ms F could have been free to contest that exclusion at the time or seek her insurance 
elsewhere, but sadly that didnt happen because it wasnt disclosed. So, L&G hasnt had the 
opportunity to underwrite the policy in 2016 as it would have if it had known about Ms Fs 
ophthalmology appointments. It is therefore fair and in accordance with the relevant law, 
guidance, and Ms Fs policy terms for L&G to apply the exclusion retrospectively now. That 
means I cant ask it to pay Ms Fs claim because L&G would not have included MS in her 
critical illness policy terms. 
My final decision
Despite my sympathy for Ms F, I dont find L&G to have been unreasonable or unfair when it 
said it couldnt pay her critical illness claim or when it applied a policy exclusion for MS.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms F to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 April 2020.
Jo Storey
Ombudsman