DRN-4169798
The complaint
Mr R complains about British Gas Insurance Limited (BGI) and the level of service he 
received when he made a claim on his insurance policy.
What happened
Mr R held an insurance policy, underwritten by BGI. This policy was designed to cover 
appliances such as his boiler, as well as his plumbing and drainage.
Unfortunately, on 12 February 2023, Mr Rs drain had blocked and was overflowing onto his 
patio. So, he called BGI to make a claim.
But BGI explained, due to the availability of its engineers, its next available appointment to 
unblock the drain would be on 1 March, some 17 days later. Mr R was unhappy about this, 
so he arranged for the drain to be unblocked by his own contractor. And he raised a 
complaint.
Mr R didnt think it was reasonable for BGI to expect him to wait 17 days for an appointment 
when he was left in a position where raw sewage was leaking into his garden. So, he wanted 
to be compensated for the upset this caused. And he wanted BGI to confirm their internal 
service level agreements so he could understand how long he was expected to reasonably 
wait for an appointment in similar circumstances.
BGI responded to the complaint and upheld it. BGI explained they intend to carry out repairs 
within a reasonable amount of time. But that this can be impacted by engineer availability, 
and the vulnerabilities of its customers which may require prioritisation. BGI accepted it was 
unreasonable to expect Mr R to wait 17 days for an appointment and, although they did call 
Mr R the following day to try and bring this forward where they discovered the drain had 
already been unblocked, they paid Mr R £100 to recognise any inconvenience and upset 
hed been caused. Mr R remained unhappy with this response, so he referred his complaint 
to us.
Our investigator looked into the complaint and didnt uphold it. They explained our service 
cant compel a business to provide or publicise their internal service level agreements, as 
this is commercially sensitive information. And they recognised that while the 17 day wait 
time for an appointment did seem to be an unreasonable length of time, they thought the 
£100 BGI paid Mr R to recognise this was a fair compensatory offer, considering the fact Mr 
R managed to arrange for the drain to be unblocked himself. Our investigator also explained 
we would expect a business to take into account customer vulnerabilities when prioritising 
appointments. So, they didnt think BGI needed to do anything more.
Mr R didnt agree. He didnt think it was fair for him to pay the same policy premium as 
someone else who may disclose a vulnerability and receive a differing level of service. And 
he didnt think the potential health and safety aspect of his situation had been adequately 
considered. As Mr R didnt agree, the complaint has been passed to me for a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im not upholding the complaint for broadly the same reasons as the 
investigator. Ive focused my comments on what I think is relevant. If I havent commented 
on any specific point, its because I dont believe its affected what I think is the right 
outcome.
First, I want to recognise the impact this complaint has had on Mr G. I appreciate he took out 
the policy with BGI to protect himself financially, and to help minimise any inconvenience he 
would be caused, in situations such as the one he found himself in. And I dont disagree with 
Mr R that being told hed need to wait 17 days for an unblocked drain to be sorted appeared 
to be an unreasonable amount of time. So, I can understand why Mr G would seek 
clarification on how long customers are usually expected to wait, and whether hed been 
treated differently on this occasion.
But our service is unable to compel a business to disclose their own internal service level 
agreements. Nor are we able to comment on the fairness or reasonableness of these. This is 
because these internal agreements are deemed to be commercially sensitive and form part 
of a business commercial decision making, which falls under the remit of the industry 
regulator to consider and act upon. So, I wont be discussing this aspect of the complaint in 
any further detail.
Instead, Ive focused solely on the actions BGI took when processing the claim, and the 
fairness of the compensatory offer theyve already paid Mr R. Having done so, I dont think 
BGI need to do anything more here. And Ill explain why.
I dont think its in dispute from either side that 17 days was an unreasonable amount of time 
to expect Mr R to wait, considering he had a blocked drain which was causing raw sewage 
to spill onto his patio. But I can see that BGI did attempt to find an earlier appointment, 
calling Mr R the following day to explore this when they were made aware Mr R had already 
sourced a contractor to unblock the drain.
In this situation, I would expect BGI to consider potential reimbursement of the costs Mr R 
incurred, as I think there was an urgency to resolve the situation because I do think having 
raw sewage in his garden couldve been a potential health risk. But I would expect Mr R to 
provide an invoice, so BGI are able to confirm the actual cost incurred by Mr R. As Mr R 
hasnt been able to provide an invoice, I dont think I can say BGI have acted unfairly when 
not reimbursing him the costs he incurred at this point in time.
Even so, I do think Mr R needing to source his own contractor wouldve been inconvenient 
and stressful. And, had BGI been able to offer an appointment within a more reasonable 
amount of time, I dont think Mr R wouldve needed to endure this inconvenience. So, I do 
think Mr R should be compensated for this.
BGI paid Mr R £100 to recognise this. And I think this payment is a fair one, that falls in line 
with our services approach and what I wouldve directed had it not already been paid. I think 
it fairly reflects the inconvenience and worry Mr R was caused, which couldve been avoided 
had BGI been able to offer Mr R an earlier and more reasonable appointment. But I also 
think it takes into consideration the fact that Mr R managed to arrange for the drain to be 
unblocked himself and so, he wasnt exposed to the potential health risk the blockage posed 
for an extended period of time. Because of this, I dont think BGI need to offer anything more 
on this occasion.I note Mr R also has concerns about the way he was treated, compared to another customer 
who may have declared vulnerabilities. And, whether he should be expected to pay the 
same premium in this situation. But it is our services expectation, and standard industry 
approach, for businesses to consider the individual circumstances of each customer and the 
situation they find themselves in. And vulnerabilities can impact these circumstances and the 
need for a more urgent appointment. I would expect a business to take these factors into 
consideration and I dont think them doing so means Mr R has been treated unfairly. I can 
see from BGIs notes that Mr Rs situation was deemed to be High Urgency and so I think 
the appropriate level of consideration was given by BGI on this occasion.
My final decision
For the reasons outlined above, I dont uphold Mr Rs complaint about British Gas Insurance 
Limited.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision before 4 July 2023.
 
Josh Haskey
Ombudsman