DRN-4188641
The complaint
Mr D complains that Digital Moneybox Limited applied a penalty when he made a withdrawal 
from his Lifetime ISA in the first twelve months, to buy his first home. He said Moneyboxs 
advertising was misleading, and because of that hed lost money.
What happened
Mr D said hed been saving for some years for a property purchase, through a Help to Buy 
ISA with a different provider. He then opened a Lifetime ISA (LISA) with Moneybox, and 
transferred his ISA money there. Mr D said hed read up as much as he could about the 
LISA product before he did this. 
Mr D then committed to a property purchase. When he asked Moneybox to set up a 
withdrawal from his LISA to help pay for that, he discovered there was a penalty for making 
a withdrawal in the first 12 months, although he was using the money to buy his first home. 
Mr D accepted that the full terms of the account provided for a penalty to be applied in these 
circumstances. But he said both the Moneybox and government websites say that theres a 
penalty if you withdraw within the first 12 months for a reason other than buying your first 
home (or other permitted reasons). So Mr D said this contradicted what was said in the full 
terms and conditions of the account, and that isnt fair. 
Mr D said he didnt just lose the government bonus from the LISA, he got back less than he 
put in. But he said he didnt have a choice, he couldnt delay the purchase of his house. Mr D 
wanted Moneybox to pay the £3,457 that he missed out on, due to a combination of 
withdrawal charges and losing the government bonus. 
Moneybox didnt think it had made a mistake. It said it sent Mr D a welcome pack and key 
features document when he first opened his account, which explained in a number of places 
that his account must be open for 12 months from when the first payment in was made, 
before he could withdraw without penalty. Moneybox said the LISA is a government product, 
the rules are set by HM Revenue and Customs. Moneybox said it had followed those rules. 
Moneybox said the screenshot Mr D sent it, from its own website, was just to compare two 
different products, the LISA and the Help to Buy ISA. It didnt cover the full terms of each. 
Moneybox thought it had explained the full terms of the LISA to Mr D through the app, when 
he registered for the LISA. Moneybox said Mr D had to click to say hed understood these 
terms, as part of this application. And it said these terms were further explained when it 
provided him with the welcome pack.
Moneybox said it understood this had been stressful for Mr D, but it couldnt waive the 
penalty for him. 
Our investigator didnt think this complaint should be upheld. She thought that the terms of 
this product were clear, and she couldnt see the account had been mis-sold. 
Mr D didnt agree. He said what we were doing didnt protect new customers. He thought 
Moneybox was using tricks to conceal important terms and conditions. Mr D said that 
Moneybox couldnt advertise one thing but provide another, that was misleading. He still 
thought hed been mis-sold. Because no agreement was reached, this case then came to 
me for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive reached the same overall conclusion on this complaint as our investigator.
I understand that Mr D feels the advertising of the LISA he took out was misleading. He sent 
Moneybox a copy of one of its own advertising pages, which is intended to compare this 
product, the LISA, with a Help to Buy ISA. That doesnt clearly explain that any withdrawal 
within the first 12 months will be subject to a penalty. So Mr D says he was misled.
But Moneybox says this page was only ever intended to provide a comparison between two 
different sorts of savings accounts. And it has pointed to a number of places where Mr D 
was told that the LISA must be open for at least 12 months before the money in it could be 
used to buy a first home. 
In particular, Moneybox showed us, and Mr D, a page from the application process for this 
account, which reads as follows  
Important Lifetime ISA information
You will pay a government penalty of 25% of any amount you withdraw unless you've 
had the account open for 12 months and are using the money towards buying your 
first home (up to £450,000 in value) or you're aged 60 or over. This means you could 
get back less than you put in.
Directly under this paragraph, to procced with this application, Mr D had to click I 
understand. 
So, although I know the page Mr D referred to doesnt set out all the terms of his account, I 
do think Mr D was alerted to the relevant term of this account before he registered for the 
LISA. 
Mr D was then sent a welcome pack which provided full details of the terms of the LISA. The 
pack included a summary and FAQs, which repeatedly explained that any withdrawal to buy 
a first home in the first 12 months would be subject to a 25% penalty. And I think its also 
important to note that Mr D did still have the right to cancel this application at this stage. 
The conditions of the LISA can be complicated, but Moneybox doesnt set these terms. They 
are set by government and following them is a condition of receiving the government bonus. 
And, for all the above reasons, I think Moneybox did do enough to draw to Mr Ds attention 
the terms of this account before he opened the account, as well as during the period when 
he had the right to withdraw from the agreement if this account wasnt suitable for him. 
Im sorry to hear about the impact this penalty had on Mr D, and that hes faced other 
difficulties with his recent house purchase too. But I dont think what has gone wrong here is Moneyboxs fault. So, although I know Mr D will be disappointed, I dont think this complaint 
should be upheld.
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 November 2023.
 
Esther Absalom-Gough
Ombudsman