DRN-3026210
The complaint
Mr B complains that the service he received from Embark Investment Services Limited 
(Embark) isnt acceptable, that it has levied fees he didnt agree to, that it has failed to 
provide him with information hes requested and that the value of his pension dropped 
despite it being held in cash without reasonable explanation
What happened
On 16 December 2011, Mr B signed an application form for an Avalon Freedom SIPP 
(administered by Avalon Investment Services Limited (Avalon)). This appointed Mr Bs 
adviser, who Ill refer to as Firm A, as his investment manager on an advisory basis. It also 
noted that Firm A was adviser in relation to the establishment of the SIPP, Firm A was to 
receive 3.34% for the initial advice and 1% per year for ongoing advice. 
Mr Bs SIPP was administered by Avalon until it went into administration in 2016. Embark 
Investment Services Limited took over as administrators of Mr Bs SIPP on 23 February 
2016  it outsourced administration of the SIPP to Rowanmoor Personal Pension Limited (at 
the time it was part of the Embark group). Since 30 November 2020, the administration of 
the SIPP has been undertaken by Embark Pensions (a trading name of Embark Services 
Limited).
In August 2018, Mr B transferred out to a different provider. As his Ethical Forestry 
investment was illiquid, it remained in the SIPP but Embark agreed not to charge any fees 
whilst that was the case. 
Background to the complaint
In September 2018, Mr B complained to Embark in relation to the fees it had charged. 
Embark didnt uphold his complaint. Unhappy with its response Mr B referred his complaint 
to this service. 
One of our investigators reviewed Mr Bs complaint. In summary she concluded: 
Embark wasnt responsible for the acceptance of Mr Bs business or anything that 
happened to the SIPP including the fees levied prior to it taking over the SIPP in 
February 2016. 
Embark had to undertake administrative tasks in respect of Mr Bs SIPP including 
accepting instructions from his adviser in December 2016. 
Mr Bs SIPP did have a significant value (over £100,000, outside of the Ethical 
Forestry investment which had a nil value), whilst this was held in cash from 
December 2016, this doesnt mean that Embark didnt have to undertake any work in 
respect of the SIPP.
So, it was fair and reasonable for it to levy fees in respect of the SIPP.
She couldnt comment on the outcome reached in Mr Bs prior complaint about 
Embark but she was satisfied it had acted reasonably in allowing him to transfer his 
liquid funds out of the SIPP and ceasing to charge fees in respect of the SIPP so 
long as the situation with Ethical Forestry couldnt be resolved. 
She also confirmed in response to one of Mr Bs queries that Embark had said: 
oOn 1 August 2018, the Member's financial adviser [details of Firm A] should have 
been paid £90.29, but in error was paid £180.58. The refund of £90.29 on 29 
August 2018 is in respect of the overpayment of £90.29 on 1 August 2018.
oOn 18 February 2020, we transferred £90.29 to the Member's pension scheme 
with [details of Mr Bs new pension provider] and therefore the balance of the 
SIPP cash account is now £0.00. We have written to the Member to confirm the 
additional transfer to [details of Mr Bs new pension provider].
The statements showed that the correct fees had been charged throughout and that 
the value flows through from the £111,669.14 on 28 December 2016 to the final 
transfer out payment on 1 August 2018 taking into account the fees deducted, so no 
funds appear to be missing. 
Mr B disagreed; they exchanged some further correspondence but, ultimately, the 
investigator wasnt persuaded to change her view of the complaint. The investigator 
subsequently confirmed the next steps and highlighted a few points in respect of the 
complaint. She said: 
Any concerns Mr B has about his adviser and its actions do not form part of this 
complaint. 
When the SIPP was initially established Mr B gave his authority for fees to be taken 
from his SIPP account. The SIPP wouldnt have been established if he hadnt agreed 
to the charges. Embark didnt have to seek renewed permission to continue charging 
fees when it took over the SIPP, it was a continuation of what was already being 
charged. 
Even though Mr Bs pension was invested in cash there were still certain 
management and reporting requirements on businesses for which Embark was 
entitled to charge. 
It isnt our role to hold the industry to account, were not the regulator. 
Mr B made additional submissions, he said: 
Some of the fees paid to Firm A by Embark have been refunded by the adviser on 
the basis that they couldnt provide proof of authority to take these fees. 
Embark have consistently been obstructive to allowing Mr B to access his funds, the 
key aspects of his complaint were that: 
oHis SIPP excluding the notional £12,000 of Ethical Forestry was valued at 
£111,577.87 on 28 December 2016. The funds were held in cash so no 
management or review information was being provided by his adviser or 
Embark but during that period and up until 1 August 2018. Embark took fees 
of £594 and the agreed fee of £300 + VAT for transferring his pension 
(£108,240.81) out to a new provider. 
oThe adviser and Embark have also failed to provide him with details of the 
fees/commissions charged between 28 December 2016 and 11 December 
2017  during this period his pension fund dropped by over £1,500. 
oEmbark has applied fees without authority and has consistently failed to 
provide him with information. 
Because agreement couldnt be reached, this case has been passed to me for review. What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The parties to this complaint have provided detailed submissions to support their position 
and Im grateful to them for taking the time to do so. Ive considered these submissions in 
their entirety. However, I trust that they will not take the fact that my decision focuses on 
what I consider to be the central issues as a discourtesy. The purpose of this decision isnt to 
address every point raised in detail, but to set out my findings, on what I consider to be the 
main points, and reasons for reaching them.
Where the evidence is incomplete, inconclusive, or contradictory (as some of it is here), I 
reach my decision on the balance of probabilities  in other words, what I consider is most 
likely to have happened in the light of the available evidence and the wider circumstances.
When considering whats fair and reasonable, Ive taken into account relevant law and 
regulations; regulators rules, guidance and codes of practice; and what I consider to have 
been good industry practice at the time.
Its my role to fairly and reasonably decide if the business has done anything wrong in
respect of the individual circumstances of the complaint made and  if I find that the
business has done something wrong  award compensation for any material loss or distress
and inconvenience suffered by the complainant as a result of this.
Embark isnt responsible for any activities undertaken by Mr Bs original SIPP provider or his 
appointed financial adviser. So, my consideration of Mr Bs complaint is limited to whether or 
not Embark acted fairly and reasonably in relation to the activities Mr B complains about. 
Embark took over the administration on Mr Bs SIPP in 2016. Mr B doesnt believe that he 
gave authority for Embark to deduct fees from his SIPP, hes also said that the final transfer 
value was reduced by more than just the fees disclosed. The only fee that Mr B appears to 
accept he agreed to, is the transfer out fee of £300 + VAT. As I understand it from his 
submissions Mr B has received some of the fees deducted back from his adviser. 
The annual fee deducted by Embark for the administration of his SIPP was £594. Embark 
also deducted monthly fees to pay to Mr Bs appointed financial adviser. The adviser charge 
appears to be based on the value of the funds, which aligns with whats set out in Mr Bs 
original application form. Given that the payment of ongoing advisory fees accords with 
Mr Bs original application form and had been paid throughout the time hed held the SIPP; I 
dont think it was unreasonable for Embark to continue to deduct these.
In accordance with Mr Bs SIPP statements, Embark deducted annual fees of £594 and a 
final transfer out fee of £360 when Mr B switched his pension to a different provider (Mr B 
appears to accept that he agreed to the transfer out fee) as it said it did. There was an error 
in the deduction of adviser fees, but the excess fees have since been refunded. 
Overall, the reduction in fund value doesnt appear to be as a result of a fall in fund value or 
any missing funds, it aligns with the deduction of a combination of annual and advisory fees. 
I understand Mr B feels that his pension didnt require any management because he 
encashed his investments and held his pension in cash until he transferred out. However, I 
dont think this means that Embark wasnt entitled to charge Mr B fees for the administration 
of his pension. Embark didnt take the decision to put Mr Bs pension into cash and the SIPP being invested 
in this manner didnt negate Embarks responsibilities. So, I dont think it was unreasonable 
for Embark to continue to apply charges. The charges it applied were slightly lower than 
those applied by Avalon and agreed to by Mr B.
Overall, I dont think Embark has acted unfairly in relation to the issues Mr Bs complained 
about. I understand that Mr B is unhappy with the service he received from Embark and that 
this will come as a disappointment to him, but Im not persuaded that his complaint should 
be upheld. 
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold Mr Bs complaint and I make no award.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 20 October 2022.
 
Nicola Curnow
Ombudsman