DRN-2910267
The complaint
Mr M says he wasnt made aware of the fees that would be applied to his investment and 
pension portfolio following advice he received from Nexus Independent Financial Advisers 
(Nexus). Hes raised other concerns about the administration and management of his 
financial affairs and about the handling of his complaint.
What happened
Mr M had been a client of Nexus (through a predecessor firm) since 1996. At the end of the 
2019/20 tax-year, he wanted to organise some investments and met with an adviser at the 
firm in March 2020 to discuss this.
In line with Mr Ms objectives at the time, Nexus made various recommendations related to 
his pension and investment portfolio. In summary these included changing the provider of his 
ISA and SIPP; and making investments in his existing SIPP (prior to switching) and his new 
ISA, to make use of available tax reliefs and allowances.
Given it was March, it was agreed that a suitability report would be prepared and sent to Mr 
M shortly after the end of tax-year. Unfortunately, the report wasnt received by Mr M until 18 
June 2020. By this time a new charging schedule had been applied to his portfolio. This 
represented a significant increase in the costs he had to pay for administration and 
management of his funds. 
Mr M was very unhappy these fees had been applied without formal communication or 
explanation. He said they had increased by a factor of 2.5 compared to what hed been 
paying beforehand. To make matters worse, there appeared to be errors between the 
schedule of charges outlined in the suitability report and the fees being taken, for example 
the inclusion of VAT charges.
Mr M raised his concerns with Nexus but was dissatisfied with the responses he received so 
he made a formal complaint on 6 July 2020. He wanted a full refund of charges made under 
the new arrangement.
In correspondence between the parties, I can see Nexus made certain observations about 
the charges applied by Mr Ms former firm (which Nexus had taken over). It suggested he 
hadnt been charged an advisory fee previously and this had been unsustainable. It seems 
to me Mr Ms complaint is at least in part driven by this change in the fees regime that Nexus 
wanted to implement. This is of course is a commercial decision. But one which needs 
effective communication with clients.
Nexus issued its final response letter (FRL) to Mr M on 21 August 2020. It acknowledged 
there had been problems in its dealings with him, for example in relation to the delay in 
sending him the suitability report and with the VAT charges. It offered to a refund fees 
related to the establishment of his new ISA, the contribution to his pension and the disputed 
VAT charges. In total around £830.
Mr M remained unhappy with Nexuss response and he referred his complaint to this Service 
on 28 August 2020. 
An investigator reviewed Mr Ms case and recommended it should be upheld. Amongst other 
matters, he found that:
Even if it was agreed that a detailed suitability report could not be provided before Mr M
made new investments in his pension and ISA, in my opinion Nexus should have provided 
him with a written summary of the recommendations and the associated charges and 
feesThe fact that Mr M had to wait until 18 June 2020 to receive his suitability report is 
poor service and I would be surprised if Nexus disagrees on this point. I note from the 
suitability report there is summary of the recommendations made and the respective pension 
and ISA portfolio fees and charges are detailed. Therefore, it appears to me the information 
could have been provided to Mr M in summary form and then he could have made an 
informed choice if he wished to proceed with the recommendations made.
I have no reason to think that, apart from the VAT charged, that fees applicable at that time
were incorrectly chargedbut [Mr M] simply did not know the full details of what he
would be charged regarding the recommendations made. In my opinion this led to his loss of
confidence in his business relationship with Nexus, and why he wanted his ISA investment
refunded together with the fees taken on this and his pension account.
The investigator went on to observe important impacts of the delay in Mr Ms receipt of the 
suitability report. For example, he hadnt found any evidence the cancellation rights were 
discussed with Mr M and he believed he wouldve only found out about these when he 
received the report. He thought that had Mr M received it soon after it was written, when hed 
established the full extent of the new charges applied, its more likely than not hed have 
used his cancellation rights to nullify what Nexus had implemented.
Theres never really been a dispute between the parties that things didnt go the way they 
shouldve. The disagreement is about the extent of the problems and what should be done to 
put them right. The investigator recommended that Mr M should be put back into the position 
hed have been in now had Nexuss recommendations from April 2020 not been 
implemented and he also made an award for the trouble and upset Mr M had been caused.
Nexus responded by saying it thought its initial offer had been fair. But it also increased its 
offer at this point to £1200, recognising the award for trouble and upset and interest 
payments for loss of use of the funds, which the investigator had awarded.
Mr M disagreed. He produced a spreadsheet showing what his costs wouldve been and 
what hed been charged. As at the end of May 2021, based on the investigators 
recommendations, hed worked out that he was due around £3137. Ultimately, with the 
mediation of the Investigator, both parties were prepared to settle on this figure. But Mr M 
felt certain matters remained outstanding.
Mr M thought the award recommended by the Investigator for his trouble and upset was 
insufficient given the impact on him of trying to resolve the problem over many months. He 
also decided he didnt want to sign an agreement with Nexus stating the refund was in full 
and final settlement of his complaint. He said hed received legal advice not to do so. And he 
remained unhappy about aspects of the handling of his complaint. For example, hed been 
told by Nexus that it had never had a formal complaint made against it, but he thinks there 
are records of such on our database. 
So, Mr Ms case been passed to me for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and whyIve considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Wheres theres conflicting information about what happened and gaps in what we know, my 
role is to weigh the evidence we do have and to decide, on the balance of probabilities, 
whats most likely to have happened.
Ive not provided a detailed response to all the points raised in this case. Thats deliberate; 
ours is an informal service for resolving disputes between financial businesses and their 
customers. While Ive taken into account all submissions, Ive concentrated my findings on 
what I think is relevant and at the heart of this complaint.
When I consider a complaint the first thing I think about is the extensive regulation around 
transactions like those performed by Nexus for Mr M. The FCA Handbook contains eleven 
Principles for businesses, which it says are fundamental obligations firms must adhere to 
(PRIN 1.1.2 G in the FCA Handbook). These include:
- Principle 2, which requires a firm to conduct its business with due skill, care and 
diligence.
- Principle 6, which requires a firm to pay due regard to the interests of its customers.
- Principle 7  which requires a firm to ay due regard to the information needs of 
its clients, and communicate information to them in a way which is clear, fair and not 
misleading.
So, the Principles are relevant and form part of the regulatory framework that existed at the 
relevant time. They must always be complied with by regulated firms like Nexus. As such, I 
need to have regard to them in deciding Mr Ms complaint.
I agree with the findings and conclusions of the Investigator for broadly the same reasons. 
The fact that Mr M didnt receive his suitability report until around two months after it had 
been completed and its recommendation executed is indefensible. Nexus has clearly failed 
to meet the obligations placed on it, in particular with regard to the Principles Ive set out.
Since both parties agree - albeit to a varying extent - that there were problems with the 
advice Nexus gave Mr M and its handling of these matters; and the method of calculation for 
the core redress, Ill now focus on the outstanding issues Mr M has raised.
When Im considering a complaint like Mr Ms, I think about whether its fair to award
compensation for distress and inconvenience. This isnt intended to fine or punish a
business  which is the job of the regulator. But when somethings gone wrong, recognition
of the emotional and practical impact can make a real difference.
Mr M has told us about the spreadsheets hes constructed to quantify the redress he was 
due; about having to deal with Nexuss responses (all of which he says contained errors or 
inaccuracies); through to needing to seek legal advice. Hes says hes spent considerable 
time on these things and has suffered ongoing distress. 
Were all inconvenienced at times in our day-to-day lives  and in our dealings with other
people, businesses and organisations. When thinking about compensation, I need to decide
that the impact of Nexuss actions was greater than just a minor inconvenience or upset. Its
clear to me this was the case.The Investigator didnt think an apology and the refund of his fees was enough. He said 
Nexus should pay Mr M an extra £200 for the trouble and upset it had caused. Nexus made 
a significant mistake and its taken a good deal of effort to get things put right. Having 
thought about everything in the round on this case, I think the Investigators award here was 
about right. Im not Mr M any further compensation.
Regarding Mr Ms reluctance to sign an agreement with Nexus acknowledging its offer was 
in full and final settlement of his complaint, the final wording it proposed was as follows:
I hereby accept Nexus Independent Financial Adviser Ltd offer of [    ] following the receipt
by Nexus Independent Financial Adviser Ltd of this signed declaration, in full and final
settlement of any and all claims I have, or may have in connection with, or arising out of
the matters referred to in the Financial Ombudsman Services letter of [    ] against Nexus 
Financial Advisers Limited its associates, agents and representatives. I understand that the 
offer is made without prejudice.
Having reviewed the wording, it seems to me a typical formulation in these circumstances. I 
dont think Nexus was doing anything wrong here. I recognise Mr Ms relationship with it had 
broken down to such an extent that there was little trust remaining, hence his desire for a 
legally binding final decision from this Service.
Mr M has also raised concerns about Nexuss handling of his complaint. For example, hed 
been told it had never had a formal complaint against it. He says hes found two formal 
complaints on the database of this Service and he thinks he was told otherwise to influence 
him into not making a complaint. 
Im not persuaded by the information Ive seen that Nexus made a serious attempt to 
dissuade him from making a formal complaint using such tactics. Its main attempt to do this 
was making him an offer to settle. Id also simply observe that having two cases on this 
Services database where Nexus is the respondent business is a small number. 
Putting things right
Im upholding Mr Ms case. So, he needs to be returned to the position he wouldve been in 
now - or as close to that as reasonably possible  had it not been for the failures which I hold 
Nexus responsible for.
I require Nexus Independent Financial Advisers to put Mr M back in the position he wouldve 
been in before its recommendations were implemented. So, he should receive a refund of 
the initial and other ongoing fees that were deducted from his portfolio up until the date his 
funds were transferred away to another provider. The sums arrived at should include any 
VAT incorrectly charged. Against these sums it can offset the fees he wouldve incurred 
under his former arrangements.
Nexus will need to add 8% simple interest from the date the additional fees were incurred 
until the date it settles. Income tax may be payable on any interest. If required by HM 
Revenue & Customs (HMRC) to make a deduction, it should tell Mr M how much its taken 
off. It should also give him a certificate if he asks for one, so she can reclaim the tax from 
HMRC if appropriate.
As Ive set out, Nexuss failings have caused Mr M trouble and upset. So, Nexus needs to 
add a further £200 compensation in recognition of this.
My final decisionFor the reasons Ive already set out, Im upholding Mr Ms complaint. 
I require to Nexus Independent Financial Advisers to pay redress to Mr M as Ive indicated 
above. It should do so within 28 days of his acceptance of my final decision. And it should 
provide the details of the redress calculations to him in a clear and simple format.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 11 November 2021.
 
Kevin Williamson
Ombudsman