DRN-3962954
The complaint
Mrs R complains about Advantage Insurance Company Limiteds handling of a claim after 
her car was involved in an accident and written off.
What happened
The background to this complaint is well known to both parties, so Ill provide only a brief 
summary here.
Mrs R was represented by a family member in making this complaint. For ease of reference, 
Ill refer throughout this decision to Mrs R rather than her representative.
Mrs R has car insurance underwritten by Advantage. She made a claim after her car was 
involved in an accident. 
Advantage accepted the claim and after inspection it was decided that the car should be 
written off.
Mrs R decided that shed like to keep the car and have it repaired it herself. Advantage were 
happy for her to do this but pointed out that theyd retain from the settlement the amount 
they could get for salvage of the car. And they said in this case, that amount would be £429.
Mrs R disputed this amount. She said when shed written the car off previously  and 
retained it when the claim was settled - the salvage amount was considerably lower  at 
around £191. 
She also said that if the car was to go to the salvage company, shed like to reclaim certain 
upgraded parts  for example, leather seats and alloy wheels  shed added to the car after 
the previous accident.
Advantage said thus would be fine, as long as those parts were replaced with standard parts 
so that the car didnt lose any of its salvage value.
Mrs R complained to Advantage about their settlement offer. But Advantage maintained their 
position, so she brought her complaint to us. 
Our investigator looked into it and didnt think Advantage had done anything wrong.
Mrs R disagreed and asked for a final decision from an ombudsman.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
When a car is written off after an accident, the insurer will pay the market value of the car to 
the policyholder and the car effectively becomes the property of the insurer.
We dont think the insurer, in those circumstances, is under any obligation to offer to return 
the car to the policyholder, in return for the salvage fee they could otherwise obtain for the 
car. But we do think they should consider that option if the policyholder asks.
Thats what Advantage have done in this case. And theyve offered to either pay the claim in 
full or return the car to Mrs R and deduct from the settlement amount the price they would 
have obtained by selling the car for salvage.
The dispute here arises because Mrs R is unhappy with the amount Advantage say they can 
get for the car from the salvage company. And because theyve said, if the car is to go for 
salvage, she cant reclaim any parts without replacing them.
Theres nothing unfair or unreasonable about Advantages position on the upgraded parts 
Mrs R wants to reclaim. The car was insured with them, theyre writing it off and settling the 
claim, so the car is their property.
They can achieve a price for that property but only if its fully intact. Its more than 
reasonable for them to allow Mrs R to remove the upgraded parts as long as she replaces 
them with standard parts which would give them an intact car to sell for salvage.
Advantage have also provided evidence to prove the price theyd get for the car from the 
salvage company. And they are entitled to take that amount from the settlement if the car is 
returned to Mrs R.
Advantage have explained to Mrs R that the salvage cost they took when the car was 
previously written off was considerably lower because of an error made by the salvage 
company they used at the time. 
Having realised that error, they nonetheless took the loss and stood by the settlement offer 
theyd originally made to Mrs R.
Advantage are not obliged to apply a similar salvage figure this time simply because they 
took the consequences on the chin after the error with the previous salvage valuation.
In all the circumstances, I cant reasonably conclude that Advantage have treated Mrs R in 
any way unfairly or unreasonably in the way theyve handled her claim. 
Theyve done exactly what wed expect them to do by offering either the full value of the car 
or the full value less the salvage cost if Mrs R wants to retain the car.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold Mrs Rs complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs R to accept or 
reject my decision before 31 March 2023.
 
Neil Marshall
Ombudsman