DRN-4204777
Complaint
Mr D is unhappy that HSBC UK Bank PLC (HSBC) closed his Home Owner Reserve 
account without his permission.
Background
In March 2023, after Mr Ds mortgage had been redeemed, HSBC wrote to Mr D telling him 
that if still wished to keep his Home Owner Reserve account it would need to maintain a 
charge on his property. It asked Mr D to get in contact at his earliest convenience. As HSBC 
didnt hear back from Mr D in response to this letter, it took the decision to close his Home 
Owner Reserve account in April 2023. 
Mr D complained about HSBCs actions. HSBC didnt uphold Mr Ds complaint. As Mr D 
remained dissatisfied, Mr D referred the matter to our service.
One of our adjudicators looked into Mr Ds concerns. She didnt think that HSBC had done 
anything wrong or treated Mr D unfairly and so didnt recommend the complaint be upheld. 
Mr D disagreed and so the complaint was passed to an ombudsman for a final decision.  
My findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having carefully considered everything, I dont think that HSBC acted unfairly towards Mr D 
and so Im not upholding his complaint. Ill explain why in a little more detail.
As our adjudicator explained to Mr D, a financial institution is generally under no obligation to 
continue offering a credit facility to a consumer if it doesnt wish to do so. In this case, Mr D 
was asked to get in contact about his account as hed redeemed his main residential 
mortgage.
Mr D didnt get in contact with HSBC until after his account was closed. Mr D says that he 
would have got in contact sooner if he knew that his account would be closed. But while I 
appreciate that the letter could have been worded better, Im nonetheless satisfied that Mr D 
was asked to get in contact. 
And as Mr D didnt do so, Im satisfied that HSBC had sufficient grounds to close Mr Ds 
account and its decision wasnt unfair in the circumstances. I realise that HSBCs decision 
has been very disappointing for Mr D and I appreciate that he says that he was relying on 
this account as part of his financial planning. 
In any event, there was no guarantee that HSBC would continue making the Home Owner 
Reserve account available to Mr D in perpetuity. And Im simply not in a position to tell 
HSBC it has to reinstate and continue making a credit facility available to Mr D in 
circumstances which it has legitimately decided it no longer wishes to provide him with one. 
Overall and having considered everything, I dont think that HSBC has acted unfairly or 
unreasonably towards Mr D and Im not upholding this complaint. I appreciate this will be 
very disappointing for Mr D. But I hope hell understand the reasons for my decision and that 
hell appreciate why HSBC was entitled to close his Home Owner Reserve account in the 
circumstances that it did. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, Im not upholding Mr Ds complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision before 11 August 2023.
 
Jeshen Narayanan
Ombudsman