DRN-1802089
 The complaint
This is a complaint that Nationwide Building Society mis-sold Mrs and Mr M payment 
protection insurance (PPI).
What happened
This complaint is about a monthly premium PPI policy taken out with a mortgage in 1998.
Our adjudicator said the complaint shouldnt be upheld. Mrs and Mr M disagreed with the 
adjudicators opinion and so the complaint has been passed to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Weve set out our general approach to 
complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
this case. 
Ive decided not to uphold this complaint. I will explain why.
The sale of the PPI took place about 22 years ago and it seems not all the original 
documents from the time are now available. Also I wouldnt expect someone to recall in 
detail everything that happened so long ago, so it can be difficult to know whether its fair to 
rely fully on everything they remember.
Ive borne in mind these difficulties in the evidence when considering the case. As with all 
cases, Ive still had to decide whats most likely to have happened, based on what evidence 
there is. In a case such as this, the balance in finding the fairest outcome can be difficult.
Mrs and Mr M have said they didnt agree to PPI and instead had wanted to take out life 
insurance. 
However, it wouldnt be fair for me to conclude this happened unless there was reasonable 
supporting evidence of it. Where someone has said another person or organisation has done 
something wrong, fairness requires that the person making the allegation should present 
evidence that this probably did happen. It wouldnt be fair to make someone prove they 
didnt do something wrong, especially when it was such a long time ago. 
And the mortgage application form does say, under the PPI section, unemployment only 
(rather than the usual full accident, sickness and unemployment cover). Although the rest of 
that section isnt filled in or signed by Mrs and Mr M, these words do at least suggest that 
some kind of discussion took place, ending up with Mrs and Mr M having unemployment-
only PPI. 
Overall, without stronger evidence, I cant fairly say the PPI was added without 
Mrs and Mr Ms consent. Ive looked to see whether there are other reasons the PPI might have been mis-sold  but 
having done so, I dont think they apply.
I dont think Nationwide recommended the PPI to Mrs and Mr M as being particularly suited 
to their individual needs. This means it didnt have to check if the PPI fitted their 
circumstances. It would have been for Mrs and Mr M to decide whether it was suitable.  But 
even if it had made a recommendation, I think it would probably have been an appropriate 
one in their circumstances at the time. Finding yourself unable to pay a mortgage can lead to 
significant difficulties. The PPI would have paid benefits at the same time as Mrs and Mr M 
received any redundancy pay. So this would have put off the time when they would need to 
fall back on any savings or other means they may have had for paying the mortgage and 
other living costs. And Ive not been told anything to suggest they couldnt afford the PPI 
when they took it out.
Its hard to know how well Nationwide explained the costs and benefits of the policy. But I 
dont anyway think its likely that full and clear information about this would have affected 
whether Mrs and Mr M took the PPI. I say this because, in their circumstances, its unlikely 
this would have made the PPI seem less useful.
Its possible Nationwide didnt clearly point out the main things the policy didnt cover. But its 
unlikely Mrs and Mr M would have been affected by any of these.
 
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, Im not upholding this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs M and Mr M to 
accept or reject my decision before 8 June 2020.
Timothy Bailey
Ombudsman