DRN-2714438
The complaint
 Mrs H complains that Nationwide Building Society didnt update her address on a level term 
assurance policy she had arranged through them with NL, and this resulted in the policy 
lapsing after she missed several premiums. 
What happened
Mrs H purchased a level term assurance policy in 2007 with a company I will call NL. Later 
that year, NL wrote to Mrs H to tell her the policy was being transferred to another provider I 
will call L. The letter explained the transfer would take place in January 2008 and said Mrs H 
wouldnt be required to take any further action.
In July 2008, Mrs H told Nationwide Building Society of her change of address. Nationwide 
Building Society didnt tell NL of this change of address. 
Shortly after the transfer to company L completed in July 2009, company L wrote to Mrs H at 
her old address to confirm they were now administering the policy. The letter provided a new 
policy number and Mrs H no new direct debit was needed. Company L said that if there were 
any changes to personal details required, Mrs H should contact them and not to use a 
Nationwide Building Society branch. However, as company L had only been provided with 
details of Mrs Hs previous address, Mrs H says she never received this letter, or any 
subsequent letters from company L.
When Mrs H missed consecutive direct debit payments on the policy in mid-2019 it lapsed. 
She then complained to Nationwide Building Society that their failure to update her address 
with NL meant company L had been writing to her old address about the missed payments. 
And, because of this, she missed the opportunity to bring the policy up to date. In her 
complaint Mrs H explained she had personal difficulties at the time the direct debits were 
due and hadnt realised they hadnt been paid.
Nationwide Building Society provided a final response to Mrs Hs complaint but didnt uphold 
it. They said theyd provided Mrs H with 60-days notice of the transfer to company L and the 
transfer was widely advertised in local branches and was in the national press. Nationwide 
Building Society said that Mrs Hs bank statements detailed the direct debit had been 
changed to company L on 21 August 2009. And, that when the direct debits were returned 
unpaid in mid-2019, these were clearly recorded on her bank statement that had been sent 
to her current address.
Mrs H wasnt happy with the response she received from Nationwide Building Society and 
brought her complaint to our service. One of our investigators looked into things for Mrs H 
and thought that Nationwide Building Society didnt tell NL Mrs H had changed address. He 
thought it was reasonable for Mrs H to rely on the letter from NL in late 2008 in which they 
said they would exchange accurate and up to date information with company L. And that by 
Mrs H telling Nationwide Building Society of her new address, it was reasonable for her to 
believe her address wouldve been updated with NL.
To put matters right, our investigator thought Nationwide Building Society should arrange life 
cover for the same level of cover Mrs H had to last until the end of the original term. And to 
pay Mrs H £100 to reflect the inconvenience the matter caused her.
Nationwide Building Society didnt accept the thoughts of our investigator and asked that an 
ombudsman decides the complaint.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im sure that Nationwide Building Society will be disappointed, but for very much the same 
reasons as the investigator I have decided to uphold Mrs Hs complaint. I will now explain 
why.
Mrs H changed her address with Nationwide Building Society in mid-2008, which was after 
NL told her of the intended transfer of the policy to company L. Neither Mrs H nor Nationwide 
Building Society have any record to show how Mrs H changed her address on this occasion. 
Mrs H recalls being told by Nationwide Building Society that all her accounts were covered 
by her completing the change of address form. And, I consider that it wouldve been 
reasonable for Mrs H to believe this to be the case for two reasons. The first is that she 
arranged her policy through NL who were part of the Nationwide Marketing Group; and the 
second is that the letter NL sent Mrs H in late 2007 said In order to keep your records 
accurate and up to date your information will be exchanged between Nationwide and Legal 
& General. 
Mrs H changed her address before the administration of the policy was transferred to 
company L in July 2009. So, although NL told Mrs H the policy was being transferred in 
2008, they were still the administrators of the plan until July 2009. And, because of this, Im 
satisfied that Nationwide Building Society shouldve taken steps to update Mrs Hs change of 
address on the policy with NL so that accurate and up to date information could be 
exchanged with company L at the date of transfer.
Ive considered Nationwide Building Societys view that Mrs H shouldve been aware the 
direct debits had been missed in 2019, and that this shouldve prompted her to contact 
company L to pay the outstanding premiums. However, I consider there are some mitigating 
factors that I should also take into account.
Mrs H has explained that at the time these statements were sent her mother was unwell, and 
later the same year her mother sadly passed away. I also note that the statements show the 
only activity on the Nationwide Building Society statements relate to payments to company L 
and that Mrs H was funding the account with ad-hoc payments. I acknowledge the 
comments from Nationwide Building Society, but with the events happening in Mrs Hs life at 
the time, I can understand why she may not have given statements on a little used account 
as much consideration as she wouldve in normal circumstances.
In circumstances where Mrs H was likely to be distracted by personal events, the failure of 
Nationwide Building Society to tell NL of Mrs Hs change of address meant that when 
company L wrote to Mrs H to tell her the policy would lapse, these letters were sent to the 
wrong address. Im satisfied that if Nationwide Building Society had updated Mrs Hs 
address with NL, who were still administering the policy at the time of the change, Mrs H 
would likely have received correspondence about the missed payments from company L. 
Such letters are a key warning to customers about the consequences of missed payments 
and I cant say Mrs H would reasonably have been aware the policy would lapse without 
seeing a letter from company L. Ive seen that Mrs H has provided bank statements from her main bank account that show she had enough funds to pay the missed premiums on the 
policy from when it lapsed. I also think that it wouldve been unlikely Mrs H would let the 
policy lapse after 12 years if she had been made aware this was the consequence as the 
premium was only £6.00 per month and she has told us the life cover is valuable for her.
Taking all these things into account, I consider the failure of Nationwide Building Society to 
update Mrs Hs address has caused her to lose the valuable life cover she held with 
company L. Ive decided that Nationwide Building Society should put Mrs H back in the 
position she wouldve been in if the policy hadnt lapsed. And Im satisfied this will cause her 
some distress and inconvenience because it will require her co-operation in arranging a 
suitable policy, or policies. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint. I will be telling Nationwide Building Society 
to:
Arrange a level term life assurance policy on the life of Mrs H with premium of £6.00 
per month to 28 July 2027, with the premium being paid by Mrs H; 
Arrange and pay the premium for a level term assurance policy on the life of Mrs H 
for the balance of the sum assured to 28 July 2027, and,
Pay Mrs H the sum of £100 for the distress and inconvenience this matter has 
caused her.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs H to accept or 
reject my decision before 6 May 2021.
 
Paul Lawton
Ombudsman