DRN-3122381
The complaint
Mr G is unhappy with the advice he received from Portal Financial Services LLP (Portal) to 
transfer two personal pensions to a Self-Invested Personal Pension (SIPP) and invest in 
Unregulated Collective Investment Schemes (UCIS).
What happened
Mr G had two personal pensions that he wanted to convert into a single pension. He 
searched on the internet to see how he could do this and came across Portal. After an initial 
phone conversation, a representative from Portal met with Mr G to discuss his options. In 
June 2012, a fact find was completed and it found the following:
Mr G was aged 56 with a retirement age of 65
His attitude to risk (ATR) was Moderately Adventurous
Mr G had two pensions that he wanted to combine into one pension plan
He had outstanding credit card debt that he wanted to pay off
He didnt have any other investments
Mr G was advised to transfer his pension into a SIPP and invest it in the following 
investments:
45% Raithwaites Hypa Fund
15% Cool Blue Fractional Plus Fund (also known as the Cool Blue Samui Fund)
20% Venture Oil International
7.5% EOS Solar Energy
12.5% Cash Deposit
Portal recognised that all the investments were Unregulated Collective Investment Schemes 
(UCIS).  And Promotion and/or advice on these types of scheme are restricted under Section 
238 of the Financial Services and Markets Act (FSMA) 2000 on the grounds that:
They may carry greater risks than a regulated collective investment scheme
You may not be protected under the Investor Compensation Scheme
You may not have rights of redress under the Financial Ombudsman Service
They usually require a sophisticated understanding of investments 
Mr Gs combined pensions were valued at £19,000 and to transfer the pensions he would be 
charged 5% of the total transfer value. The 5% charge was to be deducted after the tax-free 
cash had been taken. There would also be an annual management fee of 1% per year. The 
pension provider would also charge an initial set-up fee of 0.5% of fund after tax-free cash, 
and an annual administration fee of 0.5% plus £80 per annum. Portal made Mr G aware that 
by taking tax-free cash he was moving to a pension plan with higher charges.
In February 2019 Mr Gs investments were worth 64p.
Our investigator looked into matters and upheld the complaint. He said the investment in 
UCIS was unsuitable for Mr G. 
Portal disagreed it argued that an article on Vanguard discussed the importance of having 
an emergency fund. And by clearing Mr Gs credit card debt by taking his tax-free cash, hed 
given himself the opportunity to have more disposable income and could save this for his 
retirement. And these funds could be re-invested in the drawdown account until he wished to 
retire. It also said it stood by its attitude to risk process that resulted in Mr G being 
considered as moderately adventurous.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I agree with the conclusions reached by the investigator and for broadly the 
same reasons.
I think the advice given was wholly unsuitable. I say this because:
Mr G had very little in the way of retirement provision and was less than 10 years away 
from retirement. He was an inexperienced investor. I dont think he shouldve been 
advised to put his funds in investments where his entire capital was at risk. I also dont 
agree with his classification as a moderately adventurous investor. But this is largely a 
moot point given the investments he was put into wouldve been unsuitable for a 
moderately adventurous investor in any event.
The advice meant that the charges taken from his pension were increased significantly 
without any evidence of likely benefit bar the ability to take tax-free cash without the 
need for an annuity. This couldve been achieved without such an increase in charges.
Mr G didnt have many years left until his likely retirement and therefore even if the 
investment advice had been suitable for him  its unlikely this wouldve outperformed the 
additional charges to an extent that Mr G would see benefit from the advice to transfer to 
the SIPP. The regulator provided guidance in 2008 around pension switching and this 
was one of the reasons highlighted where advice was deemed unsuitable.
Investment in UCIS even at a small proportion was unsuitable for Mr G. Mr G didnt have 
the necessary experience or knowledge for this type of investment. And regulatory 
guidance for even those it may be suitable for, was that the investment proportion in 
UCIS should be restricted to between 3 to 5%. Here nearly 90% of Mr Gs funds were 
invested in UCIS.
Portals defence is based on the fact that Mr G had some debt and taking his tax-free cash 
gave him the opportunity to clear this and build up an emergency fund. But it hasnt 
addressed the fact the investments it recommended were wholly unsuitable. Even if I felt the 
advice to take his tax-free cash was suitable, the investments recommended have to be 
considered as part of the advice.
It also stuck by its recording of Mr G as a moderately adventurous investor. This was 
categorised in its Pension Report and said for example:
Moderately Adventurous:Moderately Adventurous investors typically have moderate to high levels of financial 
knowledge and will usually keep up to date on financial issues. They will usually be 
fairly experienced investors, who have used a range of investment products in the 
past.
This does not in any way describe Mr Gs circumstances. Portal have based its attitude risk 
categorisation purely on the way he filled in its questionnaire. But had it taken the time to 
properly assess Mr Gs circumstances and discuss his answers with him, as youd expect of 
a skilled adviser, I think he would only have been prepared to take a small amount of risk.
The investments were specialised, non-mainstream and some were unregulated. They 
represented a level of risk that Mr G could not reasonably be said to be prepared to 
take. The fact that some of those risks were explained to Mr G isnt a defence. Portal 
had a duty to give suitable advice meaning they ought to have advised investments 
suitable for Mr Gs risk profile and circumstances. Furthermore, the investment within 
the SIPP with the additional charges, commission and upfront fees was a very 
expensive method of Mr G accessing his tax-free cash  which was something that was 
introduced by the Portal adviser in any event.
Portal did confirm in its Pensions Report that Mr G did not meet the categories of people 
whom the regulator said could have UCIS promoted to them. But it confirmed he was a 
person for whom we as an Independent Advisory Firm qualified to advise on UCIS 
investments have taken reasonable steps to ensure that the investment in the particular 
investments scheme(s) is suitable following a full KYC (Know Your Customer Investigation) 
and ATR (Attitude to Risk Assessment), this therefore provides and exemption under COBS 
(Conduct of Business) Regulations 4.12. 
I dont share Portals view that the investments were suitable for him based on his 
circumstances, as Ive set out above. As well as being unsuitable investments, I think the 
Pensions Report also contained misleading information. It said This portfolio is designed to 
provide growth, and gradually reduce your risk exposure as you come to the age of 
retirement at which you expect to take an income (which you have stated is 65).
Its not evident from the investment strategy selected that there was a clear proposal for 
switching into low risk investments, such as bonds, (which carry less investment risk) when 
Mr G got closer to his intended retirement age, which was less than 10 years away. His 
residual fund was except for the cash fund, invested in fixed term, property and loan based 
investments. So, I think that Portal has done something wrong here, it has given him 
unsuitable investment advice and the information it has provided was insufficiently clear to 
enable him to make an informed choice about his options. Based on the limited information 
available to me, I think it unlikely that Mr G wouldve transferred his pension into the SIPP 
and invested as he did if given suitable advice. 
In conclusion the advice to transfer Mr Gs existing personal pensions into a SIPP to 
make high-risk investments was wholly unsuitable. Mr G needs to be compensated for 
this unsuitable advice. Its difficult to say what he wouldve done had he been given 
suitable advice, so compensation in line with a suitable benchmark seems the fairest 
solution to this complaint. Whilst Mr G was categorised as moderately adventurous 
investor by Portal, I dont think this accurately represents his attitude to risk.
The loss of Mr Gs entire pension fund will also have caused significant distress and so 
Portal should pay Mr G £400 in compensation for this.
Putting things right
My aim is that Mr G should be put as closely as possible into the position he would probably now be in if he had been given suitable advice.
I take the view that Mr G would have invested differently. Its not possible to say precisely 
what he would have done differently. But Im satisfied that what Ive set out below is fair 
and reasonable given Mr G's circumstances and objectives when he invested.
What must Portal do?
To compensate Mr G fairly, Portal must:
Compare the performance of Mr G's investment with that of the benchmark shown 
below. If the actual value is greater than the fair value, no compensation is payable.
If the fair value is greater than the actual value there is a loss and compensation is 
payable.
Portal should add interest as set out below
Portal should pay into Mr G's pension plan to increase its value by the total amount 
of the compensation and any interest. The amount paid should allow for the effect of 
charges and any available tax relief. Compensation should not be paid into the 
pension plan if it would conflict with any existing protection or allowance.
If Portal is unable to pay the total amount into Mr G's pension plan, it should pay 
that amount direct to him. But had it been possible to pay into the plan, it would 
have provided a taxable income. Therefore the total amount should be reduced to 
notionally allow for any income tax that would otherwise have been paid. This is an 
adjustment to ensure the compensation is a fair amount  it isnt a payment of tax to 
HMRC, so Mr G wont be able to reclaim any of the reduction after compensation is 
paid.
The notional allowance should be calculated using Mr G's actual or expected 
marginal rate of tax at his selected retirement age.
Its reasonable to assume that Mr G is likely to be a basic rate taxpayer at the 
selected retirement age, so the reduction would equal 20%. However, if Mr G would 
have been able to take a tax free lump sum, the reduction should be applied to 75% 
of the compensation, resulting in an overall reduction of 15%.
Pay to Mr G £400 for the distress caused by the complete loss of his fund.
Income tax may be payable on any interest paid. If Portal deducts income tax from the 
interest it should tell Mr G how much has been taken off. Portal should give Mr G a tax 
deduction certificate in respect of interest if Mr G asks for one, so he can reclaim the tax on 
interest from HM Revenue & Customs if appropriate.
Portfolio 
nameStatus Benchmark From (start 
date)To (end 
date)Additional 
interest
Transact 
SIPPStill exists 
but illiquidFor half the 
investment: 
FTSE UK 
Private 
Investors Date of 
investmentDate of my 
final decision8% simple 
per year from 
final decision 
to settlement 
(if not settled Income Total 
Return 
Index; for the 
other half: 
average rate 
from fixed 
rate bondswithin 28 
days of the 
business 
receiving the 
complainant'
s 
acceptance)
Actual value
This means the actual amount payable from the investment at the end date.
It may be difficult to find the actual value of the portfolio. This is complicated where an 
asset is illiquid (meaning it could not be readily sold on the open market) as in this case. 
Portal should take ownership of any illiquid assets by paying a commercial value 
acceptable to the pension provider. The amount Portal pays should be included in the 
actual value before compensation is calculated.
If Portal is unable to purchase illiquid assets, their value should be assumed to be nil for the 
purpose of calculating the actual value. Portal may require that Mr G provides an 
undertaking to pay Portal any amount he may receive from the illiquid assets in the future. 
That undertaking must allow for any tax and charges that would be incurred on drawing the 
receipt from the pension plan. Portal will need to meet any costs in drawing up the 
undertaking.
Fair value
This is what the investment would have been worth at the end date had it produced a return 
using the benchmark.
To arrive at the fair value when using the fixed rate bonds as the benchmark, Portal should 
use the monthly average rate for one-year fixed-rate bonds as published by the Bank of 
England. The rate for each month is that shown as at the end of the previous month. Those 
rates should be applied to the investment on an annually compounded basis.
Any additional sum paid into the investment should be added to the fair value calculation 
from the point in time when it was actually paid in.
Any withdrawal from the Transact SIPP should be deducted from the fair value calculation 
at the point it was actually paid so it ceases to accrue any return in the calculation from that 
point on. If there is a large number of regular payments, to keep calculations simpler, Ill 
accept if Portal totals all those payments and deducts that figure at the end to determine 
the fair value instead of deducting periodically.
The Transact SIPP only exists because of illiquid assets. In order for the Transact SIPP to 
be closed and further fees that are charged to be prevented, those assets need to be 
removed. Ive set out above how this might be achieved by Portal taking over the illiquid 
assets, or this is something that Mr G can discuss with the provider directly. But I dont 
know how long that will take.
Third parties are involved and we dont have the power to tell them what to do. If Portal is 
unable to purchase the illiquid assets, to provide certainty to all parties I think its fair that it 
pays Mr G an upfront lump sum equivalent to five years worth of wrapper fees (calculated 
using the fee in the previous year to date). This should provide a reasonable period for the 
parties to arrange for the Transact SIPP to be closed.Why is this remedy suitable?
Ive decided on this method of compensation because:
Mr G wanted Capital growth with a small risk to his capital.
The average rate for the fixed rate bonds would be a fair measure for someone who 
wanted to achieve a reasonable return without risk to his capital.
The FTSE UK Private Investors Income total return index (prior to 1 March 2017, 
the FTSE WMA Stock Market Income total return index) is made up of a range of 
indices with different asset classes, mainly UK equities and government bonds. Its 
a fair measure for someone who was prepared to take some risk to get a higher 
return.
I consider that Mr G's risk profile was in between, in the sense that he was prepared 
to take a small level of risk to attain his investment objectives. So, the 50/50 
combination would reasonably put Mr G into that position. It does not mean that Mr 
G would have invested 50% of his money in a fixed rate bond and 50% in some kind 
of index tracker investment. Rather, I consider this a reasonable compromise that 
broadly reflects the sort of return Mr G could have obtained from investments suited 
to his objective and risk attitude.
My final decision
I uphold the complaint. My decision is that Portal Financial Services LLP should put things 
right as set out above.
Portal Financial Services LLP should provide details of its calculation to Mr G in a clear, 
simple format. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision before 21 March 2022.
 
Simon Hollingshead
Ombudsman