DRN-2195326
The complaint
Mr E complains about the poor communications and handling of the repairs to his car by 
AXA Insurance UK Plc following an accident claim under his motor insurance policy. 
What happened
Mr Es car was involved in an incident and he informed AXA. He said the car went to AXAs 
nominated repairers for the repair work, but was returned to him more damaged than it was 
when it left him. Mr E said that since then AXA has admitted that the car had been further 
damaged but had then lied to him over and over again.
AXA assessed Mr Es car and decided it was a total loss. It agreed to Mr E retaining the car 
and paid him according to an agreed pre-accident valuation. 
Mr E said hed had to replace his cars damaged wheels. He said the car was undriveable as 
the damage was so bad to the front left driver side wheel. He sent photos of the damage and 
said AXA should reimburse him for the cost of the repairs hes paid for. He said during a call 
AXA had agreed with him that the damage occurred after the accident.
AXAs repairers viewed Mr Es photos of the damage and said this was present when the car 
was collected. They said a collection report completed by the driver showed the damage to 
the wheels. The repairer said an engineering report was also completed and recorded 
damage to the wheels. It said the damage isnt consistent with what could have been caused 
while it had the car or whilst in transit as cars are secured with a fabric strap. AXA concluded 
that the damage to which Mr E referred was present before his accident. AXA apologised to 
Mr E for the delay in paying his claim and in handling his complaint and paid him £125 
compensation.
The investigator didnt recommend that the complaint be upheld. He said AXA and its 
repairer investigated the damage and found it was present upon collection of Mr Es car and 
he thought it likely the damage was present before collection.
Mr E didnt agree with the investigator. He said the investigator hadnt explained how it was 
his pre-accident photos showed no wheel damage. He said his car had a technicians report 
a month before the accident and there was no damage, but the car came back from AXA 
with a damaged front driver side tyre. He suggested the buckle from the strapping when his 
car was recovered was the cause of the damage. Mr E said the investigator hadnt 
investigated the complaint and had just sided with AXA and requested an ombudsman 
review his complaint.
The investigator said Mr Es photos were taken three weeks before the accident and so 
damage could have occurred between these times. He said Mr Es call with AXA to which he 
had referred didnt include an admission of liability for the damage by AXA.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr E thinks AXA caused damage to his cars wheels. In response to Mr Es complaint, AXA 
instructed its repairers engineer and its own technician to check the evidence and the 
repairs to Mr Es car, and they concluded that the damage occurred before his accident. 
AXA sent a photo of how the vehicle would have been secured whilst in transit. This shows 
contact with the wheel limited to a fabric strap. I dont believe fabric straps could reasonably 
cause damage to alloy wheels as mentioned by Mr E.
We have listened to the calls between Mr E and AXA. What emerges is a misunderstanding 
about the cause of damage. AXA explained that their technician and an engineer think the 
damage might have been caused by metal buckles on the fabric straps when the car was in 
transit. On a subsequent call AXAs member of staff was taking this away to see what could 
be done about the damage. However, AXA didnt confirm any liability or action concerning 
the damage to Mr E. I dont think there was a deliberate attempt to misinform Mr E but there 
was confusion around the damage to the car and AXA should have been clearer about this.
AXA decided the damage should be reviewed by an engineer. And as Ive said, the engineer 
who examined the car and AXAs technician thought it was likely to be pre-accident. AXA set 
out its findings about this in its response to Mr Es complaint. Ive looked at the reports and 
they are clear that the damage to the car wheels was before the car was collected for 
repairs. Ive looked at the technicians report Mr E sent in about his car a month before the 
accident. It doesnt mention any wheel damage, but then the report doesnt include a section 
dealing with the wheels only the tyre tread and other aspects that affect the cars operation.
Mr E has provided photos of his car before the accident. He disagrees with the investigator 
and AXA about whether these show damage to the wheels that may be pre-accident related. 
For me, the most persuasive evidence in terms of timing is the Collection Sheet completed 
by the driver who collected Mr Es car for the repairs. This shows damage to all four wheels 
of Mr Es car and this would have to have occurred before AXAs repairers received the car. 
Based on this I think theres evidence that the repairer wasnt responsible for the damage to 
Mr Es car.
I havent seen the repair bills for which Mr E seeks reimbursement, but I can see his 
frustration about the damage he thinks was caused by AXAs repairers. Ive viewed his 
evidence, but this doesnt overcome the evidence of the damage recorded by the driver on 
the Collection Sheet when his car was first collected for the repairs. The engineering report 
completed when the vehicle came onto the repair site also confirms there was damage 
present to the front alloys.
Ive considered the service Mr E received from AXA and its repairer, and I agree with the 
investigator that AXA has paid fair compensation for its delays. Having reviewed the reports 
and photos I dont think AXA has treated Mr E unfairly in declining to consider itself liable for 
the damage to the wheels of Mr Es car. I havent seen anything to suggest that AXA 
deliberately misled Mr E.
My final decision
For the reasons I have given above it is my final decision that the complaint is not upheld.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr E to accept or 
reject my decision before 8 January 2021.
 Andrew Fraser
Ombudsman