DRN-1234676
The complaint
Mr T complains he had difficulty accessing the Clydesdale Bank PLC (Clydesdale) internet 
banking site and was also unhappy with its proposed rebranding. 
What happened
Mr T is a business banking customer of Clydesdale and on a number of occasions 
experienced difficulties accessing his bank account online. On contacting Clydesdales 
customer service team it pointed out that the access problems were a result of incorrect 
verification of the online security questions. They also told Mr T that the running of the online 
system was more efficient if he used an alternative browser. Mr T wasnt happy with this and 
felt it was their system failures not him doing anything wrong and he didnt want to be made 
to use a different browser. He also went on to say he was unhappy about Clydesdales 
proposed rebranding to a business name he disliked.  
Clydesdale says that whilst they were sorry that he was unhappy with their Internet Banking 
service, its records showed that the problems he faced were due to him failing the online 
security questions and pointed out when responding to the questions, the answers were 
case sensitive. It again made the point to Mr T that he would find an improved online 
performance if he used the other browser. 
As far as the proposed rebranding issue was concerned, it tried to reassure Mr T that this 
wouldnt adversely change their banking relationship. 
Mr T wasnt happy with the response and referred the matter to this service.
The investigator, having obtained all the information available to her, didnt uphold the 
complaint saying that the accessing issues were a result of Mr Ts failed security attempts. 
She also felt that it wasnt for her to tell Clydesdale how to operate their online banking and 
security systems and they had given reasonable advice on how to improve his access. The 
investigator felt the branding issue was a commercial business decision and couldnt see 
that Clydesdale had done anything wrong here. 
Mr T didnt agree with this and asked for the matter to be referred to an ombudsman.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I agree with the investigators view and I will give my reasons why.
Let me begin by saying I understand the frustrations that Mr T faced when he was unable to 
access his account online. But the bank needs to ensure such sensitive information is well 
protected, so with this in mind I dont think it unreasonable for Clydesdale (like most banks) 
to have systems that are in place to do that. I considered Mr Ts point, that  it was Clydesdales system problems and not his fault. From 
the information I have seen the screenshots provided by Clydesdale show that unsuccessful 
attempts were made by Mr T, and the security questions were not answered correctly. There 
was no evidence of any systemic failures on those occasions, which might have contributed 
to the problems he faced. Clydesdale say that using an alternative browser can improve the 
online experience and if that is the case perhaps this could have been made known to Mr T, 
at the time he accessed the account online for the first time. 
When considering Mr Ts complaint about the proposed change of branding, Mr T is entitled 
to have his view on that, but its not for me to decide what brand name or not Clydesdale 
should adopt, thats a commercial decision for them to make.  I couldnt see that this 
branding change would affect Mr Ts bank account and Clydesdale have tried to reassure 
him that customers wont be disadvantaged by this. 
In the same way Mr T is able, if he so wishes, to bank elsewhere if he feels strongly about 
that. 
I can understand that Mr T, like most customers, wishes to have a trouble free, efficient and 
simple online system to access his bank account. But to be fair to both sides, this needs to 
be balanced with reasonable security measures to protect both parties and I am satisfied, on 
balance, this is the case here. I can see that Clydesdale have suggested a mobile banking 
app and this may be a way forward here for  Mr T and I would suggest that this is something 
he discusses with them.
 My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint. Under the rules of the Financial 
Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr T to accept or reject my decision before 
27 May 2020.
Barry White
Ombudsman