DRN-3185780
The complaint
This complaint is about an Aviva Equity Release UK Limited lifetime mortgage that Mrs S 
and her late husband took out in 1999. 
Mrs S died in September 2020 and the complaint has been brought by her estate, which is 
being represented by Mrs B. The estate has complained that the interest was charged on the 
value of the property, not on the amount that Mr and Mrs S borrowed.
I hope Mrs B will accept my condolences for her loss.
What happened
In 1999, Mr and Mrs S took out a lifetime mortgage of £18,360. The terms of the mortgage, 
called a capital access plan, provide that no monthly repayments are required. The 
mortgage is only due to be repaid if the borrower sells the property voluntarily, goes into 
full-time nursing care or after the death of the last surviving borrower. Interest is rolled up 
into the outstanding balance, and is compounded. This means that if the loan runs for a 
number of years, there can be a significant balance to be repaid.
Mrs B says she found out about the lifetime mortgage after Mrs S died and she complained 
that the compound interest is charged not on the amount of the loan, but on the value of the 
property, which was £68,000 at the start of the contract. Mrs B thinks this is unfair.
Aviva rejected the complaint, prompting Mrs B to refer it to us. Our investigator didnt uphold 
the complaint. Mrs B didnt agree and so the case has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Were not the regulator of financial businesses, and we dont police their internal processes 
or how they operate generally. Thats the job of the Financial Conduct Authority. We deal 
with individual disputes between businesses and their customers. Im aware Mrs B has 
strong views about the nature of the product at the heart of this complaint, but I have no 
regulatory function.
Mrs B has said there is only one specific complaint that shes making. Shes not complaining 
generally about the mortgage, instead it is that the interest was charged based on the initial 
property value (£68,000), rather than the loan amount (£18,360).
I cant see from the paperwork whether or not the alternative option was discussed with 
Mr and Mrs S at the time of the sale, that is a product where the interest is charged based on 
the loan amount rather than the property. But I can see that the nature of the product was 
disclosed to Mr and Mrs S, with the paperwork stating the interest would be charged based 
on £68,000, rather than on £18,360. That was then reiterated on the annual mortgage 
statements that were issued throughout the term.
I understand why Mrs B feels it is unfair for the interest to be charged on the property value 
as that means interest was being charged on £68,000 rather than £18,360. But theres one 
very important point that shes overlooked, and that is that Mr and Mrs S interest rate was 
2.90% (compounded), which would be unheard of in 1999 for a normal mortgage, let alone 
an equity release product. At the time the fact find was completed the Bank of England base 
rate was 5.25%, and from my knowledge of equity release mortgages the interest rates on 
those would have been around 8.25% (compounded).
This means the options were an interest rate of 2.90% (compounded) charged on £68,000 or 
an interest rate of 8.25% (compounded) charged on £18,360. Mr and Mrs S could never 
have had an equity release mortgage in 1999 that would be charged based on the loan 
amount of £18,360 at 2.90% (compounded). In the early years the second option would be 
cheaper, but over the years with the interest-roll up compounded, the first option would 
overtake it and work out to be the cheaper option.
At the point Mrs B obtained the redemption statement the mortgage had been running for 
just under 22 years. By my calculations the debt at the 21-year point would have been 
approximately:
£97,020 if the interest was charged at 8.25% (compounded) on £18,360
£74,305 if the interest was charged at 2.90% (compounded) on £68,000
Mrs B has been clear that her only concern is the way the interest was charged, but as Ive 
shown above the estate hasnt suffered any financial detriment due to that, in fact the estate 
is in a better position than it would have been in had an equity release mortgage where the 
interest is based on the amount borrowed been sold instead. By my calculations, and based 
on what I know about equity release interest rates at the time, the estate is over £20,000 
better off due to this type of plan being sold.
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask the estate of Mrs S 
to accept or reject my decision before 20 January 2022. 
Julia Meadows
Ombudsman