DRN-2968076
The complaint
Mr C complained that Everyday Lending Limited trading as Everyday Loans lent to him 
irresponsibly and provided him with a loan that was unaffordable.
What happened
Mr C was given a loan of £1,000 by Everyday Loans in May 2018. The loan was due to be 
repaid in 12 monthly instalments, each around £144. The total amount payable, including 
interest was just over £1,736. The loan was intended to be used for debt consolidation - in 
other words, to pay off other debt.
One of our investigators looked into the complaint. She didnt think Everyday Loans should 
have provided Mr C with the loan and she asked Everyday Loans to put things right. 
Everyday Loans didnt agree with the investigators assessment. It also told us that, due to 
an error, the consolidation amount wasnt accurately stated in the affordability calculation it 
sent us and this meant that Mr Cs disposable income would have been more than originally 
stated - even with a calculated living expense of £500.
The complaint came to me to decide. I issued a provisional decision. 
Here are some of the main things I said. 
There are some key questions I need to consider in order to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this particular complaint:
 Did Everyday Loans complete reasonable and proportionate checks to satisfy itself that Mr 
C would be able to repay the loan in a sustainable way? If not, what would reasonable and 
proportionate checks have shown at the time?
 If it did do reasonable and proportionate checks, did Everyday Loans make a fair lending 
decision?
 Did Everyday Loans act unfairly or unreasonably in some other way?
Everyday Loans needed to take reasonable steps to ensure that it didn't lend to Mr C 
irresponsibly. The lender was required to carry out a borrower focussed assessment or 
affordability check. The checks had to be borrower focussed  so Everyday Loans had to 
think about whether repaying the loan sustainably would cause difficulties or adverse 
consequences for Mr C.
Everyday Loans had to carry out reasonable and proportionate checks to satisfy itself that 
Mr C would be able repay his loan sustainably. There was no set list of checks that Everyday 
Loans had to do, but it could consider a number of different things such as the loan amount, 
the length of the loan term, the repayment amounts, and the borrowers overall financial 
circumstances.
I think that a reasonable and proportionate check ought generally to have been more 
thorough:
the lower a customers income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
make any repayments to credit from a lower level of income)
the higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more 
difficult to meet higher repayments from a particular level of income)
the longer the period of time a borrower will be indebted (reflecting the fact 
that the total cost of the credit is likely to be greater and the customer is required to 
make repayments for an extended period).
Everyday Loans was required to establish whether Mr C could sustainably repay his loan  
not just whether the loan payments were affordable on a strict pounds and pence 
calculation. Of course, the loan payments being affordable on this basis might be an 
indication a consumer could sustainably make their repayments. But it doesnt automatically 
follow this is the case.
This is because the regulations define sustainable as being without undue difficulties and in 
particular the customer should be able to make repayments on time, while meeting other 
reasonable commitments, as well as without having to borrow to meet the repayments. And 
it follows that a lender should realise, or it ought fairly and reasonably to realise, that a 
borrower wont be able to make their repayments sustainably if theyre unlikely to be able to 
make their repayments without borrowing further.
Ive carefully considered all of the arguments, evidence and information provided in this 
context and what this all means for Mr Cs complaint.
Everyday Loans asked Mr C for information about his income and expenditure and it also 
obtained a credit report and reviewed bank statements from Mr C and took into account 
statistical information to help build a detailed picture of Mr Cs financial situation. Everyday 
Loans verified what Mr C had said about his monthly income and recorded this as £1,440. 
Everyday Loans then allowed around 35% of Mr Cs monthly income to cover his regular 
living expenses on top of the amount Mr C said he paid for board and lodging and it 
calculated his monthly payments to outstanding creditors. After doing this, it appeared that 
Mr C should have disposable income of around £261 left after taking into account his 
repayment of £144.73 on this loan. 
From what Ive seen, I think the checks that Everyday Loans carried out before it agreed to 
lend to Mr C were reasonable and proportionate, in the circumstances. 
But, I dont think that Everyday Loans made a fair lending decision on this occasion. 
Everyday Loans was required to establish whether Mr C could sustainably make his loan 
repayments  not just whether the loan payments looked affordable on a strict pounds and 
pence calculation. 
Looking at the information shown on the credit checks that Everyday Loans carried out it 
wouldve been able to see that Mr C had 8 active accounts  this included a £350 loan 
taken out in August 2017 which had an outstanding balance of £290 that cost Mr C £39 
each month and had a repayment period of 22 months. He also had two payday loans 
shown. They had been taken out around a year or so earlier and should long since have 
been repaid by this time  if I've correctly understood Everyday Loans credit checks it 
looks like one of those loans had defaulted the previous month and Mr C had only paid 
around half the amount owing on the other. Everyday Loans was also able to see that 
Mr C had two credit card accounts  the combined balance on these was £591 and they were both approaching their credit limit. I think Everyday Loans could also see that he had 
two home lending accounts  and it appears those accounts show recent default dates 
also indicating that Mr C had fallen significantly behind with the repayments he should 
have been making on those accounts.
I think Everyday Loans should have been concerned that this information didnt reflect 
what it understood about the amount of monthly disposable income it had worked out Mr C 
ought to have according to its figures  and I think that concern should reasonably have 
been borne out by what Everyday Loans was able to see on the bank statements Mr C 
provided during the loan application process.
These show that in fact Mr C was slipping regularly into overdraft, some payments were 
being returned and he was incurring unpaid transaction fees on direct debits and being 
charged unarranged overdraft fees. It was evident, as Everyday Loans has said, that there 
is no evidence to show that Mr C was making the due payments of £32 and £64 on his 
home lending accounts. And also that he was taking out other lending  which didnt all 
appear to be shown on his credit report.
Given all of this, I think Everyday Loans ought fairly to have realised that Mr C was most 
likely going to find it very difficult to sustainably repay the loan over the loan term as it looked 
like he was already in financial difficulty and unable to pay for his existing credit. I think, in 
these circumstances, Everyday Loans should reasonably have concluded that it was not fair 
to lend to Mr C.
In coming to my provisional decision I've thought carefully about what Everyday Loans said 
in response to our investigators view letter. I've taken into account its view that the bank 
statements it saw werent necessarily representative of Mr Cs position over the loan term 
and that he shouldve easily been able to clear his overdraft with his remaining disposable 
income.
I dont think Everyday Loans has properly taken into account that Mr C was struggling to 
keep his account in credit even though he wasnt meeting all his credit commitments and 
unpaid items were being refunded to the account and that part of the reason he was able to 
maintain the credit balance shown was due to him taking out other high cost lending  his 
March 2018 statement shows that during the two months or so running up to him applying to 
Everyday Loans it appears he borrowed over £666. Everyday Loans was aware that Mr Cs 
credit history included recently defaulted and overdue accounts. It saw that he had been 
taking out pay day loans for at least a year by this time and he was still struggling to manage 
his money and stay in credit at the bank  despite that type of lending being intended to help 
with short term money problems. I think its reasonable to say that it was more likely Mr Cs 
bank statements accurately reflected the fact that he was struggling to manage his money 
and this wasnt a short term problem that he could address out of disposable income as all 
the indications were that Mr C simply didnt have any spare cash and this had been his 
financial situation over the previous 12 months or so.  
I've taken carefully into account that Everyday Loans provided this loan for the purposes of 
debt consolidation  and I can see that there is a handwritten note on the bank statements it 
has sent me identifying the three short term lenders it has now confirmed its loan was 
intended to repay. This included the defaulted and overdue pay day loans dating back to 
May and June 2017 and a more recent loan from another high cost lender that appears on 
Mr Cs bank statement.
But, as far as I am aware, the loan money Everyday Loans provided to Mr C was paid into 
his bank account, and Everyday Loans didnt have control over whether it would in fact be used to pay these debts. This means that Everyday Loans couldnt have been sure it wasnt 
putting Mr C in a worse position by increasing his overall debts. 
And even if Mr C had used this loan to repay the existing debt Everyday Loans thought 
would be paid, I dont think Everyday Loans was able to safely say this wouldve improved 
his overall position sufficiently to achieve a significant and sustainable improvement in his 
overall financial situation. 
The loan was insufficient to clear the bulk of his debt and given that his other debt left 
outstanding would still include the two defaulted home lending loans, and bearing in mind 
that he had signed up to make the monthly repayments on this loan for the next 12 months, 
I havent seen enough to make me think Everyday Loans could be reassured that its loan 
would benefit Mr C. 
I think the concerns Ive mentioned are borne out by the fact that theres no clear information 
showing that Mr C used this loan for its stated purpose  and even if he did apply some (or 
all of it) towards the lending hed said it was for, I can see from the bank statements that 
Everyday Loans has sent me covering the period a few months later that Mr C was 
increasingly dependent on taking out high cost credit. His statements for July  September 
2018 show multiple loans were being taken out  sometimes from two lenders on the same 
day. 
So I think this supports my view that loan 1 wasnt sustainable for Mr C and if Everyday 
Loans had properly taken into account the information it acquired it shouldve realised this 
and not provided this loan to Mr C these circumstances.
I think Everyday Loans ought reasonably to have recognised the risk that taking 
further, costly lending was unlikely to help Mr C and more likely to potentially increase 
his indebtedness over the longer term. 
So, I am planning on upholding Mr Cs complaint that he should not have been given 
the loan.
I havent seen anything which makes me think that Everyday Loans acted unfairly or 
unreasonably towards Mr C in some other way. 
But taking everything into account, I dont think Everyday Loans should have agreed to 
provide the loan to Mr C. 
As Mr C has been further indebted with a high amount of interest and charges on a loan 
that he shouldnt have been provided with, Im satisfied that he has lost out as a result of 
what Everyday Loans did wrong. 
So, I think Everyday Loans needs to put things right.
Everyday Loans has confirmed that it agrees with my decision to uphold this complaint. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our approach to unaffordable/irresponsible lending complaints on our 
website and Ive kept this in mind while deciding this complaint.Id like to thank Everyday Loans for responding to my provisional decision so promptly. Mr C 
has been awaiting a final decision since the investigator issued her view and its my 
understanding that he is happy with the outcome set out in our investigators view and 
reflected more recently my provisional decision. 
So I think the fairest thing is for me to proceed to issue my final decision without delay. 
Given that Ive not received any further evidence or comment that changes my mind about 
this complaint, I confirm the conclusions I reached in my provisional decision.
Putting things right
I think it is fair and reasonable for Mr C to repay the capital amount that he borrowed, 
because he had the benefit of that lending. 
But he has paid interest and charges on lending that should not have been provided to him. 
In line with this Services approach, Mr C shouldnt repay more than the capital amount he 
borrowed. 
If Everyday Loans has sold the outstanding debt it should buy it back, if its able to do so and 
then take the following steps. 
If Everyday Loans isnt able to buy the debt back, then it should liaise with the new debt 
owner to achieve the results outlined below.
Everyday Loans should: 
 Remove all interest, fees and charges on the loan and treat all the payments Mr C made 
as payments towards the capital.
 If reworking Mr Cs loan account results in him having effectively made payments above 
the original capital borrowed, then Everyday Loans should refund these overpayments with 
8% simple interest calculated on the overpayments, from the date the overpayments would 
have arisen, to the date the complaint is settled*.
 If an outstanding balance remains, then Everyday Loans should try to agree an affordable 
repayment plan with Mr C - bearing in mind the need to treat him positively and 
sympathetically in those discussions.
 Remove any adverse information recorded on Mr Cs credit file in relation to the loan.
*HM Revenue & Customs requires Everyday Loans to deduct tax from this interest. 
Everyday Loans should give Mr C a certificate showing how much tax its deducted, if he 
asks for one.
My final decision
I uphold Mr Cs complaint and direct Everyday Lending Limited trading as Everyday Loans 
to put things right as set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 7 September 2021.
 Susan Webb
Ombudsman