DRN-4025092
Complaint
Mr N has complained about a loan Madison CF UK Limited (trading as 118 118 Money) 
provided to him. He says the loan was unaffordable.
Background
118 118 Money provided Mr N with a loan for £5,000.00 in February 2022. This loan was 
due to be repaid in 24 monthly instalments of £295. One of our adjudicators reviewed what 
Mr N and 118 118 Money had told us. And he thought that 118 118 Money hadnt done 
anything wrong or treated Mr N unfairly. So he didnt recommend that Mr Ns complaint be 
upheld. Mr N disagreed and asked for an ombudsman to look at his complaint.
My findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve explained how we handle complaints about unaffordable and irresponsible lending on
our website. And Ive used this approach to help me decide Mr Ns complaint.
118 118 Money needed to make sure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In practice, what this 
means is 118 118 Money needed to carry out proportionate checks to be able to understand 
whether Mr N could afford to repay before providing this loan. Our website sets out what we 
typically think about when deciding whether a lenders checks were proportionate. Generally, 
we think its reasonable for a lenders checks to be less thorough  in terms of how much 
information it gathers and what it does to verify it  in the early stages of a lending 
relationship.
But we might think it needed to do more if, for example, a borrowers income was low or the
amount lent was high. And the longer the lending relationship goes on, the greater the risk of
it becoming unsustainable and the borrower experiencing financial difficulty. So wed expect
a lender to be able to show that it didnt continue to lend to a customer irresponsibly.
118 118 Money says it agreed to Mr Ns application after he provided details of his monthly 
income and some information on his expenditure. It says it cross-checked this against 
information on a credit search it carried out and all of this information showed Mr N could 
afford to make the repayments he was committing to. On the other hand, Mr N has said he 
shouldnt have been lent to.
Ive carefully thought about what Mr N and 118 118 Money have said. 
The first thing for me to say is that this was Mr Ns first loan with 118 118 Money. And         
118 118 Money has provided an output of the income and expenditure information recorded 
at the time of Mr Ns application as well as a record of the results of its credit searches.    
118 118 Moneys searches appear to show that Mr N had had previous difficulties with credit 
as hed defaulted on accounts. 
But these were historic and Mr N had relatively small amounts of existing debt at the time of 
this application, which he said he was going to consolidate with the funds from this loan. And 
Mr Ns commitments at the time were relatively well maintained. 
Crucially, according to the credit searches, Mr Ns debt total at the time of the application 
was reasonable in comparison to his income and there wasnt anything to indicate that the 
income and expenditure information gathered was incorrect either. 
I accept that Mr N appears to be suggesting that his actual circumstances werent fully 
reflected either in the information he provided, or the information 118 118 Money obtained. 
However, 118 118 Money could only make a reasonable decision based on the information it 
had available at the time. The records from the time indicate that Mr N was taking this loan in 
order to consolidate most of his existing debts. 
So Im satisfied that the proceeds of this loan could and should have been used to clear 
most of Mr Ns existing balances. And as this was a first loan 118 118 Money was arranging 
for Mr N and there wasnt a history of Mr N obtaining funds and then failing to consolidate 
debts elsewhere in the way he committed to either, Im satisfied that 118 118 Money was 
reasonably entitled to believe that Mr N would use the loan for the stated purpose and be left 
in a better position.
I accept that if 118 118 Money had gone into the depth of checks Mr N appears to be saying 
it should have  such as obtaining bank statements it possible it may have reached a 
different decision. But the key here is that its only fair and reasonable for me to uphold a 
complaint in circumstances where a lender did something wrong. 
Given the circumstances here, and the lack of obvious inconsistencies, I dont think that 
reasonable and proportionate checks would have extended further  especially given what 
was obtained showed Mr N was in a relatively stable financial position at the time at least. 
As this is the case, I dont think that 118 118 Money did anything wrong when deciding to 
lend to Mr N - it carried out proportionate checks and reasonably relied on what it found out 
which suggested the repayments were affordable. 
So overall I dont think that 118 118 Money treated Mr N unfairly or unreasonably when 
providing him with his loan. And Im not upholding Mr Ns complaint. I appreciate this will be 
very disappointing for Mr N. But I hope hell understand the reasons for my decision and that 
hell at least feel his concerns have been listened to.
Although Im not upholding Mr Ns complaint, I would remind 118 118 Money of its obligation 
to exercise forbearance and due consideration should Mr N be experiencing difficulty and it 
choose to collect payments from him.
Ive also seen that in his most recent correspondence to us Mr N has said that he is unhappy 
with 118 118 Moneys actions in selling his debt to a third-party debt purchaser. 
However, this didnt form part of his original complaint to 118 118 Money. And as Im only 
usually able to look at a complaint after a respondent firm has had the chance to consider 
the matter, Mr N will need to direct these concerns to 118 118 Money in the first instance. He 
may be able to take things further with our service  subject to us having jurisdiction to do so 
 should he be unhappy with any response he receives from 118 118 Money.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, Im not upholding Mr Ns complaint.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr N to accept or 
reject my decision before 19 April 2023.
 
Jeshen Narayanan
Ombudsman