DRN-3117097
The complaint
Mr O has complained that Everyday Lending Limited lent to him irresponsibly. 
What happened
I issued a provisional decision about this complaint in October 2021 that I summarise below.
Mr O was given two loans by EDL.
Loan 1 in October 2017 was for £4,000. The loan was due to be repaid in 42 monthly 
instalments of around £399. The total amount payable, including interest was just over 
£16,797.
Loan 2 in October 2019 was for £4,500. This loan was partly used to settle loan 1 with an 
amount of cash remaining. The loan was due to be repaid in 24 monthly instalments of 
around £379. The total amount payable, including interest was just over £9,115.
I explained the basis on which I would decide the complaint, in particular the checks that 
EDL needed to do for each loan such as the amount being lent, and the consumers income 
and expenditure. I said that EDL was required to carry out reasonable and proportionate 
checks in order to establish whether Mr O could sustainably repay the loans.
Loan 1
EDL gathered information about Mr Os income and acquired a credit check. EDL calculated 
Mr Os regular expenses and reviewed two months bank statements.
I thought the checks that EDL carried out before it agreed to lend to Mr O were reasonable 
and proportionate, in the circumstances. However, I didnt think that EDL made a fair lending 
decision on this occasion and I explained why.
EDL was aware from its checks that Mr O had a large number of creditors including pay day 
loans, credit cards and other lending. EDL also noted the repayments being made by Mr O 
in respect county court judgements. EDL says Mr O took loan 1 in order to partly consolidate 
some of this debt and that, based on the information provided and what it found in its 
checks, the loan was affordable for him.
I thought that EDL focussed on its calculation of whether the loan appeared to be affordable 
for Mr O on a pounds and pence basis. But the lender was required to establish whether he 
could sustainably make his loan repayments  not just whether the loan payments were 
technically affordable on a strict pounds and pence calculation.
The loan payments being affordable on this basis might be an indication a consumer could 
sustainably make their repayments. But it doesn't automatically follow this is the case. This 
is because the relevant regulations define sustainable as being without undue difficulties and 
in particular the customer should be able to make repayments on time, while meeting other 
reasonable commitments; as well as without having to borrow to meet the repayments. And 
it follows that a lender should realise, or it ought fairly and reasonably to realise, that a 
borrower wont be able to make their repayments sustainably if theyre unlikely to be able to 
make their repayments without borrowing further.
The bank statements reviewed by EDL at the time showed that Mr O had been making 
payments each month to at least one of his creditors that were considerably higher than the 
monthly amount calculated by EDL in its affordability assessment. EDL says Mr O could 
simply have been opting to make a bulk payment to this creditor and that it was not 
necessarily an indicator that he was in financial difficulties. I hadnt seen anything to suggest 
that EDL queried these higher repayments at the time. I thought EDL ought reasonably to 
have realised from the information that it gathered overall, that Mr O was having serious 
difficulties managing his money. I also thought EDL ought reasonably to have realised that 
Mr O was reliant on high cost short term lending; that he was struggling to repay this lending 
and that even by consolidating part of his debt, there was a significant risk that he would find 
it difficult to repay his EDL loan in a sustainable way.
This was an expensive loan and Mr O had to maintain his loan repayments over an 
extended period, in addition to his remaining creditor repayments that were not part of the 
debt consolidation. I thought EDL ought reasonably to have been aware from the information 
it had gathered and its own affordability calculations that, given Mr Os financial position, it 
was unlikely that he would be able to sustainably repay his loan over the full loan term 
without borrowing further  which did in fact happen as Mr O continued using other credit 
into 2018 and defaulted on a number of accounts. In these particular circumstances, I 
thought EDL should reasonably have concluded that it was not appropriate to provide the 
first loan.
Loan 2
Mr O returned to borrow again from EDL around 24 months into the 42-month loan term for 
the first loan. EDL carried out a number of checks before it agreed to lend to him. I thought 
the checks that EDL carried out at the time were reasonable and proportionate, in the 
circumstances.
From what Id seen, Mr O continued to rely on high cost and short-term credit during 2018 
and he experienced some difficulties repaying credit, defaulting on some accounts. I 
considered whether by lending to Mr O for a second time, EDL was unfairly extending the 
time during which Mr O was indebted to it. The APR and interest rate charged were lower 
than Mr Os first loan. Whilst his overall debt had increased, so apparently had his income. I 
didnt think the information gathered by EDL at the time ought reasonably to have suggested 
that he was continuing his reliance on high cost short term lending. On balance, I cant say 
that I think EDL ought reasonably to have concluded that Mr Os financial position was such 
that it would be irresponsible or unfair to lend to him in 2019. So I did not intend to uphold 
the complaint about the second loan.
Id not seen anything which made me think that EDL treated Mr O unfairly in some other way 
in relation to either of his loans. But taking everything into account, I didnt think it should 
have agreed to provide the first loan to him. So I said I was intending to uphold Mr Os 
complaint about the first loan and EDL needs to put things right.
I invited both parties to send me any further comments or evidence. Both Mr O and EDL 
have told us they accept my provisional decision. 
  
What Ive decided  and whyIve considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Id like to thank both parties for all the information that has been provided about this matter 
and for responding to my provisional decision. 
Mr O and EDL have accepted my provisional findings. So I confirm the conclusions I 
reached in my provisional decision.  I uphold Mr Os complaint about his first loan and EDL 
should put things right in respect of loan 1. I dont uphold Mr Os complaint about the second 
loan.
Putting things right
I think it is fair and reasonable for Mr O to repay the principal amount that he borrowed with 
loan 1, because he had the benefit of that lending. But he has paid interest and charges on a 
loan that shouldnt have been provided to him.
EDL should:
Remove all interest, fees and charges on loan 1 and treat all the payments Mr O 
made as payments towards the capital.
If reworking Mr Os loan accounts results in him having effectively made payments 
above the original capital borrowed, then EDL should refund these overpayments 
with 8% simple interest calculated on the overpayments, from the date the 
overpayments would have arisen, to the date the complaint is settled*.
Remove any adverse information recorded on Mr Os credit file in relation to loan 1.
*HM Revenue & Customs requires EDL to deduct tax from this interest. EDL should also 
give Mr O a certificate showing how much tax its deducted, if he asks for one.
Whilst I am not upholding Mr Os complaint about the second loan, I am aware that Mr O has 
told us that he is experiencing some financial difficulties. I expect EDL to treat Mr O 
positively and sympathetically in respect of any outstanding balance on his second loan and 
to try and agree an affordable repayment plan with him. This may include using any 
refunded overpayments due from loan 1 to reduce the loan balance on loan 2.  
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I uphold Mr Os complaint about loan 1 and direct Everyday 
Lending Limited to put things right as set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr O to accept or 
reject my decision before 13 December 2021.
 
Sharon Parr
Ombudsman