DRN-3454750
The complaint
Miss H complains about how Vitality Health Limited dealt with her claim under her private 
medical insurance policy. 
What happened
On 21 December 2020 Miss H took out a private health insurance policy insured by Vitality. 
The policy was underwritten on a moratorium basis which meant Vitality didnt cover a pre-
existing medical condition Miss H had within the five years before the policy started.
In February 2021 Miss H contacted Vitality to arrange counselling due to leaving her job and 
feeling stressed. She spoke to a GP through Vitality on 8 April 2021. Miss Hs complains 
that:
The GPs consultation notes said shed been depressed since November 2020, 
which was wrong. As a result Vitality refused to cover her claim as it said she had a 
pre-existing condition. 
She told Vitality the GPs notes were wrong but it didnt take any action until the 
broker complained on her behalf in May 2021. When Vitality looked at her complaint 
it agreed the GP recorded the start date of her symptoms incorrectly and amended 
her record. But by that time shed cancelled the policy. She says Vitality didnt explain 
the complaints procedure to her.
Vitality said if she hadnt cancelled the poilcy and allowed it to re-assess the issue 
within 30 days it would have helped but that wasnt explained to her at the time. 
Vitality agreed to reinstate the policy but it didnt guarantee it would cover her 
treatment and she would have to pay the premiums for the months she wasnt 
insured. She said Vitality was unfair to ask her to pay for a service she didnt receive 
and without a guarantee it would cover the condition.
Miss H wants Vitality to refund the premiums she paid and pay her compensation as her 
condition was now pre-existing so she says she wouldnt be able to find alternative cover.
Vitality said:
It declined the claim as the GPs 8 April 2021 consultation record said Miss H had 
been suffering with low mood intermittently since November 2020. As that was before 
the policy started her claim was for a pre-existing condition and wasnt covered.
On 9 April 2021 it told Miss H her claim was declined. Miss H said shed initially told 
the GP her symptoms started in February 2021 but the GP pushed for the 
November 2020 date. It had told Miss H it had to make a decision on the information 
the GP provided and Miss H asked to cancel the poilcy which it did on 20 April 2021 
as agreed. If Miss H had wanted to complain the policy set out what she needed to 
do.
On 20 May 2021 Miss Hs broker told it Miss H was unhappy with its service. The 
primary care provider contacted Miss H about the GPs notes. The lead GP added a 
note to the consultation to say Miss Hs symptoms started in February 2021 even 
though it couldnt listen to the 8 April consultation call.
Before it could confirm the claim was covered it would need a claim form to be 
completed by Miss H and her NHS GP to check there was no medical history the 
condition was pre-existing. But Miss H had already cancelled the policy and she was 
outside the usual 30 day period to reinstate the policy. 
In July 2021 it had offered Miss H that her policy could still be reinstated on the basis 
that she and her NHS GP complete a claim form. And Miss H would need to pay the 
premiums for the whole period. If the completed claim form showed Miss Hs 
symptoms pre-dated the policy start date and it wouldnt cover the claim Miss H could 
re-cancel the policy and it would refund the premiums from the original cancellation 
date. 
Our investigator said Vitality acted reasonably in declining the claim, it didnt need to refund 
any premiums Miss H had already paid or to pay any compensation.
Miss H disagrees and wants an ombudsmans decision. She said our investigator hadnt 
taken into account Vitalitys poor service and its mistake in noting the start date of her 
symptoms.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The relevant regulators rules say that insurers must handle claims promptly and fairly. And 
they mustnt turn down claims unreasonably.
As the policy is underwritten on a moratorium basis Vitality didnt ask Miss H for details of 
her medical history when she bought the policy. Instead under the moratorium theres an 
exclusion clause (the moratorium clause) which says:
We dont pay claims for the treatment of any medical condition or related condition 
which you have received medical treatment for, had symptoms of, asked advice on 
or, to the best of your knowledge and belief, were aware existed in the five years 
before your cover started (a pre-existing medical condition).
There is the possibility of cover for a pre-existing medical condition or a related condition 
after two continuous years after the policy started. The policy details when thats possible, 
but that doesnt impact on Miss Hs complaint.
Vitality acted reasonably in basing its initial claim decision on the GPs notes. It could 
reasonably consider the GP had recorded correct information. And as the information 
showed Miss Hs symptoms started within the five years before her policy started Vitality 
reasonably thought the claim was for a pre-existing condition under the policy terms and 
fairly declined the claim.
The focus of Miss Hs complaint is about Vitalitys service once she told it the GPs 
consultation note was wrong. 
Ive listened to the relevant calls Miss H had with Vitality. When she spoke to Vitality about 
cancelling the policy she said she felt shed been tricked by the GP, she didnt want to get 
into that, but she felt pushed into saying shed felt down in 2020 when everyone was going 
to say they felt like that during the Covid-19 pandemic. Miss H told Vitality that it had  
decided she had a pre-existing medical condition so she wanted to cancel the policy. Miss H says Vitality should have told her at that point she could complain. But in the call I 
dont think Miss H indicated to Vitality that she did want to complain. The policy document 
clearly sets out the procedure if she did want to complain. I also note that in one of the later 
calls Miss H said to Vitality shed been dragged into to making the complaint which also 
suggests she didnt want to make a complaint.
The broker did make a complaint on Miss Hs behalf. The end result was that although 
Vitalitys primary care provider couldnt listen to the 8 April consultation call to hear what was 
said about the symptoms and dates it added a note to the consultation notes that Miss Hs 
symptoms started in February 2021, which Miss H said was the correct information. I think it 
acted reasonably in adding the revised date.
Miss H says Vitality should have told her she only had 30 days to reinstate her policy cover. 
But even if I thought that was correct Vitalitys offer to settle the complaint waives the 
30 days limit if Miss H does want to reinstate the policy.
Vitality gave two requirements if Miss H wanted to reinstate the policy. First, that she and her  
GP complete a claim form to ensure the condition didnt pre-date the December 2020 policy 
start date. Vitality says that would be required for any claim registered within a short time of 
the policy starting. I think its reasonable for Vitality to check with Miss Hs NHS GP that, as 
required for cover under the policy terms, she hadnt received medical treatment for, had 
symptoms of or asked advice for the condition, or related conditions that she would claim for. 
Second, Vitality said Miss H would have to bring the premiums up to date to ensure 
continuity of the policy cover. Miss H says to do so would mean shed be paying for a policy 
when she hadnt had any cover from it and I understand her point. But I think Vitality could 
reasonably say shed need to pay those premiums so that there wasnt a break in her policy 
cover which could have implications for her cover. 
However, Vitalitys offer went further. It said that if once it saw the completed claim form the 
claim wasnt covered as her symptoms pre-dated the policy start date Miss H could re-
cancel her plan and it would refund the premiums back dated to the original date she had 
cancelled the poilcy. 
Although Vitality hadnt guaranteed to cover Miss Hs medical condition that was reasonable 
as it hadnt seen Miss Hs medical information from her GP to know if the condition was pre-
existing. If the condition wasnt covered the policy could be re-cancelled and Miss H would 
have the premiums shed paid since 20 April 2021 refunded. I think thats a fair offer from 
Vitality.
Theres no basis for me to say Vitality has to refund the premiums Miss H paid from 
December 2020 to April 2021. During that period Miss H was covered by the policy, subject 
to the policy terms. The fact that she didnt make a successful claim doesnt mean Vitality 
has to refund the premiums. 
Miss H also asked for compensation as her symptoms are now seen as pre-existing and 
wouldnt be covered by other insurers. But whether a condition was pre-existing would 
depend on the other insurers policy terms and evidence from Miss Hs medical records. Its 
possible that Miss Hs medical history from her NHS GP would show she had pre-existing 
symptoms before her policy with Vitality started. If the other insurer asked for information 
from Vitality about the claim her notes now show the revised start date for the symptoms that 
Miss H wanted. Theres no basis for me to say Vitality has to pay Miss H compensation.
Overall I find that Vitality made a fair and reasonable offer to settle Miss Hs complaint.My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss H to accept 
or reject my decision before 10 October 2022.
 
Nicola Sisk
Ombudsman