DRN-3918624
The complaint
Miss S complains that One Insurance Limited (One) didnt provide her with a courtesy car 
and about how it handled a claim on her motor insurance policy.
What happened
Miss S had a motor insurance policy with One covering her car. In early November 2021 she 
was involved in a collision and made a claim.
One asked Miss S to provide photos of her car, and some additional proof it wanted to 
validate her annual mileage. One accepted the claim nine days after shed told it about the 
collision.
One assessed Miss Ss car as being beyond economical repair and wrote it off on 7 
December. 
Miss S has made a separate complaint to One about its valuation of the car and Im not 
going to comment on it further here.
Miss Ss policy included the provision of a hire car, but One didnt provide her with this.
Miss S was unhappy about Ones handling of her claim. She feels she had to chase One 
many times to move her claim forward, and was very inconvenienced by not having a car to 
use.
She complained to One who upheld her complaint and agreed to pay her £150 
compensation and sent her flowers for its poor service and communication. It also agreed to 
pay her £210 for its failure to provide her with a hire car.
Miss S remained unhappy and brought her complaint to this service. She complains about 
the lack of a courtesy car and Ones claims service.
Our investigator looked into it. He said he thought Ones service had been poor during the 
claim as Miss S had to repeatedly ask for progress to be made, and she had to supply One 
with the same information repeatedly. Our investigator thought Ones offer of £210 for the 
lack of courtesy car was fair, but he thought that it should pay her an additional £100 
compensation for Miss Ss distress and inconvenience.
Miss S accepted the view, but One didnt. It said it thought it had offered Miss S sufficient 
compensation. It asked that the complaint was reviewed by an ombudsman, so it has been 
passed to me to make a final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im going to uphold Miss Ss complaint. Ill explain why.
Ive reviewed Miss Ss experience during the claim she made and I think the service she had 
from One was very poor. 
I can see that One didnt provide her with a courtesy car when her policy included its 
provision. It seems to me that Miss Ss car had been recovered and taken away by One, but 
it failed to consider her needs, despite her calling One several times and asking for a 
courtesy car. Its clear to me that Miss S bought the policy because it included the courtesy 
car and I can see from her evidence how important that was to her.
One has offered Miss S £210 for its failure to give her a car, and I think this offer is fair and 
reasonable.
I can also see from the file that Miss S later had a car hired on her behalf by a friend. 
Unfortunately Im not able to consider that further here, because the cost of the hire was 
being paid by the third party rather than her.
Ones evidence also shows me that Miss S called it to ask for an update several times during 
her claim. She was also asked to send the same evidence about her car to Ones engineers 
repeatedly, which I can see distressed her and she found it confusing. 
One has offered Miss S £150 compensation for its poor communications and service, but I 
dont think this is enough. Theres been a clear failure of One to progress Miss Ss claim 
throughout her claims journey and Ones failure to act has clearly caused her a great deal of 
distress. I think One should increase its compensation by £100, to £250 in total, for its poor 
service.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, my final decision is that I uphold this complaint. I direct One 
Insurance Limited to pay Miss S:
£210 for her inconvenience caused by its failure to give her a courtesy car.
£250 compensation for her distress caused by its poor service.
One Insurance Limited must pay the amount within 28 days of the date on which we tell it 
Miss S accepts my final decision. If it pays later than this, it must also pay interest on the 
amount from the date of my final decision to the date of payment at 8% a year simple.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss S to accept 
or reject my decision before 3 April 2023.
 
Richard Sowden
Ombudsman