The complaint
Mrs U says she was mis-sold regular premium payment protection insurance (PPI) policies 
by Lloyds Bank PLC (Lloyds). 
What happened
Mrs U applied for her credit cards in 1995, and bought regular premium PPI policies at or in 
the years following the opening of her credit card account. I cant say exactly how much the 
policies cost Mrs U but from what we know of the policies that Lloyds sold at the time I think 
it wouldnt have cost more than 79p per every £100 of the outstanding monthly balance on 
her credit cards. 
This policies covered Mrs U in the event of accident, sickness or unemployment, and in the 
event of a successful claim wouldve paid 10% of the outstanding last statement balance. 
And it would have done so for up to 12 months per claim.
Our adjudicator didnt think Mrs Us complaint should be upheld because she didnt think 
there was enough information to show Lloyds had mis-sold the policy.
Mrs U disagreed. She says she didnt know the policies were optional and was tricked into 
taking them. 
So the complaint has come to me for a decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
I have considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Weve set out our general approach to 
complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
this case.
Ive decided not to uphold Mrs Us complaint.
The sales took place over 20 years ago so unsurprisingly there is very little information 
available from the time of the sales. So Ive had to proceed on the basis of what information 
I have and what I think is most likely to have happened.
Mrs U hasnt been able to provide much detail about how the policies were sold which I think 
is understandable given the time that has passed. And Lloyds havent been able to provide 
us with any of the documents from the time of the sales or confirm how the policies were 
sold. So I dont know exactly what was discussed about PPI or how it was presented. 
DRN-1804645But from what I know about all the different ways Lloyds sold PPI during the period Mrs U 
was sold the policies, I think its likely that it wouldve made Mrs U aware that PPI was 
optional and I think Mrs U wouldve had PPI added to her accounts because she chose to 
take it. I understand Mrs U might not remember this, but Ive not seen enough to say that 
she wasnt given a choice or that she didnt agree to buy it.
To be fair to Mrs U I am treating the sales of PPI as if they were advised sales. What this 
means is that Lloyds not only had to provide information about PPI in a clear, fair and not 
misleading way so that Mrs U could make an informed choice about buying PPI. It also had 
to make sure that if it were to recommend PPI that the policies were suitable to her needs 
and circumstances.
I dont know if Lloyds did take all the steps it shouldve. But from what I know about the 
policies Lloyds sold at the time I think PPI was a suitable recommendation for Mrs U for the 
following reasons:
She was eligible for the policies and it doesnt look like she wouldve been caught by 
any of the main exclusions in the terms and conditions of the policies which couldve 
made it difficult to make a successful claim. 
 
Mrs U says she wouldve been entitled to sick pay and had savings she could use to 
make her repayments if she couldnt work. But the policies wouldve paid out on top 
of any work benefits and savings and for potentially longer covering her credit card 
payments for up to 12 months if she was unable to work due to accident or sickness 
or lost her job. So I think the PPI wouldve provided a useful benefit to Mrs U in her 
circumstances. 
 
There was nothing to suggest that the PPI wasnt affordable to her at the time and if 
she decided she no longer wanted the policies she couldve cancelled them.
 
I also need to consider whether Lloyds gave Mrs U information in a way which was clear, fair 
and not misleading so that she could make a proper choice about whether or not she wanted 
to take the PPI out. I dont know if Lloyds did give all of the information as it shouldve. 
But for the same reasons that the PPI was suitable and based on what Mrs U has told us 
about her circumstances at the time, I think she wouldve still taken out the PPI policies if 
shed been given all the proper information.
Which means Lloyds doesnt have to pay back all of the cost of the PPI to Mrs U.
But Lloyds has paid back some of the cost of the PPI to Mrs U because: 
When one of the policies were sold, Lloyds expected to get a high level of 
commission and profit share (more than 50% of the PPI premium) - so it should have 
told Mrs U about that. Because Lloyds didnt tell Mrs U, that was unfair. 
 
To put that right, Lloyds has paid back the amount of commission and profit share 
that was above 50% of the PPI premium - and I think that is fair in this case.
 
 My final decision
The PPI policies werent mis-sold  so Lloyds Bank PLC does not have to pay back all of the 
cost of the PPI to Mrs U.
But Lloyds Bank PLC does have to pay back to Mrs U any commission and profit share it got 
that was more than 50% of the PPI premium. I understand it has already done this, so I dont 
award any further compensation.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs U to accept or 
reject my decision before 2 June 2020.
Caroline Davies
Ombudsman