DRN-4153580
The complaint
Miss B is unhappy with the premium Great Lakes Insurance SE charged for renewal of her 
lifetime pet insurance policy 
What happened
Miss B took out a lifetime pet insurance policy for her dog with Great Lakes in December 
2018. When she received renewal documentation at the end of 2022 she complained as her 
premium had increased from around £31 a month to over £56. Great Lakes explained the 
factors which had led to the change including that it now took into account individual claims 
history when calculating premiums. Miss B said when she took out the policy (and prior to 
making a claim on it) she was told that wouldnt be the case. 
Our investigator found when the policy was first taken out claims were pooled between 
similar customers. But that was now being rated on a more individual basis. He thought 
Great Lakes was entitled to make that change but agreed this wasnt made clear to Miss B 
when she took the policy out. He thought it unlikely shed have been able to find a policy 
which operated in a different way if it had but accepted the subsequent increase in price 
would have been distressing. He said Great Lakes should pay her £350. 
Great Lakes agreed to do so. Miss B didnt agree. In summary she said:
She understood the point about it being difficult for her to find an alternative policy. But 
Great Lakes had advertised its cover as one that didnt take claims into account. If shed 
have known that wasnt the case she would have taken out a more basic and cheaper 
policy;
Shed called Great Lakes prior to making a claim for her dog. If shed been told at that 
time individual claims would be used when calculating premiums she might have decided 
against claiming; 
She highlighted the distress this matter had caused her and some particularly difficult 
personal circumstances which had increased the impact. She said the compensation 
recommended by our investigator wasnt enough to cover the increased costs shed 
have to pay for this policy. 
So I need to reach a final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Standard pet insurance policies usually wont cover any medical conditions a pet had or had 
received treatment for when the policy was taken out or renewed. So at renewal ongoing or 
recurring medical conditions wont be covered (once the 12 months cover for any such 
condition has expired). But some pet insurance policies will continue to cover any medical 
conditions claimed for in previous years, provided the policy is renewed each year. These 
are sometimes referred to as lifetime policies, as ongoing or recurring conditions will 
continue to be covered for the lifetime of the pet, if premiums carry on being paid. 
Lifetime policies are usually more expensive than standard policies as they provide a greater 
level of cover. But there are also different considerations surrounding the long-term cost and 
cover for customers with these policies, as the cost doesnt stay the same for the life of the 
policy and will generally increase each year at renewal, as the pet gets older and the cost of 
veterinary treatment goes up. The cost can also increase due to claims, changes in 
insurance premium tax or if an insurer re-evaluates the risk. Theres no limit to how high the 
cost could be.
In this case Miss B is unhappy with the premium charged for the renewal of her lifetime 
policy. In particular shes concerned claims history is now taken into account which is 
different to what she was told when she took the policy out (and what she says she was told 
prior to making a claim). Ive thought first about whether the increase has been correctly 
calculated by Great Lakes. 
In doing so Ive taken into account that insurers are entitled to decide how much to charge 
for the insurance cover they provide. Its up to them how much they increase their premiums 
by and its common for the percentages of increase to vary from year to year. I dont have 
the power to tell a business what its insurance should cost. I would be, in effect, determining 
or telling a business how it should operate  and thats not my role. So I cant say the cost of 
Miss Bs policy is too high, she should have been charged less for the policy or that she 
should be charged less in the future. 
And the policy terms do allow Great Lakes to change the premium at renewal. Its explained 
the factors that influenced the increase which includes claims history but also overall 
increases in vets fees and the age of a pet. Ive seen evidence to show how thats been 
applied in Miss Bs case. I havent seen evidence to suggest Great Lakes treated 
Miss B differently to how it would have treated any other policy holder in the same position. 
However, I do appreciate that as Miss B has said, this policy was marketed to her as one 
that would continue to provide cover for as long as a customer consumer continues to pay 
the premiums. And she was told that individual claims wouldnt impact the policy premium. 
Weve previously taken the view that in some circumstances it might not be fair for a 
business to make changes to a policy like this if they fundamentally change the nature of the 
cover on offer. That might, for example, be the case where an insurer withdrew from the 
market and left a consumer without ongoing cover for a pre-existing condition their pet might 
have, which would otherwise be covered by the policy that insurer had sold. 
I dont think thats the same as what happened here. Great Lakes has changed the way 
it calculates the policy premium and that does differ from the position when Miss B took the 
policy out. However, claims were always taken into account when calculating premiums. The 
difference is that previously they were pooled across customers with similar characteristics 
whereas now customers who have more claims are charged more if claims in the last 12 
months indicate an increased risk of future claims.  
I dont think that represents a fundamental change to the lifetime cover offered by Great 
Lakes. So while I appreciate the renewal quote it offered Miss B in 2022 was a significant 
increase on the previous year I dont think its done anything wrong here. But as the seller of the policy Great Lakes also had a responsibility to provide clear, fair and 
not misleading information to Miss B when she took this policy out. The relevant rules (the 
Insurance Conduct of Business Sourcebook  ICOBS) say it needs to take reasonable steps 
to provide a customer with appropriate information about a policy in good time and in a 
comprehensible form so that the customer can make an informed decision about the 
arrangements proposed.
In this case I dont think Great Lakes did provide Miss B with the information she needed. In 
particular during her call with its adviser Miss B did ask what would happen when the policy 
renewed and was told premiums could increase but that wouldnt be based on whether shed 
made a claim. The increase would reflect other factors such as inflation, vets fees or the age 
of her pet. 
I appreciate that reflected the pricing position at the time. But the adviser didnt provide any 
caveat to that or give any indication that might change in future. As Miss B was making a 
decision on taking out lifetime cover I think that was something she should have been told so 
she could make an informed choice as to whether this was the right policy for her dog. 
Ive gone on to think about how thats affected Miss B and whether shed have acted 
differently if shed been given better information. Shes suggested she might have taken out 
a cheaper bog standard policy. But during her call with the adviser she said shed already 
been looking at policies and definitely wanted a lifetime one. And that was prior to any 
discussion of renewal costs. So I think its most likely Miss B would always have opted for 
lifetime cover. 
I appreciate its possible if given clearer information on the impact of claims she might 
nevertheless have looked elsewhere for that sort of cover. But while she might have found a 
policy that operated in a different way, policies like this generally do take individual claims 
into account. And while Miss B did ask about renewal during her call with the adviser the 
focus of her questions was on a pre-existing condition her dog had and whether this would 
be covered under the policy. 
I think it was the reassurance she was given on that point which was the main driver of her 
decision to take this policy out. And so even if Great Lakes had made clear the way it 
considered claims could change in future, I think its unlikely that would have put Miss B off 
taking out this policy. I think shed have still gone ahead with it. 
Miss B says she contacted Great Lakes prior to making a claim and was again told this 
wouldnt affect her renewal premium. Shes suggested if given clearer information she might 
not have claimed. However, shes also told us the ongoing cost of treatment for her dog is 
around £120 a month and that isnt something she can afford herself. So even if Great Lakes 
had told her that claiming might impact her future premiums I think its most likely Miss B 
would have decided to take the risk of that and go ahead with her claim.
However, I accept when the cost of her policy did increase (which was in part driven by her 
claims history) that will have come as a shock to Miss B. Shes acknowledged she knew the 
price would increase but I think the extent of that increase would have been unexpected and 
would have caused her distress given shed previously been told premiums wouldnt impact 
this. 
Ive thought about the impact of that on her and have taken into the account the difficult 
personal circumstances Miss B has told us about (which I was very sorry to learn of). Having 
done so Im satisfied the £350 our investigator recommended is the right amount to 
recognise the impact on her of what Great Lakes go wrong. Miss B says that amount doesnt 
reflect the increased costs shell now have to pay for her policy. Shes right about that. But it isnt intended to. Its a payment to address the distress she was caused when she realised 
how much her premiums would increase by (which could have been avoided if Great Lakes 
had given her clearer information about this from the outset). 
My final decision
Ive decided to uphold this complaint. Great Lakes Insurance SE will need to put things right 
by paying Miss B £350. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss B to accept 
or reject my decision before 10 July 2023.
 
James Park
Ombudsman