DRN-2775845
The complaint
Mr and Mrs C complain that they were unable to use their Santander UK Plc debit and credit 
cards to withdraw cash whilst abroad.
 
What happened
In September 2020 Mr C called Santander as his card didnt work in a cash machine he had 
previously used whilst abroad. Mr C went into a local branch of Santander and was told his 
debit and credit cards werent recognised. 
Mr C called Santander in the UK and spoke with the fraud department. Santander said there 
were no account blocks in place and nothing stopping withdrawals being made. Mr C was 
asked to check whether he could withdraw cash using a different cash machine. 
Mr C says his attempts at withdrawing cash with both his debit and credit card were 
unsuccessful and called Santander again. During the call, Santander said it couldnt explain 
why Mr Cs cards hadnt been accepted by the cash machines he tried. Santander 
suggested there may have been a problem with the cards and arranged for replacements to 
be sent to Mr C in the UK. Mr C complained that Santander wasnt able to explain what 
happened or resolve the situation whilst he was abroad. 
Santander has issued several responses but didnt uphold Mr and Mrs Cs complaint. 
Santander says the withdrawal attempts Mr C made werent received on its systems and that 
it ordered new cards. Santander paid Mr and Mrs C £40 as a gesture of goodwill. 
Mr C referred the complaint to this service and it was passed to an investigator. They 
thought Santander had dealt with the complaint fairly and didnt ask it to do anything else. Mr 
C asked to appeal and said Santander advertised the ability to make cash withdrawals while 
abroad easily but this hadnt been their experience. As Mr C asked to appeal, his complaint 
has been passed to me to make a decision.
 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I can understand why Mr and Mrs C are frustrated. Its clear Mr C wanted to withdraw cash 
from a cash machine hed used previously and was concerned that his cards werent 
working. Mr C attended a Santander branch in the country he was visiting, but it said his 
debit and credit cards werent compatible. And when Mr C was asked to attempt withdrawals 
using different cash machines, they also failed to go through. 
Ive looked at the evidence available from Santander to see if it has made a mistake in 
relation to the withdrawal attempts Mr C made. Whilst I dont doubt what Mr C has said, Im 
satisfied the systems information Ive seen shows Santander didnt receive any cash 
withdrawal authorisation requests on the dates in question. And, as Santander has said, 
there were no account or card blocks in place that wouldve automatically stopped a 
withdrawal going through.  So whilst I understand Mr C did attempt cash withdrawals from 
more than one cash machine, I havent seen any evidence that suggests Santander was 
blocking or declining the transactions. 
In response to the investigator, Mr C said he would expect Santander to have records of the 
withdrawals he attempted from cash machines he visited. But Santander has provided its 
records that dont show any attempted cash withdrawals. I think Santanders suggestion that 
there was either a problem with Mr Cs cards or the cash machines is reasonable in the 
circumstances. 
In response to the investigator, Mr C said he felt abandoned by Santander whilst abroad. I 
appreciate Santander wasnt able to resolve the problems Mr C was having with his cards. 
Ive listened to Mr Cs calls with Santander and can hear how concerned he was. But Mr C 
told Santander he wanted to understand why his cards werent working so future trips 
wouldnt be impacted in the same way. Mr C didnt tell Santander he was stranded of 
needed funds urgently. Whilst Santander does offer a service to provide emergency cash, I 
didnt hear Mr C ask for urgent assistance when he called. 
Im sorry to disappoint Mr and Mrs C but I think Santander has dealt with their complaint 
fairly. Santander checked to see if it had any account or card blocks in case and confirmed 
there were none. Santander confirmed it hadnt received any authorisation requests on the 
date in question. And Santander arranged for a replacement set of cards to be sent t Mr C 
when he called. I can see Santander also paid Mr and Mrs C £40 as a gesture of goodwill. 
Taking everything Ive seen together, Im satisfied Santander dealt with Mr and Mrs Cs 
complaint fairly, so Im not telling it to take any further action. 
My final decision
My decision is that I dont uphold this complaint because Santander has already paid a 
settlement that is fair and reasonable in all the circumstances. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr and Mrs C to 
accept or reject my decision before 4 June 2021.
 
Marco Manente
Ombudsman