DRN-3564616
The complaint
Ms Ss complaint against J.P. Morgan Bank Luxembourg S.A. (JPM) is about the 
investment advice she was given in 2009.
What happened
In December 2009 JPM advised Ms S to invest $500,000 in a JPM Global Access Portfolio 
(the fund). As the investment in the fund was made in Ms Ss name, I will refer to her as the 
complainant throughout this decision. But I note that Ms S was a joint client of JPM with her 
husband who is representing her in bringing this complaint and that he also held power of 
attorney on the fund account.    
Ms S lives in the UK but holds dual nationality and reported the income from the fund in her 
US tax return. In 2019 Ms S and her husband decided to move the assets they held with 
JPM to another bank. They were advised that if they sold their holding in the fund the 
proceeds would be taxed in the UK. As Ms S had already been paying tax in the US, she 
decided to leave the fund with JPM when she moved her other assets. Ms S was advised 
that the only way to avoid paying tax on the proceeds was to continue to hold the fund with 
JPM until she moved from the UK, which was something she planned to do after retirement.
In September 2019, JPM told Ms S that the fund was going to be wound down. She was 
advised that the forced liquidation of the fund would result in her having to pay a UK tax 
charge. In November 2019, Ms Ss investment in the fund was liquidated with a value of 
about $765,000 and she paid UK tax of £109,908.27. 
Ms S complained, in summary, that:
The fund was not a suitable investment because her dual nationality resulted in her 
being taxed twice. She had intended to hold the fund until she retired in the US, but with 
it being wound up she incurred a UK tax charge on the capital gains in addition to the US 
tax she had already paid on the income from the fund.  
Prior to making the investment JPM said the fund would be subject to US taxation in the 
first instance and there would be no risk of double taxation. 
JPMs March 2019 factsheet on the fund said it was for distribution to existing US 
investors only. Between 2009 and 2019 JPM must have realised it was mis-selling a 
product that was not suitable for the UK market.
Under the Financial Conduct Authority rules, JPM have a duty of care to their customers. 
Although JPMs terms and conditions say they dont provide tax advice, JPM say they 
offer comprehensive wealth management services and tax aware planning. JPM have 
given advice to Ms S and her representative on other occasions that took account of 
their tax position.   
JPM had a financial motivation in recommending the fund to Ms S and advising her to 
stay invested.
Ms S asked JPM to reimburse her for the UK tax charge and for the tax advice she received 
on the matter from her accountant (about £2,000). JPM agreed to cover the accountant fees 
as a gesture of goodwill but were not willing to compensate Ms S for the tax. They said, in 
summary:
The fund was a suitable investment for Ms S, who had confirmed in the subscription 
agreement that she was a US taxpayer. 
They do not provide tax advice and do not assume any obligation or responsibility to 
consider products recommended from a tax perspective. Tax would not have formed part 
of the suitability assessment for Ms Ss investment. The subscription agreement and 
client terms and conditions made clear that JPM does not provide tax advice and 
recommended that clients consult an independent tax adviser.
They appreciate that its not an ideal situation for Ms S. But due to the performance of 
the fund she has a tax liability for the capital gain and that is a perfectly normal 
consequence of the operation of tax law. 
Our investigator thought the fund was a suitable investment for Ms S. He didnt think JPM 
should be responsible for any tax liability as their terms of business made clear they didnt 
give tax advice and recommended that clients should consult an independent tax adviser. 
Ms S disagreed and asked for an ombudsman to make a final decision.
My first provisional decision
I gave my first provisional decision in February 2022.
I said JPM were responsible for making sure the fund they recommended was suitable for 
Ms S at the time they gave their advice. The rules say that a business needs to get enough 
information from a customer to make sure the recommendation meets their objectives. 
Amongst other things, they need to get information about the customers financial situation  
including their income, assets, and financial commitments  their purpose in investing and 
the length of time the customer wants to invest for. 
There was very little paperwork available from the time Ms S invested in the fund in 
December 2009. JPMs note of a suitability interview with Ms S some months earlier, in 
May 2009, recorded her investment horizon as 5-10 years and her risk profile as low risk.   
Given the limited evidence available from the time, I said I couldnt be sure what JPM 
discussed with Ms S and her representative before recommending that Ms S invest in the 
fund. But I noted that Ms S didnt dispute that JPMs advice was suitable in terms of the 
amount invested, the level of risk and her investment experience. Ms Ss complaint was that 
the fund was not a suitable recommendation because of her dual nationality and the tax 
implications she could potentially face. 
As Ms S was an existing client, I said JPM would have already known something about her 
circumstances, financial situation and wider investment objectives. I thought JPM would also 
have been aware of her joint residency and intention eventually to retire in the US. 
In common with other investors, I thought Ms S would have wanted to minimise her tax 
burden. And, as a relatively experienced investor with joint residency, I thought JPM should 
also have been aware that tax considerations would have been particularly important to 
Ms S. A sizeable tax liability stood to substantially reduce any returns she was looking to 
achieve. 
JPM said that Ms S confirmed in the subscription agreement that she was a US taxpayer 
and so the fund was a suitable investment for her. Ms S had said that JPM told her the fund 
would be subject to US taxation in the first instance and given the double taxation treaty 
between the US and the UK there would be no risk of double taxation. I said I couldnt be sure what JPM said to Ms S and her representative and I was mindful that 
memories can fade with time. But I took into account that Ms S and her representative had 
given a consistent account about what was said, and I thought it was plausible that JPM 
addressed the issue of taxation given Ms Ss residency. It wasnt disputed that the fund put 
Ms S at risk of double taxation if she liquidated her investment while still resident in the UK. 
And I noted that at some point between 2009 and 2019 JPM stopped marketing the fund to 
UK investors.
I said that in deciding the complaint I was not looking at JPMs advice with the benefit of 
hindsight, but at whether it was a suitable recommendation at the time it was made. 
And, based on what I thought JPM would have known about the fund and Ms Ss 
circumstances, I wasnt persuaded that it was a suitable recommendation. I thought JPM 
should have been aware that the fund could have significant tax implications for Ms S that 
would affect its suitability for her. Id not seen evidence that JPM brought those implications 
to her attention and I didnt think the fund was a suitable recommendation for her.
JPM had said they were not responsible for giving tax advice and that their suitability 
assessment did not take into account the tax consequences of investing in the fund. They 
said that the tax implications of Ms Ss dual residency were not something they could have 
advised on. JPM referred to their private client terms and the fund subscription document 
signed by Ms S. They said both documents made clear that they did not provide tax advice. 
JPM provided a copy of their 2020 private client terms which said: The services that we will 
provide to you do not include advice on tax and we strongly recommend that you consult an 
independent tax adviser if required. JPM had not been able to provide a copy of the terms 
that applied in 2009, but I thought it was likely that they would have included a similar term to 
the one quoted. 
I took account of the terms that JPM had referred to. But I said that in deciding what was fair 
and reasonable in this case I also needed to consider the rules on giving suitable advice that 
I had referred to. JPM had to make sure that any recommendation was suitable for Ms Ss 
needs and took account of her circumstances. 
I agreed that JPM were not responsible for giving advice on tax. But in giving Ms S advice on 
making a suitable investment, it was up to JPM to understand fully her circumstances. And I 
thought an important aspect of that would have been understanding her dual residency and 
the potential tax implications. I didnt think those implications could reasonably be ignored in 
the overall context of giving suitable advice to Ms S. And had JPM taken full account of 
Ms Ss circumstances, I thought they likely would have realised that the fund was not a 
suitable investment for her.  
Ms S had also pointed out that JPMs marketing material said they offer advice on tax 
aware planning and structuring and comprehensive wealth management services for those 
who are managing their finances across multiple countries and tax codes. Although Ms S 
had quoted from recent documents, I thought it was likely that JPM were offering broadly 
similar services in 2009. 
Ms S and her representative also referred to other occasions when they thought JPM had 
taken account of their tax position when offering advice. In advising on a separate 
investment in September 2008, JPM told Ms Ss representative that they were double 
checking what rate of taxation would apply. In 2014, JPM emailed about some investment 
ideas that they said worked well with US tax requirements. And, in 2015, JPM gave Ms S 
and her representative some advice on the allocation of their assets to generate an income 
in their retirement which took account of assumptions about their tax liabilities and rates of 
tax. Two of the examples were from some years after the advice that was the subject of this 
complaint. But I thought there was evidence that JPM did at times take account of Ms S and 
her representatives tax planning needs in giving them advice. And I didnt think it was 
unreasonable for Ms S to have expected the advice she was given in 2009 to have done so. 
In the circumstances of this case, I thought it would be fair and reasonable for JPM to 
reimburse Ms S for the UK tax charge she paid. Subject to the provision of an invoice or 
similar evidence, I thought JPM should pay Ms S compensation of £109,9087 plus interest of 
8% simple per year from the date Ms S paid the tax to the date of settlement.
Responses to my first provisional decision
Both parties responded to my first provisional decision. 
JPM provided additional evidence to support their position and said: 
At no time did they provide tax advice to Ms S, a position which is consistent with their 
terms and conditions. They provided a copy of the 2009 version of their private client 
terms which said they were not able to provide definitive tax advice and recommended 
that clients consult an independent professional tax adviser. They provided tax aware 
planning which is different from providing detailed tax advice. It was Ms Ss responsibility 
to take her own independent tax advice. JPM did take Ms Ss tax position into account in 
recommending the fund but it was her responsibility to make sure she understood the tax 
implications before investing. 
At the time the investment advice was given, Ms S, acting through her representative, 
was alive to potential tax issues arising as a result of her dual tax residency. Under the 
legal tax framework in place at the time the advice was provided, any detriment could be 
mitigated. It was made clear to Ms S in November 2009 that, while an investment in the 
fund would be efficient for her US tax returns, there would be a UK tax implication when 
she chose to sell the fund. At that point, she could decide whether it was better to pay 
the £30,000 charge for resident non domiciled individuals or to pay the tax charge. 
In December 2009 Ms Ss representative asked JPM about the tax treatment of the fund. 
JPM replied: As we discussed, it is difficult to build you a diversified portfolio that is 
perfectly tax efficient for both jurisdictions without just using single security equities and 
fixed income. At the time of the investment, Ms S was therefore well aware that if she 
invested in the fund there would be a potential tax charge when she chose to sell. 
They cannot be held responsible for a tax charge which arose as the result of two 
unlinked and unforeseeable events. The first was the change in April 2017 to the UK tax 
rules applying to UK resident non-domiciled individuals. JPM made clients aware of the 
changes so they could seek the relevant tax advice in good time for any changes to be 
made to their investments. They contacted Ms Ss representative in November 2016 to 
provide a summary of the changes that were going to be made in 2017 and said they 
should seek advice from their legal and tax advisers. So, Ms S had ample time to seek 
advice and take appropriate action to mitigate any tax liability prior to April 2017. 
Had she acted on JPMs recommendation, Ms S could have redeemed her holding in the 
fund prior to April 2017, claimed the remittance basis and paid the Remittance Basis 
Charge (RBC), as was envisaged in 2009. 
The second unforeseeable event was the closing of the fund in 2019. The funds life 
cycle was open-ended and there was no indication in 2009 that it would close at any 
given point in the future. The decision to close the fund was only made in 2019 because substantial outflows meant it was no longer in investors interests to keep it going. 
That was not foreseeable in 2009. The various options open to Ms S at that point were 
discussed with her tax adviser in 2019 and Ms S ultimately opted for redemption in cash. 
The provisional decision referred to a 2019 factsheet for the fund which said that it was 
for distribution to existing US investors only. That statement simply clarified that the 
factsheet related to the US onshore version of the fund and was intended for existing 
investors in the fund. The reference to US investors was to the investors tax status. 
It did not mean that the fund was limited to US investors in the US. The subscription 
documents for the fund, signed by Ms S, said it was for United States persons for US 
federal income tax purposes. It was therefore an appropriate investment for Ms S at the 
time the advice was provided.
Their advisers did not have a financial motivation in recommending the fund to Ms S nor 
in advising her to stay invested.
Ms S also responded to my first provisional decision and the additional information provided 
by JPM. Ms S said:
In relation to the difference between tax aware planning and tax advice, JPM were trying 
to create a distinction where none exists. Ms S provided another email from JPM in 2017 
where she said they were providing tax advice. Ms S and her husband relied on JPM to 
provide investment planning advice that was consistent with their long-term goals. 
They used their accountants to prepare their tax returns and JPM were well aware of 
that.
Ms S and her husband were not alive to all the potential tax issues from their investment 
in the fund. They were aware that their dual residency made their tax situation complex, 
but it was for JPM to make suitable investment recommendations to them. 
They were looking for a long-term investment, with money earmarked for their 
retirement, and wanted a diversified portfolio. JPM knew about this and Ms Ss tax 
arrangements.  
JPM should not have recommended an investment that risked double taxation. At regular 
meetings, JPM advised them to keep the fund as a cornerstone of their investment 
portfolio and long-term planning. They had been clear to JPM from 2008 that they 
intended to retire outside of the UK. 
Their accountants had advised that at no stage was there a viable tax-efficient or even 
cost-effective exit from the investment while Ms S remained UK resident. The only 
options presented by JPM involved the payment of a costly Remittance Basis Charge 
which was £30,000 up until 2012 and £90,000 in 2016/17. 
My second provisional decision
Having considered the responses from both parties to my first provisional decision, and all 
the other available evidence and arguments, I decided to issue a second provisional 
decision in which I explained that I was no longer planning to uphold Ms Ss complaint. 
I said the key point I needed to decide was whether JPM made a suitable recommendation 
to Ms S. As I noted in my first provisional decision, it was not disputed that JPMs advice was 
suitable in terms of the amount invested, the level of risk and Ms Ss investment experience. The point in dispute was whether the fund was a suitable recommendation in view of Ms Ss 
dual nationality and the tax implications she could potentially face. 
In my first provisional decision, I said JPM should have been aware that the fund could have 
significant tax implications for Ms S that would affect its suitability for her. Id not seen 
evidence that JPM brought those implications to her attention and I didnt think the fund was 
a suitable recommendation for her.
In response to my first provisional decision, JPM provided additional evidence to show that 
they did bring the tax implications of the investment to Ms Ss attention. In an email to Ms Ss 
representative in November 2009 a JPM adviser said the following:
From a tax point of view the fund is a US onshore Delaware fund, and therefore it is 
efficient for your US tax returns. It is also offshore for UK tax purposes, so you can 
determine if it is beneficial to pay the £30,000 charge for Resident Non Domiciliaries 
versus paying UK tax in any year that you decided to sell the fund. 
As part of a further email exchange in December 2009, Ms Ss representative asked about 
the tax treatment (USA and UK) of the fund. JPMs adviser replied:
With regard to UK tax, as all the income and gains accumulate within the fund there 
will be no UK tax until you redeem from the fund. In the year that you redeem from 
the fund, you will be able to do a quick analysis to determine if it is better to pay the 
£30,000 versus paying the income tax.
As we discussed, it is difficult to build you a diversified portfolio that is perfectly tax 
efficient for both jurisdictions without just using single security equities and fixed 
income.
I thought it was clear from the emails that JPM were aware of Ms Ss dual residency and did 
take account of her tax status when giving their advice. So I was satisfied that JPM brought 
the tax implications of the fund to Ms Ss attention; namely that it was efficient for her US tax 
purposes, but that she would be liable for UK tax as and when she redeemed the fund. 
But JPM had to do more than explain the tax position to Mr S; they were also responsible for 
making sure that their recommendation was suitable, which was what I then considered.   
I thought the fund met Ms Ss objective of building a diversified portfolio with the potential for 
growth and was in line with her attitude to risk. As suggested by the JPM adviser at the time, 
I thought it was likely that other investments meeting Ms Ss objectives would have had 
similar tax implications for her. And that alternative investments which might have been more 
tax efficient would most likely not have met her objectives or offered the same potential for 
growth. 
In May 2009, Ms Ss investment horizon had been described as 5-10 years (there was also 
an option of more than 10 years). Although it was not recorded in any of the paperwork 
available from the time, Ms S had said that she was planning to move away from the UK 
when she retired. At the time of investment, there was therefore the possibility that Ms S 
would be able to avoid any UK tax liability by holding the fund until she relocated. That was 
not guaranteed, but I thought it was unlikely it could have been guaranteed with other 
investments meeting Ms Ss objectives.
Based on all the evidence I had seen I thought it was most likely that Ms S was prepared to 
accept the tax implications that JPM had brought to her attention in order to meet her 
investment objectives. So, on balance, I said I was satisfied that JPM made a suitable recommendation to Ms S. And I thought it was reasonable for JPM to expect Ms S to obtain 
any more detailed tax advice from an independent adviser. 
The tax position in relation to Ms Ss investment changed when the remittance basis charge 
increased in 2012 and 2015 and the tax rules applying to UK resident non-domiciled 
individuals were revised in 2017. But those changes were not foreseeable at the time JPM 
gave their advice to Ms S in 2009 and they didnt affect my finding on the suitability of that 
advice. I noted that JPM told Ms S in advance about the 2017 changes, giving her the 
opportunity to take independent tax advice on the implications for her investments.
Ms Ss UK tax liability arose when the fund was wound up in 2019 and she encashed her 
investment. I didnt think the winding up of the fund some 10 years later was something that 
JPM could reasonably have foreseen when they gave their advice to Ms S. And I thought it 
was unlikely that other investments meeting Ms Ss objectives would have offered any 
greater guarantees about their life cycle. 
I accepted that the UK tax liability Ms S eventually faced was higher than might have been 
expected at the time she made the investment. The performance of the fund over the 10 
years Ms S was invested and the changes in tax rules in the same period contributed to that. 
But I thought JPMs advice to Ms S was suitable at the time it was given, and I thought they 
made it sufficiently clear that she would face a UK tax liability if and when she redeemed the 
fund. 
Both parties had provided information on whether Ms S could have mitigated her tax liability 
by taking action at various points before 2019. But I said that those arguments would only be 
relevant to my decision if I was upholding Ms Ss complaint and considering what JPM 
should do to put things right. I did not therefore propose to make a finding on those points.  
Based on what Id seen, I thought JPM had made a suitable recommendation to Ms S and I 
didnt think I could fairly say they should compensate her for the tax charge she incurred on 
the proceeds of her investment.
Responses to my second provisional decision
Ms S and her representative have said they are very disappointed by my second provisional 
decision. They have said they know what JPM said to them and they stand by their previous 
submissions and the information provided by their accountants. 
JPM have not responded to my second provisional decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
That includes all the submissions made by both parties during the time this complaint has 
been with our service.
As neither party has provided any further evidence or comments following my second 
provisional decision, I can see no reason to change my findings. So, for the reasons set out 
in my second provisional decision and repeated above, Ive decided not to uphold Ms Ss 
complaint.
I understand that Ms S and her representative feel strongly about what happened, and I 
realise this will be a disappointing decision for them. But, based on all the evidence Ive now seen, I dont think I can fairly say that JPMs advice was unsuitable. I wont therefore be 
asking them to do anything further.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, my final decision is that I dont uphold Ms Ss complaint 
against J.P. Morgan Bank Luxembourg S.A. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms S to accept or 
reject my decision before 27 July 2022.
 
Matthew Young
Ombudsman