DRN-1612098
The complaint
Mr C complains that MBNA Limited mis-sold him a payment protection insurance (PPI) 
policy.
What happened
Mr C was sold PPI alongside a credit card in 1996.
The policy cost 65p per £100 of the monthly outstanding balance. It wouldve paid 3% of the 
monthly outstanding balance until Mr C returned to work if he had been off work sick and for 
up to 12 months if Mr C lost his job. 
Our adjudicator didnt think Mr Cs complaint should be upheld.
Mr C didnt agree with our adjudicator and so the complaint has been passed to me to 
decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding Mr Cs case.
Having done that, Ive decided not to uphold Mr Cs complaint.
Based on Mr Cs age and circumstances at the time of the sale, Im satisfied he was eligible 
under the policy.
MBNA had to make it clear to Mr C that the PPI was optional and needed his consent before 
it could be applied to the account. Mr C says that he didnt think he had taken PPI out but 
was charged for premiums.
Ive thought carefully about what Mr C has told us and looked to the documents from the 
time of the sale to help me decide what is more likely to have happened during the sale. 
Based on the evidence Ive seen, I think the PPI was sold during a postal sale with no 
involvement from a representative.
Ive seen a copy of the credit application Mr C completed at the time of the sale. I can see 
that Mr C would have been presented with two equally clear options to take or refuse PPI  
the option to take PPI was selected and Mr C signed this form. 
So, while I appreciate what Mr C has told us, based on the evidence available to me, I think 
PPI was presented as optional and that it was only applied to Mr Cs account because he 
chose to take it out. Ofcourse I understand Mr C may now no longer recall this given the 
length of time since the sale.
I dont think MBNA advised Mr C to take the policy out. This means they didnt have to take 
steps to ensure the policy was suitable for Mr C. 
But they still had to give Mr C information in a clear, fair and non-misleading way   in 
particular about the costs/benefits and main exclusions/restrictions in the policy - so that he 
could make an informed decision about whether or not to take the policy out.
I dont think MBNA gave Mr C all of the information as they shouldve about the 
costs/benefits and main exclusions/restrictions in the policy. This in itself doesnt mean the 
PPI was mis-sold as I have to go on and consider whether better information wouldve put 
Mr C off taking the policy. I dont think it wouldve. I say this because:
- The policy would have paid out in addition to Mr Cs employee sick pay and for a 
longer period of time. It would also have paid out if he lost his job in addition to any 
redundancy pay Mr C may have been entitled to.
- Mr C didnt appear to have been affected by the main exclusions or restrictive terms 
in the policy which wouldve made it more difficult for him to make a successful claim. 
For example, terms relating to pre-existing medical conditions and unusual working 
arrangements.
- Mr C couldve cancelled the PPI policy at any time without losing out financially if he 
no longer needed or wanted it.
- I havent seen any evidence which suggests the PPI wasnt affordable for Mr C.
So taking everything into consideration, I dont think MBNA mis-sold Mr C this PPI policy.
My final decision
I dont uphold Mr Cs complaint against MBNA Limited.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 22 September 2020.
 
Navneet Sher
Ombudsman