DRN-3157647
The complaint
Mr and Mrs B complain about British Gas Insurance Limiteds handling of a claim under their 
home emergency policy.
For ease of reading I will refer to Mr B in my decision.
What happened
Mr B has had a home emergency policy with British Gas for many years. He says his boiler 
hasnt been working properly since November 2020. But the company says the work needed 
to replace pipework isnt covered by his policy. 
Mr Bs wife is disabled, and hes worried about the effect this situation is having on her, 
particularly as winter is approaching. He says British Gas installed a new boiler in 2007, 
which involved altering existing pipework and adding some new pipework. He says any 
issues should have been addressed when the boiler was fitted. 
Mr B also says that a filter was incorrectly installed, and along with a lack of sludge inhibitor, 
this has contributed to the problems with his heating system.
British Gas says Mr Bs heating system is affected by sludge build-up due to its one pipe 
system design. It says it has been removing blockages since 2015 and is not responsible 
for how the system was originally installed. It also highlights that the boiler wasnt installed 
under the terms of Mr Bs home emergency policy.
British Gas says sludge builds up over time, and the process to remove it isnt covered under 
its policy. It says a power-flush would normally be recommended. But, the design of the 
system and age of the radiators mean there is a potential for this to cause damage. This 
leaves the only recommended option, which is to re-pipe the central heating system to 
resolve the problem.
Mr B referred his complaint to our service. Our investigator didnt uphold his complaint. He 
agreed with British Gas that the boiler wasnt installed under the terms of Mr Bs insurance 
policy. This meant the installation wasnt something we could consider. He thought the pre-
existing design fault wasnt something British Gas was responsible for under the terms of the 
policy. 
Based on the evidence provided our investigator didnt think the company was responsible 
for the build-up of sludge, which was causing the blockages or for carrying out the repair 
work that was needed.
Mr B disagreed with this outcome and asked for an ombudsman to review his complaint. It 
has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I have decided not to uphold Mr Bs complaint. I appreciate this will be 
disappointing for him, but I will explain why I think my decision is fair. 
The policy terms say:
Pre-existing faults
Your products dont include cover for any faults or design faults that:
 were already there when your boiler, appliance or system was installed;
 existed when you first took out the product;
 weve told you about before and you havent fixed, or, if the work has been completed by a 
third party, where work, in our opinion, has not been completed to a satisfactory standard;
 we couldnt reasonably have been expected to know about before, for example, faulty 
pipes that dont have the correct protection, or which are buried under concrete floors; or
 prevent access because a part of your system has been permanently built over.
British Gas has supplied records from its engineer visits. These show they dealt with several 
blockages causing problems with Mr Bs heating system over the years. The records show 
the first was reported in February 2015, then again in March. Another blockage was resolved 
in March 2017 with several more repairs through to December 2019. The records refer to the 
poor design of the system and the need for it to be re-piped. An engineer dealt with another 
blockage in November 2020, at this time the records show Mr B was advised of the re-piping 
work that was needed. 
When considering Mr Bs complaint, I have relied, in part, on the expert opinion provided. 
British Gass engineers say the ongoing issue with blockages are the result of a system 
design fault. The company says the only way to resolve this is to install new piping. Having 
considered the engineer records, in conjunction with British Gass comments, I think this 
view is persuasive. 
I say this because there have been ongoing issues with blockages with Mr Bs heating 
system for over five years. British Gass engineers have been able to resolve problems on 
each of the call outs and leave a working heating system. However, its clear from the 
engineer records and Mr Bs testimony that his system is not heating his home effectively 
and its prone to continuing breakdowns. Based on this I think British Gass view is 
persuasive that the design fault is the underlying cause of the ongoing problems. 
I have also thought about Mr Bs view that the incorrect installation of a filter and the lack of 
sludge inhibitor, has allowed sludge to build up when this could have been avoided. 
The position of the filter relates to the installation and design of the system. This is not 
something covered by Mr Bs insurance policy and so doesnt impact on my consideration 
here. 
Sludge can and does build up in central heating systems over time. Its apparent parts of the 
system are quite old. I note British Gas doesnt mention sludge inhibitor, or the lack of it, as 
the likely cause of the ongoing problems. It says the system design is the underlying cause. I 
havent been provided with an alternative expert view that shows a different cause. 
Based on what I have read, I dont think Mr B has reasonably shown that a lack of sludge 
inhibitor is the underlying cause of the problems with his heating system. The company explains blockages and sludge in the system can be resolved with a power 
flush. But it doesnt recommend this in Mr Bs case. I understand this is because elements of 
the heating system are quite old, and together with the design of the system, this means the 
risk of damage is too great for a power flush to be attempted.
I sympathise with Mr B and the need to carry out expensive repairs. But having considered 
all the information, I think British Gass view is persuasive that a design fault is the cause of 
the ongoing problems and the solution is to re-pipe the heating installation. Because of this I 
think the company acted fairly in relying on the terms of the policy when declining to carry 
out this work. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs B and Mr B to 
accept or reject my decision before 18 December 2021.
 
Mike Waldron
Ombudsman