DRN-3343708
The complaint
Mr M complains that Lloyds Bank Plc (Lloyds) has held him liable for a loan he says he didnt 
take out and for transactions he disputes. 
What happened
Mr M is a sole trader and held a business account with Lloyds. 
What Mr M says
On 21 June 2020 Mr M contacted Lloyds to say that funds had been credited to his account 
and disputed transactions made afterwards. He was told the funds related to a £48,000 
Bounce Back Loan. Mr M says he didnt apply for the loan and that he doesnt understand 
how a loan of this value was approved when he earns £20,000 a year. He also doesnt 
recognise the names of the recipients of £13,045 of the loan funds. Mr M has asked Lloyds 
to write off the loan and refund the disputed payments. 
Mr M has explained that he was a victim of a scam involving another bank and handed over 
a lot of personal information to the scammer. He also says he has spoken to his mobile 
phone provider and been told his phone was hacked but he hasnt provided any evidence of 
this.  
What Lloyds say
Lloyds say it received a Bounce Back Loan application from Mr M on 16 June 2020. The 
application said Mr Ms business had an annual turnover of £215,000. The loan was 
approved, and funds were credited to Mr Ms business account the following day. Lloyds 
point out that there is no evidence Mr Ms security information was compromised or of a 
request to reset Mr Ms internet log-in password. And Mr M logged into his online banking 
soon after the loan funds credited his account when his balance will have increased by 
£48,000 but didnt contact Lloyds until 21 June 2020. 
Lloyds has declined Mr Ms claim for a refund as it says there isnt enough evidence to say 
the loan or transfers were completed fraudulently. Lloyds also provided Mr M with notice it 
was closing his account on 7 July 2020. 
Our investigation so far
The investigator who considered this complaint didnt recommend that it be upheld. Overall, 
he felt Mr M hadnt provided a plausible explanation for how the loan was taken out and the 
disputed transactions happened without his knowledge and consent. In summary, the 
investigator said:
- Mr M has referred to the fact someone else had control of his mobile phone and 
computer but in spite of repeated requests for evidence of this hasnt provided any. 
- Lloyds had no reason to believe the loan application wasnt genuine and although the 
turnover of Mr Ms business was incorrect this was self-declared. 
- It would be unusual for a fraudster not to transfer the whole £48,000 out of the 
account quickly but this isnt what happened. In the days after the loan was taken out 
only around £13,000 was transferred to third parties. 
- For the disputed transactions to be made a fraudster would need Mr Ms card, his 
card reader and his log-in details.
Mr M didnt accept the investigators findings. He said:
- Someone may have copied his debit card and SIM card.
- Hes uncertain if his card went missing. His dog damaged one of his cards.
- Nobody approached him and asked him to accept the funds.
- Mr M said he has a video that shows someone else had control of his mobile phone, 
but he hasnt provided it. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Where there is a dispute about what happened, and the evidence is incomplete or 
contradictory, Ive reached my decision on the balance of probabilities  in other words, on 
what I consider is most likely to have happened in light of the available evidence. 
Ill never know for sure what happened in this case but based on the available evidence I 
cant reasonably conclude the Bounce Back Loan was taken out fraudulently or that the 
subsequent transactions were made without Mr Ms knowledge or consent. I realise how 
disappointing this will be for Mr M and the impact my decision will have on him. 
Given the primary aim of the Bounce Back Loan Scheme was to provide businesses with 
quick access to urgent financial support, the application process was more streamlined and 
subject to fewer checks and requirements than would typically be expected for more 
conventional financial products. The entire application process was completed online, and 
applicants were required to self-declare their eligibility for the loan. 
As a starting point, lenders were entitled to assess a loan application based on the 
information the applicant provided. Lloyds received an application from Mr M for a Bounce 
Back Loan of £48,000 on 16 June 2020. Mr M was an existing customer of Lloyds and the 
application included his sort-code and account number. I appreciate his business annual 
turnover was incorrectly declared as £215,000 but I dont consider this was something 
Lloyds should have been aware of at the time. As Ive said above, the application process 
was more streamlined and required the applicant to declare turnover. Evidence of this 
turnover wasnt required. Mr M hasnt raised it, but I can see the email address and mobile 
phone number on the application for the loan werent the ones Lloyds had on record or those 
provided to this service either.  
I can understand why Mr M might think the discrepancies would be cause for concern. But 
the application included Mr Ms genuine sort-code and account number and any loan funds 
would be credited to this account. This is significant, because if Lloyds received an 
application from an unauthorised third party it could be confident that the loan funds would 
only ever go to the genuine account details, which is what happened here. The £48,000 loan 
was credited to Mr Ms business account on 17 June 2020. So even if a third party applied 
for a loan that Mr M was unaware of, theyd be unable to access the funds as, to do so, 
theyd require security information.  
Ive also noted that the loan funds credited Mr Ms account at 14.02 on 17 June 2020. Lloyds 
has provided me with evidence which shows each time Mr M logged into his online banking. 
Im satisfied these records demonstrate that around an hour after the loan funds were 
credited Mr M logged into his online banking from the same IP address as hed used 
previously. At this stage Mr Ms balance would have included the loan funds, meaning his 
balance would have increased from around £4,000 to over £50,000. I think this is a 
significant difference, and one Id expect Mr M to notice and report if he was unaware of the loan. But this didnt happen, and Mr M didnt report a credit into his account (and disputed 
transactions) until 21 June 2020. If Mr M had reported an unexpected credit into his account 
after he logged into his online banking on 17 June 2020 all of the later transfers could have 
been avoided. 
I turn now to the transfers from Mr Ms account in the days following the Bounce Back Loan 
crediting his account. Mr M says he didnt make these transfers and wasnt aware of them 
until he contacted Lloyds on 21 June 2020. For me to be persuaded this was the case Id 
need to understand how an unauthorised third party could have completed the transfers 
without Mr Ms knowledge or consent. But I havent seen any evidence to persuade me this 
is the most likely explanation.
Its not clear whether Mr M had his debit card with him at all times as different explanations 
have been given. This could be because English isnt Mr Ms first language. But Lloyds has 
confirmed that the transfers could only be made by someone who knew Mr Ms online log-in 
details and had Mr Ms card, card reader and PIN. Ive not been presented with any 
evidence to explain how a third party had access to Mr Ms log-in details, card reader and 
PIN. 
Im also not persuaded that the pattern of spending on Mr Ms account after the loan funds 
were credited is in line with what Id expect of a fraudster. Fraudsters usually move as much 
money as they can as quickly as possible to avoid the possibility of a victim discovering a 
loss and reporting it before funds are moved on. This wasnt what happened here though. 
When Mr M reported the credit to his account and disputed transactions just over £13,000 of 
the £48,000 credited to his account had been transferred to third parties. 
Overall, Im not persuaded the loan was applied for fraudulently or the transactions Mr M 
disputes were completed by a third party without his knowledge. 
My final decision
For the reasons I have set out above, I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 14 April 2022.
 
Jay Hadfield
Ombudsman