DRN-3386601
The complaint
Ms K complains about the actions of Epayments Systems Ltd (Epayments) when she was 
the victim of a scam in which she sent money to one of its customers.
What happened
The detailed and lengthy background to this complaint is well known to both parties. So, Ill 
only provide a brief overview of some of the key events here.
In 2018 Ms K fell victim to a cryptocurrency trading scam and lost a significant sum of 
money. In June 2019, she was approached by what she believed to be a genuine legal firm 
Ill refer to as S, offering her the opportunity to join a class action against the fraudulent 
cryptocurrency firm. Ms K agreed to S services. Between July 2019 and October 2019, she 
made four payments totalling around €8,600 from her bank account with B to the account 
details S had provided. The beneficiary account was with Epayments.
In September 2019, S informed Ms K it had obtained a court settlement in her favour. The 
settlement sum was to be paid to her in December 2019. The money never arrived and all 
communication with S ceased. Ms K became suspicious. She reported the matter to B, 
Epayments, Police (in several jurisdictions), Ministry of Justice, other relevant anti-fraud 
institutions and Action Fraud.
Ultimately, Epayments declined to reimburse the loss as it didnt think it had acted 
unreasonably and a complaint was referred to our service. One of our Investigators thought 
there were limits as to how much of Ms Ks complaint we could consider. And for what we 
can consider, she didnt think the complaint should be upheld. 
Ms K didnt accept the Investigators outcome. She asked for the matter to be reviewed 
again, so the complaint was passed to me. On 15 March 2022, I issued a jurisdiction 
decision in which I explained the limits on which parts of Ms Ks complaint I can consider and 
why. In short, I explained our service could only look at alleged acts or omissions that took 
place on or after 31 January 2019. This is because that was the date from which a change to 
our jurisdiction rules applied. Specifically, this meant I couldnt consider Ms Ks complaint 
about Epayments actions when opening the beneficiary account, as it took place prior to that 
date. Now that the jurisdiction matter has been decided, Ill share below what I think about 
the aspects of Ms Ks complaint I do have the power to investigate. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im sorry to disappoint Ms K, but Im not upholding this complaint. Ill explain 
why. 
Firstly, I need to explain that Epayments has shared the relevant information with our service 
to allow us to investigate this complaint. But Im limited as to how much information I can 
share with Ms K because it relates to a third-party account. But Id like to assure her that Ive 
carefully reviewed everything before reaching my decision.
I note Ms K says she raised the dispute with B and directly with Epayments in a timely 
manner. She maintains Epayments couldve prevented her loss. She made detailed 
submissions about why she believes Epayments failed to follow the account terms and 
conditions, and industry guidance and codes of practice designed to protect consumers from 
fraud. Ultimately, Ms K feels irrespective of when the beneficiary account was opened, she 
was scammed by a customer of Epayments, and by providing banking services to fraudsters 
it has and continues to facilitate fraud.   
However, I think it would be helpful for me to explain that an account later found to have 
been utilised to misappropriate funds doesnt automatically entitle the payer (victim) to a 
refund nor does it definitively mean that the recipient bank reasonably failed to prevent a 
loss or did something wrong where it would be fair to ask it to provide a refund. I also can't 
consider the complaint with the benefit of hindsight. I need to decide whether the steps taken 
by Epayments, based on the information available to it at the time, were reasonable. In 
reaching that decision I have taken into account Ms Ks comments about Epayments 
account terms and conditions. Ive also thought about what at the time were Epayments 
regulatory obligations and what was considered good industry practice.
Having done so, Im satisfied there was no notification of fraud and no other red flags where 
it could reasonably be argued that Epayments might have had sufficient grounds to suspect 
fraud and intervene before Ms Ks funds had all already been removed. So, I cant fairly say 
that it could have prevented Ms Ks loss prior to her funds being paid away. 
I appreciate Ms K argues that upon receipt of notification Epayments ought to have blocked 
the account and asked its account holder for additional know your customer (KYC) 
documents as per the account terms and conditions. I understand the point Ms K is making 
but unfortunately by that point, her money had already left the account, so any action taken 
by Epayments couldnt reasonably have limited Ms Ks loss.
So to the extent that Im able to consider this complaint, I dont think Epayments could have 
done anything more to prevent or limit Ms Ks loss. Because of this I cant fairly tell it to do 
more to resolve this complaint.  
My final decision
For the reasons outlined above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms K to accept or 
reject my decision before 19 April 2022.
 
Sonal Matharu
Ombudsman