DRN-3576720
The complaint
Mr P and his elder brother complain that Calpe Insurance Company Limited mishandled a
claim on a motor insurance policy.
Mr P and his brother are represented by a claims consultant.
Where I refer to Calpe, I include claims-handlers and others insofar as I hold Calpe
responsible for their acts or omissions.
What happened
The subject matter of the claim and the complaint is a luxury sports utility vehicle, first
registered in 2016.
In February 2019, Mr Ps brother committed an offence of driving without insurance (IN10)
for which he received 6 penalty points on his licence.
For the year from February 2020, Mr P (through an agent) took out a policy to cover the
vehicle. Mr P was the policyholder. His brother was a named driver.
Mr P reported the theft of the car in early October 2020. Calpe declined to pay the claim,
saying that Mr P hadnt disclosed his brothers driving offence. Calpe referred to Consumer
Insurance (Disclosure and Representations) Act 2012 (CIDRA) and treated the policy as
void from the start. It said that Mr P had made a deliberate or reckless misrepresentation, so
it wouldnt refund the premium.
Mr P complained to Calpe. By a final response dated early August 2021, Calpe turned down
the complaint. Mr P and his brother brought the complaint to us without delay.
our investigators opinion
Our investigator recommended that the complaint should be upheld. He didnt think that
Calpe had acted reasonably in this instance. He recommended that Calpe should settle the
claim on a proportionate basis. But he also said the following:
I think the fair and reasonable outcome would be for the premium to be deducted
from the settlement, ensuring that the full amount has been paid.
my provisional decision
After considering all the evidence, I issued a provisional decision on this complaint to Mr P 
and his brother and to Calpe on 8 June 2021. I summarise my findings:
Mr P did know in 2019 that his brother had been subject to penalty points for
driving without insurance. And it was only a year later that Mr P was asked whether 
he or his brother had any conviction or penalty points. So I found that Mr P didnt take 
reasonable care to avoid making a misrepresentation. I found that Mr P was more 
than careless. I found that he was reckless as to whether his answer was true.
After Calpe received the claim and discovered the IN10, CIDRA allowed it to treat the 
policy as void, decline the claim and keep the premium.
Subject to any further information from Mr P and his brother or from Calpe, my provisional 
decision was that I didnt uphold this complaint. I didnt intend to direct Calpe Insurance 
Company Limited to do any more in response to this complaint.
Mr P disagrees with the provisional decision. His claims consultant says, in summary, that:
Mr P's first language is not English.
The questions in the sales call were very rushed and not necessarily as clear as they 
could have been. The call recording does not suggest that Mr P acted recklessly; he 
seems very anxious and keen to ensure he is correctly insured. 
Mr P did not know about the IN10 conviction until it was raised at the claim stage by 
the insurer.
Mr P is not the sort of person who would deliberately misrepresent in order to save a 
few hundred pounds on a premium of £3,149.42 (paid in full).
At the claim stage, Mr P was trying to express that if the insurer had said to him that 
his brother had an IN10 conviction when the insurance was taken out (instead of 
advising him at the claim stage) then he would have asked his brother about it then. 
The insurer should have been aware of the IN10 conviction for the additional driver 
from their databases at the point of sale. Instead they waited until a claim was made 
and then advised of the IN10 conviction for the additional named driver and used this 
to claim "deliberate misrepresentation". The insurer has access to the information so 
it seems disingenuous to ask for it and to use an incorrect answer to avoid the policy, 
particularly as they would have provided cover for small additional premium, which Mr 
P would have paid.
The insurer should reduce the claim proportionately.
Mr P added that:
When he bought the policy, he didnt know that his brother had points on his licence.
After the theft, he said he wouldve told the insurer about his brothers points when he 
took out the policy if he had known about them.
Calpe agreed with the provisional decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.CIDRA required Mr P to take reasonable care to avoid making a misrepresentation when 
taking out the policy. CIDRA says that in determining whether a consumer took reasonable 
care, I should take into account any of Mr Ps characteristics or circumstances of which the 
insurer ought reasonably to have been aware. I accept that this included the way in which he 
spoke and understood the English language.
Theres no evidence to support the claims consultants assertion that the insurer had  in 
February 2020 - a database containing Mr Ps brothers conviction. I reject the claims 
consultants suggestion that the onus was on the insurer to tell Mr P of his brothers 
conviction.
From a statement of fact document and from a call recording, Im satisfied that the broker
asked Mr P a clear question whether he or any person to be covered by the policy had any
motoring conviction or penalty points. The claims consultant has suggested that the 
questions werent clear. But Mr P himself says that he answered No because he didnt 
know of the conviction (not because he didnt understand the question).
Mr Ps answer wasnt correct because his brother had committed the IN10 for which there
had been penalty points. So Mr P made a misrepresentation.
Ive thought about whether Mr P took reasonable care to avoid making a misrepresentation.
On 22 October 2020, Calpe asked Mr P about the undisclosed IN10 and he replied as
follows:
With all the respect from what I remembered when the insurance for the car was
taken they never mention anything about [my brother] (as he is the second driver on
the policy) otherwise we could have say about this, we never knew as we havent
been asked any of this details.
From that, I find that by October 2020 Mr P was incorrectly denying that in February 2020 he
had been asked about his brothers driving conviction. He wasnt saying that he hadnt
known about the IN10 in February 2020. Rather he was saying that he could have said
about it if the insurer had asked.
Later Mr P said that - in February 2020 - he hadnt recalled his brothers IN10. But thats not
consistent with his statement that he could have said about it if the insurer had asked. And
he didnt say he hadnt known about the IN10.
In response to the provisional decision, Mr P has said that he didnt know about the IN10 
until the insurer told him in October 2020. But thats not consistent with his earlier 
statements.
So I find that he did know in 2019 that his brother had been subject to penalty points for
driving without insurance. And it was only a year later that Mr P was asked whether he or his
brother had any conviction or penalty points. So I find that Mr P didnt take reasonable care
to avoid making a misrepresentation. I find that Mr P was more than careless. I find that he
was reckless as to whether his answer was true.
From the policy schedule, I see that the premium charged in February 2020 was £3,311.95.
I find it likely that the disclosure of an IN10 for a named driver wouldve caused most
insurers either to charge more than otherwise or to decline cover altogether. I accept
Calpes statement that - in Mr Ps case - it wouldve charged an additional premium of
£496.79, making a total of £3,808.74. So the IN10 wouldve made a difference and I accept
that the misrepresentation was a qualifying misrepresentation under CIDRA. Mr P wouldnt have known until much later that disclosure of the N10 wouldnt have led 
Calpe to decline cover  and would have resulted in the additional premium of about 
£500.00.
After Calpe received the claim and discovered the IN10, CIDRA allowed it to treat the policy
as void, decline the claim and keep the premium - if the misrepresentation was reckless or
deliberate. Ive explained above why I find that the misrepresentation was reckless. So
I dont consider that Calpe treated Mr P or his brother unfairly. I dont find it fair and 
reasonable to direct Calpe to pay the claim or to refund the premium or to do any more
in response to this complaint. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. I dont
direct Calpe Insurance Company Limited to do any more in response to this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P and Mr P to 
accept or reject my decision before 4 August 2022. 
Christopher Gilbert
Ombudsman