DRN-2140707
The complaint
Mrs C is unhappy with Triton Insurance Brokers Ltd.s handling of the insurance renewal for 
her buildings and contents insurance policy.
What happened
Mrs C had insured her buildings and contents insurance through Triton since 2015. When 
the policy was due for renewal in 2017, Mrs C received a renewal quote from Triton. It 
confirmed that the insurer of the policy was changing from the renewal date. Mrs C paid the 
full premium of £750.74 and received new policy documents from Triton. 
Mrs C received a new renewal quote in 2018, confirming the policy would be remaining with 
the current insurer. Mrs C again paid the full premium and received the policy documents. 
The amount she paid was £752.22.
In June 2019 Mrs C received her renewal quote from Triton and again paid the full amount to 
ensure the cover remained in force. She paid £752.22 to Triton. 
In May 2020 Mrs C began making enquiries with Triton about the upcoming policy renewal. 
She was unable to speak to anyone on the phone and her emails to Triton went 
unanswered. This caused Mrs C some concern, so she called the insurer shown on her 
policy documents. The insurer told Mrs C that she hadnt been insured with them since 2017 
as Triton hadnt passed on any of the premiums collected and hadnt set the policy up. They 
also told Mrs C that theyd stopped trading with Triton in January 2019, so her renewal quote 
in June 2019 should never have been offered to her by Triton. They urged Mrs C to get in 
touch with Triton to resolve things. 
She didnt hear anything from Triton and she never received her money back. So, she raised 
a complaint through our service.
Our investigator asked Triton to provide their response. They didnt so the investigator 
upheld the complaint for Mrs C. He asked Triton to refund the premiums totalling £2,255.18, 
pay interest on that amount and pay Mrs C £100 compensation for the upset the matter had 
caused her.
As Triton didnt respond to our investigators opinion, the case has been passed to me to 
decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Where the information is incomplete, Ive based my decision on the balance of probabilities, 
or whats most likely to have happened. In this case, Triton havent provided our service with 
any information, so my decision is based solely on what Mrs C has provided. I find her 
information plausible and persuasive.
Mrs C paid Triton before her policy renewed every year to ensure her policy remained active. 
And, once she was aware that she didnt have any insurance cover in force, she made sure 
she sought cover with an alternative insurer. 
Mrs Cs insurer has shown that Triton never set a policy up with it for Mrs C in 2017. Nor did 
Triton pass on Mrs Cs insurance premium payments to the insurer. The insurer has also 
shown that it cancelled its agreement with Triton in January 2019. Unfortunately, Triton 
havent responded to our request for information so I cant provide Mrs C with an explanation 
as to why the error occurred. But Im satisfied Triton havent passed on any of the payments 
Mrs C made to them. And Im satisfied Triton shouldnt have offered Mrs C any insurance 
cover with the insurer in June 2019. Triton should have refunded the money Mrs C paid to 
them.
Given this, its reasonable for Triton to refund the premiums paid by Mrs C. And because 
Mrs C has been without this money, Triton should pay interest on the payments at 8% 
simple. This interest should be calculated from the date the payments were made up to the 
date Triton refund it. 
Mrs C has also shown that she tried to speak to Triton several times to get her money back, 
and she wasnt able to get through to anyone. None of her calls or emails were returned. 
Because of this upset, its also reasonable for Triton to pay Mrs C £100 compensation. I 
think this amount fairly recognises the inconvenience and upset caused in this case.
My final decision
For the reasons above, I uphold this complaint. Triton Insurance Brokers Ltd must:
Pay Mrs C her total premiums of £2,255.18 for paying to renew the policy in 2017, 
2018 and 2019;
Pay interest at 8% simple on the amount due from the date Mrs C paid for her 
insurance policies to the date this amount is paid; *
Pay Mrs C £100 compensation for the upset shes been caused.
*Income tax may be payable on any interest paid. If Triton Insurance Brokers Ltd deducts 
income tax from the interest it should tell Mrs C how much has been taken off. Triton 
Insurance Brokers Ltd should give Mrs C a tax deduction certificate if she asks for one, so 
she can reclaim the tax from HM Revenue and Customs if appropriate.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs C to accept or 
reject my decision before 6 October 2020.
 
Kevin Parmenter
Ombudsman