DRN-4038653
The complaint
W, a sole trader, complains that WorldPay (UK) Limited didnt tell it that a discount linked to 
membership of a business organisation was no longer included in its pricing.
What happened
W explains that in 2008 it was offered a discount on its pricing as it was a member of a third-
party business organisation. It has understood that discount had remained. But it found out 
that this wasnt the case anymore and says that it has been disadvantaged. It switched 
provider and has since saved money. But it wants to be compensated for the financial 
impact until then.
WorldPay said that it hasnt made a mistake. It said that it didnt have set rates offered to 
merchants that were members of the business organisation. And any pricing agreement 
when a contract was first signed would be subject to repricing of the account. So, it couldnt 
say that any refund to W was due. And W had closed its account effective from 23 March 
2022.
Our investigator didnt recommend that the complaint be upheld. He said that membership 
incentives tend to be for short periods of time. And that the membership organisation had 
now confirmed that this only applied to new customers of WorldPay. There had been no 
evidence to show that W had lost out here. There hadnt been a material changes in its 
charges to 2018. And WorldPay has said it wouldnt have notified W that the discount rate 
was no longer available as this wasnt a requirement. It had said that preferential rates 
werent guaranteed and were subject to its terms and conditions. W had the opportunity at 
any time to make comparisons of its rates with those at other providers and had been able to 
switch as it had in 2022.
W didnt agree and wanted the complaint to be reviewed. It noted that the original letter 
about the discount didnt have an end date. It had noticed the rates had gone up after 
September 2018. It had contacted WorldPay and made reference to its membership and a 
small reduction had been agreed. It didnt recall being told about any rate rise. W said it had 
been a loyal customer trusting both WorldPay and the membership organisation which had 
changed its website after Ws contact to state that this discount only applied for new 
customers. W didnt think that WorldPay had been transparent in its pricing and 
communications.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I need first to say that I am considering a complaint about WorldPay here and not the 
membership organisation. W would need to pursue that separately given it believes that it 
has needlessly paid membership fees.
Ive looked closely at the letter that W was given in 2008 about its contract. This set out that 
its service charges were being reduced as a result of its membership. And it set out what 
those were from 1 December 2008. And it said that this superseded any previous service 
charges. As W says it didnt confirm that there was any specific end date. But also, it didnt 
state that this was other than subject to the other terms and conditions.
I appreciate that W says it noted that the charges after September 2018 were higher than 
those in this letter. Having looked at the invoices available it does seem that some of the 
rates were by September 2018 lower than those in December 2008. But these then 
increased by December 2018 to rates that were higher than December 2008. In any event W 
had a discussion with WorldPay and agreed new rates with it. I dont know exactly what was 
said to it about any membership discount. However, WorldPay has provided a copy of the 
then agreement and pricing schedule which I cant see makes any reference to a 
membership discount. Whilst W may have thought it was still getting such a discount there 
was no letter similar to that of 2008. And the pricing set out in that letter of 2008 was clearly 
superseded. WorldPay has also shown that it wrote to W in 2021 with details of price 
changes. And W says that this time when it established it was no longer getting a discount it 
changed provider.
I note what W says is the lack of clarity about what membership discount WorldPay may now 
provide for members. However, the position is that this is only offered to new 
members/customers so isnt going to be relevant here.  I cant see that W could still rely on a 
pricing schedule from 2008 that had been superseded with new pricing. And even though it 
believed that the prices in 2018 were still subject to discount I think that it still had the 
reasonable opportunity to see whether there were more competitive offers before it made the 
agreement. WorldPay has shown it gave advance notice of changes in 2021 as it said it 
would with any repricing. This did lead W to make other comparisons. I know W has now 
said it doesnt remember this in 2018. Thats not something it had specifically raised to 
WorldPay and nor in any event it seems asked to be adjusted/ backdated when it agreed to 
new pricing from December 2018. 
On the information Im not persuaded that WorldPay has made a mistake. I dont have a 
reasonable basis to require it to do anything further.
My final decision
My decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask W to accept or 
reject my decision before 21 April 2023.
 
Michael Crewe
Ombudsman