DRN-3806029
The complaint
Ms E complains that Vanquis Bank Limited closed her credit card and recorded a default on 
her credit file. Ms E also complains that her credit limit was never increased after she 
opened the account. 
What happened
Ms E opened a credit card with Vanquis in 2015. The credit limit was set to £150. Ms Es told 
us she incurred lots of fees and charges for being over the credit limit or making late 
payments. 
Ms E made a payment in October 2021, leaving the outstanding balance at £149. From that 
point, arrears grew and Ms E spoke with Vanquis at the end of January 2022, agreeing to 
make a payment a few days later and clear the arrears by the end of February 2022. Ms E 
made a payment around 10 days later but didnt go on to clear the arears. Vanquis went on 
to send Ms E a notice of default and final demand letters. 
Vanquis ultimately closed the account a few months later and recorded a default on Ms Es 
credit file. Ms E complained and said Vanquis had unfairly added fees and charges over the 
years and failed to increase her credit limit. Ms E also complained that its decision to close 
the account and record a default was unfair. 
Vanquis sent Ms E a final response but didnt agree it had made a mistake. Ms E went on to 
refer her complaint to us and it was passed to an investigator. In its submissions, Vanquis 
said it wanted to make Ms E an offer and said it would backdate the default to 27 February 
2022 and refund any interest and charges applied after that date. The investigator thought 
Vanquis offer was a fair way to resolve Ms Es complaint. Ms E asked to appeal, so her 
complaint has been passed to me to make a decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ms Es told us the credit limit for her credit card wasnt increased after she opened it in 2015. 
But Vanquis has confirmed it can only increase a credit limit if its lending criteria is met. And 
Vanquis is obliged to ensure it lends responsibly. Vanquis has confirmed Ms Es credit card 
didnt meet its criteria to increase the credit limit. Im sorry to disappoint Ms E but as her 
account didnt meet Vanquis criteria to increase the credit limit, Im unable to agree it made 
a mistake or treated her unfairly. 
Businesses are required to treat customers experiencing financial difficulties positively and 
sympathetically. Looking at Ms Es statements and the available information, I can see it 
refunded fees and charges over the years. And whilst I can see Ms E did miss payments 
over time, her account was brought back in line with the credit limit. In my view Vanquis 
provided support and treated Ms E positively overall. I havent seen evidence that shows 
Vanquis treated Ms E unfairly. 
Ive looked at the statements and payments made to Ms Es account. I agree with Vanquis 
that the arrears and account activity were sufficient grounds to close her account. I also 
agree that it waited too long to take the step of ending the agreement and recording a 
default. Im satisfied its offer to backdate the default by several months to 27 February 2022 
and refund any interest, fees and charges applied from that date is a fair and reasonable 
way to resolve Ms Es complaint. I understand my decision will likely come as a 
disappointment, but as Im satisfied Vanquis has made an offer that is fair and reasonable in 
all the circumstances Im not telling it to do anything else. 
My final decision
My decision is that Vanquis should backdate the default date to 27 February 2022 and 
refund any interest, fees or charges applied after that date to the outstanding balance. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms E to accept or 
reject my decision before 16 February 2023.
 
Marco Manente
Ombudsman