DRN-2176393
The complaint
Mr S complains that NewDay Ltd trading as Aqua has unfairly recorded a marker at CIFAS, 
the national fraud database.
What happened
Mr S sent NewDay a cheque for £3,100 dated 25 June 2019 to pay to his credit card 
account. That cheque was returned unpaid. But before that Mr S had been able to make 
payments against that cheque on 5 and 6 July 2019 using his credit card. 
NewDay says that Mr S reasonably knew that the cheque wasnt going to be paid and that 
he had misused his facility. His account balance was taken over the limit when the cheque 
was returned. It applied the marker as a result.
Our investigator didnt recommend that the complaint be upheld. Mr S had told him that he 
expected a friend to have paid money into his bank account and this didnt happen. In 
addition, direct debits had been taken out. He didnt check his bank account. And as 
NewDay let him take out money Mr S didnt consider this to be fraud. 
Our investigator said that NewDay had evidence that there were insufficient funds in his 
bank account held with a different financial business to pay this cheque. Mr S hadnt 
provided any evidence to show that there should have been money to pay it. It was his 
responsibility to make sure the cheque cleared. It was often possible as here to spend 
against a cheque before it had cleared. He was satisfied that NewDay had carried out 
sufficient information to meet the high bar for recording a CIFAS marker.
Mr S didnt agree and wanted an ombudsman to review his complaint. He pointed out the 
time that had passed before the payments he made from his account with this money. He 
believed the cheque had cleared. And he didnt think that this was fraud  it was his cheque 
that had not been paid. He hadnt taken anyone elses money and had been taking advice 
about how to repay the money. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I need to consider whether the report to CIFAS was made fairly. On this point, NewDay 
needs to have more than a suspicion or concern. It has to show it had reasonable grounds to 
believe that a fraud or financial crime had been committed or attempted and that the 
evidence would support this being reported to the authorities. 
The cheque in question was for a significant amount and which would have nearly paid off 
the full balance on the credit card account that month. Mr S had already made a payment of 
£170 on 23 June 2019 which covered the minimum payment that had been requested on his 
last monthly statement. He clearly decided to make a further payment and which he says 
was to reduce the amount of interest he paid.
NewDay sets out on the back page of his statements that at least seven working days 
should be allowed from receipt of a cheque for it to clear and to allow for postage time. Here 
it received notification that the cheque hadnt been paid on 5 July 2019 and adjusted his 
account for this on 6 July 2019. Clearly there was a time when Mr S was able to make 
payments against these still uncleared effects.
It seems he did so as soon as this was possible making payments to a supermarket and for 
petrol on 5 July 2019 and also making a cash withdrawal for £300, and then for a further 
£300 on 6 July 2019. I think it notable that he attempted to make other payments including 
one for some £2,000 on 6 July 2019 too which was declined. That indicates to me that he 
was trying to benefit from the full amount of the cheque.
NewDay has evidence that there were never funds to pay the cheque when it was issued 
and clearly it was returned by the bank on which it was drawn. As our investigator says Mr S 
hasnt been able to show that he could reasonably expect this cheque to be paid. I consider 
that its not as if this was a relatively small amount where by an oversight there might have 
been insufficient funds. This was a significant amount and most of which Mr S attempted to 
benefit from as soon as the money became available on his credit card account. I appreciate 
that NewDay let him make some withdrawals. But I dont think in the circumstances Mr S 
could think otherwise than that this was an opportunity to exploit the cheque clearing cycle 
and make payments that he wouldnt otherwise have been able to.
I know he says this was his money or debt and no other third party was involved with the 
cheque. I understand that. But the outcome was both an actual increase in debt above his 
credit limit which NewDay says it wouldnt otherwise have allowed. And thats why this is a 
misuse of his facility at NewDay for his own gain. I think his attempt to take more money 
than he was allowed to is additional evidence of his intent here.
So, Ive looked at whether NewDay was fair to apply the marker, based on the evidence it 
had, and the investigation it carried out. CIFAS guidance says the business must have 
carried out checks of sufficient depth to meet the standard of proof set by CIFAS. This 
essentially means that NewDay needs to have enough information to make a formal report 
to the police. And that any filing should be for cases where there are reasonable grounds to 
believe fraud or financial crime has been committed, rather than mere suspicion. 
Having reviewed the account of events by Mr S and the evidence NewDay has provided, Im 
satisfied that NewDay had sufficient evidence for the CIFAS marker to be recorded. In 
coming to this view, Ive taken into account the following reasons:
- Mr S paid a cheque into his account that he had no reasonable expectation would be 
paid.
- He made payments and attempted payments against this cheque.
- He reasonably knew that these payments ought not to have been made as they 
would take him over his credit card limit and wouldnt otherwise be allowed by 
NewDay as he wasnt entitled to this money.
I appreciate he will be disappointed by my decision.
My final decision
My decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 18 November 2020.
 
Michael Crewe
Ombudsman