DRN-3289516
The complaint
Miss H says Loans 2 Go Limited irresponsibly lent to her when it provided loans that were 
unaffordable. 
What happened
Loans 2 Go provided the following loans to Miss H:
Loan Date taken Amount Term Monthly 
repaymentDate paid
1 8/02/2019 £250 18 months £57.14 19/02/2019
2 2/04/2019 £350 18 months £79.99 21/05/2019
3 22/10/2019 £270 18 months £61.71 5/11/2019
Our adjudicator didnt uphold Miss Hs complaint. 
Miss H disagreed with our adjudicators view. She mainly said that she had needed to take 
out further loans to pay these loans and that Loans 2 Go kept calling her and sending emails 
about catching up with a missed payment even when she had explained her situation and 
told them why she wasnt able to pay until the end of the month. 
Miss H asked for an ombudsman to review her complaint so it comes to me to decide.   
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our approach to considering unaffordable and irresponsible lending complaints 
on our website - including the key relevant rules, guidance, good industry practice and law. 
Id like to reassure Miss H that I've looked at the complaint afresh and independently 
reviewed all the available information, including what Miss H has said in response to our 
adjudicators view. Having done so, I agree with our adjudicator and I am not upholding 
Miss Hs complaint. Ill explain my reasons. 
The rules dont say what a lender should look at before agreeing to lend. But reasonable and 
proportionate checks should be carried out. Lenders must work out if a borrower can 
sustainably afford the loan repayments alongside other reasonable expenses the borrower 
also has to pay. This should include more than just checking that the loan payments look 
affordable on a strict pounds and pence calculation  a proportionate check might also 
require the lender to find out the borrowers credit history and/or take further steps to verify 
the borrowers overall financial situation.  
If reasonable and proportionate checks werent carried out, I need to consider if a loan 
wouldve been approved if the checks had been done. If proportionate checks were done 
and a loan looks affordable, a lender still needs to think about whether theres any other 
reason why it would be irresponsible or unfair to lend. For example, if the lender shouldve 
realised that the loan was likely to lead to significant adverse consequences or more money 
problems for a borrower who is already struggling with debt that cant be repaid in a 
sustainable way. 
Ive thought carefully about what this all means for Miss Hs complaint. 
Loans 2 Go followed a similar application process for each of these loans. Loans 2 Go asked 
Miss H for information about her finances and carried out a credit check each time. It used 
an online income verification tool to check what shed said about her salary and recorded her 
minimum monthly income was between £1,356 - £1,496 when she made these loan 
applications. 
It boosted the amount Miss H had said  she was spending each month and allowed for her 
needing to pay monthly outgoings of between £1,126 - £1,284 during this period. And it also 
added a 10% buffer to take account of fluctuations in her monthly income or expenditure. 
Taking all this into account, these figures didnt suggest that Miss H would have any difficulty 
meeting the loan repayments for the loans. It looked like Miss H shouldve had ample 
disposable income to cover the monthly instalments she had signed up to pay each time.  
The credit checks Loans 2 Go carried out when Miss H applied for each of these loans 
showed that she wasnt involved in any sort of arrangement with creditors and bankruptcy 
wasnt flagged up. She had no active county court judgements registered and no recent 
defaults on her record. 
The information Loans 2 Go had gathered tended to suggest overall that Miss H seemed to 
be managing her credit without any signs that she had a serious debt problem. Whilst the 
credit checks Loans 2 Go obtained showed that Miss H had some money problems in the 
past, the repayments on all of her active accounts were up to date. It wouldnt be unusual for 
someone applying for this type of lending to have other debt  and sometimes even an 
impaired credit history. And these wouldnt necessarily be fair reasons not to lend. I dont 
think the amount of debt shown on Miss Hs credit checks was excessive having regard to 
her income or that anything else revealed in the credit checks Loans 2 Go carried out was 
enough for me to say that a responsible lender shouldve realised it needed to find out more 
before lending or that it ought to have refused any of these loan applications. 
Id expect Loans 2 Go to decide Miss Hs lending application based on the information it was 
reasonably entitled to rely on at the time  and I dont think the lending decisions Loans 2 Go 
made here were unreasonable. 
I say this because there wasnt anything obvious, in the information it had, to suggest Miss H 
wouldnt be able to repay any of these loans in a sustainable way. 
And I dont think proportionate checks wouldve required Loans 2 Go to probe any more 
deeply into Miss Hs finances or ask Miss H to prove what she was declaring (by requiring 
her to send in her bank statements for instance) or check other information sources to verify 
what she had told them (or omitted to say) about her financial circumstances. 
So I dont uphold Miss Hs unfair lending complaint.
I have also thought carefully about what shes told us about feeling pressured by Loans 2 Go 
to take out borrowing she didnt want and how this affected her at a time when she already 
had good reason to be feeling anxious and stressed.I understand how difficult things must have been for Miss H at a time when she wasnt in the 
best of health herself and she had so much to worry about. But I havent seen enough to 
make me think that Loans 2 Go acted towards Miss H in any way that wasnt fair and 
reasonable. 
As a regulated lender, Loans 2 Go had a responsibility to ensure that Miss H understood the 
consequences of missing payments and an obligation to offer her opportunities to bring her 
account back up to date before taking further action that might result in adverse information 
going onto her credit file. 
It noted that Miss H wanted to settle loan 2 early in a few weeks time at the end of the 
month and sent her an early settlement figure to enable her to do this. When that happened, 
she received an interest rebate. 
I dont think I can fairly say that Loans 2 Go acted in any way that was unreasonable to the 
extent that it would be fair for me to say it should pay redress. 
Generally, I think its fair to say that the loan documents set out the terms and the amount of 
interest payable. Miss H had to actively engage in the loan application process each time. 
The total amount she was signing up to repay over the contractual loan term, including 
interest, was set out and the agreement showed the number and amount of the payments 
she would need to make. 
Miss H had given plausible reasons for needing to borrow and the overall pattern of lending 
isnt enough in my view to have prompted Loans 2 Go to have realised that she was 
borrowing to fund loan repayments she had to make. 
Taking everything into account, I think Miss H was aware she was taking high cost loans on 
terms she seemed happy to agree at the time. I dont think Loans 2 Go had any reason to 
think that Miss H wouldnt be able to sustainably repay the loans and it went ahead only 
when it had provided information explaining the main loan costs and Miss H signed the loan 
agreement to confirm she wanted to proceed. 
I accept that Miss Hs actual circumstances possibly werent fully reflected either in the 
information she provided, or the other information Loans 2 Go obtained. 
But in order to uphold this complaint I have to be able to say a lender did something wrong. 
In this case, I dont think that Loans 2 Go did anything wrong in deciding to lend this loan to 
Miss H or that it acted unfairly or unreasonably in any other way. 
I appreciate that my decision will likely come as a disappointment to Miss H and Im sorry. 
But I hope my explanations help her understand why Ive reached these conclusions. 
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I dont uphold Miss Hs complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss H to accept 
or reject my decision before 21 April 2022.
 
Susan Webb
Ombudsman