DRN-2919241
The complaint
Mr C complains about how AA Underwriting Insurance Company Limited (AA) dealt with a
claim he made on his motor insurance policy following a collision.
  
What happened
I issued my provisional decision on this case on 22 June 2021. I wanted to give both parties 
the chance to respond with any additional information theyd like me to consider before I 
issued my final decision. Both parties have now responded and so Im now in a position to 
come to my decision.
I have copied my provisional decision below, which also forms part of this final decision. 
What happened
Mr C was involved in a collision which he says wasnt his fault. Mr C says that he was
turning right in the road and as he turned a car was speeding coming in the opposite
direction and collided with him. Mr C says that as a result of the collision, his car spun into
the road and the other car had flipped. Mr C and his son both suffered some injuries.
AA recorded the claim as a fault against Mr C. Mr C was unhappy with its decision to do this.
He didnt think that AA had done a thorough enough investigation into the liability of the
collision.
Mr C also had some concerns with how AA had handled his claim, Ive listed a summary of
his main points below:
The whereabouts of Mr Cs vehicle was unknown for a period of time. And Mr C had 
to chase AA to find out where it was.
AA didnt tell Mr C that he could claim for new car seats, or to raise a medical injury 
claim for their son.
AA wouldnt speak to the named driver about the claim on a number of occasions 
despite her being authorised to discuss the policy.
AA overcharged Mr C for updating the policy details to cover a new car  this was 
later refunded.
Mr C has been contacted by medical claims companies and he is concerned that AA 
could have passed on their information to these third-partys.
The AA looked into matters for Mr C, it responded to say it hadnt done anything wrong, but
didnt provide much reasoning as to why it thought this.
Our investigator thought the complaint should be upheld. He didnt think that AA had done a
thorough enough investigation into the liability of the claim. While he accepted that further
investigation wouldnt change the outcome of liability, he thought that AA should pay £150
for the upset caused. He also found that AA hadnt called Mr C back when it said it would
and had refused to speak to the named driver about the claim, all of which caused additional
stress to Mr C and so he thought AA should pay an extra £100 to compensate him for this.
So, £250 in total.
Mr C responded to our investigator. He said that hed accept the compensation to draw a
close to things, but he still didnt agree he should be held liable for the accident.
AA responded to say it didnt accept that it should pay £150 for its early decision to hold Mr
C at fault for the collision. It said that its investigation was enough and it based its decision
on its experience in dealing with these matters, case law and the highway code.
Because AA didnt agree, the complaint has been passed to me to make a decision on the
matter.
What Ive provisionally decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im currently minded to partially uphold this complaint. Ill explain my
reasoning for this below.
Liability of the claim
It isnt my role to determine who was at fault for the collision; that would be a matter for a
court of law. What Im deciding is whether AA has acted in accordance with the terms and
conditions of the policy and whether it has dealt with the claim fairly.
In line with most insurers, the policy says that AA can take over the settlement of the claim.
So, it can decide whether to defend a claim or settle it - or it can decide whether it is
prepared to defend Mr C if the matter went to court. Court proceedings can be expensive,
and the outcome cant be guaranteed, so insurers will consider the costs involved and the
likelihood of success in making these decisions. That might mean AA makes a decision Mr C
disagrees with, as has happened here.
I can understand Mr Cs frustration with being held liable for a collision he says wasnt his
fault. While I cant make a decision as to who was liable for the collision, I have looked to
see if AA have acted fairly in deciding how to settle matters and Ive checked it has made a
reasonable assessment of the claim.
Our investigator initially didnt think it was fair of AA to make a liability decision so quickly
without a full investigation of the claim first. And so, he thought that AA should pay Mr C
£150 for the distress this decision caused him. But based on what Ive seen so far, Im not
going to ask AA to do anything more for Mr C in relation to this part of his complaint.
AA have said that they have specialist staff who are trained to make decisions on liability,
they use their knowledge and expertise of case law and past claims to make these
decisions. Based on whats happened in this case, I can see how AA were able to come to
its decision quickly.
Essentially, Mr C turned right into the road while there was a car coming in the opposite
direction. AA has relied on the highway code to say that Mr C ought to have checked for
oncoming traffic before making the manoeuvre. And so, it thought it likely Mr C was at fault
for the incident, or that it would have been difficult for it to defend Mr C had it taken the
matter to court.
I appreciate Mr Cs comments, in that he says the other party was speeding and this is what
had caused the collision. But Ive also considered that its notoriously difficult to determinewhat speed a car was travelling. There wouldnt have been much evidence available to AA
to be certain of the speed. While Mr C might have had witnesses to the collision, those
people wouldnt have known the speed the third-party was travelling, and AA wouldnt have
been able to rely on this type of evidence to support Mr Cs comments.
So, I dont think AA prematurely decided on liability, and I dont think the outcome it reached
was unfair. Further investigations into the incident hasnt resulted in a different outcome for
Mr C. The police report our investigator has obtained stated that the officer intended to take
further action against Mr C, but decided not to because no one was seriously hurt.
Mr C says the third-party driver had pins in their legs and so wants to know if they should
have been driving at all. This isnt something this service can give Mr C an answer to. But
the police statement does state There has also been no previous mention of Mr X having
pins in his legs? He held a driving licence and was insured on the vehicle.
All in all, I think the AA has done a thorough enough investigation into the liability of Mr Cs
claim, and so I dont intend on asking AA to do anything more for Mr C in respect of this part
of his complaint.
Other issues
Mr C has also complained about other issues regarding how AA dealt with his claim. Much of
these points have been dealt with by our investigator and having considered these too Im
minded to agree with what hes said. While I have thought about all the points Mr C has
raised, I havent commented on them all individually here, as neither Mr C nor AA have
appear to disagree with what our investigator said.
However, I do think AA needs to pay Mr C some compensation for some of the things it
could have done better. There have been some customer service issues during this claim.
For example, AA didnt call Mr C back on a few occasions when it said it would. It also didnt
agree to speak to the named driver about the claim. I can understand that the situation Mr C
found himself in would be distressing enough  without receiving poor customer service from
AA. And while Im not holding AA responsible for the distress caused as part of the collision,
I do think that the upset was made worse as a result of AA not calling Mr C back or agreeing
to speak to the named driver. I currently think £100 is a fair way to settle this part of Mr Cs
complaint.
AA responded to say it would like the offer of £100 compensation reviewed because it did 
communicate with the named driver by email and phone of many occasions.
I have summarised Mr Cs main points below:
AA shouldnt have offered to reinvestigate its decision to hold Mr C liable for the 
incident. He says he spent time drawing sketches of the incident and confirming 
witness information. Subsequently, he spent time chasing AA, only for it to say that it 
hadnt contacted the witnesses and didnt know where the sketches were. 
Mr C says the police officer at the scene didnt make any indication that the collision 
was his fault. 
Mr C doesnt believe that AA has investigated the collision properly. He says the 
technician at the garage thought the other person had been driving too fast because 
of the damage caused. He also added that the police officer also said that the driver 
could have been driving at speed, but it would be difficult to determine without any 
dash cam footage.Overall Mr C didnt feel AA had been helpful during the claims process.
  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
 Having considered everything again, Ive decided to come to the same outcome as I did in 
my provisional decision  so AA should pay Mr C £100 for the trouble and upset it caused 
during the claims process. 
Mr C has maintained that he didnt receive calls backs from AA when it promised to do this, 
and AA hasnt sent me anything to show me that it did call Mr C back on these occasions. 
There are some notes on AAs file that suggest that Mr C had contacted AA as he was 
waiting for a call back.  So, I find it more likely that AA didnt call Mr C when it said it would. 
Mr C says he finds it unfair that AA offered to reinvestigate the liability aspect of the claim 
but didnt appear to have done this. This resulted in Mr C drawing sketches, providing 
additional information and having to chase AA unnecessarily. I think these things are likely to 
have caused Mr C unnecessary inconvenience at an already difficult time. 
However, my decision in the relation to the liability aspect of Mr Cs complaint remains the 
same  and I dont think that AA needs to pay Mr C any additional compensation here or 
revisit the claim.
Much of Mr Cs dissatisfaction in relation to AAs decision is that the other driver was driving 
too fast  and it hasnt thoroughly investigated this point. But as I said in my provisional 
decision, and as confirmed by the police officer Mr C spoke to, its very difficult to determine 
what speed a car was travelling  and any information AA might have been able to get about 
this from witnesses would have been their opinion as opposed to fact. While I dont doubt 
what Mr C has said about the technicians comments at the garage, this still doesnt amount 
to enough factual evidence to prove that the other driver was driving too fast. And given what 
Ive said about the other evidence Ive seen in the police report, I cant agree that AA came 
to an unfair decision on the liability of the claim.
Putting things right
Overall, I think AA could have done better communicating with Mr C  both by not returning 
his calls and by requesting information it didnt really need to assess the claim. I think its 
actions caused Mr C inconvenience at a time that was already distressing. I still think that 
£100 is a fair way to settle this complaint.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I uphold Mr Cs complaint in part. AA Underwriting Insurance 
Company Limited should put things right for Mr C by doing what Ive said above. Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 26 August 2021.
 
Sophie Wilkinson
Ombudsman