DRN-2430919
The complaint
Mr P and Mrs P complain that Hiscox Insurance Company Ltd (Hiscox) denied their claim 
under their home insurance policy. 
What happened
In March 2019 Mrs P parked her car in a car park. She left some possessions in the car that 
were covered with a blanket. She said that the rear windows of her car had darkened privacy 
glass. In addition it was dark so, when she looked into the car after locking it, she couldnt 
see the items that she had left in the boot. 
When she returned to the car her possessions had been stolen. She reported the theft to the 
police and her insurers. Hiscox declined Mr and Mrs Ps claim and relied upon an exclusion 
clause in the policy. 
Mr and Mrs P argued that the items were hidden from view as they had been covered by a 
blanket and the doors and the windows of the car were also locked, so they had followed the 
terms of the policy.
In its final response, Hiscox said that a blanket wasnt an acceptable cover (as belongings 
could still be seen underneath) but a parcel shelf wouldve been and so it declined the claim. 
Mr and Mrs P were not satisfied with this outcome and referred the complaint to this service. 
Our investigator upheld the complaint and found that Hiscox hadnt acted fairly. She said that 
as there wasnt a definition of completely hidden from view contained within the terms and 
conditions of the policy then Mr and Mrs P could interpret covering the items with a blanket 
as being hidden from view. She recommended that Hiscox should honour the claim.  
Hiscox didnt agree with our investigator and said that Mr and Mrs P hadnt complied with the 
policy terms and conditions as they hadnt covered the items with a parcel shelf. So it asked 
for a decision from an ombudsman.  
My provisional decision
I considered the complaint and I thought the complaint shouldnt be upheld. I issued a 
provisional decision on 18 November 2020 and asked both parties to send me anything else 
by 18 December 2020. In my provisional decision I said:
I have considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of the complaint. 
Having done so, I intend not to uphold this complaint. I realise that this decision will come as 
a disappointment to Mr and Mrs P, but I hope that my findings will go some way in explaining 
why.  
I have looked at the terms and conditions of the policy and can see that Hiscox has relied 
upon the following exclusion clause:
What is not covered:
9. Loss or damage from, in or on any unattended vehicle unless the vehicle is locked,
the windows are closed and insured items are completely hidden from view.
From what I can see there is no dispute that the car was locked, and the windows closed. 
Hiscox has said that the reason for declining the claim was based on what it deemed to be 
completely hidden from view. Hiscox has said that this means that items must be covered 
with a parcel shelf as a blanket wouldnt be adequate to completely hide an item from view.
I have reviewed the policy and I cant find any definition as to what completely hidden from 
view means or that the items must be hidden from view with the aid of a parcel shelf only. 
So in these circumstances the ordinary meaning would be applied. Which is that it would 
conceal items to make them impossible to see. In Hiscoxs final response, it said that it 
defined what completely hidden from view as: 
It might help if I explain that we ask for items to be completely hidden from view, as this 
means a potential thief would have no visibility that anything was in the vehicle and reduce 
the risk of an opportunistic break in.
Mr and Mrs P have said that their car had darkened privacy windows to the rear which were 
locked and the items were covered with a blanket. Mrs P confirms that she looked into the 
car after locking it and couldnt see anything. 
The test I must apply is whether Mr and Mrs P took reasonable care to protect their 
belongings. With this in mind, I have obtained the police report and I have also seen CCTV 
stills.
Unfortunately the stills were not clear enough to show what happened in much detail. But the 
police report suggests that the thief targeted Mrs Ps car as he seemed to look around it, 
leave and then return later with a friend to carry out the theft. So I think that Mrs Ps car was 
selected for entry. And because the items inside the car were covered with a blanket (rather 
than the parcel shelf) I think the thiefs interest was piqued, by what was in the car. So much 
so, that he returned around two hours later to commit the theft. 
I am satisfied that he likely knew that something of value was in the car to steal, rather than 
this being an opportunistic theft. So on balance, I am persuaded by Hiscoxs position that the 
items were not completely hidden from view and a blanket wouldnt be adequate to make 
them hidden.
I have also considered the dark tinted windows. Mr and Mrs P describe that it wouldve been 
difficult for anyone to see inside the car. But, given the police report, the thief saw something 
inside the car that made him want to return and commit the theft. So I think that this also 
supports that the items werent completely hidden from view.
 
I accept that the windows and car were locked. That the windows were darkened and that 
the items in the boot were covered by a blanket. But this wasnt enough to make those items 
completely hidden from view. So, I think that Hiscox were reasonable when it declined the 
claim. 
I realise that this wouldnt be the outcome that Mr and Mrs P wouldve liked, and I am sorry 
to disappoint them. Responses to my provisional decision
Hiscox had nothing further to add to the provisional decision. 
Mr and Mrs P said:
They didnt agree with the provisional decision as it was factually incorrect.
They hadnt received a copy of the police report although they had the witness 
statements.
Their car wasnt in the car park until 18.30 and they refuted the conclusion that their 
car was selected for entry and that it was a premediated crime.
They reiterated that they were victims of an opportunistic crime as they had 
responsibly locked the car and taken care that the goods in the boot were hidden.
They complained about the length of time this process had taken and were minded in 
potentially complaining about the gross inaccuracies in the provisional decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I have further reviewed the evidence given the responses received, in reconsidering this 
complaint.
Mr and Mrs P said that the provisional decision was factually inaccurate as the car wasnt in 
the car park earlier in the afternoon and it wasnt targeted. I accept that the car wasnt in the 
car park until around 18.30 and I am sorry for this error. But the issue here is whether the car 
was targeted/selected for entry and I think it was.  
I understand that the incident was captured on CCTV and from this evidence and the police 
report, the thief was described as having looked around Mr and Mrs Ps car. He then armed 
himself with an object attempting to smash the rear window. The car alarm went off and at 
this point he moved away from the car. He came back again but this time with an accomplice 
and both continued to smash the rear window before successfully removing the items and 
making off. 
Hiscox has said that the items must be completely hidden from view to comply with the 
terms of the policy. I accept that Mr and Mrs P ensured that the car was locked and the 
windows closed. But I think that it was more likely than not that the thief saw something in 
the car when he looked around the car. So I am persuaded by Hiscoxs comments that by 
covering the items with a blanket suggested that they were of value. In addition, I cant say 
that having privacy windows on the car in these circumstances would have made a 
difference. 
I have next reconsidered the test that I must apply which is whether Mr and Mrs P took 
reasonable care to protect their belongings. Not only have I considered the events as 
outlined in the police report, but I have also taken into account - Mrs Ps comments about 
where she was preceding the theft. 
Mrs P provided me with details of her day before the incident took place. What is of note is 
that I think that there was opportunity for her to have removed the items from the car or 
configured them in such a way that they may be covered with the parcel shelf and not a 
blanket. I also need to bear in mind that Mrs P clearly considered the items were valuable and that they needed to be hidden. So when applying the reasonable care test, I must take 
these things into account. And on balance, I dont think Mr and Mrs P took all reasonable 
steps to ensure the safety of their property. 
I fully appreciate that this is not the outcome that Mr and Mrs P wouldve liked, and I am 
sorry to disappoint them. But I think Hiscox has applied the policy terms fairly and I cant 
reasonably ask Hiscox to do anything more to resolve this complaint.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint, for the reasons given.   
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P and Mrs P to 
accept or reject my decision before 11 January 2021.
 
Ayisha Savage
Ombudsman