DRN-1323138
The complaint
Mr R complains about the time taken by Monzo Bank Ltd (Monzo) to transfer funds out of 
his account following its closure. 
What happened
Mr Rs account was closed by Monzo in August 2019. So he called it to provide alternative 
bank details to enable it to transfer the remaining funds in the closed account, into the 
account elsewhere. 
Monzo told Mr R that the remaining funds in the closed account would be returned to him 
within two to four weeks. 
Mr R was unhappy about this and complained about the delay in Monzo returning the funds 
to him. He said Monzo should have used a different method to return the funds to him in 
order to speed up the process. But it maintained it could take up to four weeks. 
As Mr R remained unhappy, he brought a complaint to this service. 
Our investigator looked into everything and agreed it took longer than she expected for the 
money to be returned and appreciated this would have been frustrating for Mr R. She 
explained this to Monzo. But she didnt think it should pay Mr R compensation because she 
didnt think he had suffered a loss, or experienced an unreasonable level of distress and 
inconvenience as a result of the time it took to transfer the funds. 
Mr R disagreed with our investigators view and said Monzo should compensate him £50 for 
the delay. Because the complaint wasnt resolved, it has been referred to me to make a final 
decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I appreciate and understand Mr Rs expectation that the funds should have been returned to 
him sooner than just over two weeks. The amount of funds that remained in his account, that 
needed transferring, was £17.31. But based on the information I have seen, Im not 
persuaded he has demonstrated that this delay caused him to experience a loss, or an 
unreasonable level of distress and inconvenience that Monzo should compensate him for. I 
appreciate this will disappoint Mr R. 
I understand Mr R had access to other funds and therefore didnt experience any impact of 
not having these funds available to him sooner. So whilst I appreciate his expectations were 
not met, I cannot reasonably require Monzo to pay him any compensation here. So I wont 
be asking it to do anything. 
My final decisionMy final decision is I don't uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision before 30 January 2020.
Liam Hickey
Ombudsman