DRN-3770896
The complaint
Mrs J has complained about the service she received from HSBC UK Bank Plc (HSBC) after 
she requested a text service be stopped to an old mobile phone number.
What happened
Mrs J experienced fraud on her HSBC account and set up text alerts that would help her 
keep a closer eye on her account. The request for Mrs J to receive alerts was made on 17 
January 2022.
Mrs J bought a new phone on 22 January 2022 and updated her contact details via the 
online system so the text service would no longer be provided. Mrs J understandably no 
longer wanted text alerts to be delivered to her previous phone number. However, the text 
alerts continued. 
Mrs J tells us that when she visited a HSBC branch, she was told the only way to be certain 
the text service would stop would be by closing the accounts she held at HSBC which she 
did.
HSBC explained that the reason the alerts didnt stop was because Mrs J would have had to 
make the request via the telephone banking service on a specific number. 
HSBC agreed it had given Mrs J inaccurate information that the text messages were not 
from it and offered Mrs J £50 compensation.
Mrs J wasnt happy with the response provided by HSBC and felt the compensation it had 
offered was too low.
One of our Investigators considered Mrs Js complaint and during her investigation found 
that Mrs J had called the correct number to request the cancellation of the text service. 
HSBC confirmed that Mrs J had followed the correct process and the service had not been 
cancelled as it should have.
After considering this information HSBC increased its compensation offer to £200 which our 
Investigator thought was reasonable.
Mrs J disagreed. She didnt think the compensation offer was fair, so this complaint has now 
been passed to me to review.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Most of the circumstances outlined above arent disputed by either party to this complaint. 
The only part of the complaint that is in question is that Mrs J was told she would need to 
close her accounts with HSBC.
Mrs J says she was given the advice about needing to close her accounts when she spoke 
to a HSBC representative in branch on 1 February 2022. But she didnt close her accounts 
on this day. Instead, over the following days she asked for the account details to be changed 
then requested for the accounts to be frozen.
Given the above I think its unlikely Mrs J was given advice to close her accounts as she 
didnt take this action immediately. In any event I am unable to suggest further compensation 
for this without seeing persuasive evidence that this was the advice Mrs J received, which I 
havent seen.
I appreciate that the errors made by HSBC, and the time taken to resolve the issue of 
removing the text alert service, would have caused Mrs J stress and inconvenience, but I 
have not seen anything to support this poor service caused Mrs J any financial loss.
While I appreciate the impact HSBCs errors have had on Mrs J this service is not designed 
to punish or fine a business when it makes an error, but instead to put the customer back in 
the position they would have been in had the error not taken place. In this case its not 
possible to take back the impact HSBCs errors had on Mrs J, but I think the compensation 
HSBC has now offered of £200 is fair and in line with the level of compensation I would have 
suggested had HSBC not made an offer. 
So, Im not asking HSBC to take any further action.
My final decision
HSBC UK Bank Plc should pay Mrs J the £200 compensation it has offered to resolve her 
complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs J to accept or 
reject my decision before 13 January 2023.
 
Terry Woodham
Ombudsman