DRN-3039346
The complaint
Ms F is unhappy that Irwell Insurance Company Limited declined a claim made under the 
commercial legal expenses insurance (LEI) policy (the policy) that her business had the 
benefit of.
All references to Irwell include its claims handlers.
What happened
Employment Tribunal proceedings were commenced against Ms F by a former apprentice. 
The apprentice claimed that Ms F had wrongfully terminated her apprenticeship agreement.
Irwell declined to cover the costs of Ms F defending the Employment Tribunal claim brought
against her by the apprentice under the policy. That was on the basis that Ms F hadnt
obtained and followed legal advice from a named company, P, before taking the decision to
dismiss the apprentice, as per the terms of the policy. Thats because Ms F had entered into
a service agreement for P to provide employment law advice to her, as and when she
required it.
Ms F is very unhappy about that because it left her in the position of having to potentially pay 
for her own legal representation, and paying the eventual award made by the Employment 
Tribunal against her.
Our investigator upheld Ms Fs complaint. He didnt think Irwell had acted fairly or reasonably
by relying on the terms of the policy to decline the claim. He said Irwell should reconsider the
claim. Subject to the remaining terms of the policy, he also said Irwell should pay Ms Fs
legal costs of having to defend the Employment Tribunal claim as well as any award made 
against her. Irwell disagreed.
This complaint was passed to me to consider everything afresh. 
I issued my provisional decision in March 2021 explaining why I was intending to find that 
our Service didnt have the power to look into Ms Fs complaint about whether Irwell had 
unfairly declined the claim made under the policy. Thats because Ms F hadnt brought her 
complaint to our Service within six months from Irwells final response to that complaint. And 
I didnt think there were any exceptional circumstances to explain why Ms F had brought her 
complaint to our Service out of time.
I invited both parties to respond to my provisional decision, and to provide any further
information they felt was relevant. Ms F didnt agree with my proposed findings and raised a 
number of points in reply. In summary she said shed accepted £1,800 in compensation from 
P  the fixed fee shed ended up paying P to continue acting for her in connection with the 
Employment Tribunal claim once her claim had been declined under the policy by Irwell.
She also provided additional documents and said she was unhappy:
that Irwell took too long to take the decision to decline the claim;
with the way in which P represented her in defence of the Employment Tribunal claim 
and at the Employment Tribunal hearing.
Ms F also said that Irwells decision to decline her claim ultimately led to the position she
found herself in and the way in which she was represented by P at the Employment Tribunal
hearing in September 2019. She said her complaints were intrinsically linked.
Irwell didnt comment on my provisional decision. However, in light of the further points
raised by Ms F, I asked Irwell for further information, which it provided to me.
I issued a second provisional decision in August 2021 explaining that Id received nothing 
further which changed my thoughts about our Service not having the power to consider any 
complaint about whether Irwells decision to decline the claim under the policy in February 
2019 was fair and reasonable. So, I didnt think our Service had the power to consider any 
complaint about that issue.
I also provisionally explained that P was authorised to handle claims made under the policy 
on behalf of Irwell. It was clear that Ms F was unhappy about the service and legal advice 
shed received from P. She was also unhappy with the representation she received from P, 
after the decision was taken by Irwell not to cover her legal costs to defend the Employment 
Tribunal claim (including but not limited to the way in which she was represented at the 
Employment Tribunal hearing in September 2019). But that was in its capacity as her legal 
representative as opposed to acting as a claims handler for Irwell.
So, I didnt think it would be fair and reasonable to hold Irwell responsible for anything P may 
have done wrong in this case when legally representing Ms F. Particularly in circumstances 
when the costs of P representing Ms F defending the Employment Tribunal claim werent 
being covered by Irwell. And once cover had been declined under the policy, at the end of 
February 2019, there was no claim to handle under the policy. I explained that if Ms F had 
any concerns about the way in which P represented her in its capacity as her legal 
representative, she was free to exhaust Ps complaints procedure.
However, I also explained that I intended to find that our Service did have the power to 
consider whether Irwell acted fairly regarding the time taken to decline the claim. And I 
explained why I wasnt intending to uphold this concern. 
An extract of my second provisional decision is set out below:
Its not disputed that Ms F didnt take delivery of the Employment Tribunal claim until the 
end of January 2019. I understand that there may have been an issue with the post, 
meaning Ms F didnt receive the Employment Tribunal claim form until after the date on 
which a Response shouldve been lodged with the Employment Tribunal. And an 
Employment Tribunal hearing had been listed for later in February 2019.
The policy says at the top of page 1:
This is a claims made insurance policy in respect of which only claims notified to
[Irwell] during the Period of Insurance shall be covered.
And subject to the remaining terms and conditions of the policy, section 1 of the policy says
legal fees for defending a civil action brought by an employee are covered in respect of an
insured event. Under the policy that includes a complaint before an Employment Tribunal.
Given that Ms F only received notification of the Employment Tribunal claim at the end of
January 2019, Im satisfied that Irwell wasnt notified of a claim under the policy until then, at
the earliest.I know that Ms F had contacted P much sooner than this about an ex-employee of her
business disputing the legality of her employment being terminated. However, on the
evidence Ive seen, I dont think an Employment Tribunal claim had been issued. So, I intend
to accept what Irwell says about it not being notified of any claim under the policy and not
being required to consider the claim under the policy terms at that stage.
Irwell took the decision not to cover the claim on 26 February 2019. This is around a month
after the date that I think its most likely Irwell originally received notification of the claim. I
dont think that timeframe is unreasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I know within that period P had lodged a Response to the claim at the Employment Tribunal
on behalf of Ms F and an application for a postponement of the hearing listed for 21
February 2019 had been made. However, I dont think that means Irwell had agreed to cover
the claim  or wouldve covered the claim if a Full Merits Hearing had gone ahead during
that time.
Im satisfied that its more likely than not that the claim was still being assessed in light of the
Employment Tribunal claim commenced against Ms F. And although P may have been
aware of the nature of any likely dispute before formal notification of the Employment
Tribunal claim, I dont think it would be fair and reasonable to conclude that Irwell shouldve
been taking steps to consider whether any claim made under the policy was likely to be
covered at that stage. Ms F hadnt received formal notification of an Employment Tribunal
claim - which she was required to formally respond to  and this was required for coverage
under the policy to be triggered.
Responses to my second provisional decision:
Irwell said it had nothing further to add. Ms F didnt agree with my second provisional 
decision. She reiterated why she was unhappy with the legal advice she received from P and 
other points that Id already considered when issuing my second provisional decision.  
Ms F also said that she informed P towards the end of November 2018 of an Employment 
Tribunal claim being issued and provided an email she sent to P around that time.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, my provisional thoughts havent changed, and I dont uphold Ms Fs 
complaint. 
Ms F didnt retain a copy of the letter she says she sent to P towards the end of November 
2018. But our investigator was able to obtain a copy from P. That letter confirms that the 
former apprentice had complied with certain requirements before being able to initiate 
Employment Tribunal proceedings. And she was asked to keep a copy of the letter to quote 
the reference in case of any future proceedings. 
This letter wasnt from the Employment Tribunal and from what Ive seen, it didnt say that an 
Employment Tribunal claim had actually been commenced by that stage, which required a 
formal response by Ms F. Ms F has also told us that she didnt take delivery of the 
Employment Tribunal in January 2019, which she was required to respond to. Im satisfied 
thats when the policy was triggered  not at the end of November 2018 when she received 
the letter shes mentioned. As such, I still dont think it would be fair and reasonable to conclude that Irwell shouldve
been taking steps to consider whether any claim made under the policy was likely to be
covered before January 2019, when Ms F took delivery of the Employment Tribunal claim.
I know Ms F will be very disappointed but for the reasons set out above and in my 
provisional decisions, I dont uphold the aspects of Ms Fs complaint that our Service does 
have the power to consider. 
My final decision
I dont uphold Ms Fs complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms F to accept or 
reject my decision before 7 October 2021.
 
David Curtis-Johnson
Ombudsman