DRN-4484965
The complaint
Mr A complains about the amount of time Zurich Assurance Ltd took to consider his claim on 
a critical illness policy and the stress this caused him.
What happened
In February 2021 Mr A made a claim on his Zurich critical illness policy and Zurich paid him 
the sum assured in September 2021. In that time, Zurich had requested further information 
from Mr As GP and consultant, which was received on 27 August 2021. The claim was 
backdated to June 2020, as that was when Mr A began having symptoms, so Zurich 
refunded the premiums Mr A had paid since July 2020, totalling £572.55. Zurich also paid 
£133.06 in interest on the sum assured. Mr A was unhappy as he felt Zurich could have 
done more to move the claim along, and to ensure they reviewed information received from 
medical professionals in a timely manner. Zurich initially offered Mr A £500 for the delays, 
and then reduced this to £200, which was paid to Mr A.
Mr A brought the complaint to our service, and Zurich agreed to pay the additional £300 to 
honour the original offer. Mr A wasnt happy with this and felt £1,000 better reflected the 
stress and anxiety he was caused at an already difficult time. 
An investigator at our service reviewed the complaint and he felt the claim ought to have 
been paid out in May 2021 and so he awarded 8% interest on the sum assured from May to 
September 2021. Zurich didnt agree, saying they wouldnt have been able to pay the claim 
any sooner, as the delay was caused by the lack of responses from the medical 
professionals involved. As no agreement could be reached the complaint was passed to me 
for a decision.
I issued a provisional decision setting out my findings as follows:
The investigator felt if the claim had been escalated to a more senior colleague internally at 
Zurich sooner, then they would have received the information needed earlier. I dont agree  
I can see from the timeline that no matter how many times Zurich chased the two medical 
professionals for information, they didnt receive a reply. I dont think a different person in 
Zurich doing that chasing, would have changed this substantially. However, I do think Zurich 
could have done more to act in Mr As best interests and Ill explain why. 
Following receipt of the initial information from Mr A's GP, Zurich found they needed further 
information from the GP and the consultant doctor. I'm satisfied that their initial review of the 
file and decision to request this information was carried out in a fair and reasonable 
timeframe.
Mr A has argued that the further information Zurich needed was contained in the initial file 
theyd received from the GP and so they shouldnt have had to ask further questions. Zurich 
has explained that the initial file showed that Mr A had a history of a chronic illness which 
hadnt been disclosed when he initially took out the critical illness policy. They said the initial 
file didnt provide enough information for Zurich to assess whether the illness should or 
shouldnt have been disclosed.
As part of assessing a claim, it isnt unusual for an insurer to check that they were given 
correct information when the policy began. Im satisfied it was reasonable for Zurich to look 
into the history of the chronic illness, to ensure proper disclosure was made at the time of 
the sale. This is because it can impact on the terms the policy was offered on  or whether 
the policy ought to have been offered at all  so the disclosure of information in the 
application can have an impact on a claim. As Im persuaded Zurich reasonably requested 
further information, Ive gone on to consider their actions over the months that followed.
I can see that Zurich did chase this information over the months that followed. However, their 
own timescale for chasing medical evidence is once every seven days and I dont think they 
kept to that schedule, as they didnt make contact with the GP and consultant that often. I 
can see that much of this chasing was carried out by phone. From their notes, Zurich tried to 
call and would be placed into a queue - it appears that when the wait would be more than a 
few minutes, they would give up and try again a different day.
This happened many times and resulted in periods of time where no contact was actually 
made with the GP or consultant, due to Zurich not waiting on hold. For instance, between 25 
March and 20 May no one at Zurich actually spoke to the GPs office as they didnt stay on 
hold for long enough. Given the length of time since the claim was received, I'd have 
expected other methods of chasing to have been attempted, but no written chasing appears 
to have taken place until 8 July. I don't think this is fair and reasonable, given the minimal 
number of successful conversations via phone.
I've carefully considered whether, if Zurich had chased using other methods or waited on 
hold for longer, anything different would have happened. Having done so, although theres a 
possibility that Mr A might have received the sum assured sooner than he did, I dont think 
this would have been likely. Mr A told Zurich that when he spoke to the consultant on 30 
June 2021, they told him they hadnt gotten round to dealing with the request for information. 
From the timeline of events, I can see that Zurich had spoken to the consultants office 
several times before that to chase for the information.
When Zurich eventually received the replies, not all their questions had been answered. 
Zurich took a business decision to accept Mr As verbal recollections of events as sufficient 
evidence of the information required. As Ive set out above, Zurich were reliant on that 
information in order to properly assess the claim. In agreeing to pay the sum assured without 
the evidence required, Zurich were acting outside their usual process. I don't think it would 
be fair to say this is the route Zurich ought to have taken to start with, as it wasnt until after 
they heard back from the medical professionals that they could have made this decision.
As I don't think the information would have been received any sooner, given the reliance on 
third parties, I don't think the claim ought to have been paid earlier. I appreciate Mr A was 
told by his GP that the information had been provided to Zurich earlier than they say they 
received it. Ive seen no evidence of this from the GP, but regardless Zurich was also waiting 
for information from the consultant. So even if theyd received the GPs evidence sooner, I 
dont think it would have changed the timeline.
So, I'm not awarding any further payment of interest on the sum assured, other than the 
£133.06 that Zurich originally paid in interest. However, I do think Zurich ought to have tried 
to do more to get in touch with the GP and consultant.
I've carefully considered the £500 offered to decide whether I think it is a fair and reasonable 
amount for the distress caused here. Mr A was clearly going through a very difficult time and 
as an insurer, I'd expect Zurich to do what they can to speed up the process. However, I 
must be mindful of only awarding compensation for the stress accountable just to Zurich - not that which may be accountable to other parties, or that due to the fact Mr A was 
unfortunately very unwell.
Having considered those factors, I dont think it would be fair to award the £1,000 that Mr A 
has asked for. I appreciate my decision may come as a disappointment to Mr A, but I hope 
the above explanation of what Zurich was doing and why, has been helpful. Overall I'm 
satisfied that the amount of compensation on offer, of £500 total, is fair and reasonable in 
the circumstances. 
Replies to my provisional decision
Zurich agreed with the outcome and said they didnt have anything further to add.
Mr A explained he didnt agree with the outcome  he feels the £500 offer is unfairly minimal, 
and that the investigators view was fairer. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im not persuaded to change my decision. I appreciate Mr A will be 
disappointed by this and I know he feels strongly that Zurich is in the wrong. However, as an 
independent service, I must consider all of the evidence objectively to reach what I consider 
to be a fair and reasonable conclusion.
In Mr As case, I do agree that Zurich hasnt treated him fairly. Ive then gone on to consider 
what would have happened but for their mistakes, a decision that I must make based on the 
balance of probabilities  what is more likely than not to have happened. Ive not received 
any evidence to suggest that the GP or the consultant would have replied any faster if Zurich 
had done more to follow up on their requests. So as set out in my provisional decision, Mr A 
would have been in the same position regardless. 
For the same reasons as set out in my provisional decision, Im satisfied that the amount of 
compensation Zurich offered is fair for the distress and inconvenience caused here. To 
clarify, my intention isnt to reflect the whole stress and inconvenience that Mr A suffered - I 
can only award an amount in this complaint for the stress caused by Zurich alone. As a 
result, I wont be increasing the compensation here and I find that Zurich should pay Mr A 
£500 in total, including the £200 which I understand hes already received. 
My final decision
Zurich Assurance Ltd has already made an offer to pay £500 to settle the complaint and I 
think this offer is fair in all the circumstances.
So, my final decision is that Zurich Assurance Ltd should pay a total of £500 to Mr A.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision before 27 December 2023.
 
Katie Haywood
Ombudsman