DRN-1297753
 
The complaint
Mr S says Uncle Buck Finance LLP irresponsibly lent to him.
What happened
Uncle Buck gave Mr S seven loans in total between September 2014 and April 2016. 
There was a break in lending after Mr S paid loan 5 in January 2015 until he took out loan 6 
in November 2015. 
All the loans have been repaid.
Heres a table showing the loan details:
Loan Date
TakenDate
RepaidInstalments Amount Highest
Repayment
1 08/09/2014 25/09/2014 1 £100.00 £134.95
2 25/09/2014 24/10/2014 1 £250.00 £337.38
3 24/10/2014 26/11/2014 1 £350.00 £472.33
4 26/11/2014 19/12/2014 1 £405.00 £546.55
5 19/12/2014 24/01/2015 1 £405.00 £546.55
6 20/11/2015 26/02/2016 3 £300.00 £156.47
7 08/04/2016 27/05/2016 3 £175.00 £81.36
 
Mr S complained that Uncle Buck didnt do sufficient checks and that it didn't lend 
responsibly to him. Mr S told us this had a detrimental impact on his finances and on his 
mental health.
When Uncle Buck looked at Mr Ss complaint, it first of all said that it had carried out full 
affordability checks on all the loans and it didnt uphold Mr Ss complaint.
Mr S was unhappy with this response and he brought his complaint to us.Our adjudicator thought that Uncle Buck shouldnt have provided any of the loans to Mr S 
and he gave some detailed instructions about the way he thought Uncle Buck should settle 
the complaint. 
Uncle Buck said it accepted our adjudicators view in part and offered to uphold the 
complaint about loan 2 and loan 5 and sent us details showing how it would work out what to 
pay Mr S. 
We passed this information on to Mr S  but hes told us he doesnt want to settle the 
complaint on this basis and hed like a final decision. 
So the complaint comes to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about short-term lending - including all of 
the relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice - on our website. 
Uncle Buck needed to take reasonable steps to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In 
practice this means that it should have carried out proportionate checks to make sure Mr S 
could repay the loans in a sustainable manner. These checks could take into account a 
number of different things, such as how much was being lent, the repayment amounts and 
the consumers income and expenditure. With this in mind, in the early stages of a lending 
relationship, I think less thorough checks might be reasonable and proportionate.  
But certain factors might point to the fact that Uncle Buck should fairly and reasonably have 
done more to establish that any lending was sustainable for the consumer. These factors 
include:
the lower a consumers income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make any 
loan repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income);
the higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income); 
the greater the number and frequency of loans, and the longer the period of time 
during which a customer has been given loans (reflecting the risk that repeated 
refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, 
unsustainable).
 
There may even come a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly 
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable.
Uncle Buck was required to establish whether Mr S could sustainably repay his loans  not 
just whether the loan payments were affordable on a strict pounds and pence calculation. 
Of course the loan payments being affordable on this basis might be an indication a 
consumer could sustainably make their repayments. But it doesnt automatically follow this is 
the case. This is because the  relevant regulations define sustainable as being without 
undue difficulties and in particular the customer should be able to make repayments on time, 
while meeting other reasonable commitments; as well as without having to borrow to meet 
the repayments. And it follows that a lender should realise, or it ought fairly and reasonably to realise, that a borrower wont be able to make their repayments sustainably if theyre 
unlikely to be able to make their repayments without borrowing further. 
Ive carefully considered all of the arguments, evidence and information provided in this 
context and what this all means for Mr Ss complaint.
Mr S didnt ask Uncle Buck for any more loans during the period January  November 2015. 
That gap in lending seems long enough to me for Uncle Buck reasonably to think that Mr S 
mightve put his finances in order during this period. This meant that when his borrowing 
started again, and Mr S applied for loan 6, he was effectively starting over. So it was fair for 
Uncle Buck to treat this as a new chain of borrowing and assess his lending requests 
accordingly.
loans 1-5
Uncle Buck has told us about the checks it did before lending to Mr S. It asked him for 
details of his income and normal expenditure, and carried out checks on his credit file. It also 
told us Uncle Buck adjusted the figures to allow a safety margin when thinking about what 
Mr S could afford to repay. 
Although the repayment amount for loan 1 looked affordable on the figures Mr S gave Uncle 
Buck, the information Uncle Buck obtained about Mr Ss credit history showed a record of 
defaulted accounts. Some of those defaulted accounts had been repaid, but it appears 
others were still outstanding. Also, Uncle Buck could see that hed been relying significantly 
on short term loans, and Mr S was already paying at least three other short term loans when 
he asked Uncle Buck for loan 1. 
This type of borrowing is intended to provide a short term fix in the event of temporary or 
unexpected money problems. So I think the information Uncle Buck had gathered about 
Mr Ss credit history shouldve made Uncle Buck realise that, on balance, it looked like Mr S 
was having problems managing his money. 
And Uncle Buck shouldve realised when he asked for loan 1 that this loan, and any further 
lending, was most likely unsustainable. So it shouldnt have provided loan 1  or any of the 
loans that followed to Mr S, up to and including loan 5.
loans 6-7
When Mr S asked for loan 6, Uncle Buck shouldve realised that the information it had 
gathered was at odds with what Mr S was saying about his financial situation. 
I say this because Uncle Buck could see that Mr S was still paying for some defaulted 
accounts which he hadnt yet been able to clear (and it looked like these dated back quite a 
while). And at the same time he was continuing to borrow short term loans from other 
providers. 
Uncle Buck could see that Mr S had at least three other outstanding short term loans. Ive 
taken into account that Uncle Buck says the overall balance on these looks like it was 
around £450. I think that amount represented a significant debt for someone in Mr Ss 
position. And the fact that he was now asking Uncle Buck for further short term lending of 
£300, with the repayments spread over three instalments possibly to keep down the monthly 
cost, suggests to me that Mr S hadnt managed to get on top of his money problems and his 
financial difficulties were likely ongoing. I think that the information Uncle Buck knew about his financial circumstances paints a 
picture of someone still struggling with debt and shows that Mr S was having serious 
problems managing his money. Uncle Buck shouldve realised that the indications were that 
loan 6  and any further lending, wasnt likely to be sustainably affordable for Mr S. 
So I think it was wrong for Uncle Buck to give loans 6 and 7 to Mr S.  
For these reasons, Im upholding the complaint about loans 1, 3 and 4 and loans 6 and 7 (as 
well as loans 2 and 5 in respect of which Uncle Buck has already agreed to provide redress). 
Putting things right
 
A. Add together the total of the repayments made by Mr S towards interest, fees and 
charges on loans 1 - 7, not including anything it has already refunded.
 
B. Calculate 8% simple interest* on the individual payments made by Mr S which were 
considered as part of "A", calculated from the date Mr S originally made the 
payments, to the date the complaint is settled.
 
C. Pay Mr S the amounts calculated in "A" and "B".
 
D. Remove any adverse information Uncle Buck has recorded on Mr Ss credit file for 
loans 1 - 7.
 
*HM Revenue & Customs requires Uncle Buck to take off tax from this interest. Uncle Buck 
must give Mr S a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if he asks for one.
 
My final decision
For the reasons given above, Im upholding Mr Ss complaint. Uncle Buck Finance LLP 
should take the steps Ive set out above. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 14 April 2020.
Susan Webb
Ombudsman