DRN-2765281
Complaint
Mrs S is unhappy that Citibank UK Limited didnt do more to help her when she was the 
victim of a scam.
Background
Mrs S has an account with Citibank. In June 2019, she received a text message that 
appeared to have been sent by Citibank. It said an attempted payment had been 
blocked and that, if she hadnt intended to make the payment in question, she was 
asked to call a number in the message. Unfortunately, this message wasnt sent by 
Citibank. It was sent by a scammer.
The scammer told Mrs S that they were calling from Citibank and that the security of her 
account had been compromised. The only thing that she could do to protect her money 
was to transfer it to a safe account as soon as possible. Mrs S tells us she asked how 
she could be sure she was speaking to a genuine employee. She was told that theyd 
call her back using the number displayed on the back of her card. Mrs S says that she 
wasnt aware that the technology for spoofing phone numbers was available and so 
was reassured that she must be talking to Citibank, rather than a scammer. 
Mrs S says that the scammer told her a new account had been set up for her and that 
shed need to transfer her funds into it to ensure that they were safe. She transferred the 
£3,156.01 in her current account first. She then transferred the £2,520.95 in her savings 
account into her current account and paid those to the scammer too. Her total losses 
were £5,676.96.
The following day, Mrs S logged into her online banking facility and noticed a warning 
message on the screen. The warning essentially put customers on notice of the scam 
that Mrs S had fallen victim to the day before. She called Citibank to explain what had 
happened, but it said it wouldnt refund the payments. It explained that Mrs S had 
authorised the payments and it had therefore followed its legal obligation to carry out the 
transfer. It also cited the terms and conditions of the account which say:
We will not refund you in any circumstances if . you authorised the 
transaction.
Mrs S was unhappy with this response and so she referred a complaint to this service. It 
was looked at by an investigator who upheld it. He said that this payment was unusual 
and out of character and that Mrs S hadnt sent a payment of that size to a new payee in 
the last six months. He therefore thought Citibank ought to have looked at the payment 
more closely before processing it. If it had done so, it wouldve quickly identified that this 
bore all the hallmarks of a safe account scam and Mrs S couldve been prevented from 
making the payments.
Citibank disagreed with the investigators opinion. It said:
- Mrs S knew there was a risk she wasnt really talking to Citibank, which is why 
she asked the scammers how she could be sure she was talking to the bank.
- Mrs S couldve looked up the correct telephone number online. If shed done so, 
shed have realised that the original call didnt come from a Citibank number.
- The scammers spoofed the wrong Citibank number  they didnt call her using 
the general customer services number, but the number a customer would be 
asked to call if they lost their card whilst overseas.
Because Citibank disagreed with the investigators opinion, the complaint has been 
passed to me to consider and issue a final decision.
Findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided to uphold the complaint and Ill explain why.
It is common ground that Mrs S authorised the scam payments. She was duped by the 
scammers into instructing Citibank to transfer those sums to their account. They 
deceived her over the phone into thinking that her account was at risk of fraud so she 
should transfer the money to a safe account, i.e. their account.  
I accept that this was an authorised payment even though Mrs S was the victim of a 
sophisticated scam. She used her security credentials to request the payments be 
processed - so, although she did not intend the money to go to the scammers, under the 
Payment Services Regulations 2017, and the terms and conditions of her account, she 
is presumed liable for the loss in the first instance.  
However, taking into account the law, regulators rules and guidance, relevant codes of 
practice and what I consider to have been good industry practice at the time, I consider 
Citibank should fairly and reasonably:
- Have been monitoring accounts and any payments made or received to counter 
various risks, including anti-money laundering, countering the financing of 
terrorism, and preventing fraud and scams.
- Have had systems in place to look out for unusual transactions or other signs that 
might indicate that its customers were at risk of fraud (among other things). This 
is particularly so given the increase in sophisticated fraud and scams in recent 
years, which banks are generally more familiar with than the average customer.  
- In some circumstances, irrespective of the payment channel used, have taken 
additional steps, or make additional checks, before processing a payment, or in 
some cases declined to make a payment altogether, to help protect customers 
from the possibility of financial harm from fraud.
Im satisfied that the first payment of £3,156 was unusual and out of character. Although 
Mrs S had historically made payments of a similar size on this account, there hadnt 
been any for six months and this payment was being made to a new payee. The last 
payment Mrs S had made to a new payee was considerably smaller than the first 
payment she made to the scammer. I also find it significant that the she reduced her balance to zero and that she ran a negative balance thereafter  something which she 
hadnt done before. 
Taking all these factors together, I think Citibank ought to have recognised that Mrs S 
was at risk of financial harm and intervened to question the first payment more closely. If 
it had done so, I dont think it wouldve been difficult to prevent the scam. As Citibank 
pointed out in its response to the investigator, Mrs S was clearly aware of the risks 
posed by scams and a Citibank employee wouldve known that there would never be a 
legitimate request to a customer to transfer their funds to a safe account. Overall, Im 
persuaded that Citibank wouldve been able to prevent the scam had it intervened.
Ive also considered whether Mrs S should bear some responsibility for this loss. 
Citibank have made several arguments suggesting that she was careless  for example, 
suggesting that she was aware of the risk posed by frauds of this kind, she couldve 
looked up Citibanks number online or that she shouldve noticed that the fraudsters had 
spoofed the wrong number.
Ive considered these arguments carefully, but Im not persuaded by them. While Mrs S 
clearly had a background awareness of the risks posed by fraud, I dont think itd be 
reasonable to expect her to have a detailed knowledge of the full range of techniques 
employed by fraudsters. The fact that the fraudsters were able to spoof a Citibank 
contact number gave her false comfort, but I dont think it can be reasonably said that 
she was careless to have been reassured by that.
Im equally unpersuaded by the argument that she ought to have carried out an online 
search to check the original number or that she shouldve recognised that the call didnt 
come from the right part of Citibank. In scams of this nature, a false sense of panic is 
often created in the customer. I dont think Mrs S failure to carry out a series of simple 
checks that (with the benefit of hindsight) might have given rise to further suspicion 
suggests that she was careless or didnt act reasonably. Overall, Im satisfied that she 
was the victim of a cynical scam and I dont think she can be said to bear any 
responsibility for her losses here. 
Final decision
For the reasons Ive explained above, I uphold this complaint.
Citibank UK Limited now needs to:
- refund the payments to Mrs S. 
- Add 8% simple interest per annum on the first payment of £3,156.01. This should 
be calculated from the date she made the payment to the scammer until the date 
the settlement is paid.
- Add interest at the rate payable on her savings account on the second payment 
of £2,520.95 from the date she paid the scammer until the date the settlement is 
paid.  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs S to accept or 
reject my decision before 4 June 2021.
 
James KimmittOmbudsman