DRN-3060629
The complaint
Mr G complains that Scottish Widows Limited wouldnt extend his mortgage endowment 
policy.
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here. The facts arent in dispute, so Ill focus on giving the reasons for my decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the conclusions reached by the investigator for these reasons:
Id first like to acknowledge that Mr G has requested that I listen to certain calls he had with 
Scottish Widows. But its down to me to determine what information I need to reach my 
decision. And Im satisfied Ive got enough to reach a fair and reasonable outcome without 
listening to these calls  as the complaint fundamentally comes down to whether the correct 
policy term and conditions have been applied. 
Both parties have provided different versions of the terms. On balance, Im persuaded the 
version provided by Scottish Widows are correct for this policy. This is because: 
Scottish Widows has reviewed the terms provided by Mr G and, according to its 
records of historic terms and conditions, these werent in force at the time his policy 
was sold.
The version provided by Mr G refers to his product as a Mortgage Review Plan. 
Whereas Scottish Widows version refers to it as a Mortgage Plan  which matches 
the other documents Ive seen, such as the sales documents and the 
correspondence sent to Mr G since then. No other documents refer to the product as 
a Mortgage Review Plan. 
I appreciate Mr G says he got his terms at the point of sale. But Im not persuaded 
the fact he holds them now is enough to confirm that. The sale was in 1995, so there 
are plenty of other opportunities over the years  which Mr G may reasonably not 
recall  when these could have been sent in error. In fact, Scottish Widows has told 
us that it sent Mr G the wrong version when he complained. Although I take on board 
that hes told me he wasnt able to access this. That said, he hasnt explained why he 
was requesting the original terms if he already had these.    
The post-sales correspondence refers to the option to extend the policy. Whereas the 
version Mr G holds includes no right to extend the policy. So again, this suggests 
Scottish Widows version is more likely correct. Otherwise, there would be no 
contractual grounds for extending the policy. 
Ive therefore considered Mr Gs request to extend the policy in line with the terms provided 
by Scottish Widows. These explain the option to extend the policy is subject to certain 
conditions. Relevant here is:
We must have received a clear written request signed by you and any Assignee(s) 
to extend the Policy Term. We must also have written confirmation that the date of 
repayment of the relevant mortgage advance has also been deferred.
This means the policy can only be extended if the mortgage its connected to is also 
deferred. But Mr G no longer holds the mortgage that he initially took the policy out in 
connection with. Im therefore satisfied that hes not eligible to extend his policy.
Whilst Mr G has received correspondence over the years referring, in general terms, to the 
option to extend the cover, these direct him to check his terms for full details. I dont think it 
reasonably constituted a guarantee that this was an unfettered right  which would be 
uncommon for this type of policy. Theres also no guarantee that, by extending the term, the 
policy will perform better in relation to what Mr G has paid in. This is an investment product, 
so there is a risk involved; the policy value is subject to market forces. 
Scottish Widows has also acknowledged that it contributed to the delay paying out the 
maturity fund. But its paid Mr G interest, at the same rate wed normally award (8% simple 
interest per year), for the period in which it contributed to this. Mr G says he still hasnt 
received the proceeds from the policy, and that he was initially told he shouldnt request 
these. But Ive seen correspondence since then in which I consider Scottish Widows made it 
clear that it could pay out the funds, and that it was waiting on his payment instructions to do 
so. Im therefore satisfied the interest payment is fair, and Im not directing Scottish Widows 
to increase this. Mr G can contact it directly about receiving the maturity payment.
Scottish Widows also offered Mr G £100 compensation for how it handled the complaint. But 
as hes aware, its not within our services jurisdiction to consider the activity of complaint 
handling, so I cant comment on this award.
I appreciate this will be disappointing for Mr G. But overall, Im not persuaded it would be fair 
and reasonable to direct Scottish Widows to extend the cover, or to do anything else to put 
things right. Im satisfied the extension request was considered fairly in line with the policy 
terms, and that Scottish Widows has fairly compensated Mr G for its delay.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, my final decision is that Scottish Widows Limited doesnt need 
to do anything else to resolve this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision before 17 December 2021.
 
Rachel Loughlin
Ombudsman