DRN-3995245
The complaint
Mr B complains about how Admiral Insurance (Gibraltar) Limited handled a claim on his 
motor insurance policy. Mr B is represented in this matter by his mother, Mrs B, a named 
driver on his policy. 
What happened
Mr B was involved in a collision with a parked car and made a claim to Admiral. He wanted 
the car to be declared a total loss as it was uneconomical to repair. Admiral offered Mr B 
cash in lieu of repairs. It said this was because the car had pre-accident damage which was 
unrelated to the claim. And it deducted an amount from the settlement for this. 
Mr B said all the damage was incident-related. Admiral then instructed an independent 
assessor to look at the car. He said the damage to the left hand side of the car was 
unrelated to the claim and Admiral maintained its position. Mrs B was unhappy with 
Admirals level of service, and it paid her £125 compensation for this. Mr B was also 
unhappy that Admiral took three months to decide that his car wasnt a total loss, and he 
was without it during this time. He provided his own independent assessors report to 
support his position.
Our Investigator didnt recommend that the complaint should be upheld. He thought Admiral 
had justified its decision that the damage to the left hand side of the car was unrelated to the 
claim. He thought Mr Bs independent report also supported this. He thought Admiral had 
reasonably compensated Mr B for its service failings. And he thought Admiral had made its 
settlement offer after a month and it was Mr Bs decision not to then recover and repair his 
car. 
Mr B replied that he wanted an Ombudsmans review, so his complaint has come to me for a 
final decision. Mr B also provided further information for me to consider. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I can see that Mr B unfortunately had two accidents in his car. After the first one, he had the 
car repaired. Mr B had the second accident a month later and made a claim. Admirals 
approved repairer noted damage to the car that it thought was unrelated to the incident 
circumstances. Mr B was frustrated with how long the repairs were taking. 
Mrs B made a complaint to Admiral. It agreed that it hadnt provided promised calls back. It 
said there had been long call hold times. It said it had caused some delays at the start of the 
claim due to poor communication. Admiral paid Mrs B £100 compensation for this, and £25 
for calls. I think that was fair and reasonable as its in keeping with our published guidance 
for the impact the errors caused. 
Admiral offered Mr B a cash settlement of £10,400, less his £1,400 policy excess, instead of 
repairing his car. I can see that Admiral is entitled by the policys terms and conditions to 
offer cash instead of repairing the car in Your Car Insurance Guide, Section 1: Damage to 
your car, Page 12:
2. What we will pay
We will decide how to settle your claim and will either:
- pay to repair your car, or
- pay a cash sum to replace the damaged car or item. We may reduce the settlement, or ask 
you to contribute towards the repair costs, if the parts replaced were already worn or 
damaged or for audio/visual equipment that has been removed from your car. A decision will 
be made based on the garage/engineer's recommendation. 
So I cant say that it did anything wrong in this. But Admiral discounted an amount from its 
original offer for damage that it said was unrelated to the claim. It said the car had previous 
damage that had been poorly repaired, and it wouldnt cover this rectification under the 
claim. 
Were not engineers. We dont assess whether or how damage to a vehicle would be caused 
as this is a matter for the experts in these situations, the insurance companies and 
engineers. Our role in these complaints is to determine whether an insurance company has 
considered all the available evidence and whether it can justify its decision to not pay for 
additional repairs.
Admiral explained that it thought some of the damage claimed for wasnt consistent with the 
circumstances described by Mr B when he reported the accident. He said hed hit a parked 
car and caused damage to his cars right hand side, the front bumper and the left hand 
headlight. 
When theres a dispute over damage or repairs, we think its good practice to appoint an 
independent assessor to inspect the car. And I can see this is what Admiral did. He provided 
a report but amended this after he was provided with Mr Bs account of the accident 
circumstances. 
His report said there was other damage with previous repairs to the bonnet and both left 
hand doors with previous paint repair to both sides and the front of the car. So Admiral 
deducted the damage to the left had side of the car as this was inconsistent with the claim. 
Mr B then took his car to a repairer and the garage said there was further damage that may 
be accident-related, and this would make the car a total loss. Admiral asked its independent 
assessor to consider the report from the garage. But he said this didnt change the cash in 
lieu offer after removing the non-accident-related repairs. 
Mr B then provided his own specialist report on the damage to his car. Admiral reviewed this 
but its engineer concluded that it confirmed that the damage to the left hand side of the car 
was unrelated to the current claim. 
I note that Mr Bs description of the accident circumstances has changed. But I think Admiral 
could reasonably rely on the initial report of the accident as that was closer to the event. And 
Ive noted in the file that Mr B said he couldnt recall further details, just one month after the 
accident. So I think its unlikely that he would remember further details after six months. 
I can see that Mr B disagrees with Admirals decision. And I can understand his frustration. 
But I think Admiral has reasonably considered all the evidence available and so justified its 
decision about the amount it has offered to pay for the accident-related repairs to Mr Bs car. 
Mr B was unhappy that it took Admiral three months to decide that his car was repairable. 
But I can see that this delay was caused by Mr B not accepting its cash in lieu offer. So I 
cant reasonably hold Admiral responsible for Mr B being without the use of his car. 
My final decision
For the reasons given above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
 Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 9 May 2023.
 
Phillip Berechree
Ombudsman