DRN-2906173
The complaint
Mr and Mrs R would like to make a compliant about a payment protection insurance (PPI) 
policy that they say Bank of Scotland plc mis-sold to them in 1997.
What happened
Our adjudicator looked at Mr and Mrs Rs complaint but didnt think that it should be upheld.
Mr and Mrs R disagreed with this, so the complaint has been passed to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding Mr and Mrs Rs case.
Having done so, Ive decided not to uphold Mr and Mrs Rs complaint. I know this will be 
disappointing for them, so Ill explain why. 
Mr and Mrs R say that PPI wasnt mentioned to them  and that they didnt need the PPI. 
And Bank of Scotland hasnt been able to provide any paperwork relating to PPI either. But 
this isnt unusual for a sale that took place so long ago  and businesses arent required to 
keep records indefinitely. I also wouldnt expect Mr and Mrs R to recall what happened in 
1997 with great detail either.
But because of this, I dont have enough to say that Mr and Mrs R werent given a choice 
when taking out the PPI  so I cant uphold their complaint for this reason. 
Bank of Scotland recommended the PPI to Mr and Mrs R  which means it needed to take 
extra steps to ensure that the policy it sold them was right for them - and it seems to have 
been right for them based on what Ive seen of their circumstances at the time.
Its possible the information Bank of Scotland gave Mr and Mrs R about the PPI wasnt as 
clear as it shouldve been. But Mr R doesnt appear to have been affected by any of the main 
things the policy didnt cover  and based on what I know about Mr and Mrs Rs 
circumstances it looks like the policy couldve been useful to them. So, I dont think better 
information wouldve stopped them buying it. 
Ive taken into account all of Mr and Mrs Rs comments, but these points dont change my 
conclusion.
Other considerations
The Supreme Court decided a case that involved the commission on a PPI policy
 Plevin v Paragon Personal Finance. And the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA)
 who make the rules for financial businesses  introduced some new rules and
guidance for businesses to follow when theyre looking at PPI complaints. This
means businesses will sometimes need to give consumers back some of the
commission paid on certain PPI policies.
But this only applies to credit agreements taken out on or after 6 April 2007, or
agreements taken out before then which were still running on 6 April 2008. From
the information Ive seen, Mr and Mrs Rs mortgage doesnt fit into these dates - so Bank of 
Scotland have to refund any of the commission they paid on the PPI policy. 
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr and Mrs R to 
accept or reject my decision before 11 January 2022.
 
Claire Pugh
Ombudsman