DRN-3614236
The complaint
Mr F complains Wesleyan Assurance Society unfairly declined his income protection claim. 
What happened
Mr F is a medical professional, most recently working as an intensive care consultant. And 
he holds income protection policies underwritten by Wesleyan. In April 2020 Mr F 
unfortunately suffered a heart attack and underwent surgery. And he remained off work while 
he recovered.  
Mr F holds four income protection policies with Wesleyan, and made his claim against all of 
these. Wesleyan has referred to the policies as 03, 04, 05 and 06.
Policies 03 and 04 state Mr Fs insured occupation to be medical practitioner and have a 
deferred period of 52 weeks. These policies define incapacity as follows. 
Incapacity means that, because of sickness or accident, the insured is able to 
perform no part whatever of the duties of the ordinary occupation stated in the 
schedule and it no follow any other gainful occupation
Policies 05 and 06 list Mr Fs insured occupation as consultant anaesthetist and the 
deferred period is 52 weeks. The definition of incapacity for these policies is as below.   
By incapacity (or incapacitated) we mean that because of your illness or accident 
you are totally unable to carry out the essential duties of your normal occupation and 
you are not doing any other work. Essential duties are those duties which cannot 
reasonably be omitted without affecting your ability to carry out your normal 
occupation. 
Mr F submitted his claim in May 2020 and Wesleyan declined it in November 2020. It said 
the medical evidence showed Mr F had made a recovery from his heart attack and it thought 
he was no longer prevented from returning to work, at least on a part-time basis. It said it 
noted Mr Fs concern over the risk of stress at work causing a further heart attack, but said 
this was not valid grounds for a claim. Mr F was also deemed a high risk in relation to Covid-
19, but Wesleyan said it thought Mr F would be able to work with the correct Personal 
Protection Equipment (PPE).   
Mr F complained. And Wesleyan said it didnt uphold the complaint, as it thought it had been 
right to decline the claim, as the policy definitions of incapacity had not been met.
Unhappy with Wesleyans response, Mr F brought his complaint to this service. An 
investigator here looked into what had happened and said they didnt think Wesleyan had 
acted unfairly. 
Wesleyan made no comments on the investigators view. However Mr F disagreed and 
asked for a decision from an ombudsman. In summary he said he had not referenced Covid-
19 in his claim form, and thought this had been used to deliberately confuse the situation. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
And Ive looked at the relevant rules and industry guidelines, which say Wesleyan has a 
responsibility to handle claims promptly and fairly and shouldnt reject a claim unreasonably. 
Firstly, Im very sorry to hear of the serious health issues Mr F has faced. My assessment 
here is not based on whether he has been unwell, but rather Ive looked at whether I think 
the evidence supports that he met the definition of incapacity set out in the policy, and for the 
duration of the deferred period. 
If I havent commented on a particular point in my decision, this doesnt mean I havent 
considered it. Im not required to comment on each and every point, but instead Im 
concentrating on the main issues in the complaint. No discourtesy is intended by this; it 
simply reflects the informal nature of the ombudsman service and my role in it.
The medical evidence
Wesleyan said it declined Mr Fs claim as it didnt think he was unable to return to work due 
to his recovery from a heart attack, but rather due to the risk of a further cardiac issues due 
to work related stress, and the risk of contracting Covid-19. Having considered the evidence 
available, I dont think Wesleyan has acted unfairly in declining the claims, and Ill explain 
why. 
The deferred period of Mr Fs policies was 52 weeks. This means he needed to evidence he 
met the policy definitions of incapacity for the duration of that period. This ran from April 
2020 until April 2021. 
Having reviewed the medical evidence available related to the deferred period, I think the 
reports from Dr W  Mr Fs treating consultant cardiologist - are of the most relevance. 
These show Mr F recovered well from his heart attack and associated surgery some 
considerable time before the end of the policy deferred period. The reports around the end of 
June to August 2020 reflect that although Mr F needed to take several types of medication 
on an ongoing basis, he had fully recovered. Dr W said he now has completely normal left 
ventricular systolic function and he has made a complete recovery from a cardiac 
perspective. And in a letter sent in June 2020 he said If there was no COVID risk then from 
a cardiac perspective he could go back to work. 
In August 2020 Dr W commented on how well Mr F had rebuilt his fitness levels and 
documented various physical activities and exercise he had been able to undertake. And he 
gave an opinion on how Mr F was affected by work-related stress saying I have no doubt all 
the considerable stress at work had a major factor in this heart attack and said he would 
support Mr Fs early retirement to avoid him being subject to all the stress and risk that goes 
with [his job]. 
This medical evidence satisfies me that Mr Fs continued absence from work was not related 
to his heart attack and surgery, as his consultant deemed him to have recovered from this 
around four months into the 12 month deferred period. And the remaining concerns were 
attributed to the risk of future illness due to work-related stress and / or Covid-19. Ive gone on to consider the evidence related to the remainder of the deferred period. A letter 
from Mr Fs GP in October 2020 clarified he had continued to sign Mr F off work with the aim 
of preventing a further heart attack. He said stress was deemed to be a major cause of Mr 
Fs heart attack, and noted he worked in a very stressful environment. 
As Ive explained, for Mr Fs claim to be paid, he needed to demonstrate he met the 
definitions of incapacity for his policies. And although I accept his GP said he was unfit for 
work, the criteria applied to make this decision will not be the same as the definitions of 
incapacity found in the policies. And the GP has stated his reasons for deeming Mr F unfit 
for work, related to prevention of a further illness related to stress or Covid-19. There is no 
evidence that Mr F was unable to work due to an illness which was present at that time. So 
Ive not been persuaded that Mr F was incapacitated in line with the policy definitions, 
beyond the middle of 2020. 
Mr Fs occupation 
Mr Fs policies were taken out some considerable time ago, and reflect the occupations 
medical practitioner and consultant anaesthetist. Mr Fs most recent role has been as an 
intensive care consultant. He has said when he took out the policies, the options he could 
select from to describe his role were limited.
When making an assessment, I have to consider the occupations the policies were set out to 
cover. However, I dont think it would make a difference to my decision if the insured 
occupations in this case matched Mr Fs most current role. I say this because Ive not been 
persuaded that Mr F was unable to work for the duration of the deferred period, due to an 
illness. The medical evidence shows the barriers to Mr F returning to work in the later parts 
of the deferred period were the risk of work-related stress causing further cardiac issues, 
and the risk of contracting Covid-19. Regardless of the specific occupation being performed, 
the policies provide no cover in the circumstances of being unable to work due to the risk of 
an illness.  
Mr F has said he thinks Wesleyan should pay his claim whilst he seeks a change of job role 
and re-training, as his current role carries a much greater risk of contracting Covid-19. 
However, as Im satisfied that Mr F did not meet the policy definitions of incapacity for the 
duration of the 52 week deferred period, Ive not been persuaded that Wesleyan needs to 
pay the claim at all. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given, its my final decision that I do not uphold this complaint. And I 
make no award against Wesleyan Assurance Society.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr F to accept or 
reject my decision before 30 August 2022.
 
Gemma Warner
Ombudsman