DRN-2116782
The complaint
Mr M complains that he didnt receive the compensation Lloyds Bank PLC (Lloyds) was to 
pay him in 2015. He wants the payment to be made plus interest. 
What happened
Mr M complained to Lloyds about the mis-sale of payment protection insurance (PPI) on 
two loans. In 2015 Lloyds agreed to uphold the complaint about both of the loans and wrote 
to Mr M confirming this. This was to be followed shortly afterwards by the actual payment 
quoted in the letter. 
The amount due to be paid was £670.71 but Mr Ms recollection is that he only received 
approximately £100 or £200. He wants the payment to be made to him.
One of our adjudicators considered Mr Ms complaint. They didnt think it should be upheld 
because of the evidence Lloyds had been able to provide showing that the payment had 
been made and the cheque had been encashed. He also checked Lloyds redress 
calculations and confirm they were in line with what we would expect.
Mr M disagreed. He didnt agree that enough evidence had been provided. He was 
concerned the cheque had been encashed in a cheque centre. He wanted a bank 
statement showing where the cheque had been cased.
As the complaint remains unresolved it has been passed to me for decision in my role as 
ombudsman. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive seen a copy of Lloyds letter dated 20 March 2015 confirming it would be paying 
compensation to Mr M. I see its correctly addressed. It confirmed that payment would be 
made by cheque sent through the post. 
Lloyds has told us the cheque was sent, dated 30 March 2015 and I see no reason to 
assume it was sent to another address than the one stated in its letter of 20 March 2015.    
Mr M hasnt told us of any problems he was having with his post and I think its more likely 
that correctly addressed correspondence is safely delivered to the correct address. 
Mr M says he was paid £100 or £200 approximately so it seems he does recall receiving 
some payment, albeit not the amount he was expecting. But Lloyds has been able to confirm 
the cheque number, the date it was issued, the amount (of £670.71) and the date it was 
cashed  on 2 April 2015.
Lloyds wasnt able to locate a bank statement showing where the cheque was paid into. And 
Mr M doesnt think Lloyds has provided enough evidence to show that the payment was 
correctly made  he wants a copy of a bank statement or the cheque itself. Lloyds cant 
provide these. But I dont find this surprising as businesses arent obliged to keep paperwork 
indefinitely and this all took place nearly six years ago. 
So, in the absence of complete evidence from the time  showing the bank account where 
the cheque was paid into  I have to base my decision on what I think most likely happened 
with the information and evidence that is available.
It may be that Mr M didnt receive Lloyds letter of 26 March 2015 or the follow up letter and 
cheque. But Mr M has said he did receive some payment for the mis-sold PPI and if it wasnt 
the amount he was expecting then I think he would have raised this at the time. And bearing 
in mind he was aware he was to receive compensation from the mis-sale (for which he says 
he received £100/£200), I think its more likely that he did receive Lloyds letter of 26 March 
2015. And I see no reason to think that it was any less likely he didnt receive the cheque 
that followed.
Ive noted Mr Ms concerns about the manner in which the cheque has been cashed. But I 
cant say this is an error on Lloyds part. And as Ive said above, Mr M hasnt told us of any 
problems with his postal service. As the address used by Lloyds was the correct one for Mr 
M, I wont be asking it to do any more. It has done everything it said it would do to put right 
the mis-sale of the PPI. It paid the redress, and that redress cheque was encashed so I think 
Lloyds has done everything it can to put the matter right.  
I know my decision will disappoint Mr M. But I hope my explanation of how Ive reached that 
decision is useful for him. 
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I am not upholding Mr Ms complaint and I wont be asking 
Lloyds Bank PLC to do anything more. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 10 March 2021.
 
Catherine Langley
Ombudsman