DRN-3035144
The complaint
This complaint is about a mortgage Mrs and Mr G hold with Barclays Bank UK PLC; it 
started with a different lender before being transferred to Barclays. They dont recall 
borrowing the money and are disputing how much they owe.
What happened
Our decisions are published, and its important that I dont include any information that might 
result in Mrs and Mr G being identified. Instead Ill give a brief summary of the case in my 
own words, rounding the figures, and then focus on giving the reasons for my decision. If I 
dont mention something, it wont be because Ive ignored it. Itll be because I didnt think it 
was material to the outcome of the complaint. 
The mortgage is interest-only, and made up of three sub accounts, with outstanding 
balances of around £38,000, £24,000 and £6,000 respectively. Mrs and Mr G dispute 
receiving all of the money in the first place; they also disagree with the balances Barclays 
say they owe.
The investigator explained why the time limits in our rules prevented us from looking at how 
the mortgage came into being; we could only consider the operation of the accounts over the 
six years preceding the complaint; i.e. since 2014. When she did that, the investigator didnt 
identify any reason to think the account balances were wrong.
Mrs and Mr G asked for the complaint to be reviewed by an ombudsman. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ill start with some general observations. Were not the regulator of financial businesses, and 
we dont police their internal processes or how they operate generally. Thats the job of the 
Financial Conduct Authority (FCA). We deal with individual disputes between businesses 
and their customers. In doing that, we dont replicate the work of the courts. 
Were impartial, and we dont take either sides instructions on how we investigate a 
complaint. We conduct our investigations and reach our conclusions without interference 
from anyone else. But in doing so, we have to work within the rules of the ombudsman 
service, and the remit those rules give us.
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Like the investigator, Ive confined my consideration of the complaint to the accounting since 
2014; the primary evidence there is the annual statements. The difficulty for Mrs and Mr G is 
they havent given any substantive reason why they disagree with the balances showing on 
the statements. I think its more to do with the fact that they dont believe they borrowed the 
money in the first place, but weve no power under our rules to look into that. 
If Mrs and Mr G have a real and substantive belief that their mortgage balances are too high, 
it is open to them to arrange for the accounts to be audited by a suitably qualified and 
independent party. 
The evidence of the audit could then be used as the basis for a new complaint, but not as 
the basis for this one. I make the latter point because Barclays would need to be presented 
with the finished audit first, and be given the opportunity to consider and respond to it. 
Mrs and Mr G would have to meet the cost of the audit, albeit if errors were found that were 
to his detriment, we would then expect Barclays to reimburse any reasonable cost of the 
audit as well as taking any corrective action the audit revealed to be necessary. But as 
things stand, theres no evidence that gives me any reason to think that Barclays has mis-
calculated Mrs and Mr Gs mortgage balance. 
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint. My final decision concludes this services consideration of this 
complaint, which means Ill not be engaging in any further discussion of the merits of it.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs and Mr G to 
accept or reject my decision before 26 November 2021. 
Jeff Parrington
Ombudsman