DRN-2932651
The complaint
Mr and Mrs G complain that Oplo PL Ltd didnt carry out affordability checks before offering 
them a loan. They say the loan wasnt affordable and caused them financial hardship.
What happened
Mr and Mrs G took out a loan of about £6,000 with Oplo in April 2015. The loan was to clear 
mortgage arrears of about £1,000 to improve their credit rating and buy a car. The loan was 
secured by a second charge on their property.
Mr and Mrs G say if Oplo had carried out affordability checks it would have known they were 
in financial hardship and further borrowing wasnt affordable. They say it would have seen 
this from looking at their bank statements.
Our investigator said Oplo had asked Mr and Mrs G about their income and expenditure and 
for evidence to support this. She said the checks made were proportionate and, based on 
the information it had, the loan appeared affordable. 
Mr and Mrs G didnt agree, saying if Oplo had reviewed their bank statements it would have 
seen they were in financial hardship.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Before lending to Mr and Mrs G Oplo needed to check the loan was affordable. Oplo 
provided evidence of the checks it carried out, including:
Its record of what Mr and Mrs G told it about their income, credit commitments, 
household expenses and other outgoings.
A copy of Mr Gs payslip, to evidence his stated income.
A copy of Mr and Mrs Gs bank statements, to evidence their stated income and 
outgoings.
A comparison of Mr and Mrs Gs stated outgoings against Government statistics. 
Results of a credit check, to check Mr and Mrs G stated commitments and signs of 
problems managing their money, and a record of Mr and Mrs Gs explanation for adverse 
data. 
Oplo verified Mr and Mrs Gs income. It asked them about their commitments and 
expenditure, and checked this against its credit check, Mr and Mrs Gs bank statements and 
payslip and Government statistics. 
I think these checks were proportionate, given the amount of the loan, the monthly 
repayments and Mr and Mrs G stated income. Based on the information it received I think it 
was reasonable for Oplo to assess the loan as affordable. I dont think Mr and Mrs Gs bank 
statements would have alerted Oplo to them being in financial hardship. However, there was 
adverse data on Mr and Mrs Gs credit files and this could suggest they were having 
problems managing their money
There was a County Court judgement recorded in January 2015 against Mr G and defaults 
on credit accounts some years earlier. Mr and Mrs G were in mortgage arrears. I think Oplo 
was right to ask them about this.
Mr and Mrs G said circumstances  including Mr G losing his job, having a baby in 2010 and 
Mr G taking unpaid leave in 2012 when Mrs G broke a bone  had led to financial problems. 
They said Mr G had been back in work for some months (which was evidenced by his 
payslip) and they expected their finances to improve again a few months later. Their 
youngest child would soon start school, saving child care costs of about £1,000 per month, 
and Mrs G intended to go into full time work. This was consistent with the information and 
evidence Oplo had. I think it was reasonable for it to accept this explanation. 
Loan repayments were maintained by Mr and Mrs G and the loan was repaid in 2017. Mr G 
says hes now in financial difficulties and Im very sorry for this. But based on the available 
evidence, I think the checks Oplo carried out before offering this loan were proportionate 
and, based on the information it received, Oplo had no reason to think the loan wouldnt be 
affordable for Mr and Mrs G.
My final decision
My decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs G and Mr G to 
accept or reject my decision before 22 September 2021.
 
Ruth Stevenson
Ombudsman