DRN-2876673
The complaint
Mr P is unhappy with how MCE Insurance Company Limited (MCE) handled a motorcycle 
insurance claim for his stolen motorbike.
What happened
Mr P arranged motorcycle insurance with MCE, but when his motorcycle was stolen on 4 
December 2020, Mr P was unhappy with the valuation figure MCE placed on the motorcycle. 
Mr P was also upset that it was so difficult to initially register the claim and said MCE also 
caused delays asking for information he thought they should already have had. Mr P raised 
other concerns about having to pay the excess and queried whether, in light of MCEs 
valuation figure, the premiums hed been paying were too high as they reflected the higher 
value hed declared when taking out the policy.
 
MCE said theyd acted fairly in the handling of Mr Ps claim, but after Mr P provided some 
evidence of his initial contact with MCE when he tried to register the claim MCE offered him 
£50 to recognise there had been some initial delays. Mr P didnt accept this or MCEs 
findings and brought his complaint to our service. 
MCE offered to make an interim claim payment to Mr P while his complaint was considered 
at our service, but Mr P didnt accept this as he wished to wait for the outcome of our 
services investigation and he wanted to just receive one lump sum. MCE let Mr P know the 
option was there for him to accept an interim payment should he later change his mind. 
Our investigator said that based on the checks and review he completed, he had found 
MCEs valuation of Mr Ps motorcycle using trade-guides was fair and reasonable in the 
circumstances. And he noted the policy terms set out what Mr P would be covered for. The 
investigator also said it was fair for MCE to have requested the information they did in order 
to assess the claim and noted that MCE agreed the claim the day after receiving the 
required information. As part of their review the investigator was also able to confirm that 
under the terms of the policy it was fair for the excess to be applied and they checked Mr Ps 
premiums would have been the same regardless of the initial motorcycle value he had 
declared when taking out the policy. 
However, the investigator didnt think MCE had done enough to help and reassure Mr P 
about his claim when he was first trying to contact MCE after his motorcycle was stolen  so 
the investigator increased the offer to recognise the impact of this on Mr P from £50 to £100.
  
Mr P broadly accepted the investigators opinion, however, MCE said they felt £100 was too 
much to recognise what had happened with their initial handling of Mr Ps claim. So as the 
investigator was unable to reach a resolution, MCE asked for an ombudsman to consider the 
matter and the complaint has been passed to me for a decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I broadly agree with the conclusions reached by the investigator  that is, I 
think MCE have fairly applied the terms of Mr Ps policy and looked to provide Mr P with a 
fair valuation for his motorcycle; however, I think MCE could have been more helpful towards 
Mr P when he was first trying to communicate with them about his claim and I think £100 is 
fair in the circumstances to recognise the short delay, the difficulties and worry this caused 
Mr P at the time. Ive explained my findings in more detail below. 
Ive first dealt with the concerns Mr P raised about the valuation and matters associated with 
the policy. 
I understand Mr P feels his motorcycle is worth more than MCE offered for it, particularly due 
to the motorcycles additional features. The role of this service isnt to value Mr Ps 
motorcycle, but to look at whether MCE has acted fairly. And Im mindful that valuing 
motorcycles is not an exact science due to the number of variables involved.
 
The investigator reviewed the trade-guide valuations for Mr Ps motorcycle which MCE used, 
and carried out their own checks as well which Ive seen. The trade-guides provide a good 
reflection of the true market value of a vehicle as theyre based on national research of 
actual selling prices. MCEs valuation is within the range of these valuations. 
Ive also looked at the policy terms (which were available to Mr P) that set out a claim would 
be paid based on the manufacturers standard specifications. The terms also make clear that 
cover didnt apply to accessories or modifications. And there is nothing in the available 
paperwork to show Mr P had declared any additional features to be covered under the 
policy. 
Mr P referred to motorcycle adverts hed seen in order to support a higher valuation figure, 
but these are typically higher in order to allow room for negotiating, so they can be less 
reliable. 
Taking this all into account, Im in agreement with the investigator that the valuation figure 
MCE arrived at was fair in the circumstances.
Im aware Mr P was also unhappy about paying the policy excess as this reduced the 
valuation figure. While I understand Mr Ps disappointment with this, as what happened had 
not been his fault, when he first arranged the policy he did agree to this policy excess and it 
is fair for MCE to apply it in the circumstances.  
Mr P raised concerns that the policy premium hed paid had been too high given he had 
declared a higher value for the motorcycle when he took out the cover. However, I can see 
our investigator confirmed that the policy premium would not have changed had the lower 
valuation figure now being offered been declared from the outset instead. So I dont think Mr 
P has been made worse off here.
 
Ive next considered Mr Ps concerns about the delays to his claim. 
Following the incident on 4 December 2020, Mr P attempted to call MCE on nine separate 
occasions before finally getting through to be able to register his claim on 6 December 2020. 
These calls were made across the three days, as evidenced by Mr Ps phone records. Mr P 
also had a conversation online with an MCE member of staff on 5 December 2020 who 
explained MCEs systems had not been working for three days  I note that Mr P says there 
was nothing about this on MCEs website and he later found out that new business had still 
been able to call through. Ive no reason to doubt what Mr P has said as its clear to me he was trying to comply with the policys requirements to notify MCE about what had happened 
as soon as was reasonably possible after the incident. 
While I understand MCE feel £50 is sufficient to recognise the trouble Mr P had registering 
his claim initially, I agree with the investigator that a £100 is fairer in the circumstances. 
Im mindful Mr P was upset at having his motorcycle stolen. It was not of insignificant value 
and Mr P has told us, given the environment at the time with businesses potentially 
struggling due to the pandemic, he was keen to ensure his claim was registered so that he 
wouldnt lose out. Mr Ps repeated calls over the initial days following the incident, and his 
attempt to contact MCE through other means, such as online, persuade me this was the 
case.
 
And having reviewed the online exchange between Mr P and MCE, I think more could have 
been done to reassure Mr P that his claim would be registered and considered. Although 
MCE explained there was little they could do due to the problems with their systems at the 
time, Mr P was seeking some reassurance about what to do next so that his claim would be 
registered and instead was told nothing was guaranteed at the time. I can see how this could 
have caused him additional worry. I understand Mr P has more recently said he feels a much 
higher figure should be awarded to him for this, but overall I do think £100 to recognise what 
happened here is fair in the circumstances. 
Mr P said the claim was also delayed because MCE asked for information he felt they should 
already have had, but from reviewing the policy terms Im satisfied it was reasonable for 
MCE to ask for that information when they did, and there was no delay in agreeing the claim 
once that information was received from Mr P. So I dont think MCE did anything wrong here. 
Putting things right
MCE Insurance Company Limited should pay Mr P £100 to reflect that their initial handling of 
Mr Ps claim could have gone better.
My final decision
For the reasons above I uphold Mr Ps complaint in part and MCE Insurance Company 
Limited should pay Mr P £100. 
Im also aware that Mr P has yet to receive the payment for his claim. MCE Insurance 
Company Limited should also now pay the claim to Mr P.
.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision before 4 November 2021.
 
Kristina Mathews
Ombudsman