DRN-3292425
The complaint
Mr G and Mrs S are business partners. They complain that National Westminster Bank Plc 
(NatWest) mis-sold them a Coronavirus Business Interruption Loan.
They are represented by Mr D.
What happened
Mr G and Mrs S told us:
The bank had mis-sold them the CBIL as they wouldnt have taken it out if theyd 
known their personal assets would be at risk if they defaulted on the loan. They 
believed this was in contradiction of the CBIL agreement.
Theyd been caused distress as they believed the bank had a charge over their 
residential property, which meant in the event of default NatWest could take their 
home.
They wanted to change the CBIL liability from the partners to a new limited company 
theyd set up, but NatWest wouldnt agree to this.
If they had known the assets of the partners would be used as security for the CBIL, 
they wouldnt have taken it out. 
NatWest told us:
It didnt think the loan had been mis-sold as the partners had signed the agreement 
accepting the terms and conditions.
The bank didnt take a personal guarantee or charge over the partners residential 
property and it wouldnt enforce a sale of the property to repay a government-backed 
loan.
It is entitled to recover the full amount outstanding from the partners, and in the event 
of default it already holds security from them totalling £266,000.
Our investigator didnt recommend the complaint be upheld. She said the partners had 
approached NatWest to apply for a CBIL, and the bank had provided them with the relevant 
documentation before theyd accepted it. She acknowledged the partners said they couldnt 
download the terms and conditions, but she couldnt hold the bank responsible for the 
partners signing a legal document they hadnt read.
 
The investigator also said she hadnt seen any evidence that NatWest had taken a personal 
guarantee from the partners. She said the bank was holding the partners responsible for 
repaying the loan in line with the CBIL agreement, under which they were jointly and 
severally liable to repay the debt in the event of default.
The partners didnt agree and asked for an ombudsman to review their complaint and the 
case has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive come to the same conclusion as our investigator for broadly the same 
reasons. Ill explain why.
The partners say that the CBIL terms are unfair as they are liable for more of the debt in the 
event of default than say a limited company, from which any debt is repaid solely from 
business assets. They feel this isnt in line with the purpose of the CBIL. But I dont agree. I 
say this because the business structures the partners have referred to have different 
benefits and obligations. And if I were to accept what the partners have said, this would 
mean that any sole traders or partnerships wouldnt be liable for the debt they owed, which 
isnt reasonable.
The CBIL agreement provided by NatWest says that when a borrower is a partnership, each 
partner is jointly and severally liable for the debt, and that the bank can ask all or one of the 
partners to repay the full amount. I havent seen that this isnt in line with the CBIL Scheme, 
that the documents were misleading, or indeed that this approach is different to the 
established legal principle that applies to a partnership. So I dont agree that the terms of the 
agreement treated the partners unfairly. 
The partners also say that the CBIL was mis-sold by NatWest as it provided them with the 
information when they took out the loan. But I dont agree. Ive seen a copy of NatWests 
internet guide which provides an outline of all the support that may be available to 
businesses at that time. The guide didnt just provide details of the CBIL but other types of 
support which may be available to businesses such as term lending. Im satisfied that the 
guide gave the partners factual information so that they could make an informed decision. I 
havent seen any evidence the bank gave the partners a recommendation of which option to 
choose.
I dont think its fair for the partners to say that NatWest should have highlighted to them that 
the debt obligation would be subject to the same terms  particularly as the bank didnt make 
a recommendation about the CBIL, it only provided the information. I think the partners ought 
reasonably to have been aware that as the partnership borrowed the loan, they would 
therefore be responsible for repaying the debt. And I dont think its reasonable to expect this 
obligation to be changed because the partners dont wish to remain liable.
The partners say theyve been treated unfairly as they werent aware that they had a 
personal liability for repaying the CBIL in the event that the partnership wasnt able to do so. 
They also said theyd been caused distress because they thought their residential property 
was at risk. But Ive already seen that the bank has confirmed on several occasions that it 
doesnt have a charge over the partners residential property, and that it wouldnt look to 
enforce the sale of a residential property for a government-guaranteed loan.
Under the terms of the CBIL Scheme, lenders didnt take a personal guarantee for any 
facilities below £250,000. And I havent seen any evidence from either party that NatWest 
has taken a personal guarantee, so I cant say its acted outside of the Scheme rules here. 
However, whilst the bank doesnt have a personal guarantee, it doesnt mean that the 
partners arent liable for repaying the debt. And I havent seen anything in the documentation 
and information given to the partners by NatWest that would lead them to think otherwise.
I recognise that the partners say that they didnt realise this when they signed the 
agreement. However it says prominently on the agreement that it is an important contract and borrowers should seek legal advice before signing it. It also says in the signing section 
that the borrower accepts the agreement and wishes to be bound by the terms. I 
acknowledge the partners have said they couldnt open the agreement to see the terms they 
were agreeing to. But I havent seen any evidence that they made NatWest aware of this, 
and I cant reasonably hold the bank responsible for the partners decision to sign a legally 
binding document without reading it first. So overall, Im satisfied that NatWest have acted in 
line with the CBIL Scheme rules. 
Ive also looked at the information given to the partners by NatWest specifically about the 
CBIL and the agreement given to the partners to sign, and Im satisfied this was in line with 
the Scheme documentation. I acknowledge the partners feel this was misleading, however, I 
havent seen any information that was misleading, substantially different to other providers 
participating in the Scheme or that differed from what was generally accepted by the British 
Business Bank (BBB). If the partners are unhappy about the information available from 
NatWest which had been provided by the BBB, they would need to take this up with the BBB 
directly.
The partners say that theyve put forward a request to NatWest to change the owner of the 
CBIL liability from the partners to a new limited company, and security for the loan to be 
changed from the partners to the new limited company business assets only. The partners 
are frustrated that the bank hasnt accepted this or agreed to release the partners from their 
liability, despite them withdrawing from the partnership.
The terms of the agreement say that the bank may allow any person to take over the rights 
and duties under the agreement or, on acceptable terms to the bank, release the partner 
from liability  not that requests are guaranteed to be accepted. I think it was reasonable for 
NatWest to decline the partners request. As part of the CBIL application, the partners would 
have needed to meet the Scheme criteria - which included eligibility, viability, and credit 
checks - and the new limited company is unlikely to have met these for the same borrowing 
terms. And changing the security structure in the way the partners have suggested would 
likely mean that the bank has less recourse to recover any outstanding debt, leaving it at 
greater risk of non-repayment. I think its also worth noting here that because one of the 
partners has already withdrawn from the partnership, they have caused an event of default, 
meaning that NatWest could demand immediate repayment of the loan should it wish to do 
so.
The partners say that their income has reduced significantly due to the impact on the 
industry sector caused by the Coronavirus pandemic, and theyre in financial difficulty. 
However, Ive seen that NatWest has explained to the partners that if theyre in financial 
difficulty, they can apply for a repayment holiday of up to 12 months and/or look to extend 
the term of the loan from six to ten years, subject to a review of their circumstances. The 
bank has also agreed to review the new partnership structure with a view to potentially 
offering it a new loan to replace the CBIL  although it has made the partners aware the 
CBIL is on preferrable terms. So Im satisfied that the bank has tried to help the partners 
through this difficult period  albeit not in the way they have requested.
I recognise that the partners feel strongly about this and theyll be disappointed with my 
decision. But based on everything Ive seen I dont think NatWest has done anything wrong. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr G and Mrs S to 
accept or reject my decision before 31 August 2022.
 
Jenny Lomax
Ombudsman