DRN-2794608
The complaint
Mr S complains that Amtrust International Underwriters DAC turned down his claim on his 
minor damage repair insurance policy.
What happened
Mr S was washing his car and noticed there were some small marks and scratches to his 
cars bodywork, so he claimed on his minor damage repair insurance policy. Amtrust 
reviewed the claim and rejected it due to wear and tear. Mr S didnt think this was fair and 
complained. 
Amtrust reviewed the complaint and didnt uphold it. It said there were multiple incidents 
which had occurred over an extended period and therefore deemed to be wear and tear.    
Mr S didnt think this was fair and referred his complaint here. He said the nature of the 
policy was to cover small areas of damage, and so by its nature would repair what is 
deemed wear and tear to a cars bodywork. 
Our Investigator reviewed the claim and recommended it was upheld. She found that 
Amtrust had only said the areas of damage occurred over an extended period as Mr S didnt 
know when each piece of damage occurred. She also found that Amtrust hadnt shown how 
it had been prejudiced by Mr S not knowing when each incident occurred. Because of this 
she recommended Amtrust reconsider the claim in line with the remaining terms and 
conditions. 
Amtrust didnt agree, it said repairing six different panels at the same time may not be 
suitable to SMART repair techniques and is why Mr S should have claimed within 30 days of 
each incident. It also said as Mr S didnt know when each area of damage occurred then 
they must have built up over time and therefore meet the definition of wear and tear. 
As Amtrust didnt agree the complaint has come to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Amtrust has relied upon two different exclusions to turn down Mr Ss claim. The first is 
because of wear and tear, the policy says there will be no cover:
Where the damage has been accumulated over an extended period, which we deem to be 
wear and tear, corrosion or neglect. 
The policy also says if a claim isnt reported within 30 days of the damage occurring then it 
wont be covered. 
When an insurer relies on an exclusion to turn down a claim its only fair and reasonable to 
expect the insurer to explain why it makes a difference to the claim. In this particular case 
Amtrust has said because Mr S doesnt know when each piece of damage occurred then it 
has accumulated over an extended period of time and is deemed to be wear and tear. 
Amtrust has relied solely on Mr S not knowing when each area of damage occurred. Its 
therefore also possible the different areas of damage didnt occur over an extended period, 
and therefore wouldnt meet the definition of wear and tear under the policy. As Amtrust 
hasnt persuaded me its most likely the damage occurred over an extended period of time. It 
follows that Im not persuaded its fair and reasonable to rely on that exclusion to turn down 
Mr Ss claim. 
Ive also looked at the second exclusion Amtrust raised about Mr S not reporting the claim 
within 30 days of the damage occurring. Its said because there are six different panels 
which need repairing then Mr Ss car might not be suitable for a SMART repair technique. 
The important word here is might, Amtrust hasnt shown that Mr Ss car isnt suitable for 
this type of repair. So again, I dont think Amtrust has done enough to show its fair and 
reasonable to rely on this to turn down Mr Ss claim. 
As Amtrust hasnt persuaded me its fair and reasonable to rely on these exclusions to turn 
down Mr Ss claim, it should re-consider Mr Ss claim in line with the remaining terms and 
conditions.   
My final decision
For the reasons explained above, my final decision is that I uphold this complaint. I require 
Amtrust International Underwriters DAC to re-consider Mr Ss claim in line with the remaining 
policy terms and conditions. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 11 June 2021.
 
Alex Newman
Ombudsman