DRN-1896768
The complaint
Mr S and his brother (Ill refer to Mr S throughout) are unhappy about Aviva Life and 
Pensions UK Limiteds (Aviva) decision to decline a claim under their late mothers life 
insurance policy. Mr S says he didnt know the premiums had been missed, and wants Aviva 
to pay all or some of the claim.  
What happened
Mr Ss mother had two life insurance policies with Aviva. In May 2019, Mr Ss mother sadly 
passed away and so he contacted Aviva to make a claim under both policies. Aviva told
Mr S that both policies had lapsed because premiums werent paid. It paid out under one of 
the policies, but said the other policy had lapsed prior to Mr Ss mothers passing, so no 
claim could be made. 
One of our investigators considered Mr Ss complaint but didnt uphold it. She felt Aviva had 
done enough to notify Mr Ss mother that the premium payments had been rejected by her 
bank  and that both policies would lapse if payment wasnt made. So, our investigator was 
satisfied Aviva acted in accordance with the terms and conditions by cancelling the policies 
and declining the claim under the policy which lapsed prior to Mr Ss mothers passing   
Mr S was very unhappy and understandably upset by the investigators opinion, and so his 
case has been passed to me to make a final decision. Mr S said they didnt receive any 
letters from Aviva and thinks it shouldve done more to let them know the payments had 
failed. Mr S said he didnt have access to his mothers bank account whilst she was in 
hospital and couldnt pay the outstanding premiums because he didnt have her authority to 
do so. Mr S felt Aviva had treated them unfairly in the circumstances, and said he and his 
family were suffering financially and emotionally because Aviva wouldnt pay the claim. He 
asked if Aviva would be prepared to pay 50%, but Aviva has refused to do so. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im not upholding it for largely the same reasons as the investigator. I know 
this will be very disappointing for Mr S as this has been a difficult time for him and his family. 
But Id like to take some time to explain how Ive reached my decision.  
Ive read and considered the whole file, including information from Mr Ss mothers bank, but 
Ill concentrate my comments on what I think is relevant. If I dont mention any specific point, 
its not because Ive failed to take it on board and think about it, but because I dont think I 
need to comment on it to reach what I think is the right outcome.
Theres no specific obligation in the terms and conditions for Aviva to let its customers know 
payments have failed because of insufficient funds. Aviva sends letters to customers when 
payments are missed to let them know their cover is at risk. So, whilst not obliged to do so, 
Id expect Aviva to have done this when Mr Ss mother missed payments. Mr S says no letters were received and I have no reason to doubt what he says. But I have to look at the 
evidence to see if Mr S not receiving any of Avivas letters was because it made a mistake. 
Ive seen copies of all the letters Aviva sent to Mr Ss mother. Theyre addressed to the 
address Aviva had on file for her, and clearly explain what payments have been missed and 
what would happen if the payments werent made. So, Im satisfied Aviva did notify Mr Ss 
mother about the missed payments and the impact that would have on her cover.  
Mr S thinks Aviva shouldve done more to let them know about the missed payments. Hes 
suggested it wouldve been good practice to have telephoned. I understand how this was a 
difficult time for Mr S and his family. Mr S's mother was in hospital for the majority of the time 
between January and May 2019, so wouldnt have received her post directly. But Aviva 
werent aware of this, nor have I seen any evidence to show the letters it sent were returned. 
So, I cant say Aviva couldve reasonably done any more to inform Mr S about the missed 
payments. 
Mr S thinks Aviva hasnt been fair because even if he had known about the missing 
payments, he wouldnt have been able to settle what was owed because he didnt have his 
mothers authority. He also says that whilst he was dealing with his mothers affairs when 
she was unwell, he didnt have access to her bank account.  
I understand the points Mr S is making, but again I cant see what more Aviva couldve done. 
The onus is on customers to check payments have been made, particularly if theres a 
potential that funds might not be available to cover the payment or if payments have been 
missed before. I can understand how not having access to his mothers bank account and 
not receiving Avivas letters, Mr S wouldnt have known the premiums had been missed. 
This is very unfortunate, but not due to a mistake by Aviva. I can also see there was activity 
on Mr Ss mothers bank account whilst she was in hospital, and so I dont doubt that if Mr S 
or his mother had known about the missed payments, action wouldve been taken to ensure 
there was enough money in the account. But this still doesnt mean Aviva did anything 
wrong. 
This has been a very difficult case to decide, in part because of Mr Ss current 
circumstances, but also because Im sure his mother never intended for cover to lapse. This, 
coupled with the passing of Mr Ss mother, has made this a very upsetting situation for him 
and his family. But taking everything into account, I cant say Aviva acted unfairly. It followed 
its procedures in notifying Mr Ss mother of the missed payments, and acted in accordance 
with the policy terms and conditions when cancelling the policy and declining the claim. So, I 
cant ask Aviva to pay the claim. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask the estate of Ms S 
to accept or reject my decision before 17 July 2020.
Anna Jackson
Ombudsman