DRN-3378330
The complaint
Mrs F has complained about how Allianz Insurance Plc (Allianz) dealt with a claim under a 
commercial insurance policy.
What happened
Mrs F complained to Allianz because she said it had failed to respond to a number of letters 
and emails she had sent about an insurance claim. When Allianz replied to the complaint, it 
said it had tried to contact Mrs F on a number of occasions to discuss the claim without 
success. During the claim, Mrs F had also requested that communication only be by letter. 
Whilst it was happy to do this, this could also cause further delays. Allianz had also provided 
Mrs F with the option of providing her own quotes for the repairs or to put her in touch with 
one of its contractors. Once Allianz received any quotes, it said it could review the claim 
further.
When Mrs F complained to this service, our investigator didnt uphold the complaint. She 
said Allianz had attempted to contact Mrs F and there seemed to have been a breakdown of 
communication on both sides. However, Allianz had explained it needed more information 
from Mrs F in order to progress the claim, which she said was reasonable in the 
circumstances.
As Mrs F didnt agree, the complaint was referred to me.
 
I issued my provisional decision on 7 February 2022. In my provisional decision, I explained 
the reasons why I was planning not to uphold the complaint. I said:
Im looking at the complaint about Allianz. Mrs F also seemed to have concerns about the 
property management company, which I will call H, and its role in the claim. However, from 
what Ive seen, H wasnt acting on behalf of the insurer, Allianz, even if Mrs F was of the 
view that it was. If Mrs F is unhappy about the service provided by H, she would need to 
contact that company and follow its complaints procedure.
When Mrs F received Allianzs response to her complaint, she said it hadnt addressed a 
number of her points. She said Allianz had ignored her letter of 1 February 2021 and 
Allianzs final response to the complaint had failed to answer any of the questions she had 
asked in that letter. Mrs F provided this service with a copy of a letter dated 1 February 
2021. Although it isnt clear from the letter itself who it was addressed to, Mrs F added a note 
that suggests it was to the property management company, H. As the letter wasnt 
addressed to Allianz or a company working on its behalf, I cant currently see that it would be 
reasonable for me to say it should have replied to it. 
Mrs F also questioned why it had taken S, a company dealing with the claim on Allianzs 
behalf, until 12 May 2021 to reply to her letters of 1 February 2021 and 10 May 2021. Mrs F 
also provided this service with a copy of a letter dated 10 May. This letter was addressed to 
the company S and explained about previous emails Mrs F had sent to the property 
management company, H. The letter also said that on 12 February, H had agreed to send 
the letter of 1 February to S. Ive read Hs email of 12 February, which was provided to this 
service by Mrs F. It provided Mrs F with a phone number to call to start the insurance claim 
and then said, on this occasion, H had initiated the claim on Mrs Fs behalf. I didnt read 
anything that suggested H said it would send S the letter dated 1 February 2021. So, again, I 
havent seen anything to suggest S was likely to have received that letter or should have 
replied to it. 
As the letter of 10 May was about the property management company, H, and about letters 
and emails sent to H, which S seems never to have been sent, I cant see that S could 
provide a meaningful response to Mrs F without attempting to discuss it with her. Mrs F has 
said that S responded to her letter of 10 May on 12 May, which I understand was when it left 
a phone message. S also contacted the property management company the next day to say 
it had tried to contact Mrs F without success. The property management company then 
passed that email on to Mrs F and asked her to contact S. So, S did take action following the 
letter she sent to it directly and, in my view, did so within a reasonable timescale. 
Mrs F also listed three emails she had sent to the property management company on 6 
February, 24 May and 31 May 2021. As these werent sent to Allianz or S, Im unable to 
comment on this point. Mrs F also said she had asked the property management company 
for a copy of the insurance schedule, which it had failed to provide. As this wasnt a request 
made to Allianz or S, again, Im unable to comment on this point.
When Allianz replied to Mrs Fs complaint, it explained that S had asked Mrs F to provide 
quotes for the repairs or that it could appoint a contractor. Allianz said it was still waiting for a 
response so that it could progress the claim. In the circumstances, I think that was 
reasonable.
So, thinking about all of the above, I dont currently intend to uphold this complaint or to 
require Allianz to do anything further in relation to it.
I asked both parties to send me any more information or evidence they wanted me to look at 
by 7 March 2022.
Allianz confirmed it had received my decision. No response was received from Mrs F.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided not to uphold this complaint and for the reasons given in my 
provisional decision. I havent found any reason to change my view about the outcome to 
this complaint or my reasons for making that decision.My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above and in my provisional decision, my final decision is that I 
dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs F to accept or 
reject my decision before 14 April 2022.
 
Louise O'Sullivan
Ombudsman