DRN-2007250
The complaint
Mr D says The Royal Bank of Scotland Plc (RBS) mis-sold him a payment protection 
insurance (PPI) policy.
What happened
This complaint is about a PPI policy taken out in 1999 at the same time as Mr D applied for a 
credit card in one of the banks branches. It gave him accident, sickness and unemployment 
protection. 
Our adjudicator didnt uphold the complaint. Mr D disagreed so the complaint was passed to 
me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Our approach to complaints about the sale of PPI is on our website. Ive followed it here. 
Ive decided not to uphold Mr Ds complaint. Ill explain why. 
Mr D says he was told the PPI needed to be added. RBS disputes this. Ive thought 
carefully about Mr Ds comment, but I also have to take into account how long ago 
the sale was and how this might affect what he recalls. Ive also looked at the 
available paperwork. The credit card application form that Mr D signed shows that he 
indicated that he wanted to take out PPI by ticking a box. There was nothing on the 
form that I think could reasonably have led him to think it was mandatory. Overall, I 
think RBS made it clear the PPI was optional and Mr D agreed to take it out.
RBS didnt recommend the PPI to Mr D so it didnt have to check if it was suitable for 
him. Mr Ds representative says as the sale was in a meeting the PPI must have 
been discussed. And I accept this may be the case, but this doesnt mean RBS made 
a recommendation to Mr D. Ive found no evidence that it looked at Mr Ds 
circumstances and provided tailored advice. This means it was up to Mr D to decide 
whether the policy was right for him bearing in mind his ability to make his credit card 
repayments if he was unable to work or lost his job.
Its possible RBS didnt give Mr D all the information about the PPI that he needed 
before he made his decision. But it seems Mr D chose to take out the policy and so 
appears to have wanted this type of cover. He wasnt affected by any of the 
exclusions or limitations and the policy was competitively priced and apparently 
affordable. Mr D says he was entitled to six months full pay and six months half pay 
if he was sick and a redundancy package. But the PPI would have paid out in 
addition to his work benefits and for up to 12 months. So, overall, based on what I 
know about his circumstances and the terms of the PPI policy, I dont think Mr D 
wouldve made a different decision if better information had been provided. 
But RBS has paid back some of the cost of the PPI to Mr D because: 
RBS got a high level of commission and profit share (more than 50% of the PPI 
premium) - so it should have told Mr D about that. Because RBS didnt tell Mr D, that 
was unfair. 
To put that right, RBS has paid back the amount of commission and profit share that was 
above 50% of the PPI premium - and I think that is fair in this case.
My final decision
The PPI policy wasnt mis-sold  so The Royal Bank of Scotland Plc does not have to pay 
back all of the cost of the PPI to Mr D.
But The Royal Bank of Scotland Plc does have to pay back to Mr D any commission and 
profit share it got that was more than 50% of the PPI premium. I understand it has already 
done this, so I dont award any further compensation. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision before 14 October 2020.
 
Rebecca Connelley
Ombudsman