DRN-4276129
The complaint
Mr and Mrs W complain because Great Lakes Insurance SE (Great Lakes) hasnt paid a 
claim under their travel insurance policy. 
All references to Great Lakes include the agents appointed to handle claims on its behalf. 
What happened
Mr and Mrs W held a single trip travel insurance policy, provided by Great Lakes, which
covered certain declared pre-existing medical conditions.
Unfortunately, while on holiday abroad, Mr W fell ill and needed medical treatment. As a
result, Mr and Mrs W were unable to travel back to the UK on their intended return date and
their trip was ultimately extended by around six weeks. During this time, Mrs W also needed
medical treatment abroad. Mr and Mrs W say Great Lakes was immediately notified about
both claims.
In August 2022, after Mr and Mrs W had returned to the UK, they submitted claims to Great
Lakes for their medical costs and additional travel expenses. When Mr and Mrs W chased
the progress of their claims, they say they received a number of automated responses
asking them to complete a claim form which didnt fit their circumstances. Mr and Mrs W say
they were never given a telephone number to contact Great Lakes, and so had no way of
speaking to someone about their claim.
In January 2023, Great Lakes sent a final response letter to Mr and Mrs W. It said Mr and
Mrs Ws claim had been received in September 2022 and that its medical team would be
contacting Mr and Mrs W to request some missing documentation. Great Lakes offered to
pay Mr and Mrs W £200 compensation for its delays.
Unhappy, Mr and Mrs W brought their complaint to the attention of our service.
Great Lakes corresponded with Mr and Mrs W in February 2023, March 2023 and May 2023
requesting information, which Mr and Mrs W said had already been provided.
One of our investigators looked into what had happened and said she thought Great Lakes
should pay Mr and Mrs W an additional £100 compensation to reflect the trouble and upset
they experienced as a result of Great Lakes delays. Our investigator said she was unable to
recommend for Great Lakes to pay Mr and Mrs Ws claims, as Great Lakes hadnt yet made
a decision about whether the claims were covered under the terms and conditions of their
policy.
Mr and Mrs W didnt agree with our investigators opinion. Great Lakes agreed to pay Mr and
Mrs W the additional compensation recommended by our investigator. But Great Lakes said
claim forms needed to be completed for both claims. It said cover was confirmed for Mr Ws
claim subject to the provision of additional information by Mr and Mrs W. Great Lakes said
cover hadnt been confirmed for Mrs Ws claim, as it needed information about why her
treatment hadnt been carried out under the reciprocal healthcare agreement for the country
she was visiting, as well as further evidence relating to some of the payments for her
medical treatment. Mr and Mrs W initially said theyd already provided all the information
Great Lakes had asked for and later said Great Lakes hadnt ever requested the evidence it
was now asking for.
As a resolution couldnt be reached, the complaint was referred to me as the final stage
in our process. In the meantime, Mr and Mrs W sent some further evidence both to our 
service, and to Great Lakes.
I made my provisional decision about Mr and Mrs Ws complaint in July 2023. In it, I said:
Industry rules set out by the regulator (the Financial Conduct Authority) say insurers must
handle claims promptly and fairly and should provide reasonable guidance to policyholders
to help them make a claim, as well as appropriate information on its progress. Ive taken
these rules into account when making my provisional decision about Mr and Mrs Ws
complaint. Having done so, I think its clear Great Lakes hasnt handled these claims as it
should have.
Great Lakes says the details of Mr and Mrs Ws claims werent received until 13 September
2022 but Mr and Mrs W have provided evidence to show that their letter outlining their claims
was delivered to Great Lakes on 15 August 2022. Ive attached a copy of this evidence for
Great Lakes attention.
Great Lakes didnt review Mr and Mrs Ws claim until 3 January 2023, well over four months
after it received the details of the claims and Im satisfied this delay was excessive and
unreasonable. And I think compensation is warranted for the impact of this delay on Mr and
Mrs W.
In its final response letter of 19 January 2023, Great Lakes said its medical assistance team
would contact Mr and Mrs W. Great Lakes requested Mrs Ws medical reports on 16
February 2023 but Mr W replied to say he couldnt access the links he was being sent. Great
Lakes sent further emails on 27 February 2023 asking for statements showing payments for
certain invoices. Mr and Mrs W said theyd already provided copies of all their invoices and
receipts and asked Great Lakes to ring them if they needed anything more. On 7 March
2023, Great Lakes contacted Mr and Mrs W to say it was unable to call them but reiterating
that it needed statements showing payments for certain invoices. Great Lakes also asked Mr
and Mrs W why Mrs Ws treatment hadnt been carried out under a reciprocal healthcare
agreement and Mr and Mrs W said this query had already been dealt with at the time of the
claim.
I can entirely understand Mr and Mrs Ws frustration with Great Lakes. In addition to Great
Lakes delays, I dont think Great Lakes provided Mr and Mrs W with reasonable guidance to
help them make their claims. And Great Lakes didnt give Mr and Mrs W regular updates or
respond to their communications chasing the progress of their claims as Id have expected it
to. When Great Lakes did contact Mr and Mrs W asking for further information, I think it
could have clearer about what was needed, and why. Furthermore, Ive seen an internal
email suggesting that Great Lakes should telephone Mr and Mrs W, given their
circumstances, to explain what was needed over the phone and ask whether theyd prefer to
submit paper forms but theres no indication that this ever happened.
I dont think the offer of £200 compensation which Great Lakes has made fairly compensates
Mr and Mrs W for the impact of its actions on them. Having taken into account the individual
circumstances of Mr and Mrs Ws complaint as well as our published guidance on the
payment of compensation for distress and inconvenience, I think an additional payment of
£100 compensation would be fair and reasonable in the circumstances. I understand Mr and
Mrs W consider a total award of £300 compensation to be meaningless, but the FinancialOmbudsman Service is an informal alternative to the civil courts and we dont have the
power to award punitive damages. Compensation at the level Mr and Mrs W are seeking
simply isnt something Id consider fair or reasonable in the circumstances for errors and
delays of this nature.
Turning to Mr and Mrs Ws outstanding claims, an insurer is entitled to request reasonable
information to satisfy itself that there has been a valid claim before making a payment under
an insurance policy. Great Lakes has requested what I think is reasonable additional
information from Mr and Mrs W, and Ive seen no evidence that this information was
provided to Great Lakes before Mr and Mrs W brought their complaint to our service.
Great Lakes told Mr and Mrs W on 27 February 2023 (and on 7 March 2023) that it needed
bank statements showing the payment of certain invoices. In my experience of dealing with
claims like this, this isnt an unreasonable request. Mr and Mrs W had provided the invoices
for certain treatments to Great Lakes previously  but not bank statements showing payment
of the invoices  and were asked to respond to the same email address providing this
evidence. Some bank statements were subsequently sent to our service by Mr and Mrs W,
and Mr and Mrs W have also since sent certain bank statements to Great Lakes but these
have been sent to someone who theyve already been told cant help them with their claims.
Ive attached the bank statements which Mr and Mrs W have shared with us for Great Lakes
attention, for Great Lakes to now consider.
Great Lakes told Mr and Mrs W in May 2023 that it needed an explanation as to why Mrs
Ws treatment wasnt carried out under the relevant reciprocal healthcare agreement in order
to confirm whether her claim was covered under her policy. I also dont think this was an
unreasonable request. Ive attached an email from Mr and Mrs W addressing this issue for
Great Lakes attention, for Great Lakes to now consider.
I understand Mr and Mrs W wish for our service to tell Great Lakes to pay their claims but
this isnt something I can fairly direct at this point. Great Lakes hasnt been provided with all
the information it needs to assess Mr and Mrs Ws claims, and it hasnt declined their claims.
Its not the role of our service to step into Great Lakes shoes or act as claims handlers to
decide whether these claims are payable. Mr and Mrs W need to comply with what I think
are Great Lakes reasonable requests for the outstanding information it needs to settle their
claims. This is the case regardless of how long the claims process has taken up until this
point  this is a separate issue, which Ive addressed through an award of compensation.
Moving forward, Id expect Great Lakes to communicate clearly and promptly with Mr and
Mrs W, outlining what information it still needs and where this information should be sent to.
Any outstanding information should then be sent by Mr and Mrs W to Great Lakes directly.
Id expect Great Lakes to consider this information and assess Mr and Mrs Ws claims as
quickly as possible.
I understand Mr and Mrs W are likely to be unhappy with my provisional findings but our
service resolves disputes and there isnt yet a dispute about whether these claims are
payable under Mr and Mrs Ws policy.
If Mr and Mrs W are unhappy with Great Lakes subsequent claims decision, or with any
further delays by Great Lakes, then theyd need to complain directly to Great Lakes in the
first instance before our service would have the power to consider these matters by way of a
new complaint.
Mr and Mrs W didnt agree with certain aspects of my provisional decision and asked me to 
require Great Lakes to comply with defined deadlines. Great Lakes responded to my 
provisional decision and the additional information Id sent to it, and said it was now prepared to pay Mr and Mrs Ws claim. Great Lakes didnt comment on my award of 
compensation. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
This complaint, as well as my provisional and final decisions, relate to both Mr and Mrs Ws 
claim. 
Great Lakes has now offered to pay Mr and Mrs Ws claim, which is more than I 
recommended for it to do in my provisional decision, and I think this offer is fair and 
reasonable in all the circumstances. 
For the avoidance of doubt, I dont think Great Lakes needs to pay interest on any claim 
payment being made to Mr and Mrs W, as I remain satisfied that Great Lakes didnt have all 
the information it reasonably required to reach a conclusion about whether these claims 
were covered under Mr and Mrs Ws policy until further evidence was shared with Great 
Lakes following our services involvement. 
I also remain satisfied, for the reasons set out in my provisional decision, that a total 
payment of £300 compensation would be fair and reasonable for the impact of Great Lakes 
delays and handling of the claim on Mr and Mrs W.    
Putting things right
Great Lakes Insurance SE needs to put things right and do the following:
pay Mr and Mrs Ws claim;
pay Mr and Mrs W a total of £300 compensation for the distress and inconvenience 
they experienced. 
Great Lakes Insurance SE must pay the compensation within 28 days of the date on which 
we tell it Mr and Mrs W accept my final decision. If it pays later than this it must also pay 
interest on the compensation from the deadline date for settlement to the date of payment at 
8% a year simple. 
My final decision
Im upholding Mr and Mrs Ws complaint against Great Lakes Insurance SE and I direct it to 
put things right in the way Ive outlined above. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W and Mrs W 
to accept or reject my decision before 29 August 2023.
 
Leah Nagle
Ombudsman