DRN-3754598
The complaint
Miss B complains that Golden Charter Limited uses Golden Charter Ltd on their product 
information and stationery. She says this is ambiguous as Golden Charter Ltd is recorded as 
no longer authorised by the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA). 
What happened
In 2000, Miss B bought a funeral plan through a funeral director. Prior to funeral plan 
contracts becoming regulated by the FCA, Miss Bs plan was transferred to Golden Charter 
Limited, a firm that subsequently became authorised. In July and August 2022, Miss B 
contacted the funeral director to express her concern that the plan terms and conditions, as 
well as a return address envelope, referred to Golden Charter Ltd. She was aware that the 
FCAs Register of authorised firms showed Golden Charter Ltd as no longer registered and 
was concerned that her plan was therefore at risk.
The funeral director passed Miss Bs concerns to Golden Charter, who initially responded in 
early August, and, after further concerns were expressed by Miss B, issued a final response 
letter (FRL) at the end of that month. The FRL assured Miss B that Golden Charter was a 
regulated firm and that the features of her plan were unchanged and fully guaranteed. It also 
said that differences in the use of Golden Charter Limited and Golden Charter Ltd were 
simply presentational. It didnt think Miss B had been provided with incorrect information and 
didnt uphold her complaint. 
Miss B remained unhappy and referred her complaint to us. Our investigator didnt uphold 
her complaint, so Miss B asked for an ombudsman to issue a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I wont be upholding Miss Bs complaint. Ill explain why.
Firstly, Id like to acknowledge that Miss B has strong feelings about these matters, and I 
appreciate shes been concerned about the safety of her long-held plan. Its clear that Miss 
Bs taken a keen interest in the FCAs new jurisdiction over pre-paid funeral plans and I 
understand she wants to ensure her plan has the benefit of the protection that regulation 
brings. My role is to decide if I think Golden Charter has done anything wrong, and if so, 
what needs to happen to put things right.
Ive reviewed the entries for Golden Charter on the FCA Register of authorised firms. I can 
see that Golden Charters previous entry, listed as Golden Charter Ltd, is as an approved 
representative. This is a historic entry and its no longer registered in this capacity. Its current 
status, listed as Golden Charter Limited, is as a regulated provider of funeral plans. 
Ive also looked at the terms and conditions of the Independent Way funeral plan that Miss 
Bs referred to. I can see that the business uses Golden Charter Ltd, other than under 
section 3 What is included and not included in your funeral plan where it says:
3.1 Golden Charter Limited (Reg. No. 2511598; registered office: One Fleet Place, 
London EC4M 7WS) agrees to provide a funeral plan on the basis set out in these 
terms and conditions and in the other documents we refer to. Our contract is with you 
(whether or not you purchased the funeral plan), or any person you nominate to 
receive the funeral services (see Section 8).
The registered address here is the same as that given on Golden Charters website, which 
also confirms its authorisation and regulation by the FCA. 
I can appreciate Miss B mayve found the use of both the full word and the abbreviation 
concerning. But its quite common for limited companies to use the abbreviation and I dont 
think Golden Charter has done anything wrong in this respect or with regard to its stationery 
styling. It follows I dont think it needs to do anything further regarding this complaint. But I 
hope Miss B will be reassured that her plan is being looked after by a properly authorised 
firm.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss B to accept 
or reject my decision before 30 November 2022.
 
Jo Chilvers
Ombudsman