DRN-3044417
The complaint
Miss D complains that Mutual Clothing and Supply Company Limited lent to her when she 
could not afford it. 
What happened
Using information provided by Mutual, here is a brief table of the approved loans. My
understanding is that Miss D is repaying those outstanding loans at £1 a week. 
Loan Start date Credit 
Amount 
borrowedLoan 
amountDuration 
weeksTotal 
amount 
repayableWeekly 
repaymentSettlement 
date
1 21/04/2018 £350 £350 51 £490.00 £9.60 27/02/2019
2 28/07/2018 £200 £200 26 £260.00 £10.00 27/12/2018
3 22/09/2018 £100 £100 26 £130.00 £5.00 27/02/2019
4 22/12/2018 £300 £300 51 £420.00 £8.23 21/08/2019
5 23/02/2019 £500 £500 51 £700.00 * £13.72 27/11/2019
6 11/05/2019 £300 £300 51 £420.00 £8.23 live acc.
7 10/08/2019 £400 £400 51 £560.00 £10.98 live acc.
8 30/11/2019 £800 £570 102 £1,240.00 £12.15 live acc.
*£237.90 refinanced into loan 8
One of our adjudicators looked at the complaint and thought that additional checks ought to
have been made by Mutual for loans 1 to 5, but as she had no information from Miss D
about her financial situation for the lending period, then she was not able to come to a
conclusion about them. But for loans 6 to 8 she felt that the pattern of lending showed that
the loans were unsustainable for Miss D.
Mutual agreed to that but Miss D said she did not feel ready to accept this as a resolution.
Miss D said that the income and expenditure figures Mutual had for her were incorrect. To 
demonstrate this, Miss D sent to us evidence of her rental agreement which shows she had 
to pay £500 a month whereas the Mutual agent had recorded it as less than that when she 
applied for the loans.
Miss D explained to us that a monthly payment which was an informal arrangement for 
maintenance for her children was recorded each month by Mutual to increase her income, 
but those payments were unreliable. So, Miss D does not think that was fair to include them.
And a Disability Allowance benefit Miss D said she received for her son was attributed as her 
income which she thinks was wrong.
Miss D has described this:
They was [sic] always offering me top up loans and I didnt want to say no as I was 
always struggling with money and the extra cash helped me get by.
On 1 October 2021, I issued a provisional decision to address Miss Ds points and reviewed 
the complaint. In it I came to the same outcome as our adjudicator that loans 6 to 8 ought to 
be the ones that Mutual needed to put right for Miss D and as Mutual had already agreed to 
that then it agreed with my provisional decision as well. 
Miss D has added a few things which I address later in this final decision.
 
My provisional decision dated 1 October 2021 is duplicated in smaller type size to 
differentiate it, in the next part of this decision.
The complaint remained unresolved and was passed to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mutual has had other decisions from this Service which detail our approach to complaints of 
this nature and what we think about the rules and regulations that surround the sale of this 
type of credit. And our general approach to complaints about irresponsible lending - 
including all the relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice  are on our website. 
So, I dont intend to go into detail about those here. But a brief summary is below.
Mutual needed to take reasonable steps to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In practice 
this meant that it should have carried out proportionate checks to make sure Miss D could 
repay the loans in a sustainable manner.
These checks could consider several different things, such as how much was being lent, the 
repayment amounts, and the consumers income and expenditure. In the early stages of a 
lending relationship, I think less thorough checks might be reasonable and proportionate.
But certain factors might point to the fact that Mutual should fairly and reasonably have done 
more to establish that any lending was sustainable for the consumer. These factors include:
having a low income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make any loan 
repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income);
the amounts to be repaid being especially high (reflecting that it could be more 
difficult to meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income);
having a large number of loans and/or having these loans over a long period of time 
(reflecting the risk that repeated refinancing may signal that the borrowing had 
become, or was becoming, unsustainable);
coming back for loans shortly after previous borrowing had been repaid (also 
suggestive of the borrowing becoming unsustainable).
There may come a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly 
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable.
 
And the loan payments being affordable on a strict pounds and pence calculation might be
an indication a consumer could sustainably make their repayments. But it doesnt
automatically follow this is the case. The industry regulator defines sustainable as being
without undue difficulties and the customer should be able to make repayments on time,
while meeting other reasonable commitments; as well as without having to borrow to meet
the repayments. And it follows that a lender should realise, or it ought fairly and reasonably
to realise, that a borrower wont be able to make their repayments sustainably if theyreunlikely to be able to make their repayments without borrowing further.
My provisional findings dated 1 October 2021
Current situation
Mutual has agreed to put things right for Miss D in relation to loans 6 to 8 as recommended by our 
adjudicator. And so, I consider these resolved and I have not reviewed them.
I have used the information and explanations Miss D has sent to us recently. And I have reviewed 
information we already had about Miss Ds financial situation from our records. I consider that I have 
enough to conclude on loans 4 and 5. I do not have enough information about Miss D to be able to 
make any findings about loans 1 to 3. And so, my view is the same as our adjudicators - without more 
I do not plan to uphold loans 1 to 3.
Loans 4 and 5
By December 2018 when Loan 4 was being applied for, Miss D already had three outstanding Mutual 
loans. Its likely that loan 2 did not have much left to pay off, but still I can see that she was applying 
for her fourth loan in eight months while still having three loans open with it. And Loan 4 was for 51 
weeks - longer than loans 2 and 3. It extended her indebtedness for an additional year. So, I do think 
that her income and expenditure ought to have been verified and for her financial situation to have 
been looked at thoroughly. I dont think that Mutual did this.
Using the information we already have about Miss D, I have reviewed some bank statements for 2018 
and 2019. I have one week in late September 2018, and so that is not enough to gain a full picture. 
But I do have the bank statements for the whole of October 2018 through to May 2019. So, the 
October and November 2018 ones would have been the bank statements Mutual likely would have 
seen if it had asked her for them in the lead up to her application for loan 4.
Reviewing those I have seen that her receipts from all the benefits was around £1,776 in October 
2018. This included her sons DLA payment of around £319 and excludes any informal maintenance 
arrangement as I cannot see any payments being made to her. And theres a sum of £827 which I 
think likely were her wages and having checked across the months then this appears regularly. So, 
her total income in October 2018 was around £2,602  excluding any maintenance payments. In that 
month she spent roughly as follows:
oTV licence, phone, utilities, petrol, memberships and insurances, internet, and DVLA costs 
£338
oFood shop transactions £475
oRent  two payments of £150 and £350 £500
oCash withdrawals £525
oMutual and other home credit provider loans £200
The expenditure figures (including loan repayments) came to around £2,038. And as the 
November 2018 bank statements reveal similar figures then I am planning not to uphold Miss Ds 
complaint for loan 4. I think Mutual, had it carried out the review I think it ought to have done, would 
likely have concluded Miss D was able to afford loan 4.
For loan 5, I have reviewed statements for January 2019 and February 2019. The figures are similar 
to those I have gathered from the October and November 2018 statements.
Miss D may well have used the Loan 5 capital sum to repay loans 1 and 3 with Mutual and she still 
had loan 4 running. And I am aware that Miss D took another loan in January 2019 with another 
lender repayable at £133 a month for 18 months. And I understand that loan was taken to consolidate 
debts. I have no credit file from Miss D but its likely she used that £1,000 to reduce her debt situation 
and so that may have assisted her overall.I am also aware that Miss D had another home credit provider series of loans (22 in all) from 
March 2015 until February 2018 and was still indebted to that other company until around 
November 2019.
And for loan 5 Ive decided to look at the overall picture and I think that Miss Ds situation was 
deteriorating. But if Mutual had reviewed the figures as I have done, still I think it may have  felt she 
was able to afford loan 5.
One of the reasons I say this is because I have not included any maintenance payments into the 
figures above as I have seen no evidence of them and yet Miss D says she did get that additional 
money even though it was irregular.
And I have thought carefully about Miss Ds point surrounding her sons disability allowance 
payment (around £319 each month). I take her point but for me, or for Mutual at the time of the 
loan applications, to extrapolate what expenditure was exclusively for Miss Ds son and what was 
for the family as a whole would be a disproportionate task. I dont think the allowance can be 
removed from the figures, but even if it was, still I think that loans 4 and 5 would appear to have 
been affordable  just.
In the circumstances, my provisional decision is that I have enough financial information about 
Miss D to be able to provisionally decide not to uphold Loan 5.
Loans 6 to 8
As Mutual has agreed to our adjudicators view on these loans then I used this decision to set out 
what we are expecting Mutual to do in relation to those loans.
New issue on debt balances
Miss D has raised an issue relating to the calculation of the amounts she says she has paid Mutual. 
Miss D says that Mutual has calculated them incorrectly. But this may have to be a separate 
complaint. So, I am not dealing with that issue here as Mutual has not had a chance to investigate 
it.
It may be that when calculating the figures for loans 6 to 8 the issues Miss D has about those 
calculations are resolved. Either way  I do not make any provisional findings about this element.
How did each party respond to the provisional decision? 
As the outcome was the same as our adjudicators but I had reviewed additional evidence 
from Miss D, then Mutual agreed to the uphold for loans 6 to 8 as it did before.
Miss D seemed more content that loan 6 would be included in the calculations to put things 
right. Mutuals breakdown of the loan situation following our adjudicators view earlier this 
year did not refer to loan 6 and so I understand Miss D may have needed that clarifying. 
Miss D has posed this query - Will mutual have to take Loan 6 into account now and 
recalculate what I owe using all payments I have made?
Mutual will need to follow what I have set out below as the process to calculate the way it 
puts things right for Miss D for loans 6 to 8. 
As I said in my provisional decision, Miss D seems dissatisfied that Mutual may not have 
accounted for all her payments, and so I hope that can be ironed out when Mutual does the 
calculations for this complaint about loans 6 to 8. But if not, as Mutual has not had a chance 
to investigate Miss Ds concern about accounting for all her payments, then it may have to 
be the subject of a separate complaint. But for the purposes of this complaint, it seems that Miss D does not disagree with my 
provisional decision and her only issue relates to the inclusion of loan 6 in the calculation of 
her redress together with her need for all her payments to Mutual to be accounted for when 
doing these calculations. 
So, it seems right to finalise this complaint by saying that I repeat all my provisional findings 
in this final decision which is that I uphold Miss Ds complaint in relation to loans 6 to 8. 
Putting things right
In deciding what redress Mutual should fairly pay in this case Ive thought about what might
have happened had it stopped lending to Miss D at loan 6, as Im satisfied it ought to have.
Clearly there are a great many possible, and all hypothetical, answers to that question. For 
example, having been declined this lending Miss D may have simply left matters there, not 
attempting to obtain the funds from elsewhere  particularly as a relationship existed 
between her and this lender which she may not have had with others. If this wasnt a viable 
option, she may have looked to borrow the funds from a friend or relative  assuming that 
was even possible.
Or, she may have decided to approach a third-party lender with the same application, or 
indeed a different application (i.e. for more or less borrowing). But even if she had done that, 
the information that would have been available to such a lender and how they would (or 
ought to have) treated an application which may or may not have been the same is 
impossible to now accurately reconstruct. From what Ive seen in this case, I certainly dont 
think I can fairly conclude there was a real and substantial chance that a new lender would 
have been able to lend to Miss D in a compliant way at that time.
Having thought about all these possibilities, Im not persuaded it would be fair or reasonable 
to conclude that Miss D would more likely than not have taken up any one of these options. 
So, it wouldnt be fair to now reduce Mutuals liability in this case for what Im satisfied it has 
done wrong and should put right.
What I am planning to ask Mutual to do
Mutual shouldnt have given Miss D loans 6 to 8. If it has sold the outstanding debts Mutual 
should buy these back if its able to do so and then take the following steps. If Mutual is not 
able to buy the debts back then it should liaise with the new debt owner to achieve the 
results outlined below.
A. Mutual should add together the total of the repayments made by Miss D towards 
interest, fees and charges on all upheld loans without an outstanding balance, not 
including anything Mutual has already refunded; and
B. Mutual should calculate 8% simple interest* on the individual payments made by 
Miss D which were considered as part of A, calculated from the date she originally 
made the payments, to the date the complaint is settled; and
C. Mutual should remove all interest, fees and charges from the balance on any upheld 
outstanding loans, and treat any repayments made by Miss D as though they had 
been repayments of the principal on all outstanding loans.
If this results in Miss D having made overpayments then Mutual should refund these 
overpayments with 8% simple interest* calculated on the overpayments, from the date the overpayments would have arisen, to the date the complaint is settled. Mutual should then 
refund the amounts calculated in A and B and move to step E.
D. If there is still an outstanding balance then the amounts calculated in A and B 
should be used to repay any balance remaining on outstanding loans. If this results 
in a surplus then the surplus should be paid to Miss D.
However, if there is still an outstanding balance then Mutual should try to agree an 
affordable repayment plan with her.
l shouldnt pursue outstanding balances made up of principal Mutual has already written-off.
E. The overall pattern of Miss Ds borrowing for loans 6 to 8 means any information 
recorded about them is adverse, so Mutual should remove these loans entirely from Miss Ds 
credit file.
Mutual does not have to remove loans 6 to 8 from Miss Ds credit file until these have been 
repaid, but Mutual should still remove any adverse payment information recorded about 
these loans.
If Mutual intends to use the refund to reduce an amount Miss D owes, it must do this after 
tax.
Mutual cannot carry out a set-off unless it owns the debt.
*HMRC requires Mutual to take off tax from this interest. If Miss D asks Mutual for a
certificate showing how much tax its taken off, Mutual should provide this.
 
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold Miss Ds complaint in part and I direct that Mutual Clothing 
and Supply Company Limited does as I have outlined above. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss D to accept 
or reject my decision before 29 November 2021.
 
Rachael Williams
Ombudsman