DRN-3378071
The complaint
Mr M complains that Cabot Credit Management Group Limited is pursuing him for debt that 
has previously been decided need not be paid.
What happened
Mr M says he made a previous complaint about a business I will call N which was upheld in 
his favour. He says it was decided he didnt need to pay a debt he owed it. Mr M says N sold 
Cabot the debt and it asked him for the balance of just over £3,000. He says Cabot shouldnt 
have asked him for the money and that it should pay him compensation of £6,000. He also 
says Cabot should have carried out due diligence on the debt and realised that N shouldnt 
have sold it. Mr M says the Equality Act 2010 has been breached.
Cabot says it was assigned the debt in 2020 and took it over in good faith. It says it was 
entitled to ask Mr M for the money and says it spoke to N when concerns were raised. Cabot 
says it will no longer pursue Mr M for the money but will not pay him the compensation he 
would like.
Mr M brought his complaint to us and our investigator didnt uphold it. The investigator 
thought Cabot bought the debt in good faith and it isnt responsible for what took place 
before or for the actions of N. The investigator explained to Mr M that it would be for a court 
to decide if the Equality Act 2010 had been broken but thought Cabot had dealt fairly and 
reasonably with the complaint. The investigator also thought that Mr Ms representative had 
asked for all correspondence to be in writing.
Mr M doesnt accept that view and in summary he says Cabot should pay £800 for his 
counselling costs caused by what took place
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I have come to the overall view that I dont uphold this complaint. I 
appreciate Mr M will be disappointed by my decision and appreciate how strongly he feels 
about this complaint. I make clear to Mr M that I can only consider the actions of Cabot in 
this complaint and cant fairly hold it responsible for what may have taken place before it 
acquired the debt. I also cant consider the actions of N.
Im satisfied that Cabot bought a debt from N in good faith. I have not seen any evidence 
Cabot made a mistake in doing so and cant see that it would have been aware of the 
previous complaint Mr M made about N or about any resolution to that complaint. Overall, 
Im satisfied Cabot was entitled to ask Mr M to repay a debt that was legitimately sold to it.
I can see that Mr M told Cabot about some of the previous issues he had with N. I can also 
see that Cabot fairly placed the account on hold and fairly spoke to N about the debt. Im 
satisfied that Cabot then took, what I am sure Mr M agrees with, the decision to no longer 
ask Mr M to repay the debt. It is difficult to see what else Cabot could do to help Mr M.
I appreciate Mr M says Cabot breached the Equality Act 2010. But as the investigator has 
explained it would be for a court to decide on such matters. We look at a complaint and 
decide if a business acted fairly and reasonably. And having done so Im satisfied that Cabot 
acted in such a way here. I cant fairly hold Cabot responsible for Mr Ms representative 
telling it that all correspondence should be in writing if that wasnt how Mr M wanted such 
communication. I have not seen any evidence on Cabots records that Mr M told it how he 
wished to be communicated with apart from in writing.
Overall Im satisfied that Cabot dealt fairly with this complaint and it follows that I cant fairly 
order it to pay Mr M the £6,000 compensation he would like or the £800 for his counselling 
costs in circumstances where I dont think it made a mistake. I find this now brings an end to 
what we in trying to resolve this complaint informally can do.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 1 July 2022.
 
David Singh
Ombudsman