DRN-2638136
The complaint
Mr O complains about the delays and poor service that he received from Link Financial 
Outsourcing Limited, trading as Thesis, when he tried to defer his student loan repayments.
What happened
Mr O has some student loans from a third party and the administration of those loans was 
transferred to Thesis in 2008. Mr O deferred the loan repayments each year. His deferment 
period was due to end in May 2018 and he was sent a deferment pack in March 2018 and 
he completed and returned the deferment application form. 
Mr O says that the application form was returned to him and he was told that it was because 
it hadnt been signed but he says that he was then told that other information was missing. 
He says that hes contacted Thesis and the loan provider to try to find out what information 
was missing but without success so he complained to Thesis in February 2019.
It said that the loan provider wrote to Mr O in July 2018 to request additional evidence about 
his income and that it had made appropriate efforts to bring this to his attention without any 
response so his repayments hadnt been deferred and his account was in arrears. Mr O 
wasnt satisfied with its response so complained to this service.
Our investigator didnt recommend that his complaint should be upheld. He concluded that 
he couldnt see that any further information was provided to the loan provider or Thesis so 
Mr Os deferment was marked as incomplete. He said that Thesis contact notes show that it 
had made consistent attempts to contact Mr O by phone but it had rarely been able to speak 
to him.
Mr O has asked for a final decision on his complaint. He says that hes waiting for legal 
advice and has a meeting with an advice centre in June 2021. He says that the investigators 
recommendations ignore several things and take Thesis word for things which will be 
brought up on his appeal document. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the conclusions reached by the investigator for these reasons:
we offer an informal dispute resolution service and try to resolve complaints by 
customers about financial businesses by looking at what we consider to be fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances;
our investigator sent his recommendations to Mr O and to Thesis in May 2020 and, 
as we offer an informal service, Im not persuaded that its necessary for Mr O to 
obtain legal advice before responding to those recommendation or that it would be 
fair or reasonable for there to be a further delay in a decision being made on this 
complaint;
our investigator has explained why this service cant consider Mr Os complaint about 
previous deferments and why in this complaint we can only look at the actions of 
Thesis (and not the actions of the loan provider);
Thesis says that the loan provider sent a letter to Mr O in July 2018 to request 
additional evidence of his income because it was unable to accept the information 
that hed provided with his application for a deferment and that the amount of income 
that hed declared was below the minimum level for deferment;
it also says that its records show that it made a number of attempts to contact Mr O 
to bring this matter to his attention without a response from him;
its contact notes show that it sent letters to Mr O from May 2018 and tried to phone 
him but its calls werent answered, were answered by a third party or that it left a 
message;
Mr O complained to Thesis in February 2019 and he was sent a final response letter 
in March 2019 which explained why his application for a deferment hadnt been 
accepted and the actions that he should take about a deferment and the arrears on 
his account;
its contact notes show that Mr O didnt contact Thesis until April 2019 when he 
phoned it and it said that a new deferment application form could be e-mailed to him, 
but he asked for it to be posted to him, and that its next contact from Mr O was in 
September 2019 when he said that he hadnt received the form; 
Mr Os application for a deferment of his loan repayments wasnt accepted (and 
hasnt been backdated to May 2018) so loan repayments became due and, as Mr O 
didnt make those payments, arrears have accrued on his account;
I sympathise with Mr O for the difficulties that hes experienced with the deferment of 
his loan repayments, but Im not persuaded that hes provided enough evidence to 
show that Thesis has acted incorrectly in its dealings with him;
I consider that its acted fairly and reasonably in these circumstances; and
I find that it wouldnt be fair or reasonable for me to require Thesis to backdate the 
deferment of Mr Os loan repayments, to waive or reduce the arrears on his account, 
to pay him any compensation or to take any other action in response to his 
complaint.
I suggest that Mr O contacts Thesis to try to agree an affordable repayment arrangement for 
the arrears on his account. Its required to respond to any financial difficulties that hes 
experiencing positively and sympathetically.
My final decision
My decision is that I dont uphold Mr Os complaint.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr O to accept or 
reject my decision before 22 April 2021. 
Jarrod Hastings
Ombudsman