DRN-4186534
The complaint
Mrs B complains about the poor customer service she received from Bank of Ireland (UK) 
Plc (BoI) after she applied for a loan.
What happened
In January 2023 Mrs B applied for a £5,000 loan from BoI payable over 60 months as she 
urgently needed roof repairs. Mrs B said she received confirmation about her loan 
application and that the money would be in her bank account within two working days. The 
day after making the loan application Mrs B was unsure as to whether shed completed her 
bank account details correctly and called BoI for reassurance. She said she was told the 
application hadnt been looked at, and after she expressed concerns about BoI not meeting 
their stated timeframe for the loan being paid into her bank account she could hear the 
frustration of the agent she was speaking to.
Mrs B said the call left her concerned about the application process, and as shed already 
been pre-approved for another loan, although at a slightly higher interest rate, she decided 
to cancel her application with BoI. Mrs B said she was told the application would be recorded 
against her credit file. Mrs B complained to BoI about their application process, the customer 
service she received. And that it was unfair to record an application against her credit file 
when it hadnt been looked at by BoI before shed cancelled it.
BoI said theyd listened to the call and theyd explained to Mrs B that the two day timeframe 
was subject to full checks being made and that shed been contacted if further information 
was needed. They said their agent had tried to help by explaining the process to her. And 
that it was Mrs B who decided to cancel the application. BoI also said that Mrs B was told at 
the time she submitted her application that a credit check would be done and recorded on 
her credit history.
Mrs B wasnt happy with BoIs response and referred her complain to us.
Our investigator after listening to the calls said that BoI could have done more. And that this 
had caused Mrs B distress and inconvenience. They said BoI should pay Mrs B £75 to 
compensate her for this.
BoI didnt agree and asked for an ombudsman to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so Im upholding this complaint. Ill explain why.
Mrs B called BoI the day after she made her loan application and had received back an 
acknowledgement from them which said:
Congratulations-youve signed your loan agreement electronically and subject to final 
checks your money will be with you soon. We will contact you by post in the unlikely event 
more information is required to complete the checks.
And goes on further to say:
Thats it for your application  just sit back, relax and your money should be in your account 
within two working days.
Mrs B wanted to check shed given the right bank account details. And I think its clear that 
time was a concern for Mrs B. Having listened to the call l think more could have been done 
to reassure her about the application process. Early in the call Mrs B is told within two 
working days, if approved to which she responds, yes right. But its clear after Mrs B was 
told that her application hadnt yet been looked at that she was concerned that the 
application was going to take a lot longer than shed thought it would. She consistently refers 
back to the wording detailed above and it taking only two working days. And expresses her 
concerns that shed only be contacted if there was any issue by post. Its clear Mrs B wanted 
reassurance about the process and an understanding of when and how she would hear 
about her loan application.
I understand that this wasnt something she could be categorically told. But I think there were 
several missed opportunities when clarity and reassurance could have been given as to 
what would happen with her application. And it could have been reiterated that the two days 
didnt mean from the date her application was submitted. But from when the loan was 
approved after the full checks had been done. Instead, Mrs B was asked what she wanted 
them to say, rather than her being provided with a better understanding of the process and 
timeframes for her to be able to decide whether to wait for the outcome of her application. 
Mrs B several times also raised her concerns about being asked for information by post as 
this would add to the time her application would take. It was quite late in the call before  
there was any mention of the use of email.  
Overall I think Mrs B was left feeling very unsure about when and how she would hear about 
her loan application. So instead of being able to sit back, relax, she was now worried about 
the application, so much so that she decided to cancel it and to seek a loan elsewhere. 
Mrs B has commented that she heard huffing during the call, while I didnt specifically hear 
this, I do think it was evident that there was some frustration with the questions Mrs B was 
asking. So, taking everything into account I agree with our investigator that this caused    
Mrs B distress and inconvenience. And BoI should compensate her for this by paying her 
£75. 
I know Mrs B isnt happy that her loan application has been recorded on her credit file but it's 
important that credit files are an accurate record of that person's financial history. This is 
because other lenders may rely on that information when making credit decisions. A credit 
check will happen on a loan application as the lender will search the applicants credit report. 
And this would have been done when her application was submitted. So, I cant say BoI has 
done anything wrong by recording the loan application as it had been submitted.
My final decision
I uphold this complaint. And ask Bank of Ireland (UK) Plc to pay Mrs B £75 for distress and 
inconvenience caused to her by poor customer service.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs B to accept or 
reject my decision before 11 November 2023.
 
Anne Scarr
Ombudsman