DRN-4423267
The complaint
Mr and Mrs R are unhappy that Covea Insurance plc declined a claim they made on their 
home insurance policy for damage caused by subsidence.
Mr R has primarily dealt with things so, for simplicity, Ill refer to him only.
What happened
The circumstances of this complaint arent in dispute, so Ill summarise the main points:
Mr R got in touch with Covea in 2022 after noticing damage to the carport, which hed 
had built in 2014.
Covea appointed a loss adjuster. They inspected the damage, carried out 
investigations, and declined the claim. In summary, they said:
oThe carport had a 600mm foundation. Below that was clay with high 
shrinkage potential.
oNearby trees had caused the soil to shrink to at least 1.6m.
oDrawings showed a 750mm foundation depth, which the builder didnt comply 
with. But in any case, the foundation ought to have been much deeper to take 
into account the presence of the trees.
oThe policy doesnt cover damage caused by inadequate foundations and/or 
defective design. They thought this is what had caused the damage.
Mr R didnt think this was fair. He said the carport had been designed and built by a 
professional team, including a competent local builder, an architect and a structural 
engineer. He also said the carport had been signed off by a Building Control 
consultant to say it complied Building Regulations. And he thought the foundation 
was 850-900mm deep.
Our investigator didnt think Covea had acted fairly. He said it hadnt shown what 
specific regulation or requirement the design had failed to take into account. He 
asked it to reconsider the claim.
Covea maintained it was fair to decline the claim based on the foundation depth. It 
quoted sections of Building Regulations and referred to guidance from N, a builder of 
new homes, which it said showed the foundation ought to have been over 2,000mm 
deep to resist the impact of the trees.
Our investigator considered what Covea said but wasnt persuaded to change his 
mind. He didnt think Ns guidance was relevant in this case. And as the carport had 
received approval from Building Control, he didnt agree it had failed to meet the 
requirements of Building Regulations. He also noted there was nothing else Mr R 
could reasonably have done to ensure the construction was to a reasonable 
standard. So, he asked Covea to accept the claim.
An agreement couldnt be reached, so the complaint has been passed to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the position reached by the investigator, for the same 
reasons. Ill explain why.
The policy covers damage, subject to a number of exclusions. Theres no dispute 
theres damage.
Covea has relied on two policy exclusions to decline the claim. They say Covea wont 
pay for damage caused by:
oinadequate foundations which do not meet building regulations current at the 
time of construction. And/or
ofaulty workmanship, defective design or use of defective materials.
I understand Covea considers the depth of the foundation is inadequate and amounts 
to faulty design. As its relying on exclusions, the onus is on Covea to show why it 
would be fair to decline the claim.
The first exclusion requires the foundation to be inadequate relative to the relevant 
Building Regulations. Covea has quoted a part of the Regulations which says, in 
summary, the building should be constructed so that ground movement caused by 
soil shrinkage wont impair its stability. It hasnt mentioned any Regulation more 
specific than that  for example, anything which might set out foundation depths or 
how they might be impacted by nearby trees.
This is disappointing. Ive previously told Covea my view on this in a number of 
decisions, yet it hasnt taken that into account  as its required to do.
Ill repeat my view. Im not persuaded taking this Regulation as literally as Covea has 
suggested would produce a fair outcome. It would amount to concluding that any 
claim for subsidence caused by clay shrinkage meant the foundation was inadequate 
and the damage wasnt covered by the policy. The part of the Regulations Covea has 
quoted is a broad aim, followed by more specific information about how to achieve it. 
Yet Covea hasnt gone on to consider or quote any of that specific information.
Covea says the foundation wasnt built to its designed depth. The evidence Ive seen 
from its investigation says the foundation is 600mm  less than the 750mm depth set 
out in the drawings. Whilst Mr R says its deeper than that, I have seen any 
investigation information to show that, so Im more persuaded by what Covea has 
said. However, changing the depth from the drawing isnt necessarily a sign the 
foundation is inadequate and/or contrary to Regulation. Covea hasnt established 
why the depth was changed  or explained why thats not in line with Regulation.
In any case, its accepted that the carport received Building Control approval at the 
time of construction. The certificate says the requirements of Building Regulations 
have been met. So regardless of which Regulations Covea quote and what they 
mean, it seems clear that Building Control was satisfied the Regulations were met.Covea has suggested Building Control may have been negligent. But its provided no 
evidence to support that position. For example, I havent seen anything from Building 
Control to say it made a mistake or otherwise signed off the construction incorrectly.
The evidence before me doesnt show the foundation was inadequate relative to 
Building Regulations. On the contrary, it was signed off as having met them. So Im 
not satisfied Covea has shown the first exclusion applies.
The second exclusion is essentially a broader version of the first. Whilst the first is 
specific about how to judge the adequacy of the foundation design, the second 
doesnt  it simply excludes damage caused by defective design.
But to judge whether the design was defective, Id usually expect to see an insurer 
refer to specific regulations or similar, that applied to the structure at the relevant 
time, to objectively show why the design was defective. So in practice the second 
exclusion requires something similar of Covea to the first.
Ive explained above the position with Building Regulation, so I wont go over that 
again. The only other information Covea has raised, is a reference to guidelines by a 
builder of new homes, N.
This is again disappointing because Ive also told Covea my view about this a 
number of times  yet it hasnt taken that into account as its required to do.
Ill repeat my view. Ns guidance only applies when construction is under the 
supervision of N as part of a new home. That wasnt the case here. The carport didnt 
need to comply with Ns guidelines and so theyre not relevant here.
That means Im not satisfied Covea has shown the second exclusion applies either. 
Whilst its adamant that the foundation isnt deep enough, it simply hasnt done 
enough to show why either exclusion applies in the circumstances.
And even if I were to agree an exclusion applied, which I dont, I would still have to 
consider whether it would be fair and reasonable in the circumstances for Covea to 
rely on it to decline the claim.
Having received sign off from the relevant authority, Im satisfied Mr R took 
appropriate steps to ensure the carport was built to a reasonable standard. I dont 
think he could reasonably be expected to do more. So Im not persuaded it would be 
fair and reasonable to rely on either exclusion to decline the claim.
Overall, Im not satisfied Covea has shown the foundation design was inadequate 
relative to the relevant Building Regulations and/or was otherwise defective  or that 
it would be fair to decline the claim even if it was. As a result, Im satisfied it should 
now accept the claim.
My final decision
I uphold this complaint.
I require Covea Insurance plc to accept the subsidence claim, subject to the remaining terms 
and conditions of the policy.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs R and Mr R to accept or reject my decision before 12 January 2024.
 
James Neville
Ombudsman