DRN-4175407
The complaint
A company, which Ill refer to as P, complains that Barclays Bank UK PLC unfairly 
defaulted its Bounce Back Loan facility. 
One of Ps directors, Mr S, brings the complaint on the companys behalf.
What happened
P banked with Barclays, holding a business current account with an overdraft facility. The 
company retains a Bounce Back Loan facility with Barclays.
Following a review of its relationship with P, Barclays decided to close the companys 
account. The bank wrote to P on 13 May 2021 to advise that the account would be closed on 
12 July 2021 (although in the event, the account remained open past this date). The 
company was utilising its overdraft facility, with a debit balance of around £2,750 at this time, 
that needed to be repaid.
P completed an account switch to a new banking provider on 18 August 2021. Barclays 
wrote to P shortly after, advising that the switch had been completed but that there was still 
an overdrawn balance that needed to be repaid. That had now risen to around £10,000.
The overdrawn balance wasnt fully repaid over the months that followed, leading Barclays to 
issue a formal demand for full repayment of the £10,000 balance on 25 November 2021. The 
non-payment of this debt led Barclays to default the Bounce Back Loan too, and it issued a 
formal demand for full repayment of the £40,000 balance on 26 November 2021.
Having defaulted the Bounce Back Loan, Barclays cancelled the direct debit instruction that 
P had in place for the monthly loan repayments. So repayments stopped from December 
2021, until Barclays reinstated the instruction in April 2022 and payments resumed.
The overdraft was repaid on 22 February 2022. The Bounce Back Loan has not been 
settled.
Mr S doesnt think Barclays has treated P fairly. In summary, he says:
He attempted to arrange a repayment plan for the overdraft with Barclays on a 
number of occasions between May and August 2021, but the bank didnt cooperate. 
It advised only that the collections team would be in touch after the account was 
closed, which didnt happen  and all he received was standardised letters 
demanding repayment of the full balance.
It wasnt fair for Barclays to terminate the Bounce Back Loan when P had been up-to-
date with the monthly repayments. Nor was it fair to cancel the direct debit 
instruction, which he believes breached the Direct Debit Guarantee and that caused 
the loan to fall into arrears.
The first he heard of the Bounce Back Loan being defaulted, or of any loan 
repayments being missed, was when P was declined credit elsewhere and he 
reviewed the companys credit file in March 2022. 
The adverse impact on Ps credit file has left them unable to obtain finance 
elsewhere, preventing the business from carrying out its plans  in turn, having a 
significant detrimental impact on the companys growth and revenue.
Barclays doesnt think it has done anything wrong. The bank says:
It was entitled to issue a formal demand for the overdraft balance, which had 
remained outstanding for six months. During that period, it had notified P on a 
number of occasions of the outstanding amount that needed to be repaid and the 
possible consequences of non-payment. 
It issued a formal demand for the Bounce Back Loan in light of the demand for the 
overdraft, which was in line with its standard collections process to recover all 
outstanding debt. It considered this justifiable even though the loan was up-to-date, 
given the apparent inability of P to service its debts and the sizable overdraft debt. 
The direct debit instruction for the Bounce Back Loan payments was cancelled in line 
with its standard process in light of the formal demand and P was notified of this. 
When payments were subsequently missed, it notified P of these  which included an 
explanation of the potential consequences and of alternative ways to pay.
My provisional decision
As my initial view of Ps complaint differed from that of our investigator, I sent both parties a 
provisional decision that explained why I thought the complaint should be upheld in part and 
gave them the opportunity to respond with anything else they wanted me to consider before I 
made a final decision. I said:
I understand Mr S was concerned, at least when initially bringing the complaint to us, 
that the Bounce Back Loan had been defaulted in light of missed payments  which 
he considered only arose as a result of Barclays cancelling the direct debit instruction 
(and of which he says he was unaware). But that isnt what happened. Barclays 
defaulted the Bounce Back Loan as part of its actions to recover all the debt P owed 
once it decided to issue a formal demand for the outstanding debt owing on the 
overdraft.
As the recovery of the overdraft set in motion the remainder of the events at issue, 
Ive started by considering whether Barclays acted unfairly in issuing the formal 
demand for this debt.
The formal demand for repayment of the overdraft
Ps overdraft was repayable on demand. It became repayable once Barclays decided 
to withdraw banking facilities from P on 13 May 2021. I understand Mr S hasnt 
sought to challenge Barclays decision to close Ps account and call in the overdraft  
but for completeness, given it underpins the matters that Mr S is unhappy with, I 
should say Ive not seen anything to suggest that this was unreasonable in the 
circumstances here.Barclays ultimately issued a formal demand for full repayment of the overdraft on 
25 November 2021. This was six months after it had notified P that it was 
withdrawing its banking facilities, and when the balance became payable. Prior to 
issuing that demand, the bank sent a number of letters to P reminding it of the 
outstanding balance that needed to be repaid  with five letters to this effect sent to P 
between August and November. So I think Barclays made P aware of the need to 
repay the debt, and gave it a reasonable period of time within which to do so (or, at 
least, to agree a mutually acceptable repayment arrangement). 
Mr S acknowledges that he knew P needed to repay the overdraft once Barclays 
decided to close its account, and that the company received the banks letters. But 
he says that he contacted Barclays with a view to entering into a payment 
arrangement on a number of occasions between May and November 2021  as P 
couldnt afford to repay the amount owed in one lump sum  and the bank was 
unhelpful. He suggests that the absence of a payment arrangement is down to 
Barclays failure to engage with him.
Ive considered what Mr S has told us about his attempts to liaise with Barclays prior 
to the formal demand being issued, but there is very little to substantiate what hes 
told us. The banks records of contact with Mr S dont show many calls from him over 
this period  and hes been unable to provide some corroborating evidence, such as 
a phone bill, to confirm the calls he says he made (and which would, in turn, help us 
to locate recordings if these calls held by the bank).
We have, therefore, only been able to locate one call from Mr S over the relevant 
period, in August 2021, in which he contacted Barclays with the intent of setting up a 
repayment plan. But that call ended up being disconnected  the reason for which is 
unclear  and neither party seems to have reached out to the other to resume the 
conversation. I can see why Mr S might reasonably have expected Barclays to call 
him back. At the same time, there was an onus on P  and therefore Mr S as one of 
its directors  to address the outstanding debt. So when he wasnt called back, I think 
its reasonable to expect him to have made a further attempt to speak to the bank 
and I cant see that he did that.
Even if I were to accept that there were some other calls during this period, I have no 
way of knowing whether the lack of a payment arrangement is down to something 
Barclays did wrong during those calls. Mr Ss description of these calls with Barclays 
is quite vague, with little more than comments as to the banks general 
unhelpfulness. And I dont know what Mr S was intending to propose, or what 
Barclays may have been willing to accept, even if conversations had been more 
constructive.
Ive also borne in mind that it was open to P to make whatever payments it could 
afford to reduce the amount it owed at any time, and Barclays had given it 
instructions on how to do so. In lieu of an arrangement, P could therefore have paid 
whatever it was apparently intending to propose to the bank. But no payments were 
made until the overdraft was settled in February 2022. Its also hard for me to see 
that this couldve been done any earlier than it eventually was.
Taking all of this into account, I dont think Barclays did anything wrong in issuing a 
formal demand for the overdraft when it did. 
The formal demand for repayment of the Bounce Back LoanThe outstanding overdraft debt, and the issuing of a formal demand for its 
repayment, prompted Barclays to default the Bounce Back Loan. 
The terms of Ps Bounce Back Loan agreement allowed the bank to take this action 
in the circumstances here. The agreement said that the amount owing on the loan 
would become repayable on demand where an Event of Default had arisen. The 
specified events of default included where:
any indebtedness of the Borrower becomes immediately due and 
payable, or capable of being declared due and payable (or any 
such indebtedness is withdrawn or cancelled) 
Ps overdraft had become immediately due and payable. And Barclays had given P a 
reasonable period within which to remedy the position, to no avail. So the bank was 
entitled, under the terms of the agreement, to terminate the Bounce Back Loan and 
demand its repayment.
While contractually entitled to take this course of action, Ive also considered whether 
it was reasonable for Barclays to do so given that the Bounce Back Loan itself wasnt 
in arrears prior to the formal demand being issued. There is an argument to say that 
the loan couldve been left to run as it was, while the bank pursued P for repayment 
of the overdraft. But looking at the specific circumstances here, I dont think Barclays 
decision was unreasonable. As the bank has pointed out, the amount owing on the 
overdraft was significant  around £10,000. And there was little sign of P being able 
to repay this at the time the formal demand was issued. The apparent inability of P to 
service this debt wouldve given Barclays legitimate cause of concern over the 
companys ability to maintain its other commitments, including the Bounce Back 
Loan. So I think it was reasonable for Barclays to protect its position by seeking to 
recover the money it was owed by P as quickly as possible, in line with the terms of 
the contract.  
So I dont think Barclays did anything wrong in issuing a formal demand for the 
Bounce Back Loan when it did either. 
This defaulting of the loan was reported to credit reference agencies and I 
understand Mr S is particularly concerned with the impact this had on Ps business. 
While naturally sympathetic to the effect this will have had on the company, Barclays 
has reported this information in accordance with the terms of the agreement and 
established industry practice. As Ive found that the bank didnt do anything wrong in 
defaulting the loan, it follows that I dont think it was wrong for it to report the default 
to credit reference agencies. There is, therefore, no basis on which I could 
reasonably require Barclays to remove this record or compensate P for any impact 
its had.
I understand from what Mr S has said that he believes the default should now be 
removed, as the account is being repaid through an arrangement agreed with 
Barclays. That would not lead to the default being removed. The record is there to 
reflect that the loan was defaulted, rather than indicating whether it is or isnt in 
default at a particular time.
Ive also noted that Mr S seems to have been unaware that Barclays had defaulted 
the loan (or cancelled the direct debit for its repayment, which Ill come to separately) 
until some time later. He says Barclays didnt explain or notify P of the default at the 
time. But Barclays has provided us with a copy of the final demand it sent to P on 
26 November 2021, which I can see was correctly addressed to P at its registered address. It is of course regrettable if Mr S or his fellow director didnt receive this at 
the time, but that doesnt seem to be down to an error on the banks part.
The cancellation of the Bounce Back Loan direct debit
Barclays says it cancelled the direct debit instruction for the Bounce Back Loan 
repayments once it was defaulted, in line with its usual process. I think that was a 
decision it was entitled to make once the loan became fully repayable, with P 
needing to make arrangements to address the total outstanding balance rather than 
simply maintain the monthly repayments.
However, I do think Barclays made an error in failing to notify P of this. I cant see 
that it did, or that it notified P when payments were subsequently missed between 
January and March 2022. Had it done so, P may have opted to make manual 
payments of whatever it could afford.
Ive no way of knowing what P payments wouldve made to the loan if Barclays had 
notified it of the direct debit cancellation. Accepting that it wouldve paid something, I 
appreciate that it will have ended up incurring additional interest on the loan having 
been deprived of the opportunity to make these payments  albeit this is likely to be a 
relatively small amount, given the likely sums at issue and the fairly modest interest 
rate of 2.5%. And having not used these funds to reduce the loan balance, P has had 
the benefit of being able to use them in other ways. Weighing all this up, I dont think 
P is really any worse off financially. 
I do, though, think the issue has caused P some inconvenience in having to follow up 
with Barclays to work out what happened with the direct debit instruction. And 
although the full loan balance became repayable, the level of arrears will likely be a 
factor in the steps Barclays takes in recovering the loan. So it will likely be incumbent 
on P to make up these missed payments as quickly as possible, if it hasnt done so 
already. So I think Barclays should pay P compensation of £150 for the avoidable 
inconvenience this error caused. 
I can see that there have been some further complications since April 2022, after the 
complaint was originally raised, with the direct debit instruction having been 
cancelled by the bank on at least one further occasion. Any such matters that arose 
after the complaint was first brought to us and about which Mr S is unhappy would 
need to be referred to Barclays in the first instance, so it has the chance to 
investigate and address them. Im therefore refraining from making findings on any of 
these issues within this decision.
Barclays agreed with my provisional decision. While it said it still believed that a letter had 
been sent to P regarding the cancellation of the direct debit instruction and missed 
repayments, it acknowledged that it couldnt evidence this and therefore accepted the basis 
of my conclusions. 
Mr S didnt accept my provisional decision. In summary, he said:
P had called Barclays on a number of occasions and he had obtained a phone bill to 
evidence this. The bank didnt offer any help on these calls or advise on how the 
Bounce Back Loan would be affected by its decision to withdraw its services from P. 
And the bank didnt make proactive efforts to get in touch with P to try and resolve 
matters, other than sending automated letters.Barclays ought not to have defaulted the Bounce Back Loan for three reasons. 
Firstly, P hadnt missed any repayments. Second, the loan was backed by a 
government guarantee  so there was no risk to the bank in terms of recovering the 
money even if the company was in financial difficulty (which he disputed). And third, 
the purpose of the Bounce Back Loan Scheme was to help businesses through the 
pandemic  with the banks actions doing the opposite. 
While P did receive correspondence chasing repayment of the overdraft balance, it 
didnt receive anything about the closure of the Bounce Back Loan  and wouldve 
acted it if had.
Barclays had reinstated the Bounce Back Loan in April 2022, which was hard to 
understand if it had been correctly defaulted in the first place. And this decision 
wasnt prompted by P, with the companys earlier request to reinstate the loan having 
been turned down in March 2021. Similarly, Mr S queried why the loan had been 
defaulted when the overdraft had not.
He refuted the suggestion that P was unable to pay its debts, describing the business 
as small but growing and up-to-date on other commitments. The removal of the 
overdraft, while the company was growing and investing, was a major problem  but 
it was only seeking a repayment plan, rather than trying to avoid paying altogether.
He disagreed with my view that there was no impact to P as a result of the missed 
payments between January and March 2022, noting that the company now had to 
make payments of over £1,000 to clear the arrears as well as maintain the regular 
repayments. More broadly, he still thought that Barclays was responsible for a 
downturn in the companys performance  with losses that he estimated at between 
£50,000 and £150,000.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive not seen any reason to depart from my provisional decision. Ill explain 
why Mr Ss response to that provisional decision havent led me to a different view. In doing 
so, I wont be addressing each and every point that Mr S has made. Ive read and 
considered all hes said, but my decision will focus on the matters that I consider most 
relevant to how Ive reached my view, in keeping with our informal remit. 
Regarding the formal demand for repayment of the overdraft, Mr S says he made a lot more 
effort to try and reach a payment arrangement with Barclays than I suggested in my 
provisional decision. He specified four dates on which calls were made prior to the formal 
demand being issued, although he declined our request to provide the phone bill he says he 
has obtained to evidence them. Nonetheless, I asked Barclays to conduct a further search of 
its systems, which yielded one additional call to that Id already received. This call was on 
25 May 2021, at which time the account wasnt overdrawn  so there was, understandably, 
no need for either party to discuss a repayment arrangement on that call. 
So with no new evidence to support Mr Ss view that the absence of a payment arrangement 
was down to Barclays failure to engage with him, I still think it was reasonable for the bank 
to issue a formal demand for the overdraft when it did for all the reasons given in my 
provisional decision.Turning to the default of the Bounce Back Loan, I had recognised in my provisional decision 
that it had been up-to-date and there was, therefore, an argument to suggest it couldve 
been left unaffected by the collection activity regarding the overdraft. But whether or not P 
was in financial difficulty, the non-payment of the overdraft debt wouldve given Barclays 
reasonable cause for concern over the companys ability to meet its liabilities  and, in turn, 
cause for concern as to its ability to cover the money it was owed under the loan agreement. 
That entitled it to default the loan, and I dont think it was an unreasonable course of action 
in the circumstances. While the bank did have the comfort of the government guarantee, this 
would be considered a last resort and it would still be entitled  and expected  to follow its 
usual debt recovery procedures rather than simply relying upon the guarantee. And the 
broader purpose of the loan scheme itself wouldnt, in my view, require it to have done 
anything different in these circumstances either. 
It seems P didnt receive the formal demand for repayment of the Bounce Back Loan, and 
Ive no reason to doubt that. But Im satisfied it was sent to the correct address, with any 
issues thereafter being out of the banks control.
Mr S has described the overdraft as not having been defaulted, causing him to query why 
the Bounce Back Loan was. But a formal demand was issued for each, and I think each of 
these demands was reasonable for the reasons Ive explained. If a default marker wasnt 
recorded in respect of the overdraft, that isnt a reason in and of itself to suggest that the 
Bounce Back Loan ought not to have been recalled. The overdraft was subsequently settled 
when the loan wasnt, which may also account for any difference in how the accounts are 
reported on by credit reference agencies.
Mr S has also queried the default of the Bounce Back Loan given what he describes as the 
loans reinstatement in April 2022. The loan hasnt been reinstated as such. The bank has 
explained that following repayment of the overdraft debt, it decided to move the account from 
its recoveries team back to its financial assistance team and give P the opportunity to clear 
the arrears and repay the loan by way of the originally agreed instalments. It isnt unusual for 
a loan to move in such a way, with different teams handling the account depending on the 
level or type of recovery action that the bank may deem appropriate. This transfer of Ps loan 
doesnt render the initial default (or transfer of the account to the recoveries team) 
unreasonable or unfair.
I set out in my provisional decision that I thought Barclays had made errors in failing to notify 
P both that its direct debit instruction had been cancelled and when payments were 
subsequently missed between January and March 2022. Mr S didnt think my proposed 
award of £150 compensation went far enough, and highlighted the higher payments that P 
was now having to make. But I noted those increased commitments in my provisional 
decision. P always had to make these payments  its just making them a bit later. The 
company may be incurring a little more interest as a result of the longer period over which 
these amounts have been made up, but for the reasons given in my provisional decision I 
dont think this is something that Barclays needs to cover. 
Finally, on the issue of compensation, Mr S still considers Barclays actions to have caused 
a downturn in Ps financial results such that it is between £50,000 and £150,000 worse off 
than it otherwise wouldve been. While I dont doubt that the banks actions will have 
impacted the companys operations, I can only award compensation where I think the bank 
did something wrong or acted unfairly. But, aside from the issues with the correspondence 
for which I think £150 compensation is fair, Ive not found that Barclays has treated P 
unfairly  so there is no basis on which I could award the amount that Mr S is seeking.My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I uphold this complaint in part and require Barclays Bank UK 
PLC to pay P compensation of £150.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask P to accept or 
reject my decision before 26 July 2023.
 
Ben Jennings
Ombudsman