DRN-2352892
The complaint
Ms L complains that Volkswagen Financial Services (UK) Limited (VWFS) has charged her 
excess mileage under a hire purchase agreement. 
What happened
In February 2016 Ms L took entered into a four-year hire purchase agreement with VWFS. 
The cash price for the car was a little over £40,000 and the total amount payable was just 
over £47,000. The agreement also said that the maximum mileage allowance was 5,000 and 
the total maximum mileage over the period of the agreement was 20,416. 
Ms L was entitled to end the agreement early and return the car. If she wanted to do that, 
however, she would need to pay half the total amount due under the hire purchase 
agreement  just over £23,500.
Because of unforeseen circumstances, Ms L found that she needed to use the car rather 
more than she had expected. She was covering more than the annual mileage allowance 
under the agreement. She asked VWFS if she could change the mileage allowance, but it 
refused, unless she ended the agreement and entered into a new one. If she wanted to do 
that, she would need to make a payment to bring her total payments up to more than 
£23,500. 
In the event, Ms L did end the agreement, having paid around £20,000 to do so (in addition 
to the monthly payments she had already made). VWFS then charged her a further 
£2,327.40 by way of excess mileage. 
Ms L did not think this was fair, given her reasons for having to terminate the agreement. 
She said too that she was aware that VWFS had waived excess mileage fees for other 
customers and felt that she was being treated unfairly. VWFS agreed to reduce the fee by 
20%, but Ms L didnt think that was enough and referred the matter to this service.
One of our investigators considered what had happened but did not believe that VWFS had 
treated Ms L unfairly. The excess mileage had been charged in line with the terms of the 
agreement and it would be unfair to ask VWFS to do any more. Ms L did not agree and 
asked that an ombudsman review the case.         
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, however, I have reached the same overall conclusions as the investigator 
did, and for similar reasons.
It is of course unfortunate that Ms L found herself in a position where she needed to use the 
car more than she had anticipated and that, as a result, the mileage allowance was not 
sufficient for her needs. That was not her fault, but neither was it the fault of VWFS. Mileage 
allowances in hire purchase agreements are not intended to be a punishment for the 
customer; rather, they are part of the price of the agreement. A higher mileage generally 
means that the cars value is reduced, so the excess mileage charge helps to offset that if it 
is returned to the finance provider. 
There is in my view no question that the agreement allowed VWFS to charge excess 
mileage, and I dont believe Ms L to suggest otherwise. Indeed, she was aware of the 
possibility that she would be charged, and that is why she asked VWFS to change the 
agreement. I can see why Ms L thinks it would have been fairer if it had agreed increase the 
mileage allowance, but I think it was for VWFS to decide whether or not to do so. I believe 
that the amount charged was in line with the hire purchase agreement. 
I am also satisfied that the sum which VWFS charged Ms L to end the agreement was fair. It 
was the sum that both of them had agreed at the outset and was in line with relevant 
consumer protection legislation  in particular, sections 99 and 100 of the Consumer Credit 
Act 1974. 
My final decision
For these reasons, my final decision is that I do not require Volkswagen Financial Services 
(UK) Limited to do anything more to resolve Ms Ls complaint. Under the rules of the 
Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms L to accept or reject my decision 
before 14 June 2021. 
Mike Ingram
Ombudsman