DRN-4000141
The complaint
Ms W complains that Admiral Insurance (Gibraltar) Limited didnt take reasonable steps to 
ensure her private licence plate wasnt sold on with the rest of her written off vehicle, 
following a claim on her motor insurance policy.
What happened
In November 2021 Ms W was involved in an accident, which resulted in her sustaining 
injuries and the vehicle being taken to a police compound. An accident management firm 
initially handled the claim, instead of Admiral (with whom Ms W had a motor policy) as the 
third party was deemed at fault. Repairs were arranged and a hire car was provided.
In December 2021, following a settlement offer, the car hire was terminated by the accident 
management firm. But Ms W still needed transport, and hadnt yet received the payment that 
would allow her to replace her vehicle  so she called Admiral for help. During that 
conversation Ms W explained that she was still suffering from the accident, and was already 
very vulnerable due to some personal circumstances. Admiral noted that on its system, 
arranged for the car hire to be extended, and took the claim back in house to avoid any 
further delay in Ms W receiving settlement. 
In January 2022 Ms W received an increased offer for the market value of her vehicle, 
immediately prior to the loss, and she told Admiral she was very keen to retain her personal 
licence plate. Admiral said the car would be moved to the salvage yard and wouldnt be 
disposed of until Ms W had given a replacement registration number. 
At the end of January 2022 the hire car was collected  with the firm saying it had first tried 
to contact Ms W, but hadnt been successful. Ms W spoke to Admiral, as she hadnt yet 
received the cheque for the claim amount, and it quickly arranged for the payment to be sent 
by CHAPS. An email was sent to Ms W in February 2022, which reminded her to retain the 
private plate  and another email was sent in March 2022 which said Admiral had arranged 
for the vehicle to be disposed of by the salvage company.
Ms W got back in contact with Admiral in May 2022, and reiterated that her personal 
circumstances meant she have many lucid days to sort things. She learned the vehicle and 
personal plate had been sold on, and raised a complaint  saying she was given the 
impression by an agent that disposal wouldnt happen until she had provided a replacement 
registration number. The settlement payment was also resent, as it had bounced back due 
the payment details not matching (it had to be sent to her mothers account at the time). 
Admiral responded to say it didnt think it had done anything wrong, as it had emailed Ms W 
two reminders about the personal plate. Ms W disagreed and so referred matters to our 
service for review  stressing the sentimental value of the plate, and the distress caused in 
the context of the other challenges she faced.
An investigator here thought the complaint should be upheld, and recommended Admiral 
covered the cost of replacing the personal plate. Following some research he held that the 
fair price was £699, and Admiral agreed to cover that amount in order to resolve things. The 
investigator didnt think compensation was due, as it was an on-balance call to uphold the 
complaint. Ms W believed compensation was warranted and asked for an ombudsman to 
review things. So the complaint was passed to me for a final decision on the matter.
I issued my provisional findings that said I planned to uphold the complaint, but intended to 
go further that what the investigator had recommended was needed to put things right. Ive 
copied below the relevant part explaining my rationale:
Firstly, I want to acknowledge that the whole experience wouldve been very stressful for Ms 
W, having been injured and involved in a traumatic event when she was already going 
through an extremely difficult time personally. While none of that is down to Admiral, it meant 
she was very vulnerable  and so particularly susceptible to detriment. When told about Ms 
Ws circumstances Admiral immediately picked up that she was vulnerable. It was then 
correctly noted she would need to be approached with care, and might need additional 
support or for her claim to handled outside of the usual processes.
There were quite a few occasions where it was very evident to me that Admiral took that
seriously, and did what it could to help Ms W. I know the situation with the hire car was 
worrying for Ms W, but each time she contacted Admiral it stepped in to extend the hire. It 
also took the claim back from the accident management firm, to avoid any delays in 
settlement that chasing the third party could cause. Both the right thing to do. I know the hire 
car was eventually taken back on 24 January 2022 before settlement was received by Ms W, 
but I dont have concerns over that. Ms W was on notice it had only been extended to 11 
January, and the accident management firm had tried to call her to find out what the situation 
was. I appreciate Ms W had a lot going on, but once the claim was deemed a total loss she 
wasnt technically entitled to the hire car, and the situation couldnt be allowed to go on 
indefinitely. Admiral sent the settlement payment straightaway by CHAPS when it discovered 
the cheque hadnt been received - so I dont think there was any more Admiral could have 
done in the circumstances.
However, the investigator felt more should have been done with regards to the private plate 
 and I agree. I appreciate Admiral followed its usual process by emailing Ms W about it, but 
shed previously said she was struggling to return emails. What had been agreed was the 
plate wouldnt be disposed of until shed registered it elsewhere  though I dont think that 
was meant to be completely open-ended. While it noted Ms W was vulnerable and knew she 
was very keen to keep the plate, Admiral hadnt checked what her communication needs 
might be. But I dont think it needed to in order to understand calling would be best. That was 
the only way Ms W had felt able to liaise with the insurer up until that point, and I consider it 
was the adjustment required here given everything she had going on.
Ive then gone on to think about whether those calls would have made a difference  and I 
have to acknowledge that the accident management firm calling Ms W hadnt prevented the 
hire car from being taken away prematurely. I also know Ms W was still struggling during this 
period, and note that she told Admiral she only had the odd lucid day to sort things. But, on 
balance, Ive decided calling likely would have prevented the loss here. Part of the reason 
Ms W didnt return the accident management firms calls was because they came from 
different mobile numbers (she told Admiral that during one of the conversations I listened to), 
and given how important the private plate was to her I think she would have responded to 
Admirals calls (knowing what its number looked like). So I think it would be fair for Admiral to 
cover that loss, and pay the cost of replacing the plate with an equivalent one. Ms W 
mentioned she was getting her own valuation done for the plate, but we never received 
anything further from her on that. Admiral has agreed to pay £699, based on the valuation 
the investigator reached  and having reviewed the evidence, I also agree thats the fair 
value in the circumstances.Lastly, Ive had to consider whether the £150 compensation already paid to Ms W, by 
Admiral as part of the complaint, is enough to cover the impact caused by the insurers 
mistake  and I dont think it is. Paying Ms W the value of the plate wont give her back the 
exact one she had  which shed told Admiral prior to the loss carried a lot of sentimental 
value. Shes had to accept shes lost that gift from her father forever now, and that would 
have been seriously distressing  particularly in the context of her wider circumstances. That 
means the insurer cant now put Ms W back in the position she would have been, but for the 
mistake  so its only option is to pay compensation in place of that. Ms W also rightly raised 
shes incurred some loss of enjoyment of a new similar plate for the last year, as a fair offer 
for a replacement plate has only just been agreed.
Taking into account all of the above, and our approach to these awards  given the 
significant distress this all would have caused, I find an additional award of £350 (in addition 
to the £699 to cover the plate value  and the £150 already paid) would be fair in the 
circumstances.
I didnt hear back from either party with any further comments or evidence prior to the 
deadline I set.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having reviewed the information available on the case afresh, and given there werent any 
responses to my provisional findings, I see no reason to depart from the outcome I reached 
 for the reasons set out above. I remain persuaded that there was more Admiral ought to 
have done in the circumstances, and I consider not doing so has led to the loss of Ms Ws 
personal plate. Thats also resulted in significant and ongoing emotional impact for her. 
My final decision
My final decision is I uphold Ms Ws complaint about Admiral Insurance (Gibraltar) Limited, 
and direct the insurer to:
Pay Ms W £699, as the cost to replace the personal licence plate (I dont consider 
interest is warranted as well, as Ms W wasnt out of pocket  this amount is in lieu of 
a lost item); and also
Pay Ms W an additional £350 compensation (on top of the £150 already paid) for the 
distress and inconvenience caused.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms W to accept or 
reject my decision before 1 May 2023.
 
Ryan Miles
Ombudsman