DRN-3345574
The complaint
Mrs A and Mr S complain that Barclays Bank UK PLC made an error which led to their 
application to port their mortgage being declined. They are unhappy that, after this error had 
been identified, Barclays didnt reconsider the application promptly. And the uncertainty 
meant they felt they had to take a mortgage elsewhere.   
What happened
Mrs A and Mr S had a mortgage with Barclays. In April 2019 they took a new interest rate 
deal on the mortgage. At the time the mortgage balance was just under £191,800. They took 
a five-year fixed interest rate, which meant if the mortgage was repaid within those five years 
an early repayment charge (ERC) would be applied.
In July 2020 Mrs A and Mr S were looking to move home. Theyve said theyd accepted an 
offer on their house and had an offer accepted on a new property. They contacted Barclays 
as they wanted to port their mortgage and take additional borrowing.
Barclays looked to provide a decision in principle. But the application was declined at that 
stage. Mrs A and Mr S queried why. Barclays indicated that it was based on information on 
Mrs A and Mr S credit file.
Mrs A and Mr S obtained copies of their credit file from credit reference agencies, at their 
own cost. These showed no missed payments or negative markers. However, an association 
had been created on Mr S credit file to an address he had not lived at. And the credit file 
indicated that he was party to a mortgage on that property. The mortgage was listed as 
being held with Barclays.
Mrs A and Mr S contacted Barclays again to say that it appeared it had caused this incorrect 
information to be registered. Theyd arranged for the credit reference agencies to correct the 
error, as they said those agencies agreed the information was incorrect. They asked 
Barclays to look again at the application. But it said it could not pass the application to an 
underwriter until a decision in principle was agreed.
Mrs A and Mr S applied again for a decision in principle. This was again declined. They 
contacted Barclays to ask why and were initially told this was due to a county court 
judgement (CCJ) registered against them. They paid for a search of public records to verify 
this. And this showed there were no CCJs registered in their name.
Barclays then said it appeared the decision in principle was declined because the relevant 
information with credit reference agencies hadnt yet been updated on its system. Mrs A and 
Mr S have said they spoke to Barclays several times but it was unable to definitively say 
when this would be updated. And said it couldnt proceed until a decision in principle was 
approved. It explained this was because, if a mortgage adviser carried out a hard search of 
their credit files with the intention of overriding the decision in principle, and this was also 
declined, this hard search would negatively impact Mrs A and Mr S credit file.
Mrs A and Mr S applied for a mortgage with another lender. Theyve said they felt they had 
no choice. This application was approved. A mortgage offer was issued on 15 August 2020 
confirming the new lender agreed to provide a mortgage of £318,750. Mrs A and Mr S took 
the new mortgage and completed their move. They redeemed their Barclays mortgage. As 
this was within the fixed rate period, they were charged an ERC.
Mrs A and Mr S complained to Barclays. They were unhappy with how it had handled their 
application and that it had declined their porting request. They said they felt Barclays actions 
had forced them to seek a mortgage elsewhere, so they asked that it refund the ERC 
charged.
Barclays acknowledged that the service it had provided was poor and indicated it believed 
the issue with the information incorrectly recorded with credit reference agencies had come 
about due to an administrative error several years earlier. It also acknowledged it had 
incorrectly told Mrs A and Mr S that a CCJ had led to the second application being declined. 
To put things right it offered to pay them £20 to cover the cost of public record search theyd 
carried out in respect of the CCJ, £150 for how long it had taken to deal with their complaint 
and £400 for the distress and inconvenience caused. It however declined to refund the ERC 
as it felt this had been charged correctly.
Unhappy with this response, Mrs A and Mr S asked our service to consider the complaint. 
One of our Investigators looked into matters. They agreed that the service provided by 
Barclays had been poor and the communication had not always been clear. But they felt 
that, in a call on 31 July 2020, Barclays had indicated that the update to Mr S credit 
information should take effect in August 2020. And so, Mrs A and Mr S could attempt to 
complete another decision in principle then. As Mrs A and Mr S had chosen not to do this, 
they didnt think they could fairly say the ERC should be refunded. But they did think 
Barclays should increase the amount it had offered for the distress caused from £400 to 
£750.
Barclays agreed with the Investigators opinion. But Mrs A and Mr S did not. They felt, as 
Barclays couldnt give any assurances that the problem wouldnt persist they didnt actually 
have a choice other than to take a different mortgage. And they also felt, as the issue with 
the incorrect address had come from Barclays initial error, itd be fair for it to refund the ERC.
As Mrs A and Mr S did not agree with our Investigators opinion, the complaint has been 
passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive seen a copy of both Mrs A and Mr S credit files, including the information about a linked 
address that was incorrect. Mr S credit file says he was party to a mortgage on that 
property, which appears to have created the association. The mortgage is shown as being 
with Barclays. Barclays hasnt provided anything that suggests Mr S in fact had more than 
one mortgage. And he has said he has never heard of the address in question. I note the 
start date shown on his credit file for this mortgage is the same as when his and Mrs As 
actual mortgage is shown as having begun on Mrs As credit file. And the street name for the 
address is similar to his actual address. Based on this Im satisfied on balance, that the 
information was incorrect and that it likely came about due to an error by Barclays in its 
reporting. 
But while I think Barclays did make an error that led to this information being reported, I dont 
think that means it needs to refund the ERC applied here.The mortgage offer from 2019 explained that if the mortgage was repaid before the end of 
April 2024, an ERC would be applied. The mortgage was repaid and redeemed prior to this 
date. So, an ERC was charged in line with the agreement made.
The agreement did say there was the possibility of transferring the mortgage to a new 
property  which is what Mrs A and Mr S asked for. But the mortgage offers also set out that 
any request to do so would be subject to lending criteria at the time.
Mrs A and Mr S application did not get past the decision in principle stage. Theyve said that 
they believe the incorrect address information is what led to this. And it appears, when they 
spoke to Barclays, it has said it also thought this could be behind the issue. But this hasnt 
been confirmed. Im conscious Mrs A and Mr S have said that this information was only 
recorded with one credit reference agency  and others appeared unaffected. 
In the call they had with Barclays on 31 July 2020, which Ive heard a recording of, they said 
that theyd applied for a decision in principle to another lender  not the one that they ended 
up taking a mortgage with. And that lender was one that used credit reference information 
from the agencies that were not affected by the address issue. But that lender had also 
declined the application at decision in principle stage. This suggests that the issue with the 
address might not have been the only reason the application was not approved. 
Whatever the issue was I dont think Barclays was wrong to say that it needed to agree a 
decision in principle before proceeding to a full application. It has explained, and it told Mrs A 
and Mr S in the call Ive listened to, that a full application would involve a hard credit search 
 which would appear on and impact Mrs A and Mr S credit file. Whereas decision in 
principle assessments did not. So, I think it was reasonable for Barclays to want their 
application to pass its high-level evaluation of whether it fell within its lending criteria, before 
doing something that could ultimately have been detrimental to Mrs A and Mr S.
Mrs A and Mr S are unhappy because they feel Barclays wasnt clear with them about how 
long it would take for the issue theyd identified with their credit file to be resolved  and in 
some calls suggested this could be a matter of months. But again, there was no guarantee 
that even if this issue had been rectified, that Barclays wouldve agreed to lend.
While they were existing customers of Barclays, and were looking to port, Mrs A and Mr S 
were also looking to take significant additional borrowing  as shown by how much they 
ended up borrowing from their new lender. And there is no guarantee that Barclays wouldve 
been willing to lend this additional amount. While they have been able to get a mortgage for 
the amount they needed from elsewhere, all lenders have different lending criteria and 
different appetites to risk. So, the mortgage being agreed by another lender doesnt mean 
Barclays would necessarily have done so.
Even if a decision in principle had been approved  this is just a high-level check, based on 
limited information of what a lender might be willing to agree. It isnt a binding offer. A full 
application would still have needed to be reviewed and considered by Barclays. And the 
application couldve still been declined. So, Mrs A and Mr S being able to port the mortgage 
was not guaranteed, even before the issues with obtaining a decision in principle. 
Given the volume of calls they made to Barclays I dont doubt what theyve said that they 
werent given the clearest information  which Ill come back to. But in the call Ive heard 
from 31 July 2020, Im satisfied that Barclays said it expected that the information on their 
credit file would be updated in August 2020, so a further request for a decision in principle, 
which would be based on the updated information, could be made in a matter of days.
Mrs A and Mr S chose not to wait for this and took a mortgage with another lender. They have said theyd lost confidence with Barclays by that point, so had no choice but to take a 
mortgage elsewhere, or risk their sale and purchase falling through. It is clear that Mrs A and 
Mr S wanted the porting application to proceed quickly. Theyve said that theyd accepted 
and offer on their property and had an offer accepted on a new property before approaching 
Barclays. But there was no guarantee that the application wouldve been completed in the 
timeframe they wanted, or in fact gone ahead at all. Mortgage applications often do take time 
 as Barclays wouldve needed to carry out affordability checks and a valuation of the new 
property, amongst other things, before agreeing to lend. I understand they were keen to buy 
the property in question. But Barclays hadnt said at any stage it would lend or committed to 
do so by a set time. And its clear Mrs A and Mr S were aware that taking a mortgage with 
another would result in an ERC being charged. 
Taking all of this into account, while I know Mrs A and Mr S dont agree, I think it was 
ultimately their choice to proceed with a different lender. And even without the issues they 
encountered, I cant say that they wouldnt have otherwise needed to do so or that an ERC 
wouldnt always have been incurred. With that in mind, and as the ERC has been applied in 
line with the mortgage agreement, I cant fairly say Barclays needs to waive it here.
Barclays has acknowledged that it did not provide the best service to Mrs A and Mr S here. 
And I agree. As Ive said, I think Barclays was the cause of an issue with information 
recorded with credit reference agencies. While Mrs A and Mr S said they managed to get 
this rectified themselves, Id have expected Barclays to have taken steps to put this right  or 
at least took steps to verify this had been corrected with credit reference agencies.. And I 
cant see that it did.
 Barclays accepts it gave misleading information during a call that suggested there may be a 
CCJ in Mrs A and Mr S name. And this led to them undertaking a review, at their own cost, 
which was unnecessary. Mrs A and Mr S have also said that they sent Barclays copies of 
their credit file via recorded delivery in mid-July 2020, highlighting the address problem. But 
by the time they spoke to Barclays on 31 July 2020, these still had not been reviewed. And I 
think this shouldve been reviewed quicker than it was.  
There also seems to have been a number of calls between Mrs A and Mr S, over a short 
period of time, where they were looking for help with their application. It seems they spoke to 
different call handlers at different times, which led to these calls taking longer while Barclays 
representatives familiarised themselves with the issues involved. And theyve said this led to 
them being given unclear and inconsistent information. I dont think Barclays has necessarily 
made an error by following its usual process in terms of how it handles telephone enquiries. 
But I do agree this is likely to have caused inconvenience here, when compared to the 
alternative of having a dedicated point of contact.
I dont think the issues with the service provided warrant the ERC being waived. But I do 
think it is appropriate that Barclays provide compensation.  
Barclays offered to pay £20 to cover the cost of the CCJ enquiry Mrs A and Mr S made. And 
I think that is fair as it directly addressed the cost Mrs A and Mr S said theyd incurred 
because of the incorrect information they were provided. It also offered £150 for the delay in 
dealing with the complaint - which again I think is fair.
Based on the recommendation of our Investigator, Barclays has agreed to pay £750 for the 
distress and inconvenience caused to Mrs A and Mr S. Ive taken into account what Mrs A 
and Mr S have said about how stressful they found this all. And I dont doubt it was upsetting 
that the application did not progress smoothly. But Im also conscious that mortgage 
applications, at the best of times, can be quite stressful experiences. And a lot of the stress 
here was due to them being worried about their property chain falling through. But theyd entered that chain and informally agreed sale and purchase, without lending being agreed.
Taking everything into account, I think the payment of £750, which Barclays has now agreed 
to make, is fair and reasonable in the circumstances. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained I uphold this complaint in part.
To put things right I require Barclays Bank UK PLC to pay Mrs A and Mr S;
£20 to cover the cost of the public record search they instructed (as it agreed in its 
final response).
£150 for the delays in investigating the complaint (as it agreed in its final response).
£750 for the distress and inconvenience caused by its handling of their application.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs A and Mr S to 
accept or reject my decision before 11 April 2022.
 
Ben Stoker
Ombudsman