DRN-3937946
The complaint
Miss S complains that Advanced Payment Solutions Limited trading as Cashplus (APS)
wont refund the money she lost from her account to a scam.
What happened
The detailed background to this complaint is well known to both parties. So, Ill only provide
a brief overview of some of the key events here. Between 13 May 2022 and 29 July 2022
there were a series of payments made using Miss S APS Mastercard debit card. The
payments totalled £8,750 and were all made to a cryptocurrency exchange that Ill refer to as
B. There was also a credit (from B) back into Miss S account of £750 on 29 August 2022.
Miss S reported to APS that the payments had been made as a result of a scam. She
believed she was dealing with a firm Ill refer to as C. When initially reporting the matter,
she said C had directed her to make the payments to B. She also later confirmed that she
had access to a platform provided by C where she could see her investments progress. But
Miss S later realised shed been the victim of a scam when she had problems making a
withdrawal.
APS investigated and declined to provide a refund. They raised a chargeback with B, but this
was defended. Miss S had already contacted our service and one of our Investigators looked
into things. In summary, she didnt recommend that the complaint should be upheld and
didnt think APS needed to do more. Miss S disagreed and asked for an Ombudsman to
review her complaint. In March 2023 I issued a provisional decision in which I said:
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im sorry to hear of the difficult personal circumstances Miss S has experienced in recent
times. But my role here is to remain impartial and to provide an outcome based on what I
believe to be fair and reasonable in all the circumstances. I accept that Miss S has been the
victim of a scam. But it would only be fair for me to direct APS to provide reimbursement if I
think they are responsible for causing the loss or hindering its recovery. I dont think they
are, and Ill explain why.
When reporting the scam to APS Miss S said The total of the money Ive sent is £8,750.
During the same phone call she is asked whether anyone else ever had access to her card
and she replies no. Similarly, when first contacting our service, Miss S said she was lured
into making the payments. And she alleged that APS ought to have had systems in place to
protect her. But further to this, in an email dated 12 October 2022 Miss S told APS: I never
made no payment by myself and all the payment was done by him while after gaining access
into my computer.
So on some occasions what Miss S has said makes it sound like she was tricked into
making the payments. But on other occasions, shes suggested they were made without her
involvement or authorisation. So, the first thing I must decide is whether these payments
were authorised.
I accept that Miss S may have downloaded software which shared access to her computer
with the scammer from C. But I dont think these are unauthorised transactions. I say this
because the payments are spread across around 11 weeks  commonly unauthorised
account use involves the quick draining of any available funds. Also, many of the payments
were authenticated via 3DS with APS. This means there were additional steps in the
authorisation process involving a text message being sent to Miss S phone. If she had no
knowledge of the payments, I dont think she would have shared the details of this. Miss S
own testimony was that she believed these payments were funding her investment with C
(which she could see at the time through their platform). This doesnt support that these
were unauthorised transactions.
But APS also have obligations to be alert to instances of fraud and scams and to act in their
customers best interests. So, just because I believe these to be authorised transactions, I
also need to consider whether APS ought to have done more before processing each of the
payments. Miss S has highlighted that she initially tried to make payments from her account
with another bank D, but they didnt go through. I cant comment on D in this decision. But
looking at the payments and the way in which they left Miss S account, I dont think APS
ought to have had concerns such that they should have taken additional steps prior to
processing them.
The largest single payment was for £3,000 and as Ive mentioned above, the payments were
spread over a period of weeks, with no real urgency to the spending. And whilst some of the
payments might have been for more than Miss S typically spent from her account, I dont
think the payments (either individually or collectively) were so unusual or suspicious where
its reasonable to expect APS to have done more.
Once the payments had been made, the only potential option for recovery would be the
chargeback scheme. But in this case, the payments all went to B, who are a legitimate
cryptocurrency exchange. APS did in fact raise a chargeback, which was defended as B
evidenced that theyd provided the service requested of them, that being converting Miss S
money into cryptocurrency and sending it on to the wallet address provided. As such, any
chargeback was always destined to fail. B didnt trick or scam Miss S, C did. And under the
scheme rules (which APS must follow), its only possible to raise a chargeback against the
merchant that received the payment, doing so against C wouldnt have been an option. So, I
dont think APS did anything that hindered Miss S recovering her funds.
Its clear from the calls Ive listened to that Miss S is very invested in her complaint and that
she understandably wants to do all she can to try to recover her loss. I dont think APS
provided poor service in how they dealt with Miss S. This was in the face of regular requests
for updates when the time scale for their investigation had already previously been
explained.
Again, Im sorry Miss S lost so much money to cruel scammers. And I hope the authorities
are able to prosecute those responsible and that this results in redress to Miss S. But in the
circumstances of this complaint, there isnt a reasonable basis upon which I can tell APS to
provide a refund.
Neither APS nor Miss S responded to my provisional decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Neither party had any further comments or evidence for my consideration. As such, I see no 
reason to deviate from the outcome explained in my provisional decision. 
My final decision
For the reasons outlined above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss S to accept 
or reject my decision before 11 May 2023.
 
Richard Annandale
Ombudsman