DRN-3731818
The complaint
Mr G and Mrs S complained that U K Insurance Limited (UKI) unfairly settled their claim 
under their home insurance policy following a leak in their bathroom.
What happened
Mr G and Mrs S made a claim to UKI when they discovered a leak in their bathroom. Mr G 
and Mrs S were unhappy with how their claim was handled  they felt like they were 
given contradictory advice by UKIs representatives. UKI compensated Mr G and Mrs S 
£100 for any confusion that was caused. Eventually, it was clarified that Mr G and Mrs S 
would need to get the leak fixed themselves, but their policy would cover them for up to 
£5,000 for trace and access costs (to find and access the leak). The policy would also 
cover any damage caused by the leak.
UKI appointed a loss adjuster to validate the damage. As part of the assessment, it was 
felt there could be a health risk associated with asbestos, so Mr G and Mrs S family 
were housed temporarily in alternative accommodation. Mr G and Mrs S didnt think UKI 
had communicated effectively with them that their house was found to be safe and free 
from asbestos.
The loss adjuster agreed what repairs were required including a new flooring and 
replacement of some of the damaged tiles. Mr G and Mrs S thought the policy entitled 
them to have all their tiles replaced if the damaged tiles couldnt be replaced with 
matching ones. Mr G and Mrs S wouldnt allow the repairs to be started until the 
disagreement on the tiles was resolved, which they said left them in difficult conditions.
UKI said the policy provides cover for any damaged tiles in your bathroom which we 
have agreed to cover. This is correct as per the policy terms, they also outline that we 
dont cover undamaged items.
Our investigator decided not to uphold the complaint. He thought Mr G and Mrs S had 
reasonable access to the policy terms and he thought UKI had applied the terms and 
conditions fairly in this claim and had covered the damage. Mr G and Mrs S disagreed, so 
the case has been referred to an ombudsman. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I can see there was some initial confusion on what was covered on the claim in respect to 
accessing and fixing the leak. I think this was unfortunate, but Im pleased that UKI 
recognised it couldve provided a more transparent process and paid £100 compensation for 
the distress and inconvenience caused. I think this is a fair award for the level of upset that is 
likely to have occurred at the start of the claim.
I can see Mr G and Mrs S felt they werent told clearly their home was safe from 
asbestos. However, I think it wouldve been reasonable to assume this was the outcome, 
once UKI had said they could move back from alternative accommodation to their home. 
UKI said it told Mr G and Mrs S the results on a call and said the negative result was 
known before Mr G and Mrs S returned to their home. I dont think any harm has been 
caused here. I dont have any evidence to show that UKI did place Mr G and Mrs S at 
risk, so Im not going to consider this point anymore.
The main part of Mr G and Mrs S complaint was that they felt UKI shouldve replaced all 
their bathrooms tiles, whether damaged or not. UKI told Mr G and Mrs S the policy didnt 
cover undamaged items and theyve shared the specific policy terms.
The policy states:
How we settle claims - if the buildings are damaged by any of the causes listed in 
[Section 1], we will either:
-Repair or rebuild the damaged part using our suppliers
-Pay to repair or rebuild the damaged part using your suppliers
-Make a cash payment
However, the policy also sets out whats excluded:
We won't pay
-to alter or restore any undamaged part of the buildings
-to replace or alter any undamaged items solely because they are part of a set, 
suite, group or collection, unless they are part of a bathroom suite or fitted kitchen 
and the damaged parts can't be repaired or replaced.
UKI said [it] agreed to cover the damaged tiles at full cost, and if the damaged tiles cant 
be matched and you must replace the undamaged tiles, weve offered at most a 50% 
contribution for these.
Mr G and Mrs S doesnt feel this is fair as they said the exclusion doesnt apply as the 
tiles were part of a bathroom suite. However, UKI have responded by saying the 
bathroom suite is a normal industry term used to describe the bath, shower, hand basin 
and toilet. It said the term doesnt include the tiles.
Unfortunately, I think the position UKI has set out is reasonable  the terminology 
bathroom suite wouldnt usually include bathroom tiles. The settlement UKI has 
provided is consistent with what our service would expect in these circumstances. We 
would expect the insurer to contribute 50% of the cost of the undamaged tiles if they are 
replaced. As UKI has done this, I think it has been fair. As UKI have provided a fair 
settlement, I dont think it would be reasonable to hold them responsible for delays in 
having the work completed.
Mr G and Mrs S said they didnt have the correct policy booklet. However, UKI have 
explained the sales journey at length and the opportunities Mr G and Mrs S have had to 
review the policy documentation. UKI have provided evidence that the online sales 
journey contained links to the policy terms and conditions. On the sales call that took 
place, UKI emphasised the need to check the policy and asked Mr G and Mrs S to make 
sure it met their needs. The policy documents were available on the online portal. Mr G and Mrs S said they couldnt access these  however, there is no record of them trying 
to contact UKI to let them know of this or to get assistance on how to access the 
documents. The policy is also available on the UKI website. Therefore, I think Mr G and 
Mrs S had reasonable access to the policy terms, so I dont see any reason to uphold 
this complaint.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. I dont require U K Insurance Limited 
to do anymore.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr G and Mrs S to 
accept or reject my decision before 29 November 2022.
 
Pete Averill
Ombudsman