DRN-4491274
The complaint
Miss B complains about Close Brothers Limited, trading as Close Brothers, transferring her 
funds from her savings account without her instruction.
What happened
I issued my provisional decision on 14 November 2023, and this is what I said:
Ive considered the relevant information about this complaint.
Based on what Ive seen so far, there will be a different outcome to what our investigator 
proposed. Before I issue my final decision, I wanted to give everyone a chance to reply.
Ill look at any more comments and evidence that I get by 28 November 2023. But unless the 
information changes my mind, my final decision is likely to be along the following lines.
The complaint
Miss B complains about Close Brothers Limited, trading as Close Brothers, transferring her 
funds from her savings account without her instruction.
What happened
Miss B had a notice savings account with Close Brothers and, as she wanted to split her 
savings across other banks with better interest rates, on 2 February 2023 she used their on-
line portal to give the required 35-day withdrawal notice.
When giving notice Miss B said she wanted to withdraw some money and, rather than give 
an instruction, wanted information on how she could make the transfer once the notice 
period had passed.
On 6 February, Miss B received a response from Close Brothers. This didnt answer her
question and despite Miss B not saying where the funds would be going, they said the funds
will be sent to your nominated bank on 9 March 2023. So, Miss B diarised to call Close
Brothers on this date to give instructions on how much to pay and where to pay it.
On 9th March 2023, Miss B discovered £80,977.49 had been credited to her bank account
with Bank A. Miss B says she was worried as she didnt know what this money was for. She
later discovered Close Brothers had transferred her full savings account balance. Miss B 
was upset, shocked and distressed as she hadnt given Close Brothers any payment
instruction.
Miss B complained to Close Brothers who apologised for a miscommunication error. Close
Brothers offered Miss B a £40 goodwill gesture and backdated interest only where Miss B
returned the funds.
Miss B was dissatisfied with this response. Miss B couldnt understand how the mistake was
possible and considered there to be an illegality. Also, she thought Close Brothers should
pay a higher amount of redress and returning the funds shouldnt be a prerequisite for
paying lost interest. So, Miss B complained to our service.
Close Brothers later increased their goodwill offer to £75, however Miss B says she only
knew this because of a communication from our service.
Miss B didnt transfer any funds back to Close Brothers and she discovered Close Brothers 
had applied another credit, for interest owed, and closed her account. Miss B says she didnt 
get any communication or give any instruction. So, she considers this to be a repeat of the 
same error.
Our investigator said Close Brothers should increase the amount of redress to £100 and 
cover the interest lost by Miss B until the date it made its initial offer plus seven days. Miss B 
remains dissatisfied, so this complaint has been referred to me to look at.
What Ive provisionally decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I have a different view to the investigator. Im also upholding this complaint,
but I require Close Brothers to increase the amount of compensation and Ill explain why.
I should first explain that I cant tell a business to make alterations to their systems, services,
procedures or processes. I say this because we arent the regulator of the financial services
industry. Also, there are rules (known as DISP Rules) laid down by the regulator (Financial
Conduct Authority) which means complaint handling is not a regulated activity. So, Im
unable to consider how Close Brothers have managed Miss Bs complaint.
Furthermore, its not my role to penalise businesses when service issues like this arise.
However, what I can do is consider each individual case and, where I think a business hasnt
acted fairly and reasonably in the circumstances, decide what should be done to put right
any financial or non-financial losses that a consumer has experienced. So, we can ask a
business to pay a proportionate level of redress. But assessing compensation isnt an exact
science and our approach when making awards for non-financial loss is detailed on our
website and tends to be modest.
Close Brothers do not dispute that they made a mistake transferring Miss Bs full balance to
her account with Bank A without her instruction. But before considering a proportionate level
of redress I looked at whether Close Brothers had made a second mistake when, without
receiving instruction, they closed Miss Bs account and credited accrued interest to her
account with bank A.
Even though Close Brothers transferred Miss Bs full savings account balance and Miss B
didnt re-credit her account following their mistake, there is no evidence that Miss B
instructed Close Brothers to close her account. Also, Close Brothers complaint response
letter didnt mention her account would be closed. In addition, in her communication Miss B
had said it was her intention to withdraw some money and I cant see the terms and
conditions referenced that a minimum balance must be held to avoid closure.
So, I dont think it was reasonable for Close Brothers to close Miss Bs account and I can
understand the additional frustration and distress that this caused Miss B. Also, the
£1,005.78 credited to her account with Bank A wouldnt attract any interest in Miss Bs
current account. In addition, from the information that is currently available, it appears Close
Brothers made another mistake here  assuming that Miss B no longer wanted her savings
account and failing to contact her about the closure or the repayment arrangement.
Having established that redress is required for two mistakes, I looked closely at the file to
fully understand the impact of these mistakes on Miss B.
For the reasons mentioned above, its not for our service to assess the risk exposure oftransferring a large amount of money to Miss Bs current account with Bank A without her
approval. However, with regard to the level of risk here, although I can understand Miss Bs
upset and concern, and its Miss Bs prerogative to refer this to the FCA, I noted that the
account Close Brothers credited was the account Miss B had nominated and their terms and
conditions say:
All repayments will be made to your nominated bank account by electronic transfer
Considering the first mistake, the transfer of Miss Bs full balance without her instruction or
any communication, from reviewing the file, Im persuaded that Close Brothers caused Miss
B both inconvenience and distress.
Miss B had only requested information on the withdrawal process and given the required
period of notice. She also said she wanted to withdraw some money, so, although the 
mistake was confirmed four days later on 6 February 2023 when Close Brothers said:
Funds will be sent out to your nominated bank on 9 March 2023
I can fully understand the confusion, shock, frustration, anxiety and loss of confidence Miss 
B describes when she discovered her full savings had suddenly arrived in her current 
account with Bank A.
This is because Miss B hadnt yet given any instruction to transfer her funds and Im
persuaded that she wouldnt have realised Close Brothers had misread her message which
meant the nominated bank account was her current account with Bank A for which Close
Brothers held details.
So, Im satisfied that Miss B had no knowledge that her savings had left her high interest
savings account with Close Brothers, and she was both confused and shocked to discover
her full balance had been transferred to her current account with Bank A.
Although Miss B was clearly thinking about withdrawing some of her funds, its clear from her
message to Close Brothers that it wasnt her full savings. In addition, I think its also clear
that she wouldnt have wanted her full savings in an account earning no interest and subject
to withdrawal restrictions which meant she couldnt immediately transfer it all back even if
she chose to.
Furthermore, through no fault of her own, Im persuaded that Miss B was put in a difficult
position which she hadnt planned for and, as her savings were losing daily interest, she felt
she had to move quickly. This would ordinarily cause inconvenience, frustration and anxiety
however, Im persuaded Miss B had limited time. This is because this issue coincided with
significant demands on her time including serious caring responsibilities for more than one
family member, medical appointments and other difficult matters that arose around this time.
I did consider whether Miss B couldve mitigated the inconvenience and anxiety by
transferring her savings straight back to Close Brothers, however in addition to practicality
issues, due to Bank As withdrawal limits, I think it was reasonable of Miss B to be reluctant
to do so as Close Brothers gave her cause to have a serious loss of confidence at this time.
This is because the mistake wasnt immediately explained to her and she believed her
savings, which were a significant amount, would be at risk with Close Brothers as she
couldnt understand how their procedures and security could allow an unauthorised transfer
to take place.
So, having fully considering the above alongside our redress guidance, although the impact
of the first mistake was short-term, I think Close Brothers caused Miss B considerable
distress, worry and disruption that needed a lot of extra effort to quickly sort out.So, to put things right I require Close Brothers to pay Miss B £350 redress.
Also, there is the matter of lost daily interest and, considering the above circumstances,
impact and position she was put in, I dont think it was unreasonable of Miss B to take
between 9 and 11 days (between18,19 and 20 March 2023) to pay £75000 in three tranches
of £25000 to other savings accounts. So, I also require Close Brothers to pay the daily
interest she lost out on for the amount of £75000.
Regarding the above mentioned second mistake, where Close Brothers closed Miss Bs
account and transferred outstanding interest to her (nominated) account with Bank A. As
Miss B was unhappy with Close Brothers and didnt transfer back her funds, I can
understand why they thought she no longer required her savings account.
However, I cant see that Miss B instructed them to do so or that Close Brothers made any
communication here. So, considering the first mistake and their knowledge of Miss Bs
complaint, her concerns about moving her money without her knowledge, I think that rather
than making an assumption here, Close Brothers should have either contacted Miss B to ask
her how she wished to proceed or left her account open accruing interest. Also, I cant see
any communications on file and the following information Miss B says she received from
Close Brothers uses language that is vague and shows it was necessary for Miss B to make
enquiries:
The payment of 1,005.78 appears to be the interest you earnt on your notice account that 
closed on 9-5-23
Although I cant tell Close Brothers to re-open Miss Bs account, and Miss B may no longer
wish this, to put this right I require Close Brothers to pay Miss B additional compensation.
Whilst I consider the impact of this mistake to be lower than the first, due to the lower
amount involved and less time and trouble being required to resolve, Im persuaded that this
mistake added to the inconvenience, frustration and annoyance that Miss B had already
experienced. So, I require Close Brothers to pay Miss B an additional £100 redress.
Regarding an award for lost interest on the £1,005.78 interest credited to Miss Bs account
with Bank A, I would need information on the date this was re-invested.
So, in summary, having considered all the above, Im upholding this complaint and to put 
things right I require Close Brothers to:
Pay Miss B £450 compensation less any amounts already paid
Pay Miss B interest, at the rate she wouldve earned had £75000 been in her savings 
account for 10 days (which is the average number of days Miss B missed out on interest)
My provisional decision
For the reasons Ive given above, its my provisional decision to uphold this complaint.
I require Close Brothers Limited, trading as Close Brothers, to:
Pay Miss B £450 compensation less any amounts already paid
Pay Miss B interest, at the rate she wouldve earned had £75000 been in her savings 
account, for 10 days (which is the average number of days Miss B missed out on 
interest)
Ill look at anything else anyone wants to give me  so long as I get it before 28 November 
2023.Unless that information changes my mind, my final decision is likely to be as Ive set out 
above.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In my provisional decision, I gave both Close Brothers and Miss B the opportunity to provide 
any comments or new information they might wish me to consider before I moved to a final 
decision. 
I would like to thank both parties for responding before the deadline. 
Close Brothers said they were happy to settle the complaint as suggested in the decision. 
However, regarding paying loss of interest on the £75,000, they gained the impression that 
Miss Bs current account with Bank A attracts interest, and this should be deducted from any 
interest they pay.
However, in her reply Miss B confirmed and showed evidence that her current account 
doesnt pay any interest on amounts in excess of £5,000. Also, she said, she was already 
holding a higher balance than £5,000 in her current account, so this money earnt no interest 
whilst it was in that account.
In her response Miss B:
Confirmed:
oThat no increased offer has ever been received from Close Brothers and she 
only heard of its existence through our service.
oShe didnt give an instruction to close her account at any time or detail an 
amount or where to send either of the payments.
oThe interest payment of £1,005.78 was not reinvested so did not earn any 
interest.
oNo compensation payment had been made in connection with this complaint 
since it was raised not even the amount Close Brothers originally offered
Said the award should be much higher given the seriousness of the breach of the 
client money rules. 
Would like interest on the interest. 
She disagreed that the second breach of Close Brothers closing her account and 
sending her the interest was less serious. She considers the second breach to be 
more serious and said this is because it demonstrates that the first breach was not a 
simple misunderstanding error as claimed by Close Brothers, that there are far more 
serious procedural, system and processing errors involved in both of these breaches, 
and that Close Brothers has not addressed them. I consider it to be an extremely 
serious matter that a bank can pay someones money away whenever they please 
without any instruction from the customer or even notification to them. And feels 
Close Brothers system isnt safe.
Regarding the serious breaches Miss B considers Close Brothers have made, it is her 
prerogative to refer these matters to the regulator who are responsible for business systems, 
procedures and processes. However, although Close Brothers dont dispute theyve made 
assumptions, which I consider to be errors, transferring Miss B funds out of her savings account on two occasions and closing her account without her approval or notice, the 
evidence shows that Close Brothers credited an account nominated by Miss B and the terms 
and conditions of the account say, All repayments will be made to your nominated bank 
account by electronic transfer. 
So, although I fully understand Miss Bs concerns about Close Brothers operating 
procedures and sympathise with the distress, inconvenience and worry caused, Im not 
persuaded that Close Brothers actions put her funds at risk or compensation should 
correspond with an interpretation of the level of risk. 
I can see from Miss Bs comments that the impact of the second transfer of interest, caused 
further emotional distress. However, I have to balance this with the fact that her funds went 
into an account she had nominated to Close Brothers and there were no further funds 
remaining.
Due to Miss Bs comments about the second transfer, the low level of award and request for 
additional interest, I looked again at the file, the overall impact and compensation award, 
bearing in mind that our approach for non-financial loss tends to be modest. 
I took into account Miss Bs persuasive testimony about the impact on her, the worry, 
inconvenience and frustration caused by more than one assumption and error. Also, her 
submission following receipt of my provisional decision.
As my role is to be impartial and objective, I also considered the fact that Close Brothers 
credited a nominated account and, although I consider their assumptions to have been 
errors and understand Miss Bs security concerns, Im persuaded they thought they were 
being helpful, for example by closing her account and transferring interest after not receiving 
back her funds. Also, although Im persuaded by Miss Bs submissions that she didnt notice 
or realise an early red flag, I found that Close Brothers did send Miss B a message and flag 
their wrong assumption and intention to transfer her funds to her nominated account a few 
days after her original request for information.
So, having considered all the above, my final decision is that Im upholding this complaint 
and I still think the right level of compensation is for Close Brothers Limited to:
Pay Miss B £450 compensation 
Pay Miss B interest, at the rate she wouldve earned had £75000 been in her savings 
account, for 10 days (which is the average number of days Miss B missed out on 
interest)
My final decision
My final decision is that Im upholding this complaint and I require Close Brothers Limited to:
Pay Miss B £450 compensation 
Pay Miss B interest, at the rate she wouldve earned had £75000 been in her savings 
account, for 10 days (which is the average number of days Miss B missed out on 
interest)
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss B to accept 
or reject my decision before 29 December 2023.
 
Paul DouglasOmbudsman