DRN-4036745
The complaint
Mr M complains that Admiral Insurance (Gibraltar) Limited wont fully rectify damage caused 
after he made a glass claim on his motor insurance policy. He wants all the damage repaired 
and broken glass removed.
 
What happened
The rear window of Mr Ms car was damaged, and he made a claim on his policy. Admirals 
agents technician made a repair, but Mr M said he had told him that hed damaged the 
tailgate and the roof. Admirals agent said it would authorise repairs. 
But when the car was returned to Mr M he found that the tailgate was unrepaired and there 
was still broken glass present. The garage said the agent had told it that it would cover just 
the roof. The agent said that the scratches to the tailgate were likely caused by the glass 
breaking. But it offered £500 towards rectification to polish out the scratches, as a gesture of 
goodwill. Mr M thought it should meet all the repair costs. 
Our Investigator recommended that the complaint should be upheld. He couldnt see 
evidence that the technician had admitted damaging the tailgate, just the roof. But he 
thought the damage looked similar and the agent had authorised all the repairs. He thought 
Admiral should meet the costs of having the repairs completed at the same garage. He also 
thought it should try and remove the glass.
Admiral reiterated its offer of £500 as a gesture of goodwill towards the further repairs, but it 
wouldnt accept liability. Mr M provided further photographs of the scratches. He thought a 
simple polish wouldnt repair them.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I can see that this matter has been ongoing for nine months. I can understand that Mr M 
wants his car fully repaired. In its response to Mr Ms complaint, on behalf of Admiral, the 
agent accepted that the glass repairs had caused damage to the paintwork of Mr Ms car. It 
said it had authorised repairs to the roof and tailgate at Mr Ms preferred garage. It asked 
him to provide photographs of the scratches. And then it said it wouldnt accept responsibility 
for those on the tailgate. 
Were not engineers. We dont assess whether or how damage to a vehicle would be caused 
as this is a matter for the experts in these situations, the insurance companies and 
engineers. 
Our role in these complaints is to determine whether an insurance company has considered 
all the available evidence and whether it can justify its decision to not pay for additional 
repairs.
Mr M recalled the technician admitting that hed damaged both the roof and the tailgate. But 
in Admirals file notes, I can see that the technician called in to report that hed scratched the 
cars roof whilst replacing the rear window. And he sent in photographs of the damage, but I 
havent seen these. 
The car was taken to Mr Ms garage for an estimate, and this included scratches on both the 
roof and the tailgate. Admiral thought the technician would have reported these if hed 
caused them. But hed reported only those on the roof. The garage told Admiral that it 
couldnt prove that the damage had been caused by the broken glass. And it said the tailgate 
damage could be polished out. 
So Admiral agreed to have the roof repaired and the tailgate scratches polished out. 
However, it didnt tell Mr M of this change. But the latter wasnt done, and the broken glass 
wasnt removed. I think this caused Mr M a loss of expectation. 
Im not satisfied that Admiral has justified its decision that the damage to the tailgate wasnt 
caused by the technician. This is because the scratches look similar to those on the roof. 
The agent authorise repairs to both areas. And the garage couldnt be certain that they were 
caused by the broken glass. Also, the car was relatively new. And I dont think Admiral has 
considered how else the scratches could have been caused. 
Admiral offered as a gesture of goodwill to repair the tailgate scratches or to pay Mr M £500 
to have them repaired. The garage said they could be polished out at a cost of £120. But I 
cant say whether or not this would be sufficient to repair them. And I havent seen a cost for 
the glass removal. I can see that the policy provides for this to be done as far as its possible 
to do so. 
So I think it would be fairer for Admiral to honour its initial decision to authorise the repairs to 
be done at Mr Ms garage. This matter has caused Mr M some inconvenience. But hes been 
kept mobile in this time. And so I dont require Admiral to pay him any compensation for his 
trouble and upset. 
Putting things right
I require Admiral Insurance (Gibraltar) Limited to pay for the repairs at Mr Ms garage of 
scratches on the tailgate of Mr Ms car, and for the removal of broken glass as far as its 
possible to do so.
 
My final decision
For the reasons given above, my final decision is that I uphold this complaint. I require 
Admiral Insurance (Gibraltar) Limited to carry out the redress set out above. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 26 April 2023.
 
Phillip Berechree
Ombudsman