DRN-2962472
The complaint
Mr H complains that Volkswagen Financial Services (UK) Limited (VWFS) hasnt 
acted fairly by recording missed payments on his credit file for an account he had with 
it.
What happened
In February 2012 Mr H entered into a five-year hire purchase agreement with VWFS 
for a car. Under the terms of the agreement Mr H was to make monthly payments of 
£250.
Unfortunately, due to a change in circumstances, Mr H began to have difficulties making 
the payments and the account fell into arrears by the end of 2012. Mr H made payments 
in both January and February 2013, but the account remained in arrears. Mr H decided to 
voluntary terminate the agreement and return the car.
In January 2014 the car was collected, and Mr Hs account was recorded as having 
an outstanding balance of £3,616, being made up of the termination shortfall of 
£1,607 and arrears of £2,008.
An arrears notice was sent to Mr H in September 2014 and he offered to pay £10 per 
month towards clearing the outstanding balance, which was agreed. Mr H increased his 
payments to £15 per month from May 2015. Mr H has kept up these payments to date.
In 2019, Mr H says he was unhappy to discover that VWFS was recording his monthly 
payments as either missed or other on his credit file. Mr H says this was unfair and 
he complained to VWFS. Mr H said VWFS should have recorded his account as 
defaulted in 2013, which would have remained on his credit file for six years but then 
dropped off. He said VWFS should have been recording his payments as being made 
as agreed.
VWFS didnt uphold Mr Hs complaint. It said that, while it acknowledged Mr H had never 
defaulted on his payment plan, there was still an outstanding amount due on the account. 
And it had an obligation to report that outstanding balance on his credit file. VWFS said 
that as the amount due was higher than six months of rental payments, it was reporting 
that there were six months arrears on the agreement on Mr Hs credit file. 
Mr H was unhappy at VWFSs response and complained to this service. Our investigator 
recommended that his complaint should be upheld. He said it was unclear why VWFS 
hadnt defaulted Mr Hs account as he had fallen between three and six months into 
arrears. Under the Information Commissioners Office (ICO) guidance on defaulting 
customers, defaults would be expected to be registered if a consumer was six months 
behind in payments.
Although a default should be applied as a last resort, our investigator said there would be 
times when it would be fair to do so. Here, had the account been defaulted in 2014, it 
would have dropped off recently rather than the continuing recording of missed payments 
which was unfair.
Our investigator said, as any default notice would have only recently stopped showing on 
Mr Hs credit file, that he didnt think VWFS should pay Mr H compensation for the impact 
of recording the missed payment markers. But he did think VWFS should remove all the 
late payment markers from Mr Hs credit file.
Mr H agreed with our investigators view but VWFS disagreed. It said that it had remained 
in continuous contact with Mr H over his account and had only recorded true and accurate 
information. The account showed Mr H had voluntary terminated the agreement and, at 
that time, there had been six or more monthly instalments outstanding. It said Mr H was 
confused about the information that was recorded as it wasnt showing missed payments.
As the parties werent able to reach an agreement the complaint was passed to me. I issued 
a provisional decision along the following lines. 
It wasnt disputed that Mr H had been unable to keep to the terms of his original hire 
purchase agreement for the car and that his account fhad fallen into arrears. It was also 
agreed that he had voluntary terminated the agreement leaving a shortfall balance left to 
clear as well as the arrears on the account when he had handed the car back. Mr H had 
been paying off this outstanding balance by making monthly instalments as agreed since 
October 2014. He hadnt missed any of those payments.
Id seen that VWFS hadnt issued a default notice on Mr H for this account, even though 
there appeared to have been over six months of arrears when the car was collected in 
February 2014. Id also seen that Mr H hadnt then made any further payments towards 
the outstanding balance until October 2014. But the lack of a default notice didnt 
necessarily mean that VWFS had acted unfairly here.
Looking at Mr Hs account notes provided by VWFS, there had been, and still was, 
contact between Mr H and VWFS (or its collecting agents). It appeared discussions were 
had as to how to deal with Mr Hs change of circumstances. So, I didnt think I could fairly 
say that the relationship between VWFS and Mr H had broken down, or that Mr H had 
demonstrated that he had no intention of paying the amount due under the agreement. 
VWFS also wasnt applying fees and/or interest on the balance owed by Mr H.
A default was an action of last resort for a lender and can have a significant impact on a 
credit file. So here, I wasnt surprised that VWFS hadnt take that action. It was satisfied 
that Mr H was co-operating with it over the outstanding balance on the account.
VWFS said it hadnt marked payments as missed since the arrangement to pay had been 
in place. It says what it had recorded was that the agreement was six months in arrears 
as there was more than six months worth of payments still outstanding and Mr H had 
misunderstood the position. Looking at the credit file entry for this account, I could see it 
correctly stated there was no default in place and that the balance was decreasing each 
month. It showed that the account was six months in arrears and there was blank in the 
box for the date when account was last delinquent. This information was all correct and 
accurate. Id also seen that there was the letter M displayed in each months box which 
was scored through. I couldnt say this meant that VWFS was recording payments as 
missed, as I couldnt see there was a code to explain what the M represented. So, I 
couldnt say that VWFS was recording payments as being missed.
I appreciated that had VWFS issued a default in 2014, when Mr H had voluntary 
terminated the agreement and returned the car, that this would have remained on Mr Hs 
credit file for six years. And that once the six-year period had passed it would have dropped off regardless as to whether Mr H still owed a balance or not. But I didnt think 
this alone would justify a business defaulting an account. I was satisfied that VWFS was 
recording accurate information on Mr Hs account.
I didnt think it would be reasonable to require VWFS to remove any of the information on 
Mr Hs account as that could create a misleading impression to other potential credit 
providers. Mr Hs account showed correctly the amount that was outstanding, and that 
the agreement was in arrears of at least six months.
So, although I appreciated this wouldl be of disappointment to Mr H, for the reasons given 
above I didnt intend to uphold his complaint.
Mr H disagrees with my provisional decision. He says his relationship with VWFS had 
broken down as the car developed faults and he had been unhappy at its quality. He says 
he rejected the car and stopped making payments but due to a change in his 
circumstances he had entered into an agreement to make payments to clear the 
outstandng amoutn on the account. He says that contact with VWFS has been poor.
Mr H has also sent in a screenshot from his credit file which he says shows that his 
payments made on this account are being marked as missing.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I appreciate Mr H is disappointed about my decision, but I havent changed my view. Mr H 
has raised issues he says he had with the car which concern its quality and suitability, but 
the quality of the car is a different matter to the complaint I have been looking at. The 
complaint Mr H made to us was concerning the way VWFS has been handling his account 
since the agreement was voluntary terminated. So, Im not looking at the quality of car itself, 
just the circumstances from when the agreement was ended. And although Mr H says he 
rejected the car, from the evidence Ive seen, that isnt what happened as he voluntarily 
terminated the agreement which is a different thing.  And when Mr H handed the car back, 
he still had certain liabilities under the account that he needed to pay.  
Mr H says the relationship between himself and VWFS has broken down, but as set out 
above, Ive seen from the notes provided by VWFS that contact between Mr H and VWFS 
has continued regarding the clearing of the amount outstanding on the account. So, while I 
appreciate Mr H has at times felt frustrated with VWFS, I dont agree the relationship had 
broken down as he has co-operated with VWFS (or its agents) in finding a suitable payment 
plan to pay off the balance on the account that he is able to sustain. As explained above, I 
dont think VWFS acted unfairly by not issuing a default notice on Mr Hs account.
Mr H says VWFS is reporting payments as missing. He has provided a screenshot from his 
credit file which shows that under the heading Credit Factors it says, Whats affecting your 
credit score and what needs work and then sets out that Mr H has missed a payment to 
VWFS two months ago. However, I am not persuaded by this snapshot that VWFS is 
recording missed payments on Mr Hs account. As set out above, all the information 
recorded for this account was accurate and I still dont think the scored out M showing in 
each month represents missed payments. The snapshot makes reference to missing 
payments two months ago so Im unclear why that would be recorded if VWFS was reporting 
each month as missed. I think the information in this section its more likely to be the credit 
reference agencys interpretation of the account being recorded as six months in arrears. Im 
still satisfied that VWFS is recording accurate information on Mr Hs credit file.So, for the reasons set out above Im not upholding Mr Hs complaint.
My final decision
As set out above Im not upholding Mr Hs complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 11 October 2021.
 
Jocelyn Griffith
Ombudsman