DRN-3727006
The complaint
Mr T complains that ReAssure Limited incorrectly calculated the surrender value of his whole 
of life policy.
What happened
In November 1989 Mr T took out a reviewable whole of life policy with a business that has 
since been acquired by ReAssure. The policy initially provided £53,000 of life and permanent 
disability cover. ReAssure has taken on responsibility for dealing with the administration of 
the policy and any complaints raised by Mr T.
Mr T requested that the policy be surrendered in late 2019 and ReAssure calculated the 
surrender value using the bid prices of the units on 10 January 2020. Mr T was unhappy with 
the surrender value and complained that it didnt reflect what was in the original terms and 
conditions of the policy. ReAssure explained to Mr T that it had made an error in its 
calculation and offered Mr T £200 for the inconvenience this may have caused him. Mr T 
didnt accept this offer and brought his complaint to the Financial Ombudsman Service.
One of our Investigators looked into things and thought that the original terms and conditions 
Mr T provided differed from those ReAssure used, but that the updated terms and conditions 
meant Mr T did receive a slightly more favourable surrender calculation as a result. The 
Investigator thought the £200 offer ReAssure made for the initial error was a fair and 
reasonable one, but that the adjustment applied to the capital units should be 26% and not 
24% as this is what was detailed in the more favourable terms and conditions. Therefore, the 
Investigator thought ReAssure should also recalculate the surrender value using the 26% 
adjustment on the capital units of the policy and pay any difference to Mr T. 
ReAssure accepted the recommendation of the Investigator but Mr T asked that an 
Ombudsman decides the complaint. It has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I may not specifically comment on every submission made by Mr T and ReAssure, but  I 
wish to make it clear Ive reviewed the welcome letter provided by Mr T and compared it to 
the extracts from the terms and conditions provided by ReAssure. I also reviewed the 
surrender calculations of Mr T and ReAssure before I reached my final decision. In doing so 
Im persuaded that ReAssure do need to take steps to put things right and I will explain why.
The welcome letter Mr T provided explained how ReAssure would deal with a surrender 
request, although it doesnt go into great detail. In respect of the valuation of capital units at 
surrender, the letter said the value would increase from nil at age 20 to 100% at age 85. 
ReAssure couldnt provide a copy of the actual terms and conditions but instead provided an 
extract of the terms and conditions of a policy from 1988 and an update to these terms in 
2003. So, although Ive seen the welcome letter and an extract of the terms and conditions, 
Im satisfied that the terms and conditions provided by ReAssure are more likely to provide 
the full range of increase to the capital units at surrender, rather than the less detailed 
welcome letter. 
When comparing all of these documents, I considered whether the changes to the terms and 
conditions were detrimental to Mr T and in this case, Ive decided they werent. The terms 
and conditions in 1988 were more likely to give Mr T a less favourable surrender value than 
those in 2003, and those which ReAssure should have used when the policy was 
surrendered in 2020. Because of this Ive used the terms and conditions from 2003.
When the policy was surrendered in 2020, Mr T was aged 61. The terms and conditions from 
2003 said Mr T would receive 22% of the capital units (at age 60) plus 2% for each 
subsequent year and part year. So, in this case, I would have expected Mr T to have had 
received 26% of the value of the capital units within his plan. For comparison, if the 1988 
terms and conditions had been applied this would have meant the capital units would have 
been calculated at 22.656% of the bid price.
Unfortunately, the surrender value dated 10 January 2020 recorded the value of the capital 
units as £222.17 and £224.69, but this is only 24% of the capital unit value instead of the 
26% detailed in the 2003 terms and conditions. ReAssure got this wrong and it should have 
used 26% of the bid price of the capital units and not 24%. To put this right, ReAssure 
should recalculate the surrender value of the capital units within Mr Ts policy at 26% of the 
bid price of the units on the day of surrender. The difference between the value paid and the 
recalculations should then be paid to Mr T. I did consider asking ReAssure to pay Mr T 
interest on this amount, but I can see that ReAssure has already offered to pay him £200 to 
reflect the error it had made in respect of the surrender value. I consider this is reasonable 
because any interest award would be minimal.  
When it responded to Mr Ts complaint ReAssure admitted it made an error in the surrender 
value. To help me understand what error it was referring to I looked at a telephone call note 
of a call with Mr T on 25 June 2021. In this call note ReAssure suggests that the correct 
figure of 24% of the value of the capital units was used, but a subsequent letter dated 20 
February 2020 may have given the impression it had used 25%. It offered Mr T £200 for the 
inconvenience this had caused him. Ive looked at the letter dated 26 February 2020 and I 
cant see the calculation suggests the capital units were valued at 25% of the bid price. 
Instead, I can see it confirms ReAssure calculated the at 24% which Ive already decided 
was wrong. Regardless of this, I do consider ReAssures offer of £200 to reflect the 
inconvenience Mr T had suffered because of their perceived error was fair and reasonable.
Ive seen that Mr T believes that ReAssure made further mistakes in its calculations, but Im 
satisfied the amended surrender value Ive directed is a reasonable remedy and in-line with 
the terms and conditions of the policy. And, although Mr T says he wasnt provided with 
updated terms and conditions, Im satisfied he wasnt disadvantaged by the changes in the 
circumstances of this case.
My final decision
ReAssure Limited has already made an offer to pay £200 to settle the complaint and I think 
this offer is fair in all the circumstances and should be paid to Mr T. However, Ive decided 
that ReAssure Limited should also recalculate the surrender value of the capital units within 
Mr Ts policy at 26% of the bid price of the units on the day of surrender. And pay the 
difference between the value paid and the recalculation to Mr T.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr T to accept or reject my decision before 12 January 2023.
 
Paul Lawton
Ombudsman