DRN-3699689
The complaint
Miss C, through her representative Ms C, complains about Zurich Insurance PLCs handling 
and settlement of a personal accident insurance claim. 
All references to Miss C and her submissions include her representative, where relevant. 
What happened
Miss C, a minor, was insured under a group personal accident insurance policy, provided by
Zurich. Unfortunately, in February 2018, Miss C injured her elbow.
In April 2019, Miss C initiated a claim under her policy for permanent partial disablement of
her elbow. In May 2020, Miss C complained to Zurich because her claim wasnt being
progressed.
In April 2020, Zurich instructed a doctor to examine Miss C. However, appointments
scheduled for June 2020 and September 2020 never took place (in part, due to the
circumstances surrounding Covid-19). Therefore, in September 2020, Zurich agreed to
accept a report from Miss Cs consultant orthopaedic surgeon about the extent of her elbow
disablement. The consultant (who Ill call Mr M) provided a report dated 30 October 2020.
In November 2020, Zurich sent a final response to Miss C saying it was chasing information
it needed to progress her claim. Zurich offered to pay Miss C £250 compensation to say
sorry for the level of service provided and the delays involved. This compensation payment
has since been made to Miss C. In December 2020, Zurich offered to pay Miss C a claim
settlement of £3,750, equating to 30% loss of use of her elbow. Miss C disputed the
settlement, as well as the amount of compensation offered. Zurich was subsequently given a
letter from a consultant elbow surgeon (who Ill call Mr W) dated 20 November 2020, as well
as a follow-up report from Mr M dated 5 March 2021.
In April 2021, Zurich put forward two options to Miss C. Firstly, it said it could increase its
claim settlement offer to £4,875 (equating to 39% loss of use of the elbow) based on Miss
Cs flexion restriction. Alternatively, Zurich said it could appoint an independent medical
expert (IME) to examine Miss C and report on the extent of her permanent elbow disability.
But Zurich said, if the IME reported that this was less than 39%, the claim settlement would
be adjusted based on the IMEs findings.
Miss C provided Zurich with her own calculations about her loss of elbow use, which she
said averaged at 53.8% based on Mr Ws letter and 49.8% based on Mr Ms report. Zurich
responded with a third option, in addition to the two already outlined above, which was to ask
Mr M a clarification question about Miss Cs current condition.
Unhappy, Miss C brought her complaint to the attention of our service.
Zurich has since paid Miss C the 39% claim settlement payment as Miss C says she couldnt
continue to deal with Zurichs communication failures, mislaying of information,
misinformation and lack of responses. Zurich told Miss C she could decide whether to accept
the 39% payment in full and final settlement of her claim or whether to proceed with an IME
 but any IME report resulting in a change in the valuation of the claim would mean that
Zurich may have to make a further claim payment, or Miss C may have to repay any
potential overpayment which Zurich has already made.
One of our investigators looked into what had happened. She said she thought Zurich should
recalculate Miss Cs settlement based on the calculations which Miss C had provided or,
alternatively, provide its own calculations evidencing how its 39% offer was arrived at, taking
into account certain scores mentioned by Mr W and Mr M. Our investigator didnt
recommend that Zurich should pay any additional compensation.
Zurich didnt agree with our investigators opinion, so the complaint was referred to me. I 
made my provisional decision in August 2022. In it, I said:
Industry rules set out by the regulator (the Financial Conduct Authority) say insurers must
handle claims promptly and fairly. Insurers must also provide reasonable guidance to help a
policyholder make a claim and provide appropriate information on its progress. Ive taken
these rules into account when making my decision about Miss Cs complaint.
Miss Cs claim settlement
Section 2 of Miss Cs policy with Zurich says:
If an insured person sustains bodily injury during the operative time that within 24
months solely and independently of any other cause results in death or disablement
we will pay the insured person the appropriate benefit amount.

2.7 Permanent partial disablement
If the insured person sustains permanent partial disablement during the operative
time we will pay the insured person the following percentages of the benefit amount
payable under item 5:
Permanent severance or permanent total loss of use of:

6. shoulder or elbow 25%.
Miss Cs policy schedule outlines the benefit payable under item 5 as £50,000. This means
Miss C would receive a total benefit of £12,500 in the event of the permanent, total loss of
use of an elbow.
It isnt in dispute that Miss C hasnt experienced permanent total loss of use of her elbow 
only partial loss of use. So, the question I need to decide is whether Zurichs offer of 39% of
the total benefit of £12,500 is fair and reasonable in the circumstances. In doing so, Ive
considered whether I think Zurich acted fairly and reasonably based on the available medical
evidence in this case. But, its not part of my role to reach my own medical conclusions
about Miss Cs loss of elbow use or to substitute expert medical opinion with my own.
When considering a claim such as this, Id generally expect an insurer to appoint an IME to
medically examine the claimant. Zurich didnt arrange for an IME report when Miss Cs claim
was first made to it. Instead, after a protracted and unexplained delay which Ive addressedin more detail below, Zurich said it was prepared to accept a report from Miss Cs own
consultant in an attempt to progress the claim. I think this was a fair and reasonable position
for Zurich to take, given the clear difficulties it had in arranging an IMEs report.
I understand Miss C has raised issues around the clarity of some of the questions asked of
Mr M before he provided his initial report. But, based on the information Ive seen, I dont
think the questions asked by Zurich were unclear or misleading.
Mr Ms report dated 30 October 2020 says:
After review of the case notes, please find the following information as required.

The extent of the injuries, in percentage terms, of any permanent disability
solely as a direct result of the accident under review.
 injury is 100% directly resulting from her  injury when she sustained her fracture
dislocation of the radial head. My initial consultation was on 19 July 2019, [Miss C]
gave an elbow function score of 87% but on follow-up review on 16 June 2020, this
reduced to 70%...
On receipt of this report, Zurich offered to pay Miss C a claim settlement equating to 30% of
the benefit for the total loss of use of an elbow. Zurichs offer was later increased to 39%, as
a gesture of goodwill, based on the additional medical evidence which Ive set out below.
Mr Ws letter of 20 November 2020, which wasnt prepared at Zurichs request, doesnt set
out a percentage for Miss Cs permanent disability. However, the letter does set out some
details about Miss Cs range of elbow movement. It says:
On examination, there are no obvious scars. Your elbow range of movement is from
0-120 of flexion measured with a goniometer. You have no pronation and supination
to 45.
Mr Ms follow-up report dated 5 March 2021 says:
Pertaining to the question as below:
The extent of the injuries, in potential terms of any permanent disability is
solely as a result of the accident under review.
In addition to my previous comments which remain unchanged, I understand that you
have been looking to understand what loss of movement as a percentage of normal
function, has occurred as a result of this injury. Therefore on reviewing my case
notes, at [Miss Cs] last clinical review she had full extension of the elbow (100%),
110% of flexion (78.5%), pronation 10 (13.3%), supination 50 (58.8%).
For clarity, my previous SPONSAs of elbow function score of 70%, refers to the
patients subjective opinion regarding the elbow function not their range of motion.
Based on my research, the SPONSA which Mr Ms report has mentioned relates to the
Stanmore Percentage of Normal Shoulder Assessment, which can be adapted for elbows
and is a patient-reported outcome measure, assessing factors such as pain, range of
movement, strength, stability and function.I understand that Miss C disputes the use of a SPONSA score to place a percentage on her
loss of elbow use and has provided her own calculations as to why the loss of elbow function
should be calculated differently. But Miss C isnt (to my knowledge) medically qualified, so I
dont think her calculations carry persuasive weight.
Zurich has said that Mr Ms initial SPONSA score of 70% gives the most holistic indication of
disablement rather than just exclusively considering the range of motion. Zurich is entitled to
decide what medical factors it takes into account when calculating any percentage claim
payment made, so long as Zurich does so fairly, in reliance on the available medical
evidence and applying the same criteria to consumers with the same characteristics.
Zurich isnt required to set out details of how it calculates any percentage claim payments
within its policy documentation, and I note that Miss Cs policy provides only for the payment
of a benefit in the event of a total (and not partial) loss of use of an elbow.
The medical evidence which Ive seen says Miss Cs loss of elbow use, based on the criteria
which Zurich uses to assess a claim such as this, is 30%. It wouldnt be fair to direct Zurich
to pay an increased settlement based on Miss Cs own interpretation of Mr Ws letter and Mr
Ms follow-up report, when Zurich says such settlements arent calculated based on loss of
motion alone. So, Im satisfied that Zurichs offer of a 39% claim settlement is fair and
reasonable in the circumstances.
In addition, Zurich has given Miss C the option of either seeing an IME or of asking Mr M an
agreed clarification question about Miss Cs current condition. So, Im satisfied that Zurich
has been fair and reasonable in considering Miss Cs comments on the available medical
evidence and in providing her with the opportunity to obtain additional medical evidence in
support of her arguments. If Miss C does decide to proceed with the IME, shell need to
correspond directly with Zurich about this going forward. And, while I understand she feels
strongly about the matter, I dont think its unfair or unreasonable for Zurich to require both
itself and Miss C to be bound by the findings of any eventual IMEs report that Miss C may
choose to go ahead with.
This means I dont currently intend to direct Zurich to do anything further in respect of Miss
Cs claim settlement.
Compensation
Miss C has complained about a number of aspects of the service provided by Zurich. Ive
read and considered everything she has said but have summarised what I think the key
issues are.
I dont think Zurich was responsible for providing any clarification to Miss C about how any
claim under her personal accident insurance policy may affect any potential negligence
action. However, having said that, I think its clear that Zurich hasnt handled this claim as Id
have expected it to overall.
Zurich has acknowledged what it says was a huge delay in seeking to appoint an IME after
it received the necessary consent form from Miss C in April 2019.
While the circumstances surrounding Covid-19 may have impacted on the availability of IME
appointments from March 2020 onwards, there had already been what I think were
unreasonable and excessive delays as well as a lack of communication from Zurich for
around a year by that point. And, I note that Zurichs lack of communication and failure to
respond to some of Miss Cs enquiries continued throughout the course of the claim.
I understand that Miss C wants an explanation about exactly why Zurichs failings in thiscase happened, but this isnt something I can provide her with  the only explanation I can
offer is that her claim simply wasnt progressed by Zurich as it should have been. I also
understand that Zurich didnt respond to Miss Cs initial complaints and subsequently
incorrectly opened a second complaint which she didnt ask to be raised.
I have no doubt that Miss C will have experienced distress and inconvenience as a result of
Zurichs handling of her claim  in particular relating to issues such as the failure to clarify
appointment details. However, I must have regard to the fact that Miss C is a minor and
therefore wasnt directly inconvenienced by Zurichs actions as she wasnt dealing with the
claim or the complaint herself. Ms C was, naturally, doing so on her behalf.
Overall, I think the £250 compensation which Zurich has paid to Miss C is fair and
reasonable in the circumstances for the impact its actions had on her.
I understand that Miss Cs representative, Ms C, feels strongly that she should receive
compensation for the impact of the situation on herself. However, Ms C wasnt insured under
this policy. This means she isnt an eligible complainant in her own right under our rules, so I
cant award compensation for any distress or inconvenience which she personally
experienced.
Zurich accepted my provisional decision. Miss C didnt and, through her representative, has 
provided detailed follow-up comments. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I understand Miss C feels very strongly that Zurich hasnt acted fairly in this case, and shes 
disappointed that I havent agreed with our investigators findings. But I want to emphasise, 
for the avoidance of doubt, that I carefully read and considered all the information available 
to me before making my provisional decision. Ive also read and considered all of Miss Cs 
responses to my provisional decision, and Ive addressed below what I think are the key 
points.  
The section of Miss Cs policy entitled Permanent partial disablement provides a benefit in 
the event of total loss of use of a part of the body  not a partial loss of use of a part of the 
body and, in these circumstances, I dont think Zurich needs to set out details in its policy of 
how it may calculate any partial claim payment which it may choose to make. 
I understand that Zurichs original question to Mr M referred to % loss of functionality. Mr M 
replied to this with a SPONSA score, and subsequently clarified various % reductions in the 
movement of Miss Cs elbow. I accept that Zurich didnt initially ask Mr M for a SPONSA 
score, but subsequently said this was sufficient to enable it to calculate the claim settlement. 
I can appreciate why Miss C is dissatisfied with this, particularly taking into account how the 
claim was handled overall. But I must base my decision on the medical information available 
and Ive seen no evidence from a medical professional which states that Miss Cs overall 
loss of use of her elbow is higher than 30%. I accept that Miss Cs calculations were based 
on numbers set out in Mr Ws letter of November 2020 and Mr Ms follow-up report of 5 
March 2021, but Miss C isnt a medical professional and her own (or my own) interpretation 
of these numbers isnt persuasive evidence upon which I can fairly base a direction for 
Zurich to increase the claim payment. The fact that Zurich chose to increase its offer from 
30% to 39% as a gesture of goodwill isnt an acceptance that the figure of 30% was 
incorrect. I remain satisfied that Zurich set out reasonable options to Miss C to give her an opportunity 
to demonstrate that she has a higher than 30% loss of use of her elbow. I havent seen 
evidence of what question Mr M was asked which prompted his report of 5 March 2021, but 
Zurichs email to Miss C dated 22 April 2021 sets out a detailed clarification question which it 
proposed to send to Mr M and Zurich offered Miss C the opportunity to add to the wording of 
the question if she wished. Zurich also offered to appoint an IME. 
My provisional findings about Zurichs compensation payment specifically took into account 
the fact that appointments for Miss C were booked but never cancelled by Zurich. 
Im sorry to disappoint Miss C but I wont be changing my provisional decision. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold Miss Cs complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss C to accept 
or reject my decision before 25 October 2022.
 
Leah Nagle
Ombudsman