DRN-3769563
The complaint
Mrs B brings this complaint on behalf of Mr S and says National Savings and Investments 
(NS&I) failed to locate the premium savings bonds he purchased in 2006.
What happened
Mrs B says on 28 October 2006, Mr S and his wife visited a local Post Office (PO) and 
purchased £500 of premium bonds (PB) each, one was paid for in cash by Mrs S and one 
for Mr S using his bank debit card, for which receipts are held. Mrs B says when recently 
going over his affairs her father noticed he hadnt ever received the bond certificate for his 
purchase. Mrs B says when she contacted NS&I it didnt fully grasp the issue and it took 
some time to understand the problem, but insisted it could only locate a purchase in 2006 for 
Mrs S but had no record of any purchase in Mr Ss name. 
Mrs B feels NS&I have delayed matters and havent taken the complaint seriously and wants 
it to refund her father with £500 along with compensation for the fact he hadnt been entered 
into the prize draw since the purchase in 2006.
NS&I says having checked its records it could only locate a bond purchased in Mr Ss wifes 
name in October 2006. NS&I says to conduct a further trace it would require a bond or 
holders number. 
Mr S wasnt happy with NS&Is response and referred the matter to this service.  
The investigator looked at all the available information but didnt uphold the complaint. The 
investigator felt the two receipts provided to this service didnt provide sufficient proof of two 
separate PB purchases. The investigator says NS&I had extensively searched its internal 
systems and couldnt locate Mr Ss bond purchase, only that of his wife on the same day in 
October 2006.
Mr S wasnt happy with the investigators view and asked for the matter to be referred to an 
ombudsman for a final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I wont be upholding this complaint and I will explain how I have come to my 
decision. 
I can understand it would have been upsetting for Mr S to have a receipt from the Post Office 
indicating he had purchased £500 of PB in 2006 only to find this transaction had never been 
actioned by NS&I. 
Its worth saying that both Mrs B, Mr Ss representative and NS&I have provided this service 
with comprehensive details of the course of events and while that has proved helpful I wont 
be commenting on every point made as I dont feel its necessary in order to come to a full 
and impartial decision here. Thats not to say I havent considered everything  I have.
The first thing to say is Mrs B has provided evidence regarding both NS&I and the Post 
Office, however as the complaint is about NS&I, I can only consider NS&Is actions here. 
One of the central pieces of evidence Mrs B has provided this service are two receipts Mr S 
received from the Post Office back in October 2006. Mrs B claims these clearly show one 
receipt for cash for her mothers PB purchase and a second dated the same day a few 
minutes later for Mr Ss PB purchase. 
While I understand what Mrs B says here, its also fair to say that one of the receipts  her 
mothers, stating £500 cash was paid, also clearly says the recipient should keep hold of the 
receipt until the bond is received from NS&I. It also goes on to say if you havent received 
your bond after three weeks then contact NS&I. The second receipt for £500 is a different 
VAT receipt, and unlike the cash receipt makes no mention of holding onto the receipt until 
the bond is received and looks entirely different. Its fair to say the receipts provided to this 
service are not on their own sufficiently compelling evidence of what actually happened on 
that day or if these transactions relate to the same PB purchase or not.
Given the passage of time that has passed, its unlikely any actions the member of the Post 
Office counter staff took that day, would still be on record. What is important here is, even if 
a mistake had been made in October 2006 and theres no clear evidence to say one was, 
that wouldnt have been a mistake made by NS&I to whom this complaint is directed. 
It also remains unclear, given the importance of the transaction to him, why Mr S having kept 
hold of the receipts and bank statement records, never queried with NS&I when his 
certificate never arrived back in 2006, bearing in mind his wife received hers some time 
afterwards, for a transaction he says took place the same day.
My role here is to determine when NS&I were informed in 2020 by Mr S that he hadnt 
received a PB certificate for a purchase in 2006, that it did all it could to properly investigate 
the matter. I can see NS&I have thoroughly searched its records under different addresses, 
using Mr Ss name and date of birth but it couldnt trace any purchase in his name for 
October 2006. It did locate an earlier smaller holding for Mr S which was subsequently 
cashed in and it also located the purchase in October 2006 for Mr Ss wife. So here, I am 
satisfied NS&I have taken the actions I would expect it to take, to check its records.
What I cant say here is NS&I are responsible, in the event an application for a purchase of 
PB not reaching them from the Post Office, if that is what Mr S believes may have 
happened, after all thats a separate business and that would be for the Post Office to 
investigate. That said, given the time thats passed, in all likelihood this may prove difficult 
now.
While Mr S will be disappointed with my decision, and not wishing to minimise the frustration 
and upset I can see this has caused Mrs B and Mr S, I am satisfied NS& I are not at fault 
here for the reasons I have already explained and I wont be asking anymore of them. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 30 November 2022.
 Barry White
Ombudsman