DRN-2860371
The complaint
Mr Ws complaint is about a mortgage endowment policy he had with The Prudential 
Assurance Company Limited. He is unhappy with the maturity value paid and believes it 
should have been higher, based on his assessment. Mr W has also said he found 
Prudentials reluctance to provide him with the information he wanted about his policy, and 
the fund it invested in, stressful.
What happened
In 1994 Mr W took out a mortgage endowment policy to support his mortgage. It had a term 
of 25 years and a target amount of £54,000. The policy was a traditional with-profits 
arrangement, where there was a basic sum assured of £22,680 payable at maturity, to which 
annual bonuses (linked to the net fund performance) would be added. It was designed for 
the added bonuses to achieve a sum of at least the difference between the basic sum 
assured and the target amount, but this was not guaranteed, as it depended on the 
performance of the with-profits fund.
Mr W would have been given an illustration of potential maturity benefits for the policy at the 
time the adviser recommended the policy to him. This illustration would have shown values 
based on the policy growing at assumed rates of 5% and 10% as required by the regulator at 
the time. Prudential may have also projected using a figure in between and calculated the 
policy premium based on that rate, what that figure was is unknown because we dont have 
the illustration, although at the time 7.5% was commonly used. Charges and tax on any 
growth within the investment fund would have been taken into account when the estimated 
figures were produced.
In August 2013 Mr W contact Prudential about the value of his policy and asked for some 
clarification. It sent him a letter which included an illustration of potential maturity values 
based on the policy achieving example growth rates. If the policy grew at 4% each year over 
the remaining term, it would have a maturity value of £43,700 and at 8% growth over the 
remaining term, it would achieve £54,500. It was detailed These figures are only examples 
and are not guaranteed  they are not minimum or maximum amounts. What you will get 
back depends on how your investment grows and on the tax treatment of the investment. 
You could get back more or less than this. The death benefit and surrender value of the 
policy were also detailed; the latter being £28,902.50.
Shortly thereafter, Mr W called Prudential and informed it that he was confused about the 
statements hed received and was considering surrendering the policy. He wanted to know 
what the terminal bonus percentage was, in order to make up his mind about what to do. 
Prudential responded by explaining when terminal bonuses are added and how they were 
made up. It said that it couldnt be known until the policy value was payable what terminal 
bonus would be paid, as it could be higher or lower that that paid in previous years. It was 
highlighted that there was no guarantee a terminal bonus would be paid. 
The following year Mr W again asked for information about his policy. Prudential provided 
him with details of the basic sum assured and bonuses attached to the policy up to that date. 
This gave a figure of £32,565.90.
Prudential provided Mr W with an annual update on his policy and the likelihood of whether it 
would pay out its target value since 2000. In most years these letters told him it was possible 
that the policy wouldnt hit its target. However, there were some years, including 2016, in 
which he was told it was unlikely the policy would do so.
In June 2019 Prudential sent Mr W a maturity pack for his policy. This detailed the maturity 
value as at 1 August 2019 would be £50,335.46. Mr W questioned the maturity value and 
Prudential sent him a letter setting out a breakdown of the maturity value and set out how 
the bonuses were set. It gave Mr W details of the annual bonuses that had been declared 
during the term of his policy. Mr W remained unhappy and Prudential dealt with his concerns 
as a complaint. It sent him a complaint response on the basis that his complaint related to 
the sale of the policy and him having been misled about the risks associated with the policy. 
It said that complaint had been made too late as Mr W had been given a deadline for raising 
complaints about the sale of the policy of 1 June 2012.
Mr W went back to Prudential and confirmed that his complaint wasnt that the policy had 
been mis-sold. Rather he was complaining about the maturity value  the performance of the 
policy. Mr W asked for details of the investment returns on his premiums. Prudential 
confirmed the return on the premium paid had been approximately 5% per annum 
compound.
Prudential explained what type of policy Mr W had and how its value accrued in the form of a 
basic sum assured that was guaranteed to be paid and the addition of bonuses. The 
bonuses being the way it allocated the policys share of the growth in the fund. It went on to 
confirm that it sometimes offers a terminal bonus, but there was no guarantee one would be 
paid or how much would be paid if it was. The concept of smoothing of growth on the policy 
was explained and its link to any terminal bonus was set out. Prudential rejected Mr Ws 
concerns because it was satisfied it had paid the correct policy value at maturity.
Mr W asked for more information and Prudential sent him a letter giving him the then current 
surrender value for the policy and a death claim quote. It also explained that surrender 
values were based on an actuarial formula, which it declined to provide him with as it was 
confidential. However, it did explain that a proportion of the basic sum assured and attached 
bonuses were paid on surrender. 
Prudential issued a further response to Mr Ws concern about the maturity value of his policy 
in October 2019. It said the only guaranteed payment on maturity is the sum assured plus 
declared bonuses (if all premiums had been paid). It provided Mr W with net returns on the 
with-profits fund for the preceding 25 years. It also confirmed the maturity value it had paid 
was correct and reflected the investment returns his premiums had achieved. It said it was 
unable to increase the maturity value. 
Mr W remained unhappy with Prudentials responses and asked this service to look into his 
complaint. When doing so, Mr W explained that when he took out the policy he was told it 
would achieve a maturity value of £54,500 if an annual growth rate of 8% was achieved 
throughout the term. In 2013 he had been considering cashing in the policy, and received 
the illustration I have detailed above. He said hed decided, as the net return on the fund had 
averaged 8% over the previous 18 years of the term, to keep the policy as savings plan. 
When the maturity was paid in 2019 the policy paid out less than he was expecting. 
One of our investigators considered the complaint, but she didnt recommend it be upheld. Mr W didnt accept the investigators opinion and said the policy documentation from the 
point of sale clearly stated that if the fund performed at a mean 8% investment return over 
the 25-year period then the policy would reach its target amount. There were no caveats to 
that statement in the policy document.  He went on to say that the fund had performed at 
above mean 8%, but Prudential had not provided him with conclusive evidence he was 
wrong about the policy, but instead had provided him with net return data, which shows 
lower performance. He repeated his reasons for using the level of costs he had in his 
calculations and said that Prudential couldnt apply any costs other than those detailed in the 
policy terms. He also reiterated that he had asked Prudential to provide details of all the 
charges applied to the fund and policy, but it had said it was unable to do so. He also 
subsequently highlighted that hed asked for gross fund performance figures too, as there 
was only ten years worth of data on the internet, but the information had never been 
provided.
Our investigator considered Mr Ws further comments, but she didnt change her opinion that 
the complaint shouldnt succeed. Mr W said that he was well aware that investments can 
fluctuate, as he had other investments. However, he was not persuaded Prudential had 
evidenced his maturity value was right.
Subsequently, Mr W was provided with further information about how the value of a policy is 
calculated, including the types of costs associated with it and smoothing. Prudential 
explained that the only explicit cost was the £2.50 monthly policy fee. It was also confirmed 
that 10% of any profit made within an investment fund was paid to shareholders. Mr W was 
also sent net fund performance figures for the entire term of the policy.
Our investigator also reiterated to Mr W that the bonuses applied to his policy, and so its 
value, was based on the net investment return of the investment fund, not its gross 
performance. Mr W disagreed with this and stated that on the signed contract they have 
stated that if the policy averages 8% Investment returns over the life time of the policy then it 
will pay out the target amount. The legally binding document does not state net return. Mr W 
remained adamant the maturity value of this policy was wrong. 
Prudential later provided Mr W with a detailed breakdown of the life cover and policy fee 
costs for each year of his policy, along with detail of the annual and terminal bonuses that 
had been added. This showed how the maturity value had been calculated.
After the final explanation of the policy was sent to Mr W our investigator reviewed her 
findings. She considered Prudential had taken too long to provide some of the information 
Mr W had asked for and it had needed this services involvement for it to be provided. In 
recognition of the frustration and inconvenience Mr W felt because of the timescale, the 
investigator recommended Prudential pay him £150 compensation. She was, however, 
satisfied that Prudential had paid Mr W the correct amount at maturity and didnt change her 
conclusion that this aspect of the complaint shouldnt succeed.
Mr W clarified that the 8% growth he was referring to the policy needing to achieve was that 
documented in Prudentials letter of August 2013. He said that he had been unable to 
replicate the figures produced by Prudential in its most recent breakdown of the policy value 
and didnt believe they made any sense at all. He continued to disagree with the 
investigators conclusions and asked that the complaint be reviewed by an ombudsman.
Prudential didnt make any comment in response to the investigators recommendation for 
compensation.
 
What Ive decided  and whyIve considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Initially I would explain that Mr Ws policy was designed based on the policy achieving a 
certain growth rate each year from inception until maturity. That is different from the fund 
achieving gross investment growth of that amount each year. The policy receives a share of 
the profits (which is the net growth after taxation and policy costs are deducted) from the 
fund. Costs are deducted before the profit is determined and those costs include taxation 
and cover things like the life cover associated with the policy, fund management and 
administration of the policy. The charges and fees can vary over time; for example those 
linked with life cover are based on actuarial tables regarding the likelihood of death, a 
policyholder aging and the difference between the target value and the value of the policy  
the amount of life cover provided. 
In addition to this, some of the growth is allocated for shareholder dividends and, in 
successful years, some will be held back and not allocated to policies immediately. This is 
called smoothing. I dont intend to explain this process here as it has been explained to 
Mr W previously. However, it means that if, over the term of the policy, the policys full share 
of the profits hasnt been allocated as annual bonuses, there will be a terminal bonus 
allocated at maturity to account for that growth. There is no guarantee that there will be a 
terminal bonus or, if there is, how much it will be.
Any illustration provided to Mr W, whether at the start of the policy or following enquiries in 
later years, would need the policy, not the fund, to achieve a set growth rate each and every 
year. So for example, the illustration he was sent in 2013 required a growth rate of 8% each 
year for the policy to achieve target  it required the policy to achieve compound growth of 
8% each year - rather than an average of 8% during the remainder of the term. While higher 
performance in some years can compensate for poorer returns in earlier or later years, it 
wont always be able to do so fully. I note that during the years between the illustration being 
produced and the maturity value of the policy, the net of tax fund performance was less than 
7%, from which shareholder dividends and charges linked to the policy would have been 
deducted. As such, I think its clear the policy could not have achieved the 8% needed for it 
to reach its target value.
I know Mr W doesnt accept that it is the net performance figures, or profit, that are material 
to the growth of his policy, but that is the case. Ive reviewed the documentation Mr W has 
provided but I dont consider it supports his belief that the growth referred to is the gross 
fund performance. I dont consider there is any evidence that Prudential paid out the wrong 
amount when Mr Ws policy matured and I am unable to uphold his complaint about the 
value.
That said, I can see that Mr W repeatedly asked Prudential for information about his policy 
and its provision was sporadic and incomplete much of the time. Indeed, it took the 
involvement of our investigator for some of the information to be forthcoming. Whilst I dont 
think Mr W would have been satisfied with Prudentials information or explanations had they 
been provided in a timelier manner, the process to get to that point clearly caused Mr W 
unnecessary frustration for which he should be compensated by £150.
My final decisionMy decision is that I uphold this complaint in part. In full and final settlement of this complaint 
I require The Prudential Assurance Company Limited to pay Mr W £150 compensation.  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, I am required to ask Mr W to accept 
or reject my decision before 5 July 2021.
 
Derry Baxter
Ombudsman