DRN-2975785
The complaint
Mr and Mrs R complain Huntingtons disease isnt a critical illness condition covered under 
the flexible homebuilder plan that Scottish Friendly Assurance Society Limited sold them. 
They say the adviser told them the plan covered all critical illnesses and, as Mrs R has been 
diagnosed with Huntingtons disease, they want their claim to be paid. 
 
What happened
The background to this complaint is well known to both parties and so Ill only refer to some 
key events here.
In 2000 Mr and Mrs R were sold a flexible homebuilder plan by a firm that Scottish Friendly 
has since acquired liability for. The plans aim was to repay their mortgage at the end of its 
term (22 years). It also included life and critical illness cover.
Mr R called Scottish Friendly on 25 January 2021 enquiring about making a critical illness 
claim under the plan as Mrs R had been diagnosed with Huntingtons disease. Scottish 
Friendly said they would look into this. As Mr R hadnt heard anything, he called Scottish 
Friendly again on 1 February 2021 and it was then explained to him that Huntingtons 
disease wasnt covered under the plan. 
A complaint was raised by Mr R as he said they were told all illnesses would be covered, but 
Scottish Friendlys position didnt change. In short, they said they couldnt determine what 
was discussed when the plan was set up but that the key features provided to Mr and Mrs R 
confirmed what conditions were covered. And unfortunately, Huntingtons disease isnt listed 
so they couldnt accept the claim. Scottish Friendly did however say that this shouldve been 
explained to Mr R in the 25 January 2021 call. 
The complaint was referred to our service. At which point, Scottish Friendly said their 
response to the complaint was wrong in saying Mr R shouldve been advised the condition 
wasnt covered in the first call. Scottish Friendly said it wasnt unreasonable for their call 
handler to advise Mr R his claim enquiry would need to be checked. But they thought a 
timescale ought to have been provided to Mr R and, by not giving one, he had to call them 
again. In recognition of this, and the error within their complaint response letter, they offered 
£50 compensation. 
One of our investigators considered the complaint but he didnt think Scottish Friendly had to 
do anything further. He said:
The recommendation letter says, The Key Features Document and illustration 
explain the contract in detail and I would recommend you take the time to read these 
carefully.
Insurance doesnt cover every eventuality but specified critical illnesses (events). And 
the premiums payable factor in to the level of cover received. An insurer will look to 
see whether the condition claimed for is listed as covered and, if so, whether the 
relevant definition or criteria has been met. 
Unfortunately, in Mr and Mrs Rs case, Huntingtons disease isnt listed in the key 
features document as a covered critical illness. So, he didnt think Scottish Friendly 
had made an error as theyd acted in line with the plan terms. 
Mr and Mrs R disagreed and so the matter has been passed to me to decide. 
Before I go on to explain the reasons for my decision, I want to clarify that Im only 
considering Mr and Mrs Rs concerns about the plan not providing cover for Huntingtons 
disease here. Im aware Mr and Mrs R have since raised concerns about the plans value not 
being enough to fully pay off their mortgage. But before our service can look into a 
complaint, the business must have had an opportunity to respond to it first. And I cant see 
Scottish Friendly have had this opportunity in relation to the plan value concerns. So, Mr and 
Mrs R should direct these to Scottish Friendly and if they remain dissatisfied with the 
response received, then they can refer it to our service. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im very sorry to hear of Mrs Rs diagnosis and Id like to reassure her that I dont 
underestimate the seriousness of her condition. Im also sympathetic to Mr and Mrs Rs 
financial circumstances as I understand theyve struggled recently, so I appreciate the 
importance of this matter to them. But what I must consider here is whether Scottish Friendly 
is required to pay the critical illness claim. I know this will come as a disappointment to Mr 
and Mrs R but I dont think they are. Ill explain why. 
Mr and Mrs R say they relied heavily on what the adviser told them when the plan was sold. 
And theyve said it wasnt explained what the plan did and didnt cover. Instead, they say 
they were assured by the adviser that it covered all critical illnesses. While Ive taken what 
theyve said into account, given I wasnt present at the time of the conversation, I cant be 
sure what was discussed between the adviser and Mr and Mrs R.  
At which point, I think it would be helpful to explain  as our investigator did  that insurance 
doesnt cover all eventualities, but rather only specified events. And so, while critical illness 
plans may cover a range of illnesses, they wont cover all of them. I also wouldnt necessarily 
expect an adviser to go through what specific conditions are and arent covered unless there 
were particular concerns raised by the client(s). That doesnt seem to have been the case 
here. And so, in the absence of anything to suggest otherwise, I dont think the cover 
provided by the plan was unreasonable for Mr and Mrs Rs circumstances.  
As Ive said, I cant be sure what was discussed at the time of sale. But Mr and Mrs R have 
provided a copy of a recommendation letter. This says they wouldve received a key features 
document and were recommended to read it. I understand Mr and Mrs R cant remember 
receiving this document but I think its most likely they wouldve been provided a copy. And 
the key features document says:
What is the Flexible Homebuilder Plan?

If you include critical illness benefit in your Plan, a lump sum will be paid on the 
diagnosis of a specified critical illness.

Its aims
To pay a cash sum which will pay off the amount of mortgage covered under your 
Plan if you die before the end of the term. If selected, it can be paid earlier upon 
diagnosis of a specified critical illness. 
Im satisfied the above makes it clear that only specified critical illnesses are covered. And, 
under the what is included in the critical illness cover? section, it goes on to provide the 
complete list of conditions that are covered. Huntingdons disease isnt listed as a covered 
condition. 
I appreciate Mr and Mrs R may have relied on the conversation with the adviser but, the 
above document makes it clear what is covered and I think its reasonable for them to have 
read it. So, if theyd done so and found the cover wasnt as comprehensive as they liked or 
were led to believe, they couldve questioned this or sought alternative cover at the time. I 
cant see that this happened.
As the plan doesnt cover Huntingtons disease, it follows that I dont think Scottish Friendly 
is required to pay the claim or has acted unfairly by not doing so.
On a final note, Scottish Friendly have since offered £50 compensation for not providing a 
timescale to Mr R for looking into the claim enquiry in the first call (as well as their error in 
the complaint response letter). Ive considered this and I think it is a fair amount to recognise 
the inconvenience Mr R suffered due to having to call them back for an update on the claim 
enquiry. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint in part. I direct Scottish Friendly Assurance 
Society Limited to pay Mr and Mrs R £50 compensation. If it has already been paid then they 
need take no further action. 
 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr and Mrs R to 
accept or reject my decision before 28 September 2021.
 
Daniel O'Dell
Ombudsman