DRN-3804257
The complaint
Mr R complains about the level of service provided by AFH Independent Financial Services 
Limited (AFH). He says that AFH received trail commission from his personal pension plan 
(PPP) for several years but didnt provide any ongoing service or advice in exchange for 
this. He thinks this is unfair. To put things right, he wants AFH to refund to him the trail 
commission it received since 2017.
What happened
The events leading up to this complaint were set out in detail by our investigator in his 
assessment which he provided to both Mr R and AFH. I dont intend to repeat here what our 
investigator stated but will instead provide a summary.
In 2010, Mr R was advised by an unconnected business (Firm A) to start the PPP at the 
centre of this complaint. He signed Firm As Client Agreement form. Under the heading 
Services to be provided it stated, With regards to investments that we have arranged for 
you, these will not be kept under review but we will advise you upon your request. Mr R 
confirmed on the Client Agreement form that he preferred to pay Firm A for its advice 
through commission rather than an upfront adviser charge. Firm A subsequently provided an 
illustration and suitability report to Mr R which confirmed the charges that applied to its 
advice. These explained that once the recommended PPP had started, a charge of 0.50% of 
the fund value would be deducted and paid to Firm A for arranging the PPP  this is 
otherwise known as trail commission. 
In 2015, AFH acquired Firm A. The acquisition entitled AFH to receive the value of any 
ongoing trail commission previously paid to Firm A  this meant it would receive the ongoing 
trail commission applicable to Mr Rs PPP. Mr R subsequently received written confirmation 
that AFH had acquired the business interests of Firm A  Mr R was provided contact details 
for one of AFHs advisers.
In January 2017, Mr R contacted the AFH adviser to arrange a meeting because his 
personal circumstances had changed  this led to the adviser arranging an amendment to 
Mr Rs address with the PPP provider. There wasnt any further contact between Mr R and 
AFH after 2017 regarding ongoing service or advice in connection with his PPP. But AFH 
continued to receive trail commission.
This complaint
Mr R says that during 2022 he became aware that trail commission had been deducted from 
the value of his PPP and paid to AFH for several years. This upset him because he hadnt 
received any ongoing service or advice by AFH since early 2017. He arranged with the PPP 
provider to cancel future trail commission to AFH. He then complained to AFH and 
requested that it refund to him the trail commission it had received in respect of services 
which hadnt been provided since 2017.
AFH didnt uphold this complaint. It explained that the payment of trail commission was 
typically the way advisers were paid before the implementation of the Retail Distribution 
Review (RDR) on 31 December 2012. And since Mr Rs PPP had started in 2010 it was a 
legitimate way for the advice costs associated with arranging the PPP to be paid. It said that 
when it acquired Firm A in 2015, any ongoing trail commission was correctly paid to it, but it 
wasnt required to notify Mr R about this or to provide any ongoing service or advice to 
continue receiving it.
Mr R didnt accept AFHs response and so referred the matter to this service. Our 
investigator didnt think that AFH needed to take any further action. This was because he 
was satisfied that when the PPP was set up, which was before implementation of the RDR, 
there was no obligation on the part of Firm A  and subsequently AFH when it acquired it  
to provide any ongoing service or advice. Rather, the trail commission was related only to 
the provision of the initial advice when arranging the PPP which continued to be correctly 
paid to AFH after it acquired Firm A. Our investigator was satisfied that Mr R had been made 
aware of the trail commission from the outset in both the illustration and suitability report. 
Overall, he didnt think AFH had acted unfairly based on the Client Agreement he had 
entered with Firm A which transferred to AFH. For these reasons he didnt uphold Mr Rs 
complaint.
Mr R didnt accept our investigators assessment and provided additional comments in 
response. Our investigator considered Mr Rs additional comments but wasnt persuaded to 
change his view. Since agreement couldnt be reached, the investigator stated that this 
complaint would be allocated to an ombudsman for review. While waiting for allocation, Mr R 
provided additional comments for my consideration.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Id like to clarify that the purpose of this final decision isnt to repeat or address every single
point raised by Mr R and AFH. So if I havent commented on any specific point, its because I 
dont believe its affected what I think is the right outcome. Ive considered all the evidence 
afresh including Mr Rs most recent comments. Having done so, Ive reached the same 
conclusion as our investigator for these reasons:
Mr R wants me to disregard the arrangement he entered with Firm A and focus 
instead on whether it could ever be regarded as fair, based on current regulatory 
expectations, that a new adviser can continue to receive trail commission but not 
provide any ongoing service or advice in exchange for this. While I understand why 
Mr R wants me to consider his complaint in this way, this isnt something I can do. I 
must decide this complaint based on the contract and arrangement he entered when 
he started his PPP in 2010  to apply current regulatory standards to historic events 
wouldnt be fair or reasonable.
Generally speaking, and prior to implementation of the RDR, which effectively 
banned them in 2012, commission payments were the mechanism of an advising 
business being paid for its services  the money wasnt recouped from a consumer 
directly, but rather was paid on behalf of the consumer by the provider. It usually took 
the form of either a larger initial amount followed by a smaller trail amount, or a 
regular and slightly higher amount. This was typically built into the overall cost of the 
plan and wouldve been recouped by the provider through the application of different 
types of units (with different costs) at the outset of a plan and/or regular policy fees. 
So the deduction of trail commission from Mr Rs PPP was entirely normal for a plan 
set up in 2010. Indeed, the Client Agreement form signed by Mr R in 2010 
confirmed that he preferred to pay Firm A through commission rather than an upfront adviser charge.
 
Firm A provided an illustration and suitability report to Mr R which confirmed the 
charges that applied to its advice including the ongoing trail commission. So Im 
satisfied that Mr R was made adequately aware, at the outset, that ongoing trail 
commission would be deducted from the value of his PPP and paid to Firm A.
As part of the RDR changes, the then regulator, the Financial Services Authority, 
confirmed that trail commission could continue to be paid on pre-RDR arrangements. 
It also confirmed that trail commission could be re-registered to a new adviser firm. 
So Im satisfied that when AFH acquired Firm A, it was entitled to continue receiving 
the trail commission applicable to Mr Rs PPP.
Trail commission was usually payable in connection with the initial advice only. This 
is an important point. Sometimes, it was specifically agreed that trail commission 
would entitle a consumer to further services, including regular reviews and other 
types of plan management. But in Mr Rs case, the Client Agreement form clearly 
stated that Firm A wouldnt keep the recommended PPP under review, but it would 
provide further advice if he requested it. This scope of services transferred to AFH 
when it acquired Firm A. Therefore, the available evidence doesnt support the 
position that the trail commission was being paid with the expectation of ongoing 
service or advice. Rather, it was purely in connection with the initial advice to start 
the PPP. So Im satisfied that there wasnt any obligation on AFH to make contact 
with Mr R to arrange ongoing servicing or advice in connection with his PPP.
Mr R was provided contact details for AFH following its acquisition of Firm A. He was 
free to contact AFH if he wanted advice and did so when he met one of AFHs 
advisers in January 2017. Since AFHs adviser responded to Mr Rs request for a 
meeting at that time, I think its likely he wouldve provided further advice had he 
requested it at any point over the five-year period until he complained in 2022. Based 
on the scope of the original Client Agreement, I cannot find AFH responsible for 
providing a poor level of service if Mr R chose not to contact it for advice.
Mr R thought that it was telling that, in response to his complaint, AFHs adviser 
contacted him to apologise for the lack of service provided since 2017  he 
considered this to be an admission of liability that AFH had made an error. I dont 
agree. I can understand why the adviser may have felt like he had let down Mr R but 
the simple fact is that  based on the original Client Agreement  there wasnt any 
legal or regulatory obligation for AFH to proactively contact Mr R to provide ongoing 
service or advice.
In conclusion, its my view that AFH was entitled to receive the ongoing trail 
commission as the successor business to Firm A and that it wasnt obliged to provide 
ongoing service or advice to Mr R in exchange for this. So overall, I dont think AFH 
needs to refund the trail commission paid to it. To reiterate, this was a legacy cost 
derived of the initial set up of the PPP, not payment for an ongoing service or advice.
Our aim in resolving a complaint is to place the consumer, as close as possible, into 
the correct financial position had the error or unfair treatment not happened. In this 
case, while I understand why Mr R is upset by the deduction of trail commission from 
the value of his PPP, I dont think that AFH made an error or treated him unfairly for 
the reasons explained. Therefore, I dont consider it would be fair or reasonable in 
these circumstances for me to direct AFH to pay compensation to Mr R  or to take 
any further action in response to this complaint.My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision before 26 April 2023. 
Clint Penfold
Ombudsman