DRN-3884690
The complaint
Mr B complains about charges when he returned his car at the end of a hire agreement 
provided by Mitsubishi HC Capital UK Plc trading as Novuna Vehicle Solutions (NVS).
What happened
In 2019, Mr B acquired a new car using a hire agreement with NVS.
As Mr Bs agreement came to an end, he says he arranged for the collection of the car. He 
says it was eventually collected around a month later. When the car was collected, it was 
inspected for damage by a third-party company who acted as collection agents for NVS. 
NVS say the inspector who carried out the inspection would have been trained to the British 
Vehicle and Rental Leasing Association (BVRLA) fair wear and tear guideline standards.
NVS then told Mr B he owed £1,646.13 for damage to the car. This consisted of:
Front bumper, dull paint £175.00
Front door L, dirt in paint £140.00
Rear door L, preparation marks £140.00
Quarter panel L, preparation marks £140.00
Rear bumper, dull paint £175.00
Quarter panel R, preparation marks £140.00
Rear door R, dirt in paint £140.00
Front alloy wheel R, scuffed spoke £65.00
Front alloy wheel L, scuffed rim £65.00
Rear alloy wheel L, scuffed spoke £65.00
Rear alloy wheel R, scuffed spoke £65.00
Lower front grille, broken £137.31
Front door moulding L, loose £5.00
Rear door moulding L, loose £5.00
Rear door moulding R, missing £63.82
Sill extension L, dent £75.00
Upholstery, soiled £50.00
TOTAL £1,646.13
Mr B was unhappy with the inspection report and invoice he received. He says he had 
already got some of the repairs completed prior to collection by a third-party repair specialist 
and he says he provided NVS with an invoice detailing the same.
NVS responded to Mr B in a final response and explained that repairs needed to be 
completed to a professional standard and they didnt believe they had been. They 
encouraged Mr B to contact the company who completed the repairs as they did not believe 
it was completed in line with the BVRLAs guidelines. And they also thought all other areas 
of damage were correctly reported and appropriately charged, except for the right rear door 
moulding. 
NVS said they upheld this aspect of Mr Bs complaint and confirmed the final end of contract 
damage charges to be £1,582.31. There was one area of damage  the lower front grille, 
which NVS didnt comment on in their final response.
Mr B suggested that an independent inspection should be completed on the vehicle but he 
says NVS eventually responded and told him that the car had now been sold, so a further 
inspection was not possible. Mr B is unhappy that NVS sold the vehicle when the charges 
were still in dispute and he believes their actions has prejudiced his position.
Mr B referred his complaint to our service. Our investigator didnt uphold his complaint. In 
summary, he says he was satisfied that NVS charged Mr B correctly for the damages still in 
dispute, as he believed they fell outside of the fair wear and tear standards issued by the 
BVRLA. For repairs carried out already, he was satisfied the report had shown an accurate 
representation of the condition of the car when it was returned. And that there were clear 
markings in the repaired paintwork which arent acceptable under the BVRLA guidelines. So, 
he didnt ask NVS to do anything further.
Mr B was unhappy with the investigators findings, especially that he wasnt allowed to get 
his own independent inspection prior to the sale of the car. Among other things, Mr B says 
he hadnt seen the sale price of the car and that there was no proof there was actually a 
drop in value due to the damage.
As Mr B disagreed with the investigators findings, the complaint has been passed to me to 
decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im not upholding this complaint and Ill explain why below.
Mr B complains about a car supplied under a hire agreement. Entering into consumer credit 
contracts such as this is a regulated activity, so Im satisfied I can consider Mr Bs complaint 
about NVS.
Mr B has complained about various damage charges on the returned vehicle. Ill consider 
these in turn. But Ive firstly thought about whether Mr B agreed to be held responsible for 
damage to the car. The terms of the agreement Mr B entered into says:
You agree to keep the Vehicle in good condition and repair. You will be responsible to us 
for any damage caused to or deterioration of the Vehicle otherwise than though fair wear 
and tear as indicated in the guidelines issued from time to time by the British Vehicle Rental 
and Leasing Association (BVRLA).
So Im satisfied Mr B agreed to keep the car in good repair and to be held responsible for 
any damage outside of fair wear and tear.
When considering the damages here, Ive referred to the BVRLA guidance on fair wear and 
tear. The BVRLA is a trade body that oversees the vehicle rental and leasing sector.In relation to repair works Mr B says was completed before he returned the car, the BVRLA 
says:
Drivers can arrange to repair any damage that is outside the agreed return standard before 
returning the vehicle, provided the repairs are carried out to a professional standard by a 
reputable repairer who can provide a full transferable warranty of their work..
It goes onto say:
Obvious evidence of poor repair, such as flaking paint, preparation marks, paint 
contamination, rippled finish or poorly matched paint, is not acceptable..
Ive also noted the car was acquired with a metallic paint applied. Metallic paint generally 
maintains a glossier and shinier finish compared to solid paint finishes. Ive reviewed the 
photos from the inspection of the car. 
In relation to the front bumper, one of the photos shows another panel of the car which is 
much shinier in comparison  and Im satisfied this is how the metallic finish should likely 
look. From these photos, it is clear and obvious the paint on areas of the front bumper is dull 
in finish and is poorly matched to the original paint. Im satisfied this area falls outside of the 
wear and tear guidance. So it follows Im satisfied its reasonable to charge Mr B for this 
damage.
In relation to the left front door, some of the photos show a pitted or bittiness finish to the 
paint. There are clear and obvious areas of paint contamination and a rippled finish. Im 
satisfied this area falls outside of the wear and tear guidance. So it follows Im satisfied its 
reasonable to charge Mr B for this damage.
In relation to the left rear door, the photos show areas of paint which is dull in finish and is 
poorly matched to the original paint. Im satisfied this area falls outside of the wear and tear 
guidance. So it follows Im satisfied its reasonable to charge Mr B for this damage.
In relation to the left quarter panel, there are clear and obvious areas where the paint is 
rippled or blistered. Im satisfied this area falls outside of the wear and tear guidance. So it 
follows Im satisfied its reasonable to charge Mr B for this damage.
In relation to the rear bumper, it is clear and obvious the paint on areas of the rear bumper is 
dull in finish and is poorly matched to the original paint. Im satisfied this area falls outside of 
the wear and tear guidance. So it follows Im satisfied its reasonable to charge Mr B for this 
damage.
In relation to the right quarter panel, there is a clear and obvious area on the panel where 
the paint is rippled or blistered. Im satisfied this area falls outside of the wear and tear 
guidance. So it follows Im satisfied its reasonable to charge Mr B for this damage.
In relation to the right rear door, one of the photos shows a pitted or bittiness finish to the 
paint. The other photos of the door show a clear and obvious area on it where the paint is 
rippled or blistered. Im satisfied this area falls outside of the wear and tear guidance. So it 
follows Im satisfied its reasonable to charge Mr B for this damage.
In summary, for the seven areas that Mr B says were repaired before the car was collected, I 
think they all fall outside of the wear and tear guidance in terms of the paint finish. I 
appreciate Mr B has spent a considerable amount of his own money on these repairs that 
have been completed by a third-party company. But I dont think it is fair for NVS to be 
penalised for the poor workmanship of a third-party.For damage to wheels and wheel trims, The BVRLA says:
Dents on wheel rims and wheel trims are not acceptable. But, Scuffs up to 50mm on the 
total circumference of the wheel rim and on alloy wheels are acceptable.. It also says, Any 
damage to the wheel spokes, wheel fascia, or hub of the alloy wheel is not acceptable..
In relation to the front right alloy, from the photos I can see considerable scuffs and 
scratches along the circumference of the wheel, that total over 50mm in length. There is also 
damage to multiple wheel spokes. I would describe the overall condition of the wheel as very 
poor. Im satisfied this area falls outside of the wear and tear guidance. So it follows Im 
satisfied its reasonable to charge Mr B for this damage.
In relation to the front left alloy wheel, from the photos I can see scuffs along the 
circumference of the wheel in multiple distinct, separate areas. The scuffs total over 50mm in 
length. Im satisfied this area falls outside of the wear and tear guidance. So it follows Im 
satisfied its reasonable to charge Mr B for this damage.
In relation to the rear left alloy wheel, there are scratches on two separate wheel spokes. Im 
satisfied this area falls outside of the wear and tear guidance. So it follows Im satisfied its 
reasonable to charge Mr B for this damage.
In relation to the rear right alloy wheel, there is a dent on the circumference of the wheel. 
There are also scuffs on multiple wheel spokes. Im satisfied this area falls outside of the 
wear and tear guidance. So it follows Im satisfied its reasonable to charge Mr B for this 
damage.
For damage to unpainted mouldings, the BVRLA says:
Scuffs and scratches of 25mm or less are acceptable provided the moulding or trim is not 
broken, cracked or deformed..
In relation to the lower front grille, the photos show the plastic cracked and broken in two 
separate areas. Im satisfied this area falls outside of the wear and tear guidance. So it 
follows Im satisfied its reasonable to charge Mr B for this damage.
In relation to the left front door moulding and left rear door mouldings, the photos show areas 
where they are poorly attached to the door or deformed where they should be securely 
attached. Im satisfied these areas fall outside of the wear and tear guidance. So it follows 
Im satisfied its reasonable to charge Mr B for this damage.
In relation to the left sill extension, one single image has been provided of the alleged 
damage to this area. I accept the image isnt clear and is slightly blurry. Against the sill, the 
inspector who conducted the report has placed a measurement guide to roughly calculate 
the size of any possible damage. From the photo, I think there is a dent bordering the top 
edge of the sill. I say this because the gap between the sill and the bottom of the door is 
slightly narrower and inconsistent with the gap in other areas of the panel. Using the 
measurement as a guide, I think it is larger than 25mm in length. Im satisfied this area falls 
outside of the wear and tear guidance. So it follows Im satisfied its reasonable to charge Mr 
B for this damage.
In relation to the upholstery, the BVRLA says:
The interior upholstery and trim must be clean and odourless with no burns, scratches, 
tears, dents or staining.. One photo shows staining on the seat and appears dirty. Another photo shows staining on 
the front driver side carpet lining and is dirty. Im satisfied this area falls outside of the wear 
and tear guidance. So it follows Im satisfied its reasonable to charge Mr B.
Mr B has said he wanted an independent inspection completed prior to the sale of the car.
The BVRLA guidelines say: 
Carry out an appraisal of the vehicle before the vehicle is due for return. This will allow 
you to arrange to have any damage rectified and missing items replaced..
NVS say it was not possible to reissue it for an independent inspection as the car was 
prepared for resale. I think NVSs response here is fair and reasonable as the car had 
already been returned as his agreement came to an end. 
I appreciate Mr B has said he lost the opportunity for a further review, but NVS were under 
no obligation to allow Mr B to inspect the car again. And I think Mr B was given enough time 
prior to collection to inspect the vehicle and ensure any works completed on the car by a 
third-party were done so to a professional standard and in line with the BVRLA guidelines on 
fair wear and tear. 
Mr B also says he hadnt seen the sale price of the car and that there is no proof there was 
actually a drop in value due to the damage. Ive thought carefully about this. The BVRLA 
says:
Charges can still be applied at end of lease in cases where the leasing company decides for 
commercial reasons not to repair damage or to replace missing equipment before the 
vehicle is sold..
While it isnt clear whether NVS completed the repairs before the car was sold, in any event, 
I dont think it matters, as the BVRLA guidance is clear in that damage doesnt need to be 
repaired before the vehicle is sold and charges can still be applied at the end of a lease.
I also cant see a provision within the terms and conditions of Mr Bs agreement which say 
that he is only responsible for damage to the car if there is a drop in value of it.
Mr B has also said there was a delay in NVS collecting the vehicle. NVS has provided an 
email chain between themselves and Mr B. Within it, it shows that the delay to the collection 
of the car was due to it requiring an MOT. I have referred to the terms and conditions of Mr 
Bs agreement, where in section 3.1(c), he agrees to:
ensure that maintenance and statutory testing of Vehicle is carried out.
It also says in the BVRLA:
The vehicle must be roadworthy. 
So, I dont think NVS has done anything wrong in any delay in collecting the car, as it was 
due to a valid MOT not being completed in time. 
Considering everything here, I think NVS has fairly applied the BVRLAs fair wear and tear 
guidelines in the areas being charged which I have looked into.My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 March 2023.
 
Ronesh Amin
Ombudsman