DRN-2810572
The complaint
Mr T, Mrs T and Mr T complain that Great Lakes Insurance SE hasnt refunded the 
premiums they paid for a travel insurance policy.
What happened
On 1 November 2019, Mr T, Mrs T and Mr T took out a comprehensive single trip travel 
insurance policy through a broker. They paid £435.90 for the policy, including cover for a 
number of medical conditions and a few days later, they paid £59.12 to add optional 
connecting flight cover. The policy was intended to cover a trip they were due to take 
between 7 and 20 October 2020.
However, due to the Covid-19 pandemic, Mr T, Mrs T and Mr T werent able to travel as 
planned and in early July 2020, they rescheduled their trip for October 2021. They got in 
touch with Great Lakes on 3 July 2020 to look into whether they could amend their policy 
dates. Great Lakes explained that cover dates could only be moved to within 18 months of 
the date the policy was purchased, so it couldnt change the policy dates in this case. But it 
told Mr T, Mrs T and Mr T that it could offer them a pro-rata credit voucher for the portion of 
unused cover, which could be put towards another policy; which would be valid for 36 
months. The voucher didnt include a premium refund for the connecting flight cover.
Mr T, Mrs T and Mr T accepted the voucher and asked Great Lakes for a quote for a new 
policy. However, the new quote was more expensive than the price of the old policy. As they 
found cheaper cover through a different broker, Mr T, Mrs T and Mr T asked Great Lakes if 
the voucher could be put towards a policy with a different company. Great Lakes told them 
that the voucher could only be used to buy a policy through the original broker. Mr T, Mrs T 
and Mr T were unhappy with Great Lakes offer and they asked us to look into their 
complaint.
Our investigator considered whether Great Lakes had acted fairly. She set out the details of 
the relevant cancellation rights and how they applied in the circumstances of this case. She 
also explained that it is a fundamental principle of insurance law that if the insurer had 
started to bear risk  for however short a time  the premium paid is not returnable. That 
means its not unreasonable for an insurer to keep any premiums relating to the risk it 
covered during that time. And she explained that Covid-19 didnt make it impossible for the 
contract of insurance to be performed because cover under the policy started on 1 
November 2019 and the policy covered various risks during that time. 
The investigator acknowledged the unique and unprecedented circumstances of Covid-19. 
She thought that the fair and reasonable outcome in all the circumstances of this complaint 
was for Great Lakes to offer Mr T, Mrs T and Mr T a credit voucher, which would be valid for 
36 months and which took into account the unused cover remaining on the policy. She didnt 
think the terms of the voucher were overly restrictive. So she didnt think Great Lakes 
needed to pay Mr T, Mrs T and Mr T a cash refund of their premium.
But the investigator didnt think it was fair for Great Lakes not to offer Mr T, Mrs T and Mr T a 
full refund of the premium theyd paid for connecting flight cover. Thats because Great 
Lakes is only covering the risk of a claim under this section of the policy once a policyholder 
has departed on their trip. As Mr T, Mrs T and Mr T hadnt travelled, she felt the fair outcome 
would be for Great Lakes to include a full refund of the connecting flight cover premium in its 
voucher calculation.
She acknowledged that Mr T, Mrs T and Mr T didnt think it was fair that Great Lakes had 
increased its prices. But she explained that its for insurers to assess the risk of a claim and 
to set their prices accordingly. In this case, Great Lakes had told the investigator that the 
price difference was down to slightly different medical information Mr T had given the two 
brokers. So she didnt think Great Lakes had treated Mr T unfairly when it calculated the 
price of his policy.
Great Lakes accepted the investigators recommendations and agreed to include a full 
refund of the connecting flight cover premium in its voucher offer. This meant its total 
voucher offer was £144.79.
Mr T, Mrs T and Mr T didnt agree. They were unhappy that Great Lakes hadnt offered them 
a cash refund and that it had increased their prices. Mr T also said hed given the right 
medical information to both brokers and that he considered Great Lakes had suggested he 
wasnt being truthful. They were also unhappy that the voucher would expire in July 2023  
as their trip has now been moved to October 2023. This means the voucher is now worthless 
to them.
The complaints been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, while Im sorry to disappoint Mr T, Mrs T and Mr T, I think Great Lakes offer 
is fair. Ill explain why.
Our investigator identified, and set out, the rules, regulations and law. I agree those are the 
relevant considerations which apply to the specific circumstances of this case. 
The policy terms and conditions say: 
You have the right to cancel your policy within 14 days of the date of issue or receipt of your 
documents, whichever is later. We will only refund to you any premium you have paid, less 
any fees and charges if you have not travelled, or have made, or intend to make a claim.
If the notice of cancellation is received outside the 14 day cooling off period no premium
will be refunded, however discretion may be exercised in exceptional circumstances such as
bereavement or a change to the policy resulting in us declining to cover your medical 
conditions. 
The policy was cancelled outside the cooling off period and so there is no requirement under 
the relevant industry rules and guidelines for the insurer to offer a refund
As Ive outlined above, the contract of insurance says that Great Lakes doesnt have to pay 
any refund of a policyholders premium after the cooling-off period has ended. In this case, 
Mr T, Mrs T and Mr Ts cooling-off period ended on 14 November 2019. But the policy wasnt 
cancelled until 3 July 2020. So their cancellation was outside of the 14-day cooling-off 
period. I dont think it would be fair to ask Great Lakes to use its discretion and treat the Covid-19 pandemic as exceptional circumstances. I think this policy term most likely relates 
to circumstances which are individual to the policyholder  such as bereavement or a 
change in their own health. This means I dont think the terms and conditions of Mr T, Mrs T 
and Mr Ts contract with Great Lakes entitle them to any refund of premiums.  
Ive taken into account what is fair and reasonable in the circumstances of the complaint 
including the unique and unprecedented circumstances surrounding Covid-19. In the 
circumstances of this case, I think Great Lakes offer to provide Mr T, Mrs T and Mr T with a 
credit voucher for the unused portion of their cover is fair and reasonable. Great Lakes 
wouldve been on-risk for a 355-day period if the policy hadnt been cancelled. The voucher 
represents the remaining, unused 110 days of cover, after the policy was cancelled, as 
Great Lakes was no longer carrying any risk of Mr T, Mrs T and Mr T making a claim after 
that point. 
Like the investigator, I think that its appropriate for Great Lakes to include a full refund of the 
premium Mr T, Mrs T and Mr T paid for the connecting flight cover. Thats because this cover 
only provides a benefit once a policyholder has begun their trip. As Mr T, Mrs T and Mr T 
didnt travel, I agree that Great Lakes didnt bear any risk of Mr T, Mrs T and Mr T making a 
claim under this section of the policy. Im pleased that Great Lakes has accepted the 
investigators recommendations on this point and has now included a full refund for this 
cover in its voucher calculations. And having checked Great Lakes refund calculation, Im 
satisfied it was correct.
In my view, a voucher is a fair alternative to a monetary refund in the circumstances of this 
case. I appreciate that Mr T, Mrs T and Mr T are now taking their original planned trip after 
the voucher will have expired. But given it remains valid until 3 July 2023, I think its likely Mr 
T, Mrs T and Mr T will be able to put the voucher towards another policy in the future. So I 
dont think that the terms of the voucher are overly restrictive.
I understand Mr T, Mrs T and Mr T are unhappy that the price of the quote they were given 
in July 2020 was more than the price they paid in November 2019. As the investigator 
explained, we wont generally tell insurers how to assess the risk of a claim, what factors to 
take into account, whether or not to offer cover and if so, what price to charge. I appreciate it 
mustve been disappointing for Mr T, Mrs T and Mr T when they were quoted a higher price 
than they wanted to pay for a new policy, but prices can vary and rates may change. I dont 
think I could fairly say that Great Lakes has acted inherently unfairly by increasing the price 
of the policy it was prepared to offer at that point. And as Mr T, Mrs T and Mr T didnt take up 
the quote, they havent suffered any financial loss as a result.
Great Lakes told the investigator that the difference in price between the original brokers 
quote and the new brokers quote was down to a difference in information which was 
provided during medical screening. I understand Mr T, Mrs T and Mr T are unhappy with this 
position and feel that their veracity is being questioned. This isnt a complaint point the 
business has had the opportunity to look into or respond to though, so I cant consider it 
here. Its open to Mr T, Mrs T and Mr T to make a new complaint to the business about that 
issue alone if they wish to do so.
Having considered everything, while I know Mr T, Mrs T and Mr T will be disappointed in my 
decision, Im not telling Great Lakes to pay them a cash refund of her premiums. 
 
  
My final decisionFor the reasons Ive given above, my final decision is that Great Lakes offer is fair and 
reasonable.
I direct Great Lakes Insurance SE to include a full refund of premium for connecting flights 
cover in its credit voucher calculation.  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr T, Mrs T and 
Mr T to accept or reject my decision before 6 July 2021.
 
Lisa Barham
Ombudsman