DRN-3266081
The complaint
Ms R complains about the decision by MetLife Europe d.a.c. to terminate her income 
protection claim.
What happened
Ms R is covered under her employers income protection scheme. The aim of the scheme is 
to pay benefit in the event Ms R cant work because of illness or injury.
In 2019, Ms R was diagnosed with a brain tumour and stopped work. Ms R submitted a 
claim under the scheme, which was accepted by MetLife. 
When reviewing the claim in 2020, MetLife thought Ms R had recovered sufficiently after 
having surgery and was able to return to work. It therefore terminated the claim as of 31 
December 2020 (though it paid a further months benefit to allow Ms R to do a phased return 
to work). Unhappy with this, Ms R brought a complaint to this service.
Our investigator didnt recommend the complaint be upheld. She thought MetLifes decision 
had been reasonable. 
Ms R didnt accept our investigators findings, and so the matter has been passed to me for 
a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The policy terms define incapacity as:
unable to perform, due to illness or injury, the material and substantial duties required of 
them in their own occupation which they were performing immediately prior to being 
incapacitated
As our investigator has explained, in terminating the claim, the onus is on MetLife to 
demonstrate that Ms R no longer met the definition of incapacity when it terminated her 
claim.
Ive looked carefully at the medical evidence. Ms R had surgery in September 2019 and 
around 80% of her tumour was removed. It was thought she would need at least three 
months off work. Following the surgery, Ms R was reviewed by specialists, and also had 
regular MRI scans. The evidence shows that Ms R had experienced no further seizures or 
headaches after her surgery, and her tumour was confirmed to be stable. By July 2020, 
Ms R was reported to be back to her normal self. Although she was taking medication for 
seizures, she was tolerating this well. Then on 29 September 2020, Ms R saw her oncologist 
who said a recent MRI scan was stable, and reported that she looked very well. There were 
no symptoms mentioned by Ms R at this time.
Im satisfied that when MetLife terminated the claim in December 2020, the evidence 
supported that Ms R had recovered from her surgery, and that she was no longer 
experiencing symptoms relating to her tumour. That being the case, I think it was reasonable 
for MetLife to conclude that she could return to work and terminate the claim at this time.
Ms R has provided further evidence after this date. I see that MetLife considered evidence 
up to June 2021 when considering Ms Rs appeal. Ive therefore taken this into account, to 
see whether this ought to have changed MetLifes decision to terminate the claim when it 
did.
Ms Rs oncologist (Dr D) spoke with her in January 2021. Dr D noted that Ms R said shed 
been experiencing headaches since September 2020, but hadnt mentioned it when she had 
her scan as she was worried to say anything. Dr D said the headaches occurred possibly 
once a week or so, and settled with paracetamol. Finally, Dr D said that Ms R didnt have 
any other symptoms.
A further MRI in February 2021 showed that Ms Rs tumour remained stable.
In March 2021, Ms R was assessed by her consultant neurosurgeon (Mr H). Mr H said that 
shed recovered well from her operation, though he said that six months earlier she started 
experiencing severe headaches. Mr H said that Ms Rs tumour was stable, though she was 
unwell due to her headaches and was unable to work. He referred her to neurology.
Then in May 2021, Ms R saw a neurologist (Dr M). Dr M said she was tolerating her seizure 
medication with no further seizures since her surgery. Though they said she had been 
experiencing headaches which had been increasing in frequency since September 2020. 
Dr M said these were relieved by sleeping and paracetamol. Dr M noted Ms R thought her 
headaches were impairing her recovery and ability to go back to work. Dr M arranged a 
follow-up for six to 12 months time.
I see that Ms R had a phone assessment with an occupational health adviser in June 2021. 
She advised them that from September/October 2021, she had experienced debilitating 
headache, dizziness, nausea and blurring of vision. 
The occupational health adviser thought those symptoms prevented Ms R from working. 
However, the contemporaneous evidence from Dr D doesnt support that Ms R was 
experiencing those symptoms at the time that MetLife terminated her claim. 
Dr D didnt comment on Ms Rs ability to work after speaking with her in January 2021. 
Nonetheless, whilst its clear from this later evidence that Ms R was experiencing symptoms 
(headaches) when MetLife terminated her claim, the information from Dr D is that these 
occurred around once a week and settled with paracetamol. I think it was reasonable for 
MetLife to conclude that Ms Rs headaches werent of such severity or frequency that they 
wouldve impacted her ability to work.
I appreciate that after January 2021, Ms R reported more severe headaches. Though as our 
investigator has pointed out, Ms Rs specialists didnt offer their opinions on her ability to 
work. Mr Hs comment that Ms R was unable to work seems to have been an observation 
rather than his opinion on why that might be. Its also the case that Mr H appeared to be 
under the impression that Ms R had been experiencing severe headaches for six months, 
but that wasnt reflected in Ms Rs conversation with Dr D two months earlier. 
I accept that the later evidence confirms that Ms R was experiencing headaches when 
MetLife terminated her claim. However, given the severity of her symptoms at the time, Im satisfied it was appropriate for MetLife to conclude that its decision to terminate her claim 
had been fair.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms R to accept or 
reject my decision before 25 May 2022.
 
Chantelle Hurn-Ryan
Ombudsman