DRN-2843626
The complaint
Mr T has complained that Evergreen Finance London Limited (trading as MoneyBoat.co.uk)
gave him unaffordable loans.
What happened
Our adjudicator partly upheld Mr Ts complaint. MoneyBoat did not agree with the 
adjudicators opinion. The complaint was then passed to me. 
I issued my provisional decision explaining the reasons why I was upholding Mr Ts 
complaint. A copy of the background to the complaint and my provisional findings follow this 
and form part of this final decision. Both parties were given the chance to provide further 
information and or evidence before I finalised the final decision. 
What I said in my provisional decision:
Mr T took nine loans from MoneyBoat between May 2018 and March 2020. A summary of
his borrowing, based on the information provided to us from the lender, can be found below:
Loan Date Taken Date RepaidNo of Monthly 
InstalmentsAmount 
Borrowed
1 04/05/2018 29/06/2018 2 £500.00
2 04/09/2018 28/12/2018 4 £400.00
3 07/01/2019 28/02/2019 2 £200.00
4 04/03/2019 30/04/2019 2 £300.00
5 03/05/2019 28/06/2019 2 £400.00
6 16/08/2019 30/09/2019 2 £300.00
7 12/11/2019 23/12/2019 2 £300.00
8 30/12/2019 28/02/2020 2 £300.00
9 09/03/2020 30/04/2020 2 £300.00
In its final response letter, MoneyBoat offered to refund all the interest that Mr T had paid on
his final four loans as a gesture of goodwill - in full and final settlement of the complaint.
One of our adjudicators looked at Mr Ts complaint. He didnt think MoneyBoat were wrong
to approve Mr Ts first three loans based on the information it gathered about his financial
circumstances.
But when Mr T applied for loan 4, the adjudicator thought MoneyBoat ought to have realised
that Mr Ts lending was by that point unsustainable for him. So, the adjudicator didnt think
MoneyBoat shouldve approved this, or any later, loans.
It appears that Mr T agreed with our adjudicators opinion.
MoneyBoat disagreed and provided the following points to consider;
The checks undertaken were proportionate especially during the early stages of the
lending relationship.
MoneyBoat says it would be unrealistic for an underwriter to sit and review every line
of the credit report prior to lending, especially at the early stages of the relationship 
nor has it found anywhere in the regulations or guidance that suggests the regulator
(the FCA) that a lender is obliged to do so.
The credit reports that it ran showed very little in terms of other credit commitments
which would suggest that Mr T was in any way over committed
.
As no agreement could be reached the complaint has been passed to me for a final
decision.
What Ive provisionally decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive also taken into account the law, any relevant regulatory rules and good industry practice
at the time the loan was provided.
MoneyBoat needed to take reasonable steps to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In
practice this means that it should have carried out proportionate checks to make sure
Mr T could repay the loans in a sustainable manner. These checks could take into account a
number of different things, such as how much was being lent, the repayment amounts, and
the consumers income and expenditure. With this in mind, in the early stages of a lending
relationship, I think less thorough checks might be reasonable and proportionate.
But certain factors might point to the fact that MoneyBoat should fairly and reasonably have
done more to establish that any lending was sustainable for Mr T. These factors include:
the lower a consumers income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make
any loan repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income);
the higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income);
the greater the number and frequency of loans, and the longer the period of time
during which a customer has been given loans (reflecting the risk that repeated
refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become or was becoming
unsustainable).
There may even come a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable.
I think that it is important for me to start by saying that MoneyBoat was required to establish
whether Mr T could sustainably repay his loans  not just whether the loan payments were
affordable on a strict pounds and pence calculation.
Of course, the loan payments being affordable on this basis might be an indication a
consumer could sustainably make their repayments. But it doesnt automatically follow this is
the case. This is because the relevant regulations define sustainable as being without undue
difficulties and in particular the customer should be able to make repayments on time, whilemeeting other reasonable commitments; as well as without having to borrow to meet
the repayments. And it follows that a lender should realise, or it ought fairly and reasonably
to realise, that a borrower wont be able to make their repayments sustainably if theyre
unlikely to be able to do so without borrowing further.
Ive carefully considered all of the arguments, evidence and information provided in this
context and what this all means for Mr Ts complaint. Having done so, Im coming to a
different outcome to our adjudicators. Id like to explain why below.
Loans 1-4
When Mr T approached MoneyBoat his first loan, MoneyBoat completed an income and
expenditure check, as well as a credit check. Mr T told it he had a monthly income of £2,000
and his monthly expenditure amounted to £650.
MoneyBoat further increased Mr Ts declared expenditure by adding an additional amount of
£768 to his expenses. MoneyBoat says it increased Mr Ts expenditure as his credit report
highlighted a different expenditure amount compared to the amount Mr T disclosed. And/or
to bring Mr T in-line with the average expenditure listed on the Common Financial
Statement. So, MoneyBoat noted Mr Ts total monthly expenditure as £1,418. This would
have left him with a disposable monthly income of £582 from which to meet his monthly
repayments of no more than £324.64. So, I think the loan repayments would have appeared
affordable based on the headlines of the information MoneyBoat gathered.
However, MoneyBoat has provided the full results of a credit check it completed for Mr Ts
first loan which shows Mr Ts circumstances were different to what he declared. The results
of the credit check showed Mr T taken 187 accounts in the last six years, and he had settled
168 of these accounts. Furthermore, Mr T had opened 19 new accounts within the previous
six months before his application with MoneyBoat. The report also showed Mr T had 18
active credit accounts. This was a significant number of accounts taken within a short period
of time and showed that Mr T was opening an average of three accounts per month.
This high number of new opened accounts suggested Mr T was most likely reliant on
short-term lending - as I find it difficult to understand why he would need to request several
new accounts each month if that werent the case. This is further demonstrated by the
number of credit searches showing on his credit file. MoneyBoat were aware that Mr T had
47 credit searches on his credit file, with 15 of these searches having been conducted in the
three months prior to his application  an average of 5 per month.
I think there is an argument to say this number of credit searches and new accounts being
open was enough to suggest the loan would be unsustainable. But, Id have at least thought
MoneyBoat ought to have looked into Mr Ts circumstances in more detail to understand why
he was taking out numerous accounts each month.
This led me to look into Mr Ts credit file entries in more detail, as I think MoneyBoat ought to
have done. When reviewing Mr Ts credit checks, MoneyBoat would have seen he had 12
outstanding loans with other lenders at the time of his application. Furthermore, he was
making repayments of £388 towards his mortgage as well as repayments of £238 every two
months towards arrears held with his bank. It appears that Mr T was due to repay £238 in
the same month his first contractual repayment for loan 1 would have fell due. The combined
repayments for all of Mr Ts loans, mortgage and bank arrears totalled £1,862. So, when
considering Mr T declared his monthly income as £2,000, the repayments for loan 1 appears
to be unaffordable as he did not have enough disposable income to meet it.
Indeed, I can see from the other cases that Mr T has brought to this service that at the time
of loan 1, he had at least seven outstanding payday loans with other lenders. Again, furtherpointing towards the fact that the number of credit searches and number of active accounts
was fully indicative of him being reliant on this type of lending and was therefore likely having
problems managing his money.
I acknowledge what MoneyBoat says about it being unrealistic for an underwriter to sit and
review every line of a credit file prior to lending, especially at the early stages of the
relationship. But MoneyBoat cannot simply ignore the information that it has been provided
with, especially when the information gathered shows that the loan repayments are
potentially a high risk to the customer. What I would point out is that much of the information
I used could be found within the first few pages of the credit report. So a forensic, line by
line, review was not necessary to identify the problematic flags in this case.
When Mr T applied for loans 2-4, MoneyBoat continued to complete the same level of
checks  whilst adding an additional buffer on top of Mr Ts declared monthly expenditure.
But I think it had enough information from its credit checks to suggest Mr Ts circumstances
had not improved since his first loan. He was continuing to apply for credit  as shown by the
high number of credit searches on his account. Furthermore, Mr T continued to open a
significant number of accounts  likely short-term loans.
So, I dont think MoneyBoat should have continued to lend to Mr T for these reasons, as
further lending was likely to be detrimental to his financial situation. So, I think MoneyBoat
were wrong to approve these loans.
Loan 5
I havent recreated individual, proportionate affordability checks for loans 5-9 because I
dont consider it necessary to do so. Indeed, Id still be inclined (for the same reasons Ive
outlined above) to think that, from loan 5, MoneyBoats checks really needed to go further
than just relying on the information Mr T told it.
By this point in the lending relationship, I think MoneyBoat ought to have been trying to
verify Mr Ts income and overall expenditure in order to have an accurate understanding of
his full financial position.
So, in addition to assessing the circumstances behind each individual loan provided to
Mr T, MoneyBoat also needed to consider the overall pattern of lending and what unfolded
during the course of its lending relationship with Mr T.
I think MoneyBoat was wrong to have provided loans 5-9 because Mr T wasnt in a
position to sustainably repay them for the following reasons:
By loan 5, Mr T had been indebted to MoneyBoat for nine months  with the lending
relationship stretching for longer than this. He had taken five short-term loans within
this period. So MoneyBoat ought to have realised it was more likely than not Mr T
was having to borrow further to cover the hole repaying his previous borrowing was
leaving in his finances. This is supported by the fact Mr T was taking out a new loan
normally within a week or two after repaying one. And he had done this on three
occasions with the exception of loan 2. So, Mr T wasnt making any real
improvements to the amount he owed MoneyBoat.
The amount that Mr T borrowed for loan 5 of £400 hadnt significantly decreased
compared to his first loan of £500 which was taken 12 months prior to loan 5. Over
the remainder of the borrowing relationship, Mr T continued to borrow £300, which
wasnt a significant decrease in his borrowing considering the borrowing relationship
lasted 22 months.I think that Mr T lost out because MoneyBoat continued to provide borrowing from loan 5
onwards because:
these loans had the effect of unfairly prolonging Mr Ts indebtedness by allowing
him to take credit over an extended period of time.
the length of time coupled with the number of loans which Mr T borrowed was likely
to have had negative implications on Mr Ts ability to access mainstream credit and
so kept him in the market for these loans.
So overall, I think MoneyBoat were wrong to approve loans 1-9.
  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Both MoneyBoat and Mr T did not provide any additional comments or evidence for me to 
consider in response to the provisional decision.
Ive therefore reached the same conclusions I reached in the provisional decisions for the 
same reasons. So, I still think MoneyBoat was wrong to have approved all of Mr Ts loans. 
 
Putting things right
In deciding what redress MoneyBoat should fairly pay in this case Ive thought about what
might have happened had it not approved Mr Ts loans as Im satisfied it ought to have.
Clearly there are a great many possible, and all hypothetical, answers to that question.
For example, having been declined this lending Mr T may have simply left matters there,
not attempting to obtain the funds from elsewhere  particularly as a relationship existed
between him and this particular lender which he may not have had with others. If this wasnt
a viable option, he may have looked to borrow the funds from a friend or relative 
assuming that was even possible.
Or, Mr T may have decided to approach a third-party lender with the same application, or
indeed a different application (i.e. for more or less borrowing). But even if he had done that,
the information that would have been available to such a lender and how they would (or
ought to have) treated an application which may or may not have been the same is
impossible to now accurately reconstruct. From what Ive seen in this case, I certainly dont
think I can fairly conclude there was a real and substantial chance that a new lender would
have been able to lend to Mr T in a compliant way at this time.
Having thought about all of these possibilities, Im not persuaded it would be fair or
reasonable to conclude that Mr T would more likely than not have taken up any one of
these options. So, it wouldnt be fair to now reduce MoneyBoats liability in this case for what
Im satisfied it has done wrong and should put right.
I think MoneyBoat were wrong to approve all of Mr Ts loans. So, MoneyBoat should do the
following to put things right:
Refund all interest, fees and charges Mr T paid towards his loans.Calculate 8% simple interest* on the individual payments made by Mr T from the
date Mr T originally made his payment, to the date the complaint is settled.
MoneyBoat should remove any adverse information recorded about loans 1-4 from
Mr Ts credit file. The overall pattern of Mr Ts borrowing for loans 5-9 means any
information recorded about them is adverse, so MoneyBoat should remove these
loans entirely from Mr Ts credit file.
*HM Revenue & Customs requires you to deduct tax from this interest. MoneyBoat should
give Mr T a certificate showing how much tax is deducted, if he asks for one.
  
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained above an in my provisional decision Im upholding Mr Ts 
complaint in full.
Evergreen Finance London Limited should put things right for Mr T as Ive set out above. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr T to accept or 
reject my decision before 2 July 2021.
 
Robert Walker
Ombudsman