Page 1 of 4The complaint
A company, which Ill refer to as L, complains that The Royal Bank of Scotland Plc (RBS) 
unfairly closed its bank account and declined its Coronavirus Business Interruption Loan 
application after initially approving it.
Ls director, Mr M, brings the complaint on the companys behalf.
What happened
L applied to RBS for a Coronavirus Business Interruption Loan (CBIL) in May 2020, having 
banked with it since 2016. 
RBS initially approved Ls application and a loan agreement for £145,000 was completed on 
8 June. But on 10 June, RBS blocked Ls account. Mr M was told later that day that the bank 
was closing the account and would not be proceeding with the CBIL. The bank didnt 
disclose its reasons for this to L, but suggested that Mr M check his credit file.
On reviewing his credit file, Mr M found that another bank had logged an entry against his 
name with CIFAS (an anti-fraud agency and database provider). He queried this with the 
bank in question, which ultimately agreed that it had been registered in error and agreed to 
remove it. 
At the same time, Mr M complained to RBS about its actions. And he relayed confirmation 
that the CIFAS marker had been applied in error and removed. But RBS then said its 
decision hadnt been based on the CIFAS marker; instead it was due to previous account 
closures. It apologised that this information wasnt picked up when L opened its account in 
2016. But it said that it wouldnt be reviewing or reversing its decision, so Ls account was to 
be closed and the CBIL application couldnt proceed.
Mr M referred the complaint to us. He didnt think RBS had acted fairly and said its actions 
had caused L to lose business and incur additional costs due to missed payments, for which 
he sought compensation of £415,000. 
One of our investigators reviewed Ls complaint and thought it should be upheld in part. In 
summary, he said:
RBS was entitled to end a banking relationship and the terms and conditions of the 
account allowed for its immediate closure. The bank wasnt obliged to offer lending 
under the CBIL Scheme and while it had approved the application, it was allowed to 
carry out further checks before providing the loan. Looking at the reasons for its 
decisions, he thought both were reasonable.
The bank had decided to close Ls account on 10 June 2020 but it had taken a month 
for it to release the account funds. He didnt think there was good reason for this, 
DRN-3195742Page 2 of 4noting that the bank had delayed providing Mr M with the necessary form and that 
Mr M had been in touch on a number of occasions to highlight Ls need for the funds. 
RBS has continued to liaise with Mr M about the CIFAS marker unnecessarily, giving 
the impression that its removal may lead the bank to review its decision. As the 
CIFAS marker wasnt the reason for the banks decision, this was unnecessary.
Our investigator didnt think that the bank needed to compensate L for any losses incurred 
as a result of the banks decisions to close the account or cancel the CBIL application, as 
hed found these actions to be reasonable. And Mr M hadnt shown that L had suffered any 
losses due to the delay in obtaining its funds after the account was closed. But he did think 
that the delay  and the correspondence about the CIFAS marker  had caused some 
avoidable inconvenience, for which he recommended RBS pay compensation of £300. 
RBS accepted our investigators view but Mr M didnt. He still didnt think RBS had acted 
fairly in closing Ls account, which had left the company struggling to survive. It had been 
forced to find a new account during the pandemic to continue trading, borrow extra funds 
elsewhere and had lost contracts  all tracing back to an internal error by the bank when 
opening Ls account originally. 
With no resolution, the complaint was passed to me to decide.
My provisional decision
I issued a provisional decision on Ls complaint last month. I said:
RBS has shown that it shouldnt have opened an account for L in the first place. Such 
a decision was, generally speaking, a matter for the bank to decide. And having looked 
at the information on which the decision was based, I think it was reasonable. So RBS 
made an error in opening the account for L in 2016.
When RBS realised its error, it needed to take action to rectify the position. Initially it 
blocked Ls account for a short period while it reviewed the matter, before deciding the 
same day to close the account immediately. The terms and conditions of Ls account 
allowed it to take these actions and I think it was reasonable for the bank to do so in 
the circumstances here.
By this time, RBS had also entered into an agreement to provide a loan under the 
CBIL Scheme to L. But as the bank didnt want to continue its relationship with L, it 
terminated the loan agreement. This was allowed for under the terms and conditions of 
the agreement. On review, the basis of RBSs decision to end its relationship with L 
ought also to have led the bank to decline the CBIL application in the first place. So I 
think it was reasonable for RBS to terminate the CBIL, given the circumstances.
However, while I think RBS was entitled to take these actions, they were only 
necessary as a result of its error in opening the account for L in 2016. L had been 
using the account without cause to question things over the years that followed. And 
by virtue of its relationship with RBS, the bank had been the first port of call for a CBIL 
application during the pandemic. So Ive considered whether L lost out as a result of 
what happened.Page 3 of 4In this respect, Ive taken into account everything Mr M has said and provided to us. 
Despite a number of requests, provided very little evidence to demonstrate the losses 
hes claimed. He says that L suffered significant financial losses because it couldnt 
honour contracts that it had secured. There is, though, little to show that these 
agreements were in place  all weve been provided with to date is an unsigned copy 
of the first page of two draft agreements and a seemingly-unrelated invoice. The 
agreements are actually dated after RBS made L aware of its decision  so I cant see 
how the banks actions had the impact that Mr M suggests. 
In any case, I understand that much of Mr Ms claim is based on the fact that RBS 
wouldnt provide L with the CBIL as initially agreed. But thats the position L would 
always have been in. L wasnt entitled to the CBIL with RBS, for the reasons Ive 
explained. L would always have needed to look elsewhere for the CBIL, which it was 
free to do after RBS confirmed it wouldnt be proceeding with the application. So I cant 
require RBS to compensate L for any losses that arose because the bank declined to 
provide it with the CBIL. 
While Ive not seen that L suffered a financial loss due to errors on RBSs part, I do 
think it was put to some significant inconvenience. 
L had to find a new account provider at extremely short notice. While it would always 
have had to bank elsewhere, the immediate closure of its longstanding RBS account 
put L to more inconvenience than wouldve been caused if the bank had declined its 
application correctly in the first place. It is also worth bearing in mind the 
circumstances of the time, with small businesses like L having to deal with the impact 
of the coronavirus pandemic.  
More significantly, RBS didnt release Ls funds until a month after closing the 
companys account. This seems to be the result of a further error on its part, as its 
records suggest that it didnt send the necessary form to L when writing to confirm the 
account closure. When the form was later provided, Mr M returned it swiftly and the 
funds were released without undue delay. But, while Ive not seen that L suffered a 
financial loss as a result, being without the significant account balance for this length of 
time will have caused L further inconvenience in chasing things up and making 
alternative arrangements.
The banks decision to withdraw the CBIL, while also legitimate, also put L to some 
inconvenience. It need not have spent the time and trouble applying in the first place  
an application process that took around a month, during which time Mr M was in touch 
with the bank on a number of occasions. 
RBS made a further error when engaging Mr M in correspondence about the CIFAS 
marker that hed found recorded against him. While ultimately it will have been to his 
and the companys benefit to have this record corrected, there was no need for him to 
speak to the bank about it as its decision to withdraw its services was always going to 
remain the same regardless of the marker. But RBS led him to believe that its position 
might change if the marker was removed  so he spent further time and trouble 
following this up.
Having taken all of this into consideration, I think it would be fair for RBS to pay L 
compensation of £500 for the inconvenience caused by its errors.Page 4 of 4As my initial conclusions differed from those of our investigator, I invited both parties to 
respond to my provisional decision with any further information they wanted me to take into 
account before I made a final decision. RBS didnt respond and while Mr M told us that he 
disagreed, he didnt provide any further comments or evidence for me to consider.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, and with neither party having provided any further information for me to 
take into account, Ive not reached a different conclusion from that set out in my provisional 
decision. So this decision confirms my provisional findings, as set out above.
My final decision
I uphold this complaint and instruct The Royal Bank of Scotland Plc to pay L compensation 
of £500.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask L to accept or 
reject my decision before 5 January 2022.
Ben Jennings
Ombudsman