DRN-2318354
The complaint
Ms H is unhappy that Allianz Insurance Plc hasnt paid her claim in full following an escape 
of water claim made on a property she owns. Ms H also feels the claim was handled poorly 
with unnecessary delays.
What happened
Ms H owns a rental property within a block of flats. The buildings insurance for the properties 
within the block is provided by the property management company (Company A) taken 
through its broker. The policy was underwritten by Allianz Insurance.
The background of this complaint is well understood by both Ms H and Allianz Insurance and 
the reinstatement work has all been completed, so I wont go into detail on this. But in 
summary, Ms H has is unhappy with the following:
Delays caused by the loss adjuster using an incorrect email address resulting in 
communication not being received. 
Not being provided with a copy of the policy schedule to determine whether what 
they were being told wasnt covered under the policy was substantiated and fair.
Linked with this, that Allianz Insurance declined Ms Ns claim for Loss of Rent All 
Risks. 
That Allianz Insurance declined Ms Hs claim for expenses claimed under the 
Managing Agent  professional fees section of the policy.
Our investigator looked at Ms Hs complaint and felt Allianz Insurance had acted fairly when 
it declined the claims. 
He explained hed been provided with a copy of the policy schedule and was satisfied that 
the policy does not provide cover for Loss of Rent All Risks so he felt Allianz Insurance had 
fairly declined the claims made under this section. Although Ms H has the benefit of the 
policy, she wasnt party to the negotiations to take it out. This was between Company A and 
its broker and Allianz Insurance. Because of this he felt Allianz Insurance was entitled to 
withhold the policy schedule information from Ms H due to the sensitive information this 
contained in relation to Company A. 
Our investigator also said he felt Allianz acted fairly when it declined Ms Hs claim for the 
managing agent costs. He felt the policy wording was clear in explaining what costs would 
be considered under this section of the policy. He didnt feel there was ambiguity with the 
meaning within this section. He felt the clause highlighted by Ms H extended the remit to 
what professional fees are covered under the policy and explained when this could cover 
some managing agents fees. But it didnt show Ms H could act as a managing agent and 
rely on this clause to claim personal expenses or be compensated for time spent dealing 
with the claim. 
With the delays experienced and poor communication, he felt the compensation of £150 
offered by Allianz Insurance in recognition of these failings was fair and he didnt think 
Allianz Insurance needed to do anymore with this.
Ms H accepted the claim made under the Loss of Rent All Risks section had been fairly 
declined if this cover wasnt included in the policy schedule. She also accepted the 
compensation offered for the delays is fair.
Ms H disagreed on that Allianz Insurance acted fairly when it refused to provide a copy of 
the schedule. She felt as the proprietor of the building insured and as a named policyholder 
she should be entitled to see what cover was in place with the schedule. And if the schedule 
includes any sensitive information, it would be the role of Allianz Insurance to remove this 
and provide a suitable version of the schedule. 
Ms H also disagreed with our investigators opinion on the managing agent fees claim. 
She feels for Managing Agent  Professional Fees set out under section 33 of the policy 
wording means she is entitled to step into the shoes of the managing agent for her property. 
Shes recently stopped using her previous managing agent who had been used previously 
for around 20 years to help manage the property due to how far she lived from it. So when 
she dispensed of the old managing agent she took over this role. In doing this, she is entitled 
to claim the fees in lieu of what would be incurred as her professional fees when stepping 
into this role.
Because Ms H hasnt agreed with our investigators opinion, the complaint has been passed 
to me for final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive decided not to uphold Ms Hs complaint. I know this will be disappointing but Ill explain 
why.
As Ms H has accepted in part what our investigator said, Ill only focus on the areas shes 
explained she disagrees with.
Providing the policy schedule 
I understand the concerns raised by Ms H on this point. The policy schedule does show the 
insured to be both Company A and the proprietors of the properties managed by 
Company A. Theres been no dispute that Ms H has the benefit of the insurance, the 
reinstatement work has all been completed following the escape of water but the frustration 
remains that she wasnt able to see a copy of the schedule when questioning if the policy 
provided the additional cover of Loss of Rent All Risks.
Although Ms H is a policyholder with the benefit of the policy she, nor I suspect any other of 
the proprietors of the properties were party to the negotiations for the insurance. The 
schedule gives details of a number of other properties and other information that may be 
commercially sensitive to Company A and the broker who arranged the policy. So the 
decision to simply share this information needs to be considered with the knowledge that all 
parties agree to it being shared.
Both Company A and the broker have declined to provide a copy of the schedule to Ms H so 
it appears there is no consent for it be shared. I think this would have made it more difficult 
for Allianz Insurance to share the schedule in any format. Although I think it could have 
attempted to provide a heavily redacted version of the schedule in an attempt to remove all 
details that might be commercially sensitive, I understand why this hasnt been done with the two parties who would be impacted by this being done not giving permission for it to be 
shared. So I dont think Allianz Insurance has acted unfairly when it said it couldnt share the 
schedule.
Transparency with any service or complaint is vital for confidence in what is being offered. 
And while I dont think Allianz Insurance did anything wrong when it said it couldnt share the 
schedule of insurance with Ms H, I think it should consider how it can provide additional 
transparency on requests like this. It will avoid consumers making claims blind to the 
exclusions detailed in the schedule and give greater assurance on the cover in place specific 
to their policy over direction to the full policy wording.
Managing agent  professional fees
Ms H feels the policy wording which details what will be paid under a claim, specifically with 
professional fees and managing agent fees, gives no exclusion to her acting as a managing 
agent for herself. So, she believes she can claim to cover some of the expenses she 
incurred when dealing with this claim.
Our investigator set out the policy wording in his view and I think its helpful to set this out 
again. The policy sets out how the claim will be paid. The basis of settlement includes:
d. Professional fees
the cost of professional fees being those necessarily and reasonably incurred in the 
rebuilding or restoration of the Property Damaged but not for preparing any claim.
This is extended by clause 33 to cover some professional fees payable to your managing 
agent:
The Basis of Settlement paragraph d. is extended to include professional fees 
necessarily and reasonably incurred in the rebuilding or repair of the Property 
Insured payable to the Insured's managing agents when acting as professional 
advisers but not for any costs or fees incurred in preparing a claim. The use of such 
advisers will be accepted as necessary where the Insured would have employed 
them in respect of reinstatement or other work of an equivalent nature in the normal 
course of their Business. The cost of professional fees shall include the reasonable 
fees of managing agents where
they are in respect of work of benefit to the Insurer and
they relate to work which is necessary for repair or reinstatement and
they have been agreed with the Insurer in advance but shall not include fees which 
are incurred as part of the managing agent's general administrative handling of a 
claim
The policy makes it clear that it will pay professional fees. There is no definition within the 
policy on what this constitutes but I think the meaning is clear.  A professional fee will have a 
common definition accepted as a fee relating to charges by a person or persons carrying out 
their business in line with their training and profession. Common examples could be solicitor 
or architect fees. In this instance although Ms H was around to allow access and liaised with 
her insurer and loss adjuster as the claimant, I dont think she was acting in a professional 
capacity offering a service to assist with the reinstatement work of her property. And by its 
nature, nor was there a fee that was charged. Instead Ms H took on the role of the claimant 
with administration and tasks that are inevitably needed when a claim is made on a policy. With the absence of a managing agent I can see why Ms H might feel the managing agents 
fees would have been covered for doing this work in place of her. But I dont think the policy 
provides this cover  and Ive seen nothing to suggest this was ever agreed by Allianz.
The policy does expand to explain when a managing agents fees might be considered as  
professional fees by Allianz Insurance. Clause 33 details this as set out above but is 
relatively narrow. It explains managing agent fees will be covered if necessary for the 
rebuilding and repair of a property. But these fees cannot be incurred when carrying out any 
work in preparing for the claim. It goes on to specify further what isnt covered for managing 
agent fees with no cover for fees incurred when carrying out the general administrative 
handling of a claim. So even if I thought there was ambiguity around what a professional fee 
means and decided Ms H could claim for her time and expenses as part of this, the role and 
work she carried out with the claim is simply not covered within the policy wording.
Overall I dont think Allianz Insurance acted unfairly when it declined Ms Hs claim for the 
fees claimed as professional fees. Im satisfied the expenses shes seeking to claim for were 
not professional fees, and if an agent had been employed to carry out the administrative 
tasks expected when handling a claim, these are not covered within the policy.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained above, Im not upholding Ms Hs complaint against Allianz 
Insurance PLC.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms H to accept or 
reject my decision before 16 June 2021.
 
Thomas Brissenden
Ombudsman