DRN-2906902
The complaint
Mr P is unhappy J D Williams & Company Limited t/a Ambrose Wilson issued him with a 
cheque which subsequently bounced.
Mr P was originally represented in this complaint but isnt anymore. So, although some of the 
comments made may have been by his previous representative, Ill just refer to Mr P in this 
decision.
What happened
In July 2020, Ambrose Wilson issued Mr P with a cheque for around £5,200. This was in 
relation to a PPI refund on his late wifes account.
Mr P paid the cheque into his account which he held with another bank. Unfortunately, the 
cheque bounced, so Mr P didn't receive the money. Since then, Ambrose Wilson issued 
another cheque for the same amount and Mr P has now received the funds. But Mr P says 
this has caused him a lot of distress and inconvenience. And hes asked for an apology and 
£200 compensation in recognition of this.
 
Ambrose Wilson initially said the cheque bounced because the amount being cashed in was 
too high for the banks cash machine. Mr P says Ambrose Wilson shouldve warned him that 
he should cash the cheque with a bank teller rather than at the cash machine.
Our adjudicator looked into Mr Ps concerns. In summary he said Ambrose Wilson had no 
duty to let Mr P know what the cheque practices of his bank were. Therefore, they couldnt 
be held responsible for any issues Mr P had when cashing the cheque. Our adjudicator also 
felt Mr P hadnt suffered any detriment as Ambrose Wilson reissued the new cheque in a 
timely manner once theyd become aware it had bounced. Mr P didnt agree. He reiterated 
his bank had told him the issue with the cheque bouncing was due to the signature on the 
cheque. So, the complaint has been passed to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive thought about everything Mr P has said and Im sorry to hear of the distress this has 
caused him. I acknowledge that up until now, Mr P has been given different reasons from 
different parties as to why the cheque bounced. And I can appreciate this must have been 
frustrating for him. 
However, Ambrose Wilson say they spoke to the branch manager at Mr Ps bank who 
confirmed its likely the cash machine wasnt able to process the cheque due to the way it 
was printed  specifically, the branch manager said the cheque had too many asterisks on it. 
So, despite what Mr P has been told before, I think on balance, its more likely than not his 
cheque bounced because of what Ambrose Wilson have since told us.
I appreciate Mr P feels this is Ambrose Wilsons fault as he says they could have made him 
aware that he needed to cash the cheque with a bank teller, rather than the banks cash 
machine. But I dont think its fair to say it was Ambrose Wilsons responsibility to do this. I 
say this because its not possible for Ambrose Wilson to foresee which bank Mr P was going 
to cash the cheque in at. And I dont think its reasonable for Ambrose Wilson to find out this 
information before issuing the cheque. Additionally, I havent seen anything that makes me 
think the way the cheque was printed has been a wider issue.
Mr P says he had no reason to believe the cheque wouldnt clear and so he withdrew £210 
from his bank account, before the cheque cleared. Mr P says he assumed he could spend 
the money after receiving Ambrose Wilsons final response letter, with the cheque enclosed.
Having looked at the UK cheque clearing cycle, it can take up to four working days before a 
cheque is available to draw against. Looking at the information provided by Mr P of his 
account, the sum of money he withdrew was before he attempted to cash the cheque in 
(before it then bounced the following day).
Mr P said he put down a deposit of £100 for a second-hand car and that he withdrew this 
money the morning the cheque arrived. Mr P says had the cheque cleared when it ought to, 
he wouldve been able to make the final payment for the car. But because he wasnt able to, 
he lost the car and also the £100 deposit. 
We asked Mr P for evidence of the deposit he says he paid for the car. But Mr P hasnt been 
able to provide this information. I appreciate it must have been very upsetting to realise the 
money wasnt available to spend after all. But it was Mr Ps choice to withdraw this money 
before the funds had cleared. I note Mr P says he had no reason to believe the cheque 
wouldnt clear and that Ambrose Wilsons final response letter gave him the impression the 
cheque would clear. And whilst I dont think its unreasonable for Mr P to think this, the 
money wasnt yet in his account. So, I dont think its fair to hold Ambrose Wilson responsible 
for any loss Mr P may have incurred.
Ambrose Wilson say the first cheque was returned to them on 21 July 2020. They then 
issued the new cheque on 23 July 2020 which was delivered to Mr P on 24 July 2020 via 
recorded delivery. Ambrose Wilson have provided evidence to show when the new cheque 
was received by Mr P and Im satisfied with that evidence. Having thought about this, I think 
Ambrose Wilson quickly put matters right for Mr P once they were made aware of what had 
gone wrong. 
Mr P says the second cheque which was issued was for the same amount as the first 
cheque. Mr P says the amount shouldve increased to reflect an updated interest amount.
But Mr P told us during a call to our adjudicator in July 2020 that he wanted the new cheque 
to be issued with the same amount as the first (the one that bounced), with no added 
interest. Mr P said this was because hed already put in a request with HMRC to claim back 
the tax for the amount of the first cheque - he said he didnt want to go through the process 
with HMRC again and he didnt want to explain why he was then claiming for a different 
amount. Our adjudicator confirmed in an email to Mr P that shed put this request to 
Ambrose Wilson.
I understand Mr Ps point, but Ambrose Wilson have acted on a legitimate instruction they 
were given. And, even if I didnt necessarily think this was fair, for the reasons Ive explained 
above, Im satisfied Ambrose Wilson didnt make a mistake leading to Mr Ps loss. Because 
of these points, I wont be asking them to do anything more.
My final decisionFor the reasons explained above, my decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P and the 
estate of Mrs P to accept or reject my decision before 23 August 2021.
 
Leanne McEvoy
Ombudsman