DRN-2733313
The complaint
This is a complaint that Allianz Insurance Plc (Allianz) mis-sold payment protection 
insurance (PPI) to the late Mrs J. Allianz didnt actually sell the policy, but it has taken 
responsibility for the sale. So Ill refer to it as the seller. The complaint is brought by Mr J on 
behalf of the estate of his late wife.
What happened
This complaint is about a PPI policy taken out in 1998 alongside a store credit account. Mrs 
J was sold the policy at the same time that she applied for the account in the shop. 
 
Our adjudicator didnt recommend that the complaint be upheld. The executor for the late 
Mrs J disagreed with the adjudicators opinion, so the complaint has been passed to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding this case. 
Ive considered what Mrs Js representative has said, but Ive decided not to uphold this 
complaint. I will explain why. 
The form, which Mrs J signed, does set out the PPI as a choice, and a box has been ticked 
(and signed) to confirm she wanted the PPI. So I think she most likely knew shed bought it.
Mrs Js representative says the PPI wasnt explained properly. It doesnt seem that Allianz 
recommended the PPI as being particularly suitable for Mrs Js individual needs. This means 
it didnt have to check if the PPI fitted her circumstances. It would have been for Mrs J to 
decide whether it was suitable.
However Allianz did need to give Mrs J clear and fair information, so she could make an 
informed choice. And Im not sure that it did do this properly  at least the information on the 
form itself wasnt full enough, and I dont know what, if any, other information was given to 
Mrs J. So Ive thought about whether better information is likely to have made a difference. 
But given Mrs Js circumstances at the time, even if shed been given all the necessary 
information, I dont think its likely to have made a difference to her decision. 
I say this because its seems the PPI could have paid out for longer than her full employer 
sick pay lasted. And it would have been in addition to any employer sick pay or redundancy 
pay. And she could have kept in reserve any other means she had for meeting her living 
costs and debts. So the PPI is likely still to have seemed potentially useful. Also it doesnt 
look like shed have been affected by any of the significant exclusions in the policy.
 My final decision
For the reasons set out above, Im not upholding this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr J for the estate 
of Mrs J to accept or reject my decision before 17 May 2021.
 
Susan Peters
Ombudsman