DRN-3721536
The complaint
Mr H complains that Everyday Lending Limited, trading as Everyday Loans (Everyday)
irresponsibly granted him credit that he couldnt afford to repay.
What happened
I issued my provisional decision on this complaint in August 2022. An extract from that 
provisional decision is set out below.
Everyday approved a loan of £1,500 for Mr H in October 2017. He was to repay £156.77
every month for 24 months. The loan was repaid in January 2020.
Mr H says that the loan wasnt affordable for him and Everyday were irresponsible when
providing the credit.
Everyday disagree. They say that they completed proportionate and reasonable checks
when approving the finance. They explained that Mr H had told them he was in permanent
employment, living with his parents and not paying anything towards his accommodation.
They said they validated his income, completed a credit check, and reviewed Mr Hs bank
statements when assessing affordability. They said their affordability calculation suggested
Mr H had sufficient disposable monthly income after taking into account the loans this credit
would consolidate and his new monthly credit commitment. Everyday therefore thought the
loan was affordable for Mr H.
Our investigator didnt think the loan was affordable as she noted Mr Hs credit commitment
represented a significant proportion of total income. She thought there was therefore a
significant risk that Mr H would need to borrow further to afford his monthly commitments.
Everyday didnt agree with our investigators view. They said there were no guidelines or
rules stating what a significant proportion of income is or that a significant proportion should
be a reason for a loan not to be granted. They explained that Mr Hs credit report and bank
statement from the time showed no signs of financial difficulties. There was no evidence that
he was unable to meet his existing commitments and their affordability calculations showed
he had a reasonable disposable income to afford payments over the term of the loan.
The complaint has been referred to me, an ombudsman, for a final decision.
What Ive provisionally decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Our approach to considering complaints about unaffordable and irresponsible lending is set
out on our website. Ive had this approach in mind when considering whats fair and
reasonable here.
I think the checks that Everyday completed, and that Ive detailed in the background to this
complaint, were reasonable and proportionate in order to enable them to consider whether
Mr H would be able to repay the loan in a sustainable way.
Everyday noted that Mr H had two active loans at the time of his application. One for about
£166 which was on schedule to complete in October 2018, and another for about £384 per
month that Mr H had used to purchase a car. A further loan of about £147 was identified
through bank statements and this loan was to be consolidated using the credit Everyday had
been asked to supply.
There were no active credit cards or other active forms of revolving credit on the credit file
and I dont think the file showed that Mr H was struggling with his financial commitments. He
was, and had been, making payments on time, on his current and passed credit agreements
and he had not defaulted on any accounts. There was one missed payment from five months
earlier, but I dont think that was cause for concern especially as Everyday had also been
able to consider Mr Hs main bank account statements and they demonstrated he was also
managing his day to day finances well.
Everyday considered two months of bank statements from the period immediately prior to
the lending decision. Mr H had a positive balance each month and had been spending less
than he was receiving. The statements showed the loan payments but there were few other
significant outgoings and I dont think the statements suggested Mr H was experiencing
financial difficulty or would be experiencing financial difficulty once the new loan commitment
and the loan consolidation were taken into account. I can see the consolidation accounted
for £147.87 per month and the new credit commitment was £156.77 which would add about
£9 per month to Mr Hs outgoings.
I dont think the credit commitments Mr H had left after the consolidation would have
comprised such a significant proportion of his income that the business should have
considered the loan unaffordable. His income was about £1,260 per month and the monthly
credit commitment after consolidation was taken into account was about £559. Whilst that
was about 44% of Mr Hs monthly outgoings his expenses were low, he was managing his
credit commitments well, and the new credit would be used in part to consolidate a high cost
loan. I dont think that would suggest Mr H was likely to have to resort to further lending in
order to sustain payments.
Mr Hs representatives have explained Mr H missed payments towards two of his loans. But
the missed payments they have recorded post dated this lending decision and therefore
werent something Everyday could have been aware of. Theyve also explained that there
were two other credit commitments at the time of application. One of those appears to have
been extended at the same time as the lending decision and isnt therefore listed on the
credit file Everyday considered. The other, with a balance Mr Hs representatives say was
£890, is not listed on the credit file or on the bank statements Mr Hs provided, so I dont
think it would be fair to say Everyday should have taken that credit into account.
And, overall, I dont think there is evidence this loan wasnt affordable for Mr H.
My provisional decision
For the reasons Ive given above Im not expecting to uphold this complaint.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Neither Mr H nor Everyday provided any additional information, so Ive found no reason to 
change my provisional decision.My provisional decision therefore becomes my final decision on this complaint.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 20 December 2022.
 
Phillip McMahon
Ombudsman