DRN-4099106
The complaint
Mr O complains Aioi Nissay Dowa Insurance UK Limited trading as Toyota Insurance 
Services (Toyota) cancelled his motor insurance policy without telling him. 
What happened
Mr O took out a policy with Toyota. On 28 September 2022, it asked Mr O to explain a 
discrepancy in the declared claims and accident history and provide documents to validate 
the policy. Toyota asked for this information by email and post and said, if it wasn't provided 
by 5 October, itd cancel his policy on 6 October. The next day it sent Mr O a text message 
to say itd written to him and the matter needed his immediate attention. The information 
wasn't provided by the deadline and Toyota cancelled the policy and wrote to Mr O to 
confirm this.
Mr O says he only discovered this when he looked in his junk mail. He said he didn't receive 
the requests for information and drove without insurance for two days. To put things right, Mr 
O he wants the cancellation and fraud markers removed.
Our Investigator didn't recommend the complaint should be upheld as Toyota had 
communicated effectively. Shes seen evidence Mr O had been sent the request for 
information by post and email (to the correct addresses) as well as receiving its text. She 
also acknowledged Toyota confirmed no fraud markers against Mr O had been added by it.
Mr O disagrees and says hell be taking legal action against some of the individuals involved. 
He makes several points including the following:
Sending an email is insufficient in this type of serious situation.
He shouldn't be held responsible because Royal Mail failed to deliver his post at a 
time when millions of parcels and letters were going missing. 
The Investigator didn't consider the significant and long-lasting damage to him 
compared with the minimal impact on Toyota of upholding his complaint.
The matter has now been passed to me for a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im satisfied the Investigator has reached a fair outcome. So, I dont uphold 
Mr Os complaint in this matter. Ill explain why.
Toyota sets out in its terms and conditions when it can cancel a policy. The relevant extracts 
are below. 
We can cancel your policy:
 by writing to you at your last known address 7 days in advance of the cancellation 
date if there are serious grounds to do so such as:
 failure to provide requested documents (proof of your No Claim Discount 
etc.)
The policy will end when the 7 days notice period expires.
I consider Toyota acted reasonably in requesting the documents and explanation it did from 
Mr O. I appreciate Mr O says Toyota cant prove he received the requests, but we wouldnt 
expect a business to do this. However, due to the serious impact of having an insurance 
policy cancelled, I do consider it's reasonable for Toyota to attempt to contact Mr O for this 
information  making clear the impact of not giving this to Toyota  in at least two different 
ways. Im satisfied it did this.
Ive seen screenshots from Toyotas system showing the communications it sent Mr O and 
the email, postal address and phone number used by it on that correspondence. Having 
checked this against the contact details in the information Mr O gave to Toyota and our 
service, I can see Toyota used the correct contact details. They refer to the matter being 
urgent so the communications wouldve stood out. Ive also seen evidence the status of the 
text message was delivered. So, taking everything into account, Im satisfied Toyota took 
reasonable steps to contact Mr O.
Toyota gave Mr O seven days' notice of the cancellation if it didn't receive the requested 
information. As it didn't get this, it cancelled the policy in line with its terms and conditions 
and I haven't seen any evidence that would allow me to say it acted unreasonably or unfairly 
in doing this.
I know Mr O will be disappointed, but my decision brings to an end what we - in trying to 
resolve his dispute with Toyota - can do for him.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I don't uphold Mr O's complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr O to accept or 
reject my decision before 25 May 2023.
 
Rebecca Ellis
Ombudsman