DRN-2942140
The complaint
H, a limited company, complains that Metro Bank PLC blocked and closed its accounts. And 
took too long to release funds held in the accounts. 
H is represented by its director Mr A. 
What happened
H had two accounts with Metro. Mr A became the director of H in December 2019. Prior to 
this, Mr As wife, Mrs B was the director. 
In July 2019, Metro reviewed Hs accounts. Whilst it completed its review Metro blocked the 
accounts  which meant H couldnt access the funds in the accounts. Hs accounts were 
blocked from July 2019 until March 2020.
As part of the review in September 2019, Metro asked Mr A and Mrs B to provide 
information, which they did promptly. In December 2019, Metro asked for more information 
regarding Mrs Bs right to stay in the UK, as the paperwork it had on file wasnt up to date. 
Mr A explained to Metro that he couldnt provide the documents the bank requested about 
Mrs B as the Home Office were experiencing delays due to the impact of the Covid 
pandemic. 
Following its review, Metro decided to close Hs accounts. In March 2020, Metro wrote to 
Mr A giving 60 days notice to make alternative banking arrangements for H. 
Mr A complained to Metro about the block and closure of Hs accounts. He explained his 
business was inconvenienced because he couldnt access the funds in the accounts for a 
number of months. And this had placed him and his family in financial difficulty. Metro said it 
hadnt done anything wrong and had acted in line with the terms of the accounts and 
relevant regulations. 
Mr A wasnt happy with the banks response. He wants the bank to provide a proper 
explanation for why it blocked and closed Hs accounts. So, he brought Hs complaint to our 
service. 
One of our investigators reviewed Hs complaint. She thought Metro hadnt done anything 
wrong when it blocked and closed Hs accounts. She said theyd acted in line with their legal 
and regulatory obligations. And had treated H fairly when it decided to close its accounts. 
Mr A disagreed. He wants the bank to provide a proper explanation for why it no longer 
wanted H as a customer. He also says the bank took too long to complete its review.
As no agreement could be reached the matter has come to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Its clear from what Mr A has told us and the bank that he feels very strongly about Hs 
complaint. I appreciate that hes upset that Metro blocked and closed Hs accounts. I can 
also understand that this was no doubt stressful for him especially as the banks actions 
made it difficult for him to manage Hs finances and run his business. I can also see that he 
was put to some trouble collating and providing information to Metro. But for me to uphold 
this complaint, I must be satisfied that the bank has done something wrong. And in this case, 
I dont think it has. Ill explain why.
Firstly, as the investigator has already explained, Metro has extensive legal and regulatory 
responsibilities they must meet when providing account services to customers, including 
accounts held by businesses. And to fulfil these obligations they may need to review activity 
taking place on accounts and ask customers for information, for example about payments, 
and the people operating the accounts  its entitled and obliged to carry out such checks. 
The terms of Hs accounts also permit Metro to review and account and ask for information. 
Having looked at all the evidence, I dont believe it was unreasonable in the circumstances 
for Metro to block Hs accounts and ask Mr A (and Mrs B) for information. Metro has 
explained that this was its standard procedure, and I accept that it was. Im satisfied that in 
doing so Metro were complying with its legal and regulatory obligations. So, whilst I accept, 
the banks actions caused H inconvenience in blocking its accounts and put Mr A to the 
trouble of gathering and providing information, I cant say the bank has treated H unfairly 
when it reviewed its accounts. 
I understand that Mr A wants Metro to explain the reason it applied the blocks to Hs 
accounts. But Metro doesnt disclose to its customers what triggers a review of their 
accounts. And its under no obligation to tell Mr A the reasons behind the account review and 
block, as much as hed like to know. So, I cant say its done anything wrong by not giving 
him this information. 
Mr A says Metro took too long to complete its review of Hs accounts and the information he 
provided. He says the bank should have done things more quickly. Because of the blocks 
Mr A says he was stretched financially and had to lean on others for support. I do accept that 
it took around eight months for Metro to release Hs funds and remove the account blocks. 
But I dont consider that it would be right for me to conclude it shouldnt have taken in excess 
of any particular or specific timeframe. Because the bank was entitled  as a matter of 
principle  to do what it did in order to comply with its legal and regulatory obligations. 
I also note that Metro spoke to Mr A on more than one occasion about what was happening 
and explained to him what information it needed him to provide. So, I think Metro kept Mr A 
informed about what it was doing.  And I dont think its unreasonable that the bank needed 
time to examine what Mr A had provided and complete the review in line with its legal 
obligations. Ive looked at the timeline and can see that Metro didnt cause any delays and 
were trying to complete its enquiries as quickly as possible. Ive also kept in mind that Mr A 
had trouble providing information to the bank because of delays with the Home Office  so 
this had a knock on effect to the banks review. But I cant hold Metro responsible for delays 
being experienced by another agency. 
I then turn to the banks decision to close Hs accounts. Its generally for banks to decide 
whether or not they want to provide, or to continue to provide, banking facilities to any 
particular customer. Unless theres a very good reason to do so, this service wont usually 
say that a bank must keep customer or require it to compensate a customer who has had 
their account closed. As long as they reach their decisions about that in a legitimate manner, this service wont usually intervene. Im satisfied here that the banks decision to stop 
providing H with banking facilities was reached legitimately and fairly.
Banks should however, give reasonable notice before closing an account. Usually, that 
means 60 days notice, but it can be less  depending on the circumstances. In this case 
Metro gave H 60 days notice of its intention to close its accounts. The bank wrote to Mr A on 
10 March 2020, letting him know Hs accounts would close. So, it was entitled to close the 
accounts as it has already done. 
In summary, I recognise how strongly Mr A feels about whats happened, and I dont doubt it 
was a frustrating and worrying time for him and his family. So, I realise he will be 
disappointed by my decision. But having looked at all the evidence and circumstances of this 
complaint, Im satisfied that Metro acted in accordance with the terms and conditions of the 
accounts. And was acting in line with its legal and regulatory obligations when it blocked, 
reviewed and closed Hs accounts. So, I cant say Metro have acted unreasonably or treated 
H unfairly. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask H to accept or 
reject my decision before 13 September 2021.
 
Sharon Kerrison
Ombudsman