DRN-2309186
The complaint
Mr J complains that Barclays Bank UK PLC trading as Barclaycard unfairly reduced the 
credit limit on his credit card account.
What happened
Mr J says he had two Barclaycard accounts and repaid the balance on both. He says he 
wanted to close one account but keep the account with the larger credit limit of £15,000. Mr 
J says Barclaycard reduced the credit limit to about £300 which he says is unfair. He says 
Barclaycard paid him compensation for what took place, but he would like the credit limit 
reinstated and says he has a good credit score.
Barclaycard says its entitled to review customers credit limits in line with account terms and 
conditions and if necessary, reduce them without notice. It says that is what took place here 
and so hasnt made a mistake. It says it wrote to Mr J to tell him that but accepts that it didnt 
deal with parts of Mr Js complaint as it should. Barclaycard has paid £100 compensation for 
delays when Mr J called it and £100 for incorrect information about a new account card.
Mr J brought his complaint to us, but our investigator didnt uphold the complaint. The 
investigator thought Barclaycard had written to Mr J to tell him it was reducing the credit limit 
and was entitled to do so in line with account terms and conditions. The investigator thought 
the compensation was fair and reasonable for the other parts of the complaint.
Mr J doesnt accept that view and in summary says he didnt receive the credit limit letter 
and disputes it was sent. He says he thought the compensation was for a lack of notice and 
questions how it can be fair that the credit limit has been reduced by about 98%.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I have come to the overall view that Barclaycard has dealt fairly with this 
complaint and I cant fairly order it to increase Mr Js credit limit. I appreciate Mr J will be 
disappointed by my decision.
I have looked at the account terms and conditions which I think Mr J would have agreed to 
when the accounts were first opened. Those terms and conditions say that Barclaycard can 
review credit limits and reduce if necessary, with or without notice. So, I dont think 
Barclaycard made a mistake by reducing Mr Js credit limit and I find it did tell him it was 
doing so. I appreciate Mr J didnt receive the letter, but Im satisfied it was correctly 
addressed and having looked at Barclaycards records Im also satisfied it was sent. 
Barclaycard isnt responsible for the safe delivery of mail and in any event, I dont think Mr J 
was caused any real inconvenience, as there was a zero balance on the credit card account 
.And I dont think Barclaycard was obliged to provide advance notice of the change in any 
event.
I appreciate this was a significant reduction in the credit limit. But I think its up to 
Barclaycard to decide on such matters when it exercises its commercial judgement and it is 
not something I can fairly interfere in.
I also appreciate Mr J says the letters he received about the compensation were misleading 
and that he thought the compensation was for a lack of notice of the credit limit reduction. I 
have looked carefully at the letters and Im satisfied Barclaycard made clear that it didnt 
accept making a mistake about reducing the credit limit. But accepted it didnt provide 
correct information about replacement cards and accepted there was waiting times on calls. 
So, I dont think the letters were misleading and I appreciate that Mr J is not complaining 
about the compensation amount but would like the credit limit re-instated. I make clear that 
although Mr J doesnt question the compensation amount, I find the awards were fair and 
reasonable.
Overall, Im satisfied that Barclaycard was entitled to reduce Mr Js credit limit with or without 
notice. I find it did provide such notice and so it follows that I cant fairly order Barclaycard to 
re-instate that credit limit or increase the existing credit limit.
   
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr J to accept or 
reject my decision before 17 December 2020.
 
David Singh
Ombudsman