DRN-3731017
The complaint
Mr W complains that Metro Bank PLC unfairly closed his account, lodged a fraud marker
against him and provided poor customer service.
What happened
Mr W received a payment into his account from an organisation that hed been helping out.
Mr W had received other smaller payments from them before. Metro blocked Mr Ws account
and asked him to provide proof that he was entitled to the funds.
Mr W provided details of the arrangement with the organisation he was helping out and
invoices supporting the payment to him. Around the same time, Mr Ws account received
another payment into it which Mr W didnt recognise. Metro received a report from the
sending bank that the money was linked to fraudulent activity and Mr W told Metro that the
money wasnt expected and to send it back to the sending account.
Metro issued Mr W with a seven-day notice to close his account and lodged a fraud marker
against him with CIFAS  a national fraud prevention organisation. Mr W was unhappy with
how Metro were handling the situation and spoke with them on numerous occasions both on
the phone and in store. He advised them that the block on his account was affecting him
personally, and had potential to cause him to lose his job and his home because of Metros
actions. Mr W didnt believe that Metro had acted fairly when they took action regarding the
receipt of the first payment, nor had they taken Mr Ws version of events into account
regarding the second payment.
The first payment was eventually released because it was evidenced both by the sender and
the senders bank that the payment to Mr W was for legitimate work hed helped them with.
Mr W had also been in touch with the owner of the account that hed received the second
payment from because of a previous transaction. Mr W believed the payment was sent in
error to him, rather than as a result of fraud which the sending bank believed.
Mr W complained to Metro about a number of issues including their procedures in the local
store, data access and how theyd delayed considering his evidence. He was also unhappy
with the delay in returning his own funds to him. Metro didnt agree that theyd done anything
wrong and Mr W then brought his complaint to our service for an independent review. One of
our investigators looked into the complaint and asked both parties for information about the
situation. Mr W explained the background to his complaint and how he had a relationship
with the organisation who sent the first payment to him. Mr W spoke of his belief that the
second payment was made in error from a previous relationship he had with the person.
Metro provided details of their actions and numerous calls between themselves and Mr W.
Metro also believed that Mr W was in breach of his account terms because he appeared to
be using his personal account for business purposes. Metro recognised that theyd let Mr W
down in aspects of their handling of his complaint and offered £100 compensation. Our
investigator thought that Metro shouldnt have lodged a marker with CIFAS , but they were
acting within their own terms when they closed Mr Ws account. They thought Metros offer
of £100 was reasonable.
Mr W disagreed with the investigators recommendation of compensation and wanted to
raise additional complaint points concerning a joint account. The complaint has now been
passed to me and I issued a provisional decision where I said:
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im very aware that Ive summarised this complaint above in far less detail than the large
number of calls and visits undertaken by Mr W may merit. Im also not going to cover all the
points he raised. No discourtesy is intended by this. Instead, Ive focussed on what I think
are the key issues here. Our rules allow me to do this. This simply reflects the informal
nature of our service as a free alternative to the courts. If theres something Ive not
mentioned, it isnt because Ive ignored it. I havent. Im satisfied I dont need to comment on
every individual argument to be able to reach what I think is the right outcome. I will,
however, refer to those crucial aspects which impact the decision Im making.
I also wont be considering any additional complaints concerning the joint account. If Mr W
wishes to pursue them, he can make a further complaint to Metro. If he remains dissatisfied
with the outcome, hes free to bring it to our service for an independent review.
Mr W had carried out some work for an organisation who were to pay for the cost of items he
purchased for them. The organisation then sent the payment to Mr Ws account, which is the
first payment Metro questioned. Metro have various legal obligations to monitor their
customers accounts and check that monies received are legitimate. Here they thought the
payment was unusual and wanted some more information about it from Mr W. I dont think
the fact that they put a temporary hold on the account whilst they checked the situation was
unreasonable.
Mr W provided Metro with the appropriate details about the payment very soon after being
asked, he also suggested that Metro could speak with the leaders of the organisation he
purchased the items for, to expedite the unblocking of his account. What actually happened
was that Mr Ws submissions were delayed by a staff member and Metro made contact with
the sending bank and waited for their response before releasing the funds. Im not aware if
Metro ever took up Mr Ws suggestion and called the organisers.
It's apparent from Mr Ws testimony that he gave evidence to Metro about the payment, so
Im unsure why Metro then went to the sending bank, rather than contact the account owners
directly. The result was to add a delay which I think was unnecessary. If Metro had taken the
opportunity to speak with the account holder  who were in a much better position as the
operators of the account to discuss the payment theyd made to Mr W, rather than the
sending bank who wouldnt have been likely to know the details of the arrangement with Mr
W, then I think Metro would have had enough information to release the funds much earlier
back to Mr W.
The second payment into the account seems to have confirmed to Metro that Mr W was
operating his account in such a way that they no longer wanted to offer him banking
services. Metro seemed to have taken the report from the sending bank at face value and
lodged a CIFAS marker against Mr W.
In order to lodge a CIFAS marker, Metro had to satisfy two main standards:
There must be reasonable grounds to believe that an identified fraud or financial crime has
been committed or attempted; [and]
The evidence must be clear, relevant and rigorous such that the member could confidentlyreport the conduct of the subject to the police.
Once they received a fraud report from the sending bank, I think it was reasonable for Metro
to satisfy the first criteria. But, the second part is a far higher standard for Metro to meet.
Theyve said they relied on the sending banks report to lodge the marker. Whilst the report
is an essential part of the evidence, its not the only factor Metro should have considered.
They should undertake their own enquiries to satisfy themselves about the marker.
I havent seen anything else from Metro that would satisfy me that they carried out an
investigation and met the required criteria. Mr W explained that once he noticed these funds
in his account (because his card was declined and he looked at his online banking), he went
to a Metro store and advised them about the money and said that he didnt recognise it. Hes
also explained that he later identified the sender (because of a previous payment) and
contacted them directly about the payment.
It's far from clear if the funds were sent as a result of a fraud. Mr Ws conduct when he
noticed it is of someone who was taken by surprise by the payment. He advised his bank as
soon as possible about it and Im not sure what else he could have done at the time. Mr W
has no control over the funds received into his account and the description of a previous
relationship seems to be a reasonable explanation for how the funds were sent to him 
which Mr W believes was an error, rather than something more suspicious. Either way, the
evidence indicates Mr W was an unwitting recipient of these funds and Im satisfied that
Metro didnt meet the require standard to lodge the CIFAS marker.
Metro have relied on their terms and conditions to close Mr Ws account. Here they gave him
seven days notice, which they are able to do under certain circumstances. Metro appear to
have relied on the issue of the fraudulent funds to close the account straight away. But as I
dont think they acted reasonably when they lodged a marker against Mr W, it follows that I
dont they were entitled to close the account with seven days notice.
If both of these payments were taken out of Metros considerations, then there doesnt seem
to be any reason to close the account straight away. I understand that Metro have also said
because Mr W was using his personal account for business purposes, this is also a breach
of the terms.
So, Metro can close an account if they no longer wish to provide banking services to a
customer, but theyre required to follow the appropriate notice period, which is usually two
months unless theres a specific reason not to. Having considered the evidence in this
complaint, I havent seen anything that supports an immediate (seven day) closure. If Metro
wanted to sever their relationship with Mr W, I think they should have provided two months
notice  as set out in their own terms.
Closing the account with such short notice caused Mr W unnecessary stress. He advised
Metro of the impact on him, which doesnt appear to have been taken into account by them.
Im sure Mr W had to make a series of changes to his personal banking arrangements at
short notice. I havent seen any direct financial impact on Mr W because of Metros actions,
but I do think they acted unreasonably here and Im currently intending to instruct them to
pay Mr W £250 for the way they acted.
I understand from Mr W that he spent a considerable amount of time dealing with this matter,
so if hes incurred additional expenses that he can evidence, then Ill consider awarding a
further amount to him.
Ill briefly comment on Mr Ws assertion about due diligence checks carried out in store. Mr
W believed Metro had broken various rules by not identifying him properly during a store
visit. I understand the point hes making, but as Mr W was seeking access to his ownaccount, which is what happened here, then I dont propose to comment further on the
matter as theres no evidence that Metros actions caused any unnecessary access to his
own account.
Mr W also raised issues regarding access to Metros information about him. I understand he
was given the appropriate procedure in order to request this information from Metro. But if he
still requires assistance, then Metro should be clear what the appropriate procedure is for Mr
W to follow. Mr W is familiar with the Information Commissioners Office, so I dont propose
to further comment on this aspect of his complaint.
Im currently intending to uphold Mr Ws complaint and instruct Metro to:
Remove the CIFAS marker and any associated fraud reporting about the receipt of
the funds into his account related to this complaint.
Pay Mr W £250.
I invited Mr W and Metro to give me any more evidence and information they wanted me to
consider before issuing my final decision. Metro didnt respond and Mr W replied with further 
comment surrounding Metros approach to his situation. Mr Ws comments related mainly to 
issues Ive already considered.
Mr W also thought he should have a higher amount awarded to him than Ive recommended, 
and a public apology produced in the national press. Mr W believed that his future access to 
lending would be affected by Metros wording on a statement.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive not seen any new information that would lead me to significantly 
change my recommendations, although I think that Metro should include an apology in their 
response to Mr W. I wont be asking Metro to print it in the national press as I dont think the 
situation warrants it. Mr Ws complaint is directed at Metro and their response to him is 
whats relevant here.
Mr W believed he was due further financial compensation. Ive already considered this 
aspect of the complaint and see no reason to change it. I havent seen any evidence of a 
direct financial impact on Mr W, so I wont be amending my provisional decision regarding 
financial payments to Mr W.
Mr W believes the way that Metro referenced a payment on his account would make it 
difficult for him to access lending in the future. Having reviewed the copy statements 
supplied by Metro, I cant see any reference that Mr W has referred to. The return of the 
funds (which Mr W believes is the issue) says  Account to Account transfer Metro Bank Ltd, 
which I dont think could be interpreted negatively.
Overall, I see no reason to reach a different conclusion, aside from the addition of an 
apology to Mr W. So, this final decision confirms the findings set out in my provisional 
decision.
Putting things right
In order to settle this complaint, I require Metro Bank Ltd to:Remove the CIFAS marker and any associated fraud reporting about the receipt of
the funds into his account related to this complaint.
Pay Mr W £250.
Provide Mr W with a written apology.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint against Metro Bank Plc and instruct them to 
settle it as outlined above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 30 October 2022.
 
David Perry
Ombudsman