DRN-2744418
The complaint
Mr E complains about the amount of interest applied to his bridging loan with Social Money 
Limited (trading as Bridging Crowd).
What happened
Mr E inherited a property. He took out a 12 months bridging loan from Bridging Crowd in 
January 2019 secured on the property. Mr E was unable to repay the loan when it was due 
in January 2020. He says while Bridging Crowd extended the repayment date it applied an 
outrageous amount of interest and fees. Mr E repaid the loan in September 2020. He says 
part of the delay was due to the Covid-19 pandemic and Bridging Crowd didnt do enough to 
help him. He doesnt think it fair that it applied interest during this time.
Our investigator said the loan terms set out the default fees and interest due if the loan 
wasnt repaid on time. The loan was due before the Covid-19 pandemic. While the regulator 
issued guidelines to lenders during the pandemic it didnt require lenders to freeze or reduce 
interest.
Mr E didnt agree. He said the sale was delayed due to difficulties getting a survey during the 
national lockdown. He doesnt think its fair that Bridging Crowd should profit from this.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr E took out a 12 months bridging loan in January 2019 secured on a property hed 
inherited. It seems he intended to carry out work to the property before letting it out and re-
financing. Mr E had independent legal advice before taking out the loan.
In late 2019 Mr E told Bridging Crowd he intended to sell the property with completion in 
early 2020. Bridging Crowd extended the repayment date: it says it assumed the sale would 
complete within a month or two. There were further delays with the sale and Bridging Loan 
extended the repayment date further. The loan was repaid in September 2020. 
Bridging Loan says it couldnt offer a formal term extension (with fees and interest added to 
the balance) as this would have taken the loan to value over its limit. So it extended on the 
basis Mr E would pay monthly interest at the contractual rate, with default fees and default 
interest paid at redemption. Ive read the correspondence about this and the terms of the 
extension were clear. Mr E only paid interest for one month. 
In late 2019 Mr E decided to sell the property rather than refinance. However, the sale 
wasnt completed before the bridging loan was due to be repaid. Its not clear if that sale 
would have completed, however it seems Mr E received another offer for the property and 
decided to accept it. The sale and purchase process re-started with the new buyer. A survey 
was needed and the national lockdown was brought in before this was done. Part of the 
building was leased to tenants for use as commercial premises and the tenants wouldnt 
allow a surveyor access because of the pandemic and government restrictions. 
Mr E says the sale would have completed in June 2020 but for delays caused by the 
pandemic. He says interest and fees of about £35,000 were applied due to these delays and 
it would be fair for Bridging Crowd to refund this. He says the amount of interest and fees is 
unfair and Bridging Crowd is profiting from the pandemic.
There seems no dispute here that Bridging Crowd was contractually entitled to apply the 
interest and fees. Mr E agreed to the terms on which the loan was first offered and on which 
it was extended. He had legal advice when he took out the loan and while he was trying to 
sell the property. 
Mr E says Bridging Crowd profited from the pandemic, receiving interest for an extra four 
months. But Mr E had the use of the loan funds during that time. Had the loan been repaid 
Bridging Crowd could have used the funds  for instance for lending to other customers.
Its not clear to me from the documents provided that Mr Es purchase was delayed by three 
or four months due to the pandemic. Mr E says the sale would have completed in June 2020 
if there hadnt been problems with the survey. Mr E hasnt explained why, if the only matter 
outstanding was the survey, the sale didnt complete shortly after the survey was done in 
late June/early July 2020. It is clear though that the pandemic didnt prevent Mr E repaying 
the loan when it was due in January 2020, or even within a couple of months of this. It 
appears these delays were due to Mr E deciding to sell the property instead of re-financing, 
delays by the first purchaser, and Mr E accepting another offer for the property.
Mr E didnt pay monthly interest (other than for one month), despite this being one of the 
terms on which Bridging Crowd extended the repayment date. Mr E didnt pay the interest or 
fees until the loan was repaid from the sales proceeds of the property. There would have 
been no point on Bridging Crowd offering a payment deferral. The regulator didnt require 
lenders to freeze or waive interest. Mr E was able to pay the fees and interest from the sale 
proceeds, although this would have reduced his equity from the sale.
Of course, Mr E didnt know the pandemic and national lockdown would happen or how this 
might affect his sale. He might have made different decisions if he had. Bridging loans are 
expensive compared to some other forms of finance  especially when in default. I 
appreciate that Mr E would like some of the interest and fees refunded. But I cant see that 
Bridging Crowd made an error here such that it would be fair and reasonable to require it to 
refund the interest and fees it applied in accordance with the loan terms. 
My final decision
My decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr E to accept or 
reject my decision before 11 October 2021.
 
Ruth Stevenson
Ombudsman