DRN-4268164
The complaint
Mr M complains that AWP P&C SA declined his travel insurance claim. My references to 
AWP include its agent.
What happened
Mr M has travel insurance through his bank account, the insurer is AWP.
Mr M was travelling with a national coach service to a London airport to take a flight abroad 
where hed booked to take a cruise. On route to the airport the motorway was closed due to 
a large vehicle fire. During the time the journey was closed Mr M tried to find taxis to take 
him to the airport but was unsuccessful. The motorway opened after about six and a half 
hours and by the time Mr Ms coach arrived in London hed missed his flight. He claimed on 
the policy for his lost costs. 
AWP wouldnt pay the claim as it said the circumstances of Mr Ms missing his flight werent 
covered by the policy terms. AWP offered Mr M £50 compensation as a goodwill gesture as 
it had lost his recorded delivery letter which it had signed for as received.
Mr M complained to us as he considered AWPs decision unfair. In summary he said:
The Insurance Product Information Document (IPID) gave information about cover for 
Travel Disruption under the policy which AWP hadnt considered. The IPID didnt 
mention the information AWP had used to decline the claim.
When hed first spoken to AWP on the phone about his claim its claims adviser had 
told him it was a realistic claim and asked him to send in a claim form and supporting 
documents. Mr M thought AWPs request for further information was unusual if his 
circumstances werent claimable.
AWP hadnt considered the points hed made in his letter which it had lost.
Our investigator said AWP had reasonably declined the claim. 
Mr M disagrees and wants an ombudsmans decision. He said:
We hadnt considered the information about travel disruption in the two page 
document about the travel insurance the bank had sent him or in the IPID.
The insurer of the policy changed to AWP only five days before he booked the 
holiday. At the time of booking hed only received the two page document about the 
travel insurance the bank had sent him and the IPID, both of which said AWP should 
pay his claim. AWP may have made changes to the insurance documents later on 
but his claim should be covered by the information in those two documents.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The relevant regulators rules say that insurers must handle claims promptly and fairly. And 
they mustnt turn down claims unreasonably. Mr M missed his flight and cruise through no 
fault of his own. He got on the coach in what should have been enough time for him to get to 
the airport and hes provided good reasons why he wasnt able to take a later flight to board 
his cruise. So Im sorry to disappoint him but I think AWP reasonably declined the claim. Ill 
explain why.
The two page document headed (AWPs Agent) Worldwide Family Travel Insurance lists 
some key benefits of the policy which include:
Travel disruption cover (up to £5,000).
 
Underneath the list of key benefits the document says:
Full terms and conditions apply.
So I think the document clearly told Mr M that the full policy terms applied to the benefits the 
insurance provided.
The IPID says:
What is insured?

Travel disruption - Up to £250 benefit after a major travel delay to outbound or return 
transport at the departure point.
Alternatively up to £5,000 if you abandon your trip on the outbound leg only;
Up to £5,000 for extra transport or accommodation costs to continue your trip, if your 
transport is delayed in arrival;
Up to £5,000 for extra transport or accommodation costs to continue your trip, if you 
miss the departure of your outbound or return transport.
But the first paragraph of the IPID says:
This document only provides a basic summary of policy cover. The full terms and 
conditions of the contract are shown on the policy document, which you should read 
carefully to ensure you have the cover you need.
I think the IPID made clear to Mr M that it was a basic summary of cover and he needed to 
look at the policy document to see the full terms and conditions of the policy.
So Im satisfied that AWP fairly and reasonably considered Mr Ms claim under the policy 
document terms and conditions. Section 3 of the policy details the terms and conditions for 
Travel disruption and that is divided into various areas of cover.
Mr Ms referred to the IPID saying that the policy will cover up to £5,000 if he abandons his 
trip. But thats still subject to the policy terms. The benefit he mentions is under the Travel 
delay heading which says:
The benefit provided below is intended to provide compensation if you are delayed 
at your point of departure and is only applicable if you have travelled there and checked-in. If you have not travelled to your departure point you will not be covered, 
even if you have checked-in online. 
Mr M hadnt reached the point of his departure, the airport, and checked-in as his flight had 
gone. So the policy wording under travel delay wasnt the relevant wording for his claim. 
The relevant heading for AWP to assess Mr Ms claim under was Missed departure which 
says:
The benefit provided below is intended to provide compensation if you do not reach 
your point of departure until after the latest time permitted by the carrier for check- in 
or boarding.
If you arrive too late (as shown on your ticket or itinerary) to board your pre-booked 
public transport at any of your trip departure points as a result of:
1. Public transport services failing to get you to your departure point due to strike, 
industrial action, adverse weather conditions, mechanical failure or direct 
involvement in an accident
Mr Ms public transport didnt get to the airport in time for his flight. But I think AWP 
reasonably considered that Mr M missing his flight because his coach was caught up in  
traffic as a result of road closures due to a vehicle fire isnt one of the insured reasons for 
missed departure. Im satisfied there is no cover for Mr Ms claim under the policy terms. 
Ive also considered whether I could fairly say that AWP should pay the claim on a fair and 
reasonable basis. But I dont think I can because AWPs use of the words direct 
involvement clarifies its intention that it doesnt provide cover for Mr Ms 
public transport being delayed due to a knock on effect from another vehicles accident, 
which is what happened.
AWPs final response letter to Mr M accepts his claim should have been declined at the start, 
but that doesnt mean AWP has to pay the claim. And although AWP didnt respond to 
Mr Ms recorded delivery letter that it lost, its decision to decline the claim wouldnt have 
been affected by the points he raised in the letter for the reasons Ive explained above.
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 5 October 2023. 
Nicola Sisk
Ombudsman