DRN-3417237
The complaint
Mrs J complains to Trading 212 UK Limited about losses on her contracts for difference 
(CFD) trading account when one of her positions was closed by an erroneous market 
movement.
What happened
On 28 December 2020, Mrs J went long on a silver CFD at $26.4543. Her position initially 
did well, with the market rallying to around $27.93 on 6 January 2021. But there was a 6.5% 
drop in the market on 8 January, with the price falling to around $24.47  T212 sent Mrs J a 
notification to let her know her margin had fallen below the required level. 
In the following days, the market remained fairly level, but overnight from 17 into 18 January, 
the price fell to around $24.06. At 1:59am, Mrs Js position was closed out at $24.1954, 
losing her £796.04. 
Unhappy about this, Mrs J got in touch with T212. One of their representatives explained the 
market had gapped, so Mrs Js position was closed in order to protect her from going into a 
negative balance. T212 werent able to show Mrs J what her precise equity was when the 
market fell, so she wasnt persuaded itd fallen below 25% as they suggested. 
T212 looked into her concerns but didnt agree theyd done anything wrong. They explained 
the position was closed as Mrs Js account status fell below 25% - this was something that 
was automatic and covered by their terms. They also shared pricing data with her to 
evidence the price she was closed out at was reflective of the market at the time.
Mrs J remained unhappy and with help from a representative, she brought the matter to our 
service. She said, in summary:
though the price had fallen, it bounced back immediately,
if she breached the 25% minimum, itd only have been very briefly and shed then 
have been back above the threshold,
this said, she questioned whether her equity had indeed fallen below 25% as T212 
had failed to evidence it,
though T212 said they closed the position to protect her as a client, this wasnt 
accurate  their actions were simply in line with their pre-set parameters which failed 
to recognise the spike,
T212s systems werent properly designed to account for unprecedented movement  
she thought they were perhaps on auto-pilot at the time of night she was closed out
shed had no margin call despite having had one in previous weeks when the price 
had dipped,
it wasnt fair for T212 to quote client agreements  she recognised there was 
considerable market volatility at the time, but thought T212s actions in amending 
margins had made the silver price spike inevitable, 
as she felt her account was far from a negative balance and because of the 
immediate price recovery, she thought it was unfair for T212 to have closed the 
position at a considerable loss, 
she didnt think it was fair or reasonable to be at the mercy of T212s inadequate 
systems and asked for compensation for her loss.
One of our investigators had a look into whatd happened. Unfortunately neither T212 or 
Mrs J had evidence from the time to show what her account status or equity actually was. 
Despite this, he could see T212 had put Mrs J on margin call on 8 January and that her 
silver position had been closed out ten days later with a status saying Closed due to 
insufficient funds. As the price was close to the market price at the time, and given the 
regulators rules around margin requirements, our investigator thought it was fair for T212 to 
have closed Mrs Js position.
Mrs J didnt agree. She said, in summary:
T212 allowed her position to close automatically but they ought to have manually 
intervened  the spike wasnt a real price and was something that rectified itself very 
quickly,
T212 ought to have waited a few minutes before closing her out to see how the price 
moved  she was probably at around 45% of the requirement so there will have been 
time to leave the trade in play,
though T212s system may be set to work in the way they did, it meant they werent 
taking any responsibility for these sorts of situations  their approach was lazy and 
didnt look after client interest in the way they should,
she thought T212s margin call was an example of how downtrends were handled 
during the daytime  she thought that on that occasion, theyd acted appropriately 
and given her the chance to add funds,
this said, she didnt think the rules worked for overnight trading  they ought to 
require a manual check into situations such as hers so that a practical approach 
could be taken as this wouldve been fairer for her as the customer,
she wanted us to ask T212 to approach her case differently from a customer service 
point of view, and while appreciating the rules for what they are, to recognise that 
what happened could have been handled differently.
Though prices moved quickly, our investigator was persuaded the price T212 had relied on 
was a correct market price. And he noted the regulators rules required firms to take action as 
soon as margin wasnt met  he thought T212 were acting in client interest as the price 
might not have been a spike and might have run further, losing Mrs J even more money. So 
as an agreement wasnt reached, the complaint was passed to me to consider. 
 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In offering CFD products, T212 as a regulated business must follow relevant rules that flow 
from intervention in the sector by the European Securities and Markets Authority (ESMA) in 
2018. Relevant here was the requirement for Mrs J to have enough equity  being the total 
unrealised value of open positions and the account balance  on her account to fund her 
running positions.
In cases like Mrs Js where a CFD has been closed on margin call, Id usually start by 
considering the account position at the time the closure was triggered. Unfortunately, were 
limited in what we can review post the event as T212 are unable to provide with a snapshot 
from the time. Though I appreciate this concerns Mrs J and that she may be suspicious 
about the validity of the margin call, I think were still able to consider what happened on 
balance.Mrs J opened her silver position on 28 December 2020 at $26.4543  as I noted above, in 
the first week her position did well as silver prices went up, but on 8 January there was a fall 
of around 6.5%. And then overnight between 17 and 18 January, another fall before 
recovering later in the day. 
Piecing together what happened here, we can see from T212s system notes Mrs J was sent 
a margin call notification at 10am on 8 January. This was the first notable fall in the price. 
The second was overnight between 17 and 18 January  when she was closed out.
What we know from T212s terms is that they send margin call notifications when 45% equity 
is passed. And that they close positions once 25% is passed, or 50% margin. Given this, it 
does seem likely Mrs J breached 25% as T212s system notes at 1:59am say Some of your 
positions were closed to insufficient funds. I can also see the price Mrs J was closed at 
tracked closely to the Bloomberg data T212 shared, so I think the price at the time was in 
line with how T212 would usually make their price. From what Ive seen, Im satisfied Mrs Js 
position was closed at the correct level when her margin requirement was breached. 
This said, I appreciate Mrs J is unhappy with the blanket approach T212 took here in the 
middle of the night, she thinks a manual intervention would have been better given the price 
she was closed at recovered quickly. But although Mrs J recalls receiving margin calls during 
the daytime  thereby allowing her time to act and to add funds to her account  these 
communications are unlikely to have been a result of any sort of manual intervention from 
T212s brokers. Their system, like many similar firms, is largely automated  this is 
something their terms noted too, where they said at 9.5 of the client agreement that the 
margin requirements are automatically set with no human interaction. T212 have a lot of 
clients and their brokers wouldnt be able to have oversight of all clients accounts at all 
times. 
So Mrs Js margin call notification on 8 January is likely to have been automatically triggered 
from when her account fell below 45%. The fact this was during the daytime was convenient, 
as shes more likely to have seen it and been able to take action in time. But that said, a 
margin call notification during the daytime isnt always guaranteed to allow an investor to add 
funds in time  if the market is volatile, it may be that the position closes before the investor 
is able to transfer money into their trading account. For these reasons, I dont think the fact 
that this position was closed at night time made a difference. 
Its also not the case that T212 failed to send Mrs J a margin call notification before she was 
closed out here  they did, but it was ten days prior. This seems to be because the account 
equity didnt recover enough after the notification was sent  T212 explain that its only after 
the account recovers to 60% before falling once more that another notification will be 
triggered. Though we havent been able to examine the specific numbers here, as I have 
seen Mrs J got a margin call when the price fell on 8 January, its understandable she didnt 
get another when it fell further on 18 January. It seems that at that point, Mrs Js equity was 
simply too low to withstand the quick fall. 
I have also thought about Mrs Js view on T212s strict adherence to the rules  she feels a 
practical approach ought to be taken, where T212s brokers take a view on a case by case 
basis as to whether a position ought to be closed, or whether it can withstand a short 
volatility spike and remain open. But as Ive said above, this isnt how CFD accounts 
generally work  firms like T212 will often be running thousands, if not more, of client 
positions at any one time and these will be managed by automated systems. But I dont think 
thats a bad thing  T212s systems are designed to be precise, efficient and compliant with 
the regulations. If they did things manually, the impact of human intervention would add 
seconds into the process and have considerable impact on a traders instruction. Though Mrs J says her position ought to have been given a chance and left for a few 
seconds, I dont agree. Like our investigator explained, T212s actions were in line with the 
regulatory guidance and the terms shed agreed to. It is with hindsight that we know Mrs Js 
position could have been profitable had she held it in the days and weeks that followed, but 
at the time, T212 were not to know that. 
So I dont agree with Mrs J that firms like T212 ought to stray from the regulatory stance and 
allow losses to run beyond the minimum equity requirements. This is because in situations 
where the market doesnt bounce back, a firm would cause consumers to lose more than 
they otherwise should  it is only with hindsight that we now know the silver price overnight 
of 17 and 18 January was a brief fall, and even if T212 brokers were looking at Mrs Js 
account at the time, they werent to know how the market would move in the next seconds, 
minutes or hours.
Though Mrs J feels T212s actions were unfair, they were required to take steps to protect 
her account when it fell below the required margin  even if only slightly as what might have 
happened here. Though losses were crystallised ahead of improvement in the silver market 
thereafter, its important to remember the regulations require firms to take action at 50% as 
the market couldve slipped lower and lower. And the action T212 took was in line with what 
they said theyd do. So from everything Ive seen, I dont think it would be fair to ask T212 to 
compensate Mrs J. 
My final decision
For the reasons explained, I dont uphold Mrs Js complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs J to accept or 
reject my decision before 16 June 2023.
 
Aimee Stanton
Ombudsman