DRN-3665236
The complaint
Mr H complains esure Insurance Limited unfairly declared his Home insurance policy void 
and so not deal with a claim for fire damage to his home.
What happened
In June 2020 Mr H bought insurance cover with esure as the sole policyholder for a home he 
owned with his wife. As part of the buying process, he was asked to confirm that neither he 
nor anyone living in the house had had insurance refused, cancelled, declined or void or any 
conditions imposed. And the policy documentation replicated the confirmation and answer as 
follows:
- whether he or any other member of family permanently living with him had ever had 
home insurance cancelled or renewal refused.
- Suffered any loss or damage, or made any claim(s), on home insurancein the last 
3 years.
Mr H answered No to both these.
The policy renewed in June 2021 and the policy schedule stated that it should be checked 
very carefully. It replicated the questions and answers previously given and stated Mr H had 
a duty to take reasonable care to ensure the information was accurate and not misleading, 
and gave a telephone number for him to contact if any of the information was inaccurate or 
misleading. The document warned that failing to comply with this duty any future claims may 
be reduced, rejected or policy voided. Mr H didnt contact esure to change any information in 
2020 or at renewal in 2021.
A fire occurred in July 2021 causing substantial damage and Mr H made a claim. But during 
esures investigation learned that Mr Hs wife had previously had a home insurance policy 
declared void. esure advised Mr H that given he hadnt disclosed this, esure wouldnt pay the 
claim, was treating his policy as void (cancelled and treated as if it never existed) and 
refunding the premiums paid as it wouldnt have offered him a policy had it known this 
information. 
Mr H complained as he believed hed taken reasonable care when answering the questions 
and esure could only void the policy if it could show hed deliberately withheld the correct 
information.
Our investigator didnt think esure had acted unfairly and cited the consumer duty and 
relevant considerations from the Consumer Insurance (Disclosure and Representations) Act 
2012. He explained that the questions asked of Mr H were clear:
-Have you, or any member of your family permanently living with you, or joint named 
policyholder ever;
oHad home insurance cancelled or had renewal refused?
oSuffered any loss or damage, or made any claim(s), on home insurance or 
had any claim(s) made against you in the last 3 years? 
The investigator was satisfied that Mr H had answered incorrectly by saying No and that it 
was likely Mr H knew his wifes policy had been declared void. He thought it reasonable that 
esure had concluded there had been a qualifying misrepresentation and its underwriting 
criteria demonstrated it wouldnt have offered a policy had it known about the wifes previous 
voidance. As such, he was satisfied esure was entitled to void Mr Hs policy.
Mr H disagreed and asked for an ombudsmans decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
When considering whats fair and reasonable in the circumstances I need to take into 
account relevant law and regulations, regulators rules, guidance and standards, codes of 
practice and, where appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry practice at the 
time. 
The relevant law here is the Consumer Insurance (Disclosure and Representation) Act 2012 
(CIDRA). Under this legislation a consumer has a duty to take reasonable care not to make 
a misrepresentation. The law sets out several considerations in determining whether a 
consumer has taken reasonable care, including how clear and specific a question is. Ill take 
this into account in reaching a determination I consider to be fair and reasonable in all the 
circumstances.
The questions Mr H was asked were clear and specific  the fact Mr H didnt disclose that 
his wife had had a home insurance policy voided was clearly not correct. In fairness to Mr H 
he doesnt dispute this. But his argument is that he took reasonable care when answering 
the question because he was unaware of the voidance, and says he asked his wife if shed 
ever had a policy cancelled, which she denied. Mr H says hed answered the question as 
honestly as he could. 
Im not persuaded by Mr Hs explanation and will explain why. He was fully aware in 2018 
his wife had made an insurance claim and indeed Mr H says he reported the theft of a boiler 
to police, and it was this theft that was the subject of the claim. A boiler is an important part 
of a home for heating and hot water and would need to be replaced. Given the insurance 
company didnt pay the claim then Id have to accept Mr H didnt enquire of his wife about 
the claim progress, that he wasnt aware she or someone else paid to have the boiler 
replaced, or enquire why the boiler wasnt replaced, and neither did she make him aware of 
the voidance communication from the insurer. Its possible this happened, and that Mr H was 
genuinely unaware, but I must determine issues on the balance of probabilities, meaning 
what is more likely than not.
Although esure hasnt referred to this in its reasons, Im mindful Mr H was aware a claim had 
been made and that his wife had suffered a loss under a home insurance policy. But when 
he bought the policy from esure approximately two years after the claim was made, he was 
specifically asked if he or any member of his family permanently living with him had suffered 
any loss or damage under a home insurance policy within the last three years. He answered 
no but that was clearly incorrect as he knew about the claim for the boiler theft. Im satisfied 
its more likely than not Mr H knowingly answered the question incorrectly and so Im not 
persuaded by his explanation, which he wants to be accepted, that he wasnt aware of the 
voidance of his wifes policy. Knowingly answering the claim question incorrectly means I have doubts about the credibility of his explanation. So, having thought about the consumer 
duty carefully Im satisfied, on balance, Mr H failed to take reasonable care not to make a 
misrepresentation.
The Act defines qualifying misrepresentations as where the consumer has breached the duty 
to take reasonable care, and the insurer shows that without the misrepresentation it would 
not have entered into the contract at all, or would have done so only on different terms.
esure hasnt voided the policy because of Mr H making a deliberate misrepresentation rather 
it has simply said he didnt take reasonable care not to make a misrepresentation. And esure 
has provided persuasive evidence from its underwriter showing it wouldnt have offered Mr H 
a policy had he disclosed his wife had had a home insurance policy voided. The Act says a 
qualifying misrepresentation is careless if its not deliberate or reckless.
An insurers remedies for a qualifying misrepresentation (careless) are set out in the Act and 
are based on what it would have done if the consumer had complied with the duty to take 
reasonable care. Where theres a claim, as there is in Mr Hs complaint, and the insurer 
wouldnt have entered into the insurance contract on any terms, the insurer may avoid the 
contract and refuse all claims, but must return the premiums paid. This is exactly what esure 
has done in this complaint. Taking everything into account Im satisfied esure was entitled to 
treat Mr Hs policy as void and refuse all claims on the basis that he made a careless 
qualifying misrepresentation. As esure has refunded all premiums then Im satisfied thats 
fair and reasonable in all the circumstances.
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 14 October 2022.
 
Sean Hamilton
Ombudsman