DRN-3665393
The complaint
Mrs C and Mr C complain about the service provided by Coventry Building Society (CBS) 
when completing a re-mortgage of their property. 
What happened
In February 2022 Mrs C and Mr C completed a re-mortgage with CBS. Prior to completion 
Mrs C and Mr C spoke to CBS to confirm when it would be taking the first payment on their 
re-mortgage. Following the conversation Mrs C and Mr C say they didnt expect to make a 
payment in March 2022. But after the completion of the mortgage they received a letter from 
CBS to say the first payment for the mortgage was due on 15 March 2022. 
Mrs C and Mr C complained to CBS about the incorrect information they were provided. CBS 
say the advisor explained how the first payment and the first regular payment would be 
taken out. However, it accepted the advisor could have been clearer, so it upheld the 
complaint and offered Mrs C and Mr C £300 in compensation for the inconvenience caused. 
Mrs C and Mr C remained unhappy so referred the complaint to our service. The investigator 
didnt think the complaint should be upheld and felt the compensation offered by CBS was 
fair. 
Mrs C and Mr C didnt accept what the investigator said. They say that they hadnt budgeted 
for the payment coming out in March 2022 and had they been provided the correct 
information they would have delayed their re-mortgage. 
Because they didnt agree the complaint has been passed to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Although Ive read and considered the whole file Ill keep my comments to what I think is 
relevant. If I dont comment on any specific point its not because Ive not considered it but 
because I dont think I need to comment on it in order to reach the right outcome.
Having done so, Ive come to the same conclusions as the investigator for largely the same 
reasons. Ill explain why. 
CBS sent Mrs C and Mr C a mortgage offer dated 17 February 2022 and it set out the 
payments they were expected to make. In section 5  Amount of each instalment, it says:
This illustration assumes the mortgage will start on 01-MAR-22.
Monthly Payments
An initial payment at a Fixed rate of 1.69%* £1,541.70
Followed by 62 payments at a Fixed rate of 1.69% £1,269.31

*The initial payment includes interest accrued for the month of completion.
And in the Mortgage Special Conditions section it says:
1. We will notify you in writing of the amount of interest payable after the advance is 
released.
No payment on this advance will be due until the month following completion. The 
amount due in that month will consist of a full monthly payment plus the interest for 
the month of completion.

6. You have requested a Direct Debit (DD) as the method of payment of the 
mortgage. The first DD will be collected on the 15th of the month following 
completion. Thereafter, payments will be collected on the preferred payment date.
I think the mortgage offer was clear as to when CBS would be taking the payments for the 
mortgage. Mrs C and Mr C completed the mortgage on 25 February 2022, so no payment 
was due to be taken in the month of completion (February) and accordingly the first payment 
due from them would be taken on 15 March 2022, as per the information provided in the 
mortgage offer. And then the payment would revert to their preferred direct debit date which 
they have said was the first of every month. Therefore, the first regular payment was due on 
1 April 2022. 
Ive also listened to the call Mrs C and Mr C had with CBS prior to the completion of the 
mortgage. The advisor explains the two different payments that would be taken after 
completion. Mrs C and Mr C were told CBSs policy is not to take payment within the first 
month of completion so the payment would usually come out on the 15th of the following 
month, this was also likely to be slightly higher than the monthly payment because it includes 
the interest from the month of completion. This information was correct as the first payment 
Mrs C and Mr C were due to pay would have been on 15 March 2022. 
Mrs C and Mr C then queried this as they had asked for the direct debit to be taken at the 
beginning of the month. The advisor told Mrs C and Mr C that the first payment would come 
out on a date they werent expecting because they hadnt been charged for the month of 
completion but following the initial payment the following payments would come out on their 
chosen payment date, so accordingly the first regular payment was due from them on 1 April 
2022. So Im satisfied that both payment dates were highlighted to Mrs C and Mr C during 
the call. 
Mrs C and Mr C further tried to clarify that they wouldnt be charged for the first four weeks 
so they would comfortably be able to meet the £200 shortfall from their previous mortgage 
because they thought they wouldnt be charged by CBS on 1 March 2022. The advisor 
confirms CBS wouldnt be taking a payment on 1 March 2022 but says itll be adding the 
interest from the month of February 2022 to the payment in March 2022. 
I agree the end of the call could have been clearer but I cant say that Mrs C and Mr C 
shouldnt reasonably have been aware of what payments were due taking into account the information provided on the mortgage offer and during the main part of the call with the 
advisor. 
Ive also considered if Mrs C and Mr C would have taken any different action had this part of 
the call been clearer. Mrs C and Mr C say they would have delayed completion, but Im not 
persuaded they would have. I say this because the payment for the following month on their 
existing mortgage would have continued to accrue interest and the delay wouldnt have 
changed how CBS would take the initial payments for the re-mortgage. And even if this 
meant the re-mortgage sum would have reduced when switching the mortgage to CBS this 
would only have been by a small amount so I dont think it would have had a significant 
impact on the payments they needed to make. So overall I dont think it would have made a 
substantial difference.
I appreciate Mrs C and Mr C will be disappointed with my decision, but having considered 
carefully all the points and while I understand Mrs C and Mr Cs frustration, I think CBS did 
make them aware of the payments they would need to make. It has apologised for any 
confusion caused during the call with the advisor and offered £300 for any trouble and upset 
caused by its communication with them. 
I can see CBS has tried to discuss the arrears with them, which is reasonable seeing the 
circumstances and so far, there has been no impact to their credit files. So, considering 
everything, I dont think the impact on Mrs C and Mr C is significant enough to warrant me 
asking CBS to do more. Im satisfied the amount CBS has offered to resolve their complaint 
is appropriate in the circumstances. That means, I dont think CBS needs to do anything 
more.
My final decision
For the reasons mentioned above, I do not uphold Mrs C and Mr Cs complaint., 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs C and Mr C to 
accept or reject my decision before 10 November 2022.
 
Jag Dhuphar
Ombudsman