DRN-3424935
The complaint
Mr B complains that Bank of Scotland plc, trading as Halifax, hasnt offered him better
interest rates on his mortgage since it reverted to the standard variable rate (SVR) in 2009.
He says hes suffered financial loss of around £45,000  which is the savings he says he 
could have made if his mortgage was on a lower interest rate. 
What happened
In 2004, Mr B took out a mortgage with Halifax. This was initially on an interest rate
product which expired in 2007. Mr B then took a new interest rate product which ended in
2009, at which point Mr Bs mortgage reverted to the SVR.
Mr B says that hes recently spoken with an Independent Financial Adviser (IFA) who
showed him how he could dramatically reduce his mortgage payments by taking out a new
interest rate deal  which he successfully did in 2020.
He says that he feels let down that Halifax hasnt contacted him since he took the mortgage 
out to let him know that better rates were available  which would have saved him money by
reducing his mortgage payments.
He complained to Halifax. It replied to say the complaint has been made out of time. Mr B
referred the matter to this service.
I issued a decision which set out that this service is only able to consider the complaint that 
Halifax failed to offer Mr B - or let him know about - better interest rates from 6 October 
2014. 
Our investigator considered this part of the complaint but didnt think it should be upheld. 
She didnt think that Halifax had treated Mr B unfairly and said that there was no obligation 
for it to contact him about better interest rates that may be available.
Mr B disagreed and asked for an ombudsman to consider the complaint. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive looked at the terms set out in Mr Bs mortgage offer, which he agreed to when he took 
the mortgage out. This explained that an initial tracker rate of interest would apply for the first 
three years. 
After this, interest would be charged at the standard variable rate (SVR) for the remaining 
term of the mortgage. Im satisfied that the mortgage offer explained how interest would be 
charged and that this has been applied in line with the original terms. Whilst Mr B took a new 
rate in 2007, this expired in 2009 and interest has been charged at the SVR since 2020 - 
when Mr B successfully applied for a new fixed rate.
Mr B has said that he feels let down that Halifax didnt offer him new interest rates during the 
period that Im able to consider - from October 2016. Whilst I can appreciate his point, pro-
actively contacting borrowers about other interest rates that may have been available is not 
something lenders were required to do by the regulator. 
The relevant rules do state that the lender must make available clear and comprehensive 
information about the types of interest rates available to borrowers. But notably, having this 
information available on the lenders website is considered sufficient for the purposes of the 
rules. As a result, I dont think Halifax has treated Mr B unfairly in this regard.
Mr B has said that he didnt receive correspondence from Halifax. I can see that Halifax 
initially held a plot number for the property rather than a house number as this was a 
newbuild property. Its unfortunately if Mr B didnt receive his annual mortgage statements or 
other communication from Halifax. 
Halifax has said that it didnt receive returned mail until 2018, and I can see it tried further to 
contact Mr B at this point. And so I dont think it could have known until then that Mr B was 
not receiving correspondence. I also consider that if Mr B was not receiving his annual 
statements for this length of time, he could have contacted Halifax to ask why.
But regardless of this, as I have said - there was no requirement for Halifax to get in touch 
with Mr B to let him know that he could apply for a lower interest rate. Mr B has said that his 
email and telephone number have remained the same since he took the mortgage out and 
that Halifax could have contacted him on these. I think it could have  but it didnt have to, 
nor was it required to. 
And notwithstanding this, I think Mr B was aware of what he was paying on his mortgage 
each month and could have contacted Halifax if he was unhappy with this. Its up to the 
borrower to apply for new interest rates, not up to the lender to invite applications.
Mr B says he didnt contact Halifax previously as he thought he was on the best rate as the 
Bank of England base rate was so low. Whilst Im sympathetic to his situation and can 
appreciate his frustrations, I dont think its fair to hold Halifax accountable for this. 
The mortgage offer clearly sets out how interest would be applied to his account and that it 
would revert to the SVR once the initial, and subsequent fixed rate ended. This is what 
happened, in line with the offer and terms and conditions of the mortgage. Considering all the circumstances, Im not satisfied Mr B has overpaid interest as a result of 
unfair treatment by Halifax.
My final decision
Considering everything, for the reasons Ive given, I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 13 July 2022.
 
Camilla Finnigan
Ombudsman