DRN-3697804
The complaint
Mr M has complained about the service provided by British Gas Insurance Limited 
(BGIL) under his boiler insurance policy and the sale of the policy on their behalf by 
British Gas Services Limited (BGSL).
What happened
Mr M took out a plan with BGIL in November 2021 through BGSL, who I understand to 
have been acting as an agent of BGIL. Any reference in this decision to BGIL also 
includes BGSL as their agent. 
The plan included insurance cover (a policy) for a boiler at a property Mr M rents out. The 
policy provided cover if his boiler broke down. It also included a first service and the 
provision of a Gas Safety Certificate. Mr M was sent a welcome letter and a terms and 
conditions document. In the welcome letter it said the British Gas engineer would check 
whether the boiler was one BGIL could cover when they carried out the first service. It also 
mentioned this on page 28 of the terms and conditions document.
Mr M contacted BGIL and booked the first service for 21 January 2022. The boiler went 
wrong a couple of weeks before this and Mr M has said he tried to get through to speak to 
someone at BGIL about this and to get an engineer to come out earlier. Mr M has said he 
had trouble getting through and, in the end, he agreed with his tenant to leave it until the 
visit on 21 January. Mr M has said the engineer didnt turn up on 21 January and BGIL 
didnt tell him the appointment had been cancelled. Although, BGIL have said they sent a 
letter on 23 December 2021 telling Mr M the service needed to be rescheduled to April. Mr 
M has said he called BGIL and found out theyd cancelled it because they were short of 
engineers and wanted to reschedule it for April. Mr M has said he made several calls to 
BGIL and finally managed to get them to agree to send an engineer out on 25 January. Mr 
M has explained that an engineer came out and inspected his boiler and told his tenant 
that BGIL would be in touch with Mr M. But, Mr M didnt hear from BGIL, so he contacted 
them. They told him his plan had been cancelled and Mr M has said they couldnt explain 
why. And that it took him several more calls to find out this was because his boiler wasnt 
one they could cover. Mr M complained to BGIL, and they offered him £100 in 
compensation for the poor service theyd provided. Mr M wasnt happy with this outcome, 
so he complained to us.
Mr M has explained that in the meantime he left his tenant to get the boiler fixed. And he 
then agreed a reduction in her rent for January of £500 to cover what this cost and 
compensate her for the fact shed had no hot water or heating for a period of time. He 
then paid a local plumber to service the boiler and provide a Gas Safety Certificate and 
agreed a fixed call out fee for him to come out and repair it if there were any further 
problems. Mr M has also explained that his tenant decided to leave due to the problem of 
not having had heating or  hot water.
One of our investigators considered Mr Ms complaint and said BGIL should have made it 
clearer when they sold the policy that they didnt cover boilers that werent on their 
approved list. And he felt if theyd done so Mr M wouldnt have bought the policy and 
would have bought another policy instead. And that hed then have had the problem with 
the boiler fixed earlier and not had to give his tenant a discount on their rent. He said 
BGIL should pay Mr M
£500 to cover the rent hed lost, plus £100 to cover the cost of a Gas Safety Certificate. 
He also said BGIL should pay Mr M £100 for distress and inconvenience.
BGIL didnt agree with the investigators view. They said the terms and conditions 
document Mr M was sent made it clear on the first and second pages that an engineer 
would check whether BGIL could cover Mr Ms boiler during the first service. And if Mr M 
wasnt happy about this he had 14 days to cancel his policy and receive a full refund. 
BGIL felt they made Mr M aware as soon as possible about the status of his boiler. They 
also said the terms and conditions were available for him to view on-line before he agreed 
to buy the policy. And they didnt think there was anything they could reasonably have 
done at point of sale and when they sent the terms and conditions document that could 
have made things clearer for Mr M.
I issued a provisional decision on 25 August 2022 in which I set out what Id provisionally 
decided and why as follows:
When BGIL sold the policy to Mr M they needed to do so in accordance with the 
Insurance Conduct of Business Sourcebook (ICOBS) rules as set out in the Financial 
Conduct Authority Handbook. These cover the sale of insurance policies and required 
them to take reasonable steps to ensure that a customer only buys a policy under which 
they are eligible to claim benefits. These also required BGIL to ensure a customer is 
given appropriate information about a policy in good time and in a comprehensible form, 
so that the customer can make an informed decision about the arrangements proposed. 
The level of information required varies, but its clear from the rules that making the 
customer aware of the main benefits, exclusions and limitations of the policy is important. 
And  from what BGIL have said - I dont think they fulfilled these obligations.
Firstly, BGIL did not  in my opinion  take reasonable steps to ensure Mr M bought a 
policy he was eligible to claim benefits under. He couldnt claim benefits under the policy 
he bought, as his boiler was not on BGILs approved list. But, BGIL appear to have done 
nothing at all to check this before allowing Mr M to buy the policy. They only intended to 
check this nearly two months after he bought it when they carried out the first service. And 
I dont think this can be said to be reasonable steps. I say this because by this point Mr M 
was committed to the policy, ie hed already bought it and the rules specifically say BGIL 
needed to ensure he only bought it if he was eligible to claim under it. I appreciate BGIL 
might argue that Mr M himself was eligible to claim, but this is not what I think the rules 
are actually getting at. I think they are intended to make sure businesses dont sell policies 
the person buying it cant actually claim benefits under. BGILs process meant that by the 
time Mr M found out he couldnt claim benefits it was after the cooling off period had 
ended. And by this time, hed lost the opportunity to make alternative arrangements to 
cover him if the boiler in his rented property broke down. And it wasnt good enough for 
BGIL to simply point out in a welcome letter and the terms and conditions that theyd need 
to check Mr Ms boiler to see whether it was one they could cover.
Secondly, I dont consider BGIL ensured Mr M could make an informed decision about 
the policy prior to agreeing to buy it. This is because it was not made clear in the sales 
process
that the policy he was buying might not cover his boiler. It was on page 28 of the terms 
and conditions document he had access to in the sales process. But, simply giving 
someone a link to the terms and conditions and not highlighting such an important term 
wasnt good enough.I appreciate Mr M could have spotted the fact his boiler needed to be checked when he 
got the welcome letter, as it was mentioned in this, as opposed to being on the first and 
second page of the terms and conditions document as suggested by BGIL. But, this 
doesnt alter the fact that Mr M should have been aware that he wouldnt be able to claim 
benefits under the policy before he agreed to buy it. And I dont think he should be 
penalised for something he missed in the welcome letter that he should already have 
been aware of. And, if this had been the case, for the reasons Ive set out below, I dont 
think Mr M would have bought the policy and ended up missing the fact his boiler might 
not be covered when he got the welcome letter.
It is hard to know exactly what impact the mis-sale of the policy had on Mr M. But, from 
my conversation with him, Im satisfied he wouldnt have bought the policy if hed realised 
it might not cover his boiler. This is because  as a landlord  he needed to have the 
peace of mind of knowing that his tenant wouldnt have a problem if the boiler went wrong. 
Plus, he needed to have it serviced and get a Gas Safety Certificate as soon as possible. 
And  from what Mr M has said he did once he found out the policy didnt cover his boiler, 
I think hed have got a local plumber to service his boiler and provide the Gas Safety 
Certificate and then relied on him to fix any problems with a fixed call out fee instead of 
buying an insurance policy to cover it.
This means if BGIL hadnt mis-sold the policy Mr M would most likely have incurred the 
cost of a service and a Gas Safety Certificate and having his boiler repaired, just as he 
did when he was told by BGIL theyd cancelled his policy. However, Mr M wouldnt have 
had to give his tenant a discount, as his tenant would not have had to make do without 
hot water and heating for a significant period of time. This is because Mr M would have 
got the boiler serviced in November and the fault with it would almost certainly have been 
picked up and fixed before the boiler stopped working.
Ive checked Mr Ms bank statements and I am satisfied from these and his testimony that 
he did give his tenant a £500 discount. So I think as part of the fair and reasonable 
outcome to this complaint BGIL should reimburse this, ie pay Mr M £500. This is because 
he only had to provide this discount because he ended up buying a policy from BGIL 
under which he couldnt claim benefits and he should not have actually ended up buying.
I cant tell from the evidence BGIL have provided exactly what level of service they 
provided to Mr M around arranging the service, an engineer not turning up and 
communication generally. But, Im satisfied from Mr Ms testimony that the service they 
provided wasnt very good. And I think this and the mis-sale of the policy caused him 
unnecessary distress and inconvenience. BIGL have already offered Mr M £100 for this, 
but its not clear whether theyve paid it. I think they should pay £200 in total in 
compensation for distress and inconvenience. So, if theyve already paid £100, they need 
to pay a further £100. If they havent already paid £100, they need to pay £200.
I gave both parties until 8 September 2022 to provide further coments and evidence in 
response to my provisional decision. I also emailed British Gas Services Limited (BGSL) 
to ask whether when selling the cover for Mr Ms boiler they were acting as an agent of 
BGIL. This was because I was concerned to make sure this complaint was set up against 
the right business and my final decision would be issued against the right business as 
well. And it would only be correct for the complaint to be set up against BGIL if BGSL were 
acting as their agent when selling the insurance cover for Mr Ms boiler. 
Mr M has not provided any further comments or evidence on his complaint. 
BGIL have responded with the following points:During the sales journey it was confirmed to Mr M that although the policy had been 
put in place, a first visit was required in order to confirm whether his boiler and controls 
could be covered going forward.
BGIL wouldnt provide cover for his boiler because on inspection the engineer 
discovered the air vent (which supplies clean/fresh air for combustion) was At Risk 
(AR). Theyve said this could have been for a number of reasons, such as the vent 
being undersized, fitted where it cannot be checked or that there was simply no vent at 
all.
Until an inspection had taken place, it would have been impossible to have known 
about the fault identified with Mr Ms boiler or what impact this would have on ongoing 
cover.  
It wouldnt have been fair or appropriate to pass on the responsibility of self-validating 
that the appliance was operating safely and efficiently to Mr M.
Although Mr Ms boiler was classified as At Risk by the engineer, the safety procedures 
stated that the appliance would only be switched-off with the customers permission. And 
Mr M still had the option to have rectification work completed elsewhere if this was a 
possibility; at which point he could either have returned to British Gas or shopped around 
for alternative cover going forward. 
The engineer also established that Mr Ms boiler was Reduce Service Listed (RSL), 
which meant that parts were difficult to source for it. This would not in itself have resulted 
in the boiler being unsuitable for cover, as many customers with back boilers remain on 
cover for them. But, where parts are becoming difficult to source, customers are 
informed that BGILs ability to carry our repairs in the future may be impacted. It is then 
up to the customer to make an informed decision as to whether they wish to continue 
with the cover. British Gas will continue to carry out repairs as long as the parts remain 
available to do so. 
BGIL have not said whether BGSL were acting as their agent when selling the policy. So, 
on the basis they havent suggested they werent, Ive proceeded on the basis BGSL did 
act as BGILs agent when selling the policy. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
It is clear from what BGIL have said that the reason that they wouldnt provide cover for Mr 
Ms boiler was not because it was not on their list of approved boilers. It was actually 
because it didnt meet their safety standards. I accept that this means there is nothing more 
BGIL could have done to enable Mr M to make sure he was eligible to claim under the cover 
they were providing prior to him agreeing to purchase the policy. I say this because, as BGIL 
have suggested, it would not be practical or appropriate for them to provide a list of safety 
issues and ask customers like Mr M to check to make sure their boiler and/or central heating 
meets them. 
But, in my opinion BGIL took far too long to come and check whether they could cover Mr Ls 
boiler, ie they didnt enable him to find out whether he was eligible to claim in a reasonable 
time. If it is necessary for BGIL to carry out a check to make sure they can cover a 
customers boiler at the first service, I think this needs to be done in the first couple of weeks 
of someone taking out the policy, not after two months. In Mr Ms case, by the time two 
months had passed hed experienced problems with his boiler and was then left relying on 
BGIL to come out to fix it, only to find they wouldnt; leaving him to sort out the issue with his 
tenant. I appreciate BGIL have suggested there may already have been an issue with Mr Ms 
boiler before he took out the plan, but there is no evidence of this and Mr Ms testimony, 
which I accept, is that it was working fine. So, in summary, I dont think BGIL fulfilled their obligation to take reasonable steps to ensure Mr L bought a policy under which he was 
eligible to claim because it took far too long to come out and check his boiler. 
And Im still not satisfied BGIL fulfilled their obligation to put Mr M in a position to make an 
informed decision about the cover he was purchasing. This is because BGIL havent 
provided anything that persuades me they clearly explained before Mr M bought the policy 
that they might not be able to cover his boiler and that they would not be able to check 
whether they could until the first service. BGIL have referred to it being in the sales journey, 
but whilst theyve shown there as a link to the terms and conditions for the cover, theyve not 
provided anything to show it was specifically highlighted. So, Im still not satisfied BGIL did 
enough to highlight such an important limitation. 
I appreciate the limitation was mentioned in the welcome letter Mr M was sent after hed 
agreed to buy the policy, but this was too late. As by this time he was committed to the 
policy. I know Mr M received this in the 14 day cooling off period, but  as I explained in my 
provisional decision, I dont think he should be penalised for the fact he missed this, when if 
it had been properly highlighted in the sales process he most likely wouldnt have bought the 
policy in the first place. 
It therefore follows that it remains my view for the reasons set out in my provisional decision 
and above that BGILs apparent failing in their sales process and their failure to check Mr 
Ms boiler for around two months prejudiced his position; in that hed have not bought the 
policy or hed have realised much earlier BGIL wouldnt cover his boiler and had it serviced 
before it stopped working. This would have meant he didnt have to give his tenant a £500 
discount. And  Im satisfied with the evidence Mr M has provided to support this, ie bank 
statements. 
BGIL havent commented at all on the poor service they provided when Mr M tried to contact 
them or on the level of distress and inconvenience he experienced. So I see no reason to 
alter my view that they should pay Mr M £200 in compensation for this. 
Putting things right
I consider the fair and reasonable outcome to Mr Ms complaint is for BGIL to pay him £500 
in compensation to cover the discount he felt obliged to provide to his tenant and £200 in 
compensation for distress and inconvenience, less anything theyve already paid him for this. 
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I uphold Mr Ms complaint and order British Gas Insurance 
Limited to pay him £700 in compensation, less anything theyve already paid him. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 20 October 2022.
 
Robert Short
Ombudsman