DRN-1762633
The complaint
Mr F complains that Aviva Insurance Limited, via his insurance intermediary, unfairly asked 
him to pay the remaining annual premium of his motor insurance policy after his car was 
declared a total loss.
What happened
Mr F was in a car accident on the day his insurance policy started on 5 March 2019. He 
claimed under his Aviva policy and the claim was settled on a total loss basis. They paid 
£945 as the market value of the car, less the policy excess of £500, which Mr F accepted.
Mr F paid the premium by monthly instalments under a credit agreement arranged by his 
insurance intermediary. And he expected that after settlement of his claim, if he cancelled 
the policy, the monthly instalments under the credit agreement would no longer need to be 
paid. He continued to make payments until June 2019 when he cancelled the payment 
instruction. He was told he still owed £713.99 under the credit agreement, as the claim hed 
made was settled as a fault claim. He says he shouldnt have to pay the outstanding 
balance. 
Mr F says he wasnt aware he would have to pay the remaining instalments and has never 
been sent a copy of the terms and conditions of the policy. He says had he known this, he 
wouldnt have accepted the total loss payment. He feels its unfair as hes ended up having 
to pay way more for the policy than he got when his car was written off.
On behalf of Aviva, Mr Fs intermediary said theyd paid Mr Fs total loss claim in full and he 
hadnt raised any objections to this. And if a claim is made against the policy, the full annual 
premium becomes due for any remaining period. So, this is why he has to pay the 
remaining amount due under the credit agreement. Mr F didnt agree so brought his 
complaint to our service.
Our investigator said the policy terms made it clear that in the event a claim had been 
made against the policy, the full annual premium would become due. So, she didnt 
uphold the complaint against Aviva. 
Mr F didnt agree with the investigator and so this has come to me for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
After making a claim against his policy for the accident, Mr F accepted Avivas total loss 
payment of £445 after deducting the total excess as set out in the policy terms. This is made 
up of £300 voluntary excess and £200 compulsory excess. He didnt raise any objections in 
relation to the way the claim was handled and the payment he received, so I havent looked 
at this. My review of this complaint has been to look at whether or not Aviva have done 
anything wrong in asking for payment of the remaining annual insurance premium.
Avivas obligations
Ive looked at how the policy was taken out and what policy documents were available. 
Mr Fs policy was taken online through the intermediarys website. Before he signed up to 
the policy, he was asked to confirm that hed read the policy terms and conditions. So, this 
would have been available to him before he would have agreed the policy.
In addition, Ive seen evidence that after the policy was agreed, Aviva made available the 
policy terms and conditions and the Policy Summary documents via the intermediary. The 
documents were available on the self service centre which Mr F registered for  and the 
notes show that he did access this soon after hed signed up to the policy. 
The Policy Summary didnt specifically highlight the relevant cancellation term regarding all 
the premium being payable if there has been a claim, but I dont think it needed to. This isnt 
a significant limitation term in the policy because it doesnt affect the majority of people, as 
people generally tend to put a replacement car on cover rather than cancel.
I also dont think they needed to explain to Mr F before he accepted the total loss settlement 
that if he cancelled the policy the full premium would be payable. This is because they didnt 
know he wasnt going to put a replacement car on cover. The accident happened in March 
2019 and the policy was cancelled in June 2019. So, I am satisfied that Aviva has fulfilled its 
obligations by ensuring they had provided Mr F with the terms and conditions of the policy, 
and I dont see any reason why they cant rely on the cancellation term as set out. 
Have Aviva treated Mr F fairly?
Ive looked at what Mr Fs insurance policy terms and conditions say relating to cancellation. 
They say, If a claim has been made, or there has been an incident which may lead to a 
claim, no refund of premium will be given and all premiums would be due. I think the policy 
terms are clear and Mr F was given enough warning at the time he took out the policy that 
he would have to pay the remaining annual premium if he made a claim and then cancelled 
his policy.
If Mr F wanted to insure a replacement car then Aviva should have given a reasonable time 
to find this and add it to the policy without him losing out. But it doesnt look like he wanted to 
do this and instead chose to cancel the policy in June 2019 which meant the remaining 
annual premium became due.
Where a claim has been made against the policy, it makes no distinction between the length 
of time the policy has been in place before the claim was made or when it was cancelled. I 
appreciate Mr F feels that this is a substantial price to pay for just a few hours of insurance. 
Whilst I do sympathise with his situation, the purpose of the motor insurance is exactly to 
cover this type of situation. It protects the insured against any financial loss they may suffer 
as a result of an insured event. 
Mr F made claim against the policy and Aviva did pay out for the claim. Theyve not only 
paid for his car but also covered the cost of the third party claim against him which was 
considerably more than the annual cost of insurance hes been asked to pay. Theyve 
settled the claim as a fault claim and theyve been unable to recover the money they paid 
out. Without the insurance from Aviva, he would have been liable to pay the full cost of the 
third party claim himself. So, hes had the benefit of this policy, as such, I dont think theyve 
been unfair in asking for the remaining annual premium to be paid.The annual premium agreed for insurance was £1,224.17 for the period of March 2019 to 
March 2020. The policy was cancelled in June 2019. After deductions of £425.60 for 
payments Mr F has already made and finance adjustments of £113.98, the remainder 
sum due for the annual premium is £684.59. Im satisfied that Aviva have been fair and 
reasonable in asking Mr F to pay this, so I wont be asking them to do anything.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, Ive decided not to uphold Mr Fs complaint against Aviva 
Insurance Limited. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr F to accept or 
reject my decision before 1 October 2020.
 
Naima Abdul-Rasool
Ombudsman