DRN-2569289
The complaint
Mr S is unhappy Esure Services Limited didnt provide him with clear information about a 
reduction in the indemnity limit on a legal expenses insurance policy (as it relates to 
employment disputes). 
What happened
In March last year Mr S was dismissed from his job. He made a claim on his legal expenses 
policy which was considered by his insurer (a different business) to have reasonable 
prospects of success. However, Mr S was unhappy the most the policy would pay to cover 
an employment dispute was £10,000. He said his solicitors told him that wouldnt be enough 
to cover his claim and when he took out the policy the limit had been £50,000. 
Esure (who are the policy administrators) said the policy limit for employment disputes had 
reduced from £50,000 to £10,000 and around 80% of disputes fell below this limit. It said it 
had provided information about the change to Mr S when he was sent his policy renewal 
documents in February 2020 (the policy renewed the following month). 
Our investigator thought Esure had made the change to the policy limit clear to Mr S and so 
it was for him to decide whether he wanted to continue with this cover or not. 
Mr S didnt agree. He said the reduced limit should have been headlined and brought to his 
attention prominently. He also said Esure should have explained the limit wouldnt be 
enough to cover even a straightforward employment dispute and that could leave consumers 
in a difficult position. He said other insurers had higher limits and his solicitors had said they 
hadnt come across a policy with a limit as low as this. So I need to reach a final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I appreciate Mr S appears to have reached the limit of indemnity under his policy so is now 
faced with difficult decisions about whether and how to pursue his employment dispute. And 
I accept other policies do have higher limits. However, its for the insurer of his legal 
expenses policy (which is a different business) to decide what risk it wants to take on and 
what to charge for that (which includes setting the level of indemnity the policy provides). 
And its entitled to makes changes to the cover it offers at renewal. 
Esures responsibility as the administrator of his policy was to ensure that Mr S was given 
clear, fair and not misleading information about this so he could make an informed choice 
about whether this policy was right for him. 
Ive looked at the information Mr S was sent by Esure at that time. I can see the covering 
letter he was sent with his renewal documentation in February 2020 highlighted that he 
should Read the Renewal Update that tells you about the changes to your cover. Enclosed 
with that letter was the renewal update which said Please read this. And on the second 
page it highlighted the policy limits that would apply to employment disputes under the 
Family Legal Protection section. 
I appreciate Mr S feels this should have been highlighted more prominently but I think Esure 
did enough to draw this to his attention. I also note that in previous correspondence with us 
Mr S said I was aware of the cover limits at inception of the policy and renewal. I know he 
thinks Esure should have done more to explain the implications of this change. But I dont 
think that was something it needed to do. Im satisfied it drew his attention to the reduction in 
the limit. Its also said that would still be sufficient to cover 80% of the employment dispute 
claims the insurer deals with. I think it was for Mr S to decide whether that limit was sufficient 
to meet his needs. 
However, I note from the correspondence Mr S has provided with his solicitor that the issues 
with his employer appear to have begun in January 2020 with an investigation report 
produced in February. And the policy document Ive seen says that it covers insured 
incidents which it defines as The incident or the first of a series of incidents which may lead 
to a claim under this insurance. As the incidents giving rise to Mr Ss claim appear to have 
begun prior to the renewal of his policy its possible they should be considered under the 
terms of the previous policy (which I understand has an indemnity limit of £50,000 for 
employment disputes). 
But thats an issue which would need to be raised with the insurer of his legal expenses 
policy (or their claims handlers); its not something that affects the complaint Im considering 
against Esure. If Mr S has raised his concerns with his insurer and is unhappy with their 
response thats something we might be able to consider as a separate complaint. 
My final decision
Ive decided not to uphold this complaint. Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman 
Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or reject my decision before 16 June 2021.
 
James Park
Ombudsman