DRN-3733202
The complaint
Mr B complains that AWP P&C SA declined a claim he made on his motor warranty.
Reference to AWP includes its agents.
What happened
Mr B holds a motor warranty with AWP. When his car needed a repair to the subframe, he 
made a claim to AWP. AWP declined the claim and the damage was excluded from cover.
Mr B wasnt happy with this and complained to AWP. AWP didnt change its stance, so Mr B 
brought his complaint to us.
AWP didnt send us any information on this complaint, so on that basis, one of our 
investigators recommended it be upheld and that AWP pay Mr Bs claim.
AWP didnt respond to our investigators assessment, so the case has come to me to issue 
an ombudsmans decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im upholding it. Ill explain why.
Weve asked for AWPs evidence and arguments to explain why it thinks declining 
Mr Bs claim is fair. But weve not received anything.
As it stands Mr B has passed his burden of proof, hes shown his car has a fault and 
that he has a warranty that potentially covers his claim.
If AWP wants to decline the claim based on an exclusion in the policy, it needs to 
evidence that this is fair. Its not sent us any information, theres no report of the 
damage, so its not passed its burden.
Our investigator explained this in their assessment, but AWP havent responded to 
that either.
So, as it stands AWP hasnt sent us evidence to show its actions were fair or in line 
with this policy, and its not shown or told us what it thinks about our investigators 
assessment.
Im not satisfied AWP has shown its actions were in line with the policy or fair. So, it 
follows that based on the limited information Ive seen, I dont find its decline of 
Mr Bs claim fair. So, to put things right, it needs to pay this claim.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I uphold Mr Bs complaint and require AWP P&C SA to:
Pay Mr Bs claim for the subframe on receipt of a valid invoice. Any payment should 
include 8% simple interest to be calculated from the date Mr B paid for the repair to 
the date AWP pay him.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 18 November 2022.
 
Joe Thornley
Ombudsman