DRN-1325013
 
The complaint
Miss C complains that Bank of Scotland plc trading as Halifax ("Halifax") didn't act fairly or 
reasonably when dealing with her mortgage application by causing delay and not 
communicating properly. She wants more compensation.
What happened
Miss C wanted a buy to let mortgage to buy a property and applied to Halifax in May 
2019. Miss C said that she was told the amount she'd be lent would be based on the rental 
value of the property, and there'd be no difficulty about her age or other income. Her offer to 
buy the property for £280,000 was accepted, but Miss C said she was told she 
couldn't borrow £190,000. She said she was told that the most Halifax would offer was 
£175,000. Miss C felt that she'd been misled, and was further unhappy as she said Halifax 
later told her it wouldn't lend to her at all as the value of the property compared to the 
purchase price was an issue. Miss C said she'd been left with two weeks to find a new 
lender and caused the sale to be delayed.
Miss C complained to Halifax. It said Miss C initially asked to borrow £192,000 and was told 
this wasn't possible as Halifax had considered her financial position and didn't think the 
higher borrowing was affordable. Halifax confirmed that it didn't allow the application to 
proceed as the property was valued at £285,000 and Miss C had agreed a lower purchase 
price with the seller - its lending policies didn't allow it to lend to buy properties for less than 
their market value. 
Halifax accepted that it should've told Miss C about its inability to lend to her sooner once its 
staff had seen the valuation. It paid £500 to Miss C, which included £200 for the valuation 
fee and £300 compensation for the trouble and upset caused to her.
Miss C complained to us. The adjudicator's view was that Halifax was able to decline to lend 
to Miss C as her application didn't meet its lending policies as it wouldn't lend when the 
purchase price was lower than the valuation and the compensation paid for its service 
failings was fair and reasonable. He also didn't think that it was unreasonable for a lender to 
consider affordability.
Miss C disagreed. She wanted an ombudsman's decision as she thought the compensation 
should be higher.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Lenders are able to use their commercial judgement about to whom to lend and on what 
basis, provided that they act fairly and reasonably. Lending policies are something which 
each lender puts in place to ensure risks remain manageable and aren't something with which this service would interfere. And lenders are required to ensure that any loans they 
give are affordable.
In Miss C's case, the evidence shows that Halifax wasn't willing to lend as much as she 
wanted to borrow due to concerns about affordability. I can see that Halifax reviewed its own 
decision and looked in detail at Miss C's position. I can't say that its decision is unfair or 
unreasonable in all the circumstances. And ultimately, the application failed because Miss 
C's application couldn't meet Halifax's lending policies - it won't lend if the purchase price is 
lower than the valuation. Halifax is able to use its commercial judgement and apply such 
policies. We wouldn't seek to tell a lender to lend to a person and how much to lend.
While Miss C complains that she was left with little time to find a new lender, contracts 
shouldn't be exchanged without a mortgage offer as there's no guarantee one will be given 
(and if contracts hadn't been exchanged, then time could be extended). But I think Halifax 
didn't act fairly or reasonably in failing to tell Miss C sooner that her application couldn't 
succeed due to the issue with the purchase price and the valuation. Money never truly 
compensates for trouble and upset, but Miss C wasn't in a position to agree any completion 
dates without a mortgage offer, which can take some time to produce. Taking everything into 
account, I think Halifax's offer is more than reasonable and fair and I won't require further 
redress, particularly as the valuation fee was non-refundable and the work carried out.
My final decision
 My final decision is that I don't uphold the complaint. Under the rules of the Financial 
Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss C to accept or reject my decision before 
19 May 2020.
Claire Sharp
Ombudsman