DRN-3132776
The complaint
Mr J is unhappy with what Amtrust Europe Limited did after he made a claim on a legal
expenses insurance policy.
All reference to Amtrust include its agents and claims handlers.
What happened
In July 2020 solicitors acting for Mr J contacted Amtrust and asked it to confirm whether he
had legal expense cover for clinical negligence cases. Amtrust said any claim should be
submitted using its claims process. Mr J provided details in early August. Amtrust agreed to
consider the appointment of Mr Js solicitors and sent through terms of appointment to them. 
It also asked for information to inform an assessment as to whether the claim enjoyed
reasonable prospects of success (as required by the policy terms).
There were discussions between Amtrust and Mr J over how indemnity for any claim would
be split between this policy and a policy he held with a different insurer. Amtrust has
accepted the initial information it provided about this wasnt right but says the position was
corrected when it contacted Mr J in mid September. During this time Mr Js solicitors also
raised queries about the terms of appointment. Amtrust provided information to Mr J in
response to those queries and then responded direct to the solicitors at the end of
September (after Mr J provided consent for it to contact them about this).
Towards the end of October Amtrust sent revised terms of appointment to Mr Js solicitors
(the previous terms had included a requirement for a conditional fee agreement or CFA but
Amtrust now said it would pay solicitors costs at an hourly rate of £135). It also sought
advice from panel solicitors on whether the claim Mr J was making had reasonable
prospects of success. A positive assessment was received at the start of November.
Later that month Amtrust contacted Mr Js solicitors to query whether they would be
agreeing to the terms of appointment. The solicitors raised some further questions which
Amtrust responded to at the start of December. The solicitors then confirmed they were
waiting for some fee estimates from a proposed expert and would respond once these had
been received (I understand they returned the terms of appointment in February this year).
Our investigator didnt think Amtrust was responsible for any significant delays in
progressing the case. She agreed there had been an initial error in relation to the indemnity
limit but as the correct information had now been provided didnt think there was more
Amtrust needed to do to put things right here. She thought it was reasonable Amtrust
contacted Mr Js solicitors in September to try and progress the claim. And she thought it
was fair Amtrust had removed the initial requirement for a CFA from the terms of
appointment it sent them.
She didnt think Amtrust was responsible for any additional costs Mr Js solicitors had
incurred and didnt think there was evidence of it discriminating against Mr J. And she didnt
think there had been failings by Amtrust in dealing with the complaint Mr J made
Mr J didnt agree. In summary (and in respect of his concerns about Amtrust which is what
Im considering in this decision) he said:
Amtrust now owned the claims handlers dealing with this complaint which created a
conflict of interest;
The starting point for this complaint was a letter dated 22 June 2020 from a solicitor to
Amtrust but this hadnt been referenced;
The policy terms dont contain any reference to the use of a CFA so including this in the
terms of appointment to his solicitor was a negligent act by Amtrust. A CFA doesnt
provide enhanced terms but leaves the policyholder responsible for costs. He believed
its inclusion was intended to cause distress to a disabled policyholder and cheat them
out of a potential settlement;
The need to source a non panel solicitor had taken time and a non panel solicitor
charged a higher rate;
Amtrust had misunderstood the position in relation to the indemnity limit and he believed
this was another act of negligence on its part  although it did clarify the position later
this wouldnt have been required if it had got things right from the start. And the delay in
providing that correction could have been the difference between life and death  the
initial position would have resulted in an indemnity loss to him of £125,000;
Amtrust hadnt acted in line with the DISP rules in dealing with the complaint he made
and hadnt acted to analyse the cause of his complaint to identify root causes common to
this type of complaint. Nor had it recognised that he was making a complaint in line with
the definition set out in the DISP rules.
He also questioned why Amtrust were responsible for this complaint and why the complaint
couldnt be considered against the claims handlers (who he said were within our jurisdiction).
And he thought a different insurer was in any case responsible under the terms of his policy.
I reached a provisional decision on this complaint at the end of September. In summary I 
said:
First, its clear from what Ive seen that Mr J has (and continues to have) some significant
health problems. Ive no doubt thats had a considerable impact on him and I was sorry to
learn of the difficulties its caused him. However, the issue I need to consider is what, if
anything, Amtrust got wrong in dealing with the claim he made to it.
I know Mr J has said hed like to speak about this with the ombudsman who considers his
complaint. Ive thought carefully about whether thats something I need to do in order to
reach a fair outcome. I dont think it is. Mr J has had the opportunity to provide his comments
to the investigator and has discussed the issues with her. Hes also provided us with around
1000 separate documents (with a total page count well in excess of 6000). Ive reviewed the
file and Im clear that, having done so, I have the information I need to reach a decision on
this complaint. Both Mr J and Amtrust do of course have the opportunity to provide further
comments in response to this provisional decision.What are the issues Im considering?
During the course of this complaint Mr J has made reference to other complaints hes made
to us in the past (and in particular a previous decision from another ombudsman). I think its
important to be clear that Im not looking at matters weve previously considered.
I appreciate Mr J feels information on this complaint impacts others but that isnt something
Im looking at either. In this decision Im solely concerned about the claim that was made on
his legal expenses insurance policy in July 2020.
In his correspondence about that Mr J has gone into considerable detail about the issues of
concern to him and raised numerous points. I dont think its either practical or necessary for
me to respond to each individual point of concern. Instead Ive sought to focus on what, in
my view, are the key issues, focussing on the points raised by Mr J in his responses to the
investigators view and thinking in particular about where any error by Amtrust is likely to
have had an impact on him which would warrant a remedy.
Im considering those actions up until the point when Amtrust issued a final response to the
complaint in December 2020. I appreciate Mr J may have further concerns about what
happened after this but these would need to form part of a separate complaint which would
be for Amtrust to consider in the first instance.
Mr J has also provided information on this complaint about a claim Mrs J made about issues
that affected her. I appreciate she and Mr J are joint policyholders. But that is a separate
matter which doesnt form part of this complaint. Im not considering issues relating to that
claim. Nor am I considering matters which relate to the service weve provided when looking
at the complaint. Mr J raised issues about that in response to the investigators view but we
have a separate process for dealing with service complaints and the concerns Mr J raised
have been considered as part of that process.
The relevant rules and industry guidelines say Amtrust has a responsibility to handle claims
promptly and fairly. It shouldnt reject a claim unreasonably. Ive kept this in mind when
considering the complaint Mr J has made.
Who is the correct respondent for this complaint?
Im satisfied Amtrust are the correct respondent for this complaint. I appreciate Mr Js policy
lists two insurers in the legal expenses section. I recognise the policy doesnt specify which
of those is the main insurer. But Amtrust has confirmed to us they are the lead insurer (and
hold the majority of the underwriting risk). I dont see why Amtrust would accept
responsibility for the claim Mr J made if that wasnt the case.
I recognise they may seek reimbursement from the other insurer of their share of any claim
costs but thats something for those insurers to resolve between them. It isnt something that
affects the position on responsibility for the claim and complaint Mr J has made.
Mr J has also suggested the complaint should be considered against Amtrusts claims
handlers. I appreciate they are a regulated financial business in their own right. But
managing claims on behalf of an insurer like Amtrust is specifically excluded from the
activities we can consider. So this isnt a complaint we could look at against the claims
handlers.I also appreciate that, some years ago, Amtrust acquired these claims handlers. I note Mr J
is concerned that could create a conflict of interest. But it would be for the claims handlers to
manage any conflicts of interest that might arise. Im satisfied Amtrust are the correct
respondent for this complaint and my role is to consider whether it got anything wrong when
dealing with the claim Mr J made on his legal expenses insurance policy.
When did Mr Js solicitors first contact Amtrust? Did Amtrust act outside of the policy terms
in offering a conditional fee agreement to Mr Js solicitors? Should he have been offered a
non panel solicitor?
Mr J suggests the first contact from a solicitor to Amtrust was on 22 June 2020. I dont think
thats right. The letter his solicitors sent on 17 July 2020 doesnt make any reference to there
having been previous contact with Amtrust. With that letter they did enclose correspondence
sent to Mr J on 22 June but that was a response to the complaint he made about the
healthcare hed received from the NHS. It wasnt contact with Amtrust.
I dont think it was unreasonable of Amtrust to then ask for the claim to be made using its
normal process which Mr J did. However, I appreciate that with the terms of appointment it
then sent to his solicitors it did include information on Non Panel Costs on Clinical
Negligence Claims. That section of the letter explained Amtrust would cover reasonable
disbursements and adverse costs but that the solicitors own costs should be dealt with on a
CFA basis.
Ive thought about whether that was appropriate. I appreciate that, as Mr J has said, the
policy terms dont include details of this arrangement. But those terms set out the
circumstances in which a policyholder will be able to choose their own legal representative
and say that applies if there is a conflict of interest with a representative appointed by us, or
there is an inquiry or legal proceedings are about to be commenced.
In this case at the point Mr Js representatives contacted Amtrust I understand legal
proceedings werent about to be commenced. In fact as Amtrust hadnt at that stage
received a positive assessment on the claims prospects of success then cover under the
policy hadnt been agreed at all. So there was no right for Mr J to choose his own solicitor.
Amtrust were therefore going beyond the terms of the policy in agreeing to that. And I dont
think it was unreasonable to initially suggest that should be on a CFA basis.
However, I do think Amtrust should have made clear to Mr J that if he or his solicitor didnt
want to go ahead on that basis Amtrust could instead instruct one of its panel solicitors to
progress the complaint. And from the information Ive seen it doesnt appear that was done.
Ive thought about the impact of that on Mr J.
Hes said he had to spend time sourcing a non-panel solicitor. But I dont agree that was
because of anything Amtrust got wrong. Prior to any contact with it Mr J had already
instructed his own solicitors. Given that was the case Im also not persuaded that even if a
non panel solicitor had been offered that Mr J would have wanted to move forward on that
basis. His own solicitors had already familiarised themselves with the claim he wanted to
make and said in their initial letter to Amtrust theyd been instructed by Mr J. They also drew
attention to their particular expertise in clinical negligence claims at partner level. I think its
likely Mr J would have wanted them to remain involved with his case.
Mr J says a non panel firm charges higher rates. I accept thats likely to be the case but Im
mindful of the fact that although Amtrust initially offered a CFA its position subsequently
changed in October when it agreed to provide cover at an hourly rate of £135. I understand
thats the basis on which the solicitors subsequently agreed to the terms of appointment. So
the ongoing costs of Mr Js own solicitors will be covered by Amtrust at the agreed rate.However, I agree there is an issue over when those costs should be paid from which Ill
consider in more detail below (when I look at whether there was any delay by Amtrust in
obtaining a prospects assessment on Mr Js claim).
Was the information Amtrust provided about the policy indemnity limit correct?
I dont think its in dispute Amtrust got this wrong. Mr J has legal expenses cover under his
policy with Amtrust and a separate policy with a different insurer which also provides legal
expenses cover. The indemnity limit on his Amtrust policy is £100,000 whereas the limit on
the other policy is £50,000. Both insurers use the same claims handler.
Amtrust agreed the claim hed made should be considered under both policies and explained
in mid August that cover would be provided on the basis of a 2/3 to 1/3 split between the
policies (reflecting the differing indemnity that they offered). However, I can see when
Amtrust explained this in more detail to Mr J a week later it did provide incorrect information
about how the split would be calculated.
That position was corrected by mid September when Amtrust confirmed that (subject to
other policy terms and condition) the total indemnity available to Mr J was £150,000 with the
Amtrust policy providing £100,000 worth of cover and the other policy providing £50,000 in
line with their respective indemnity limits.
I appreciate Mr J feels the initial error was a negligent act on the part of Amtrust but I dont
see thats something I need to determine. Ive established an error was made so the
question for me is what the impact on Mr J has been of that and whether theres anything
Amtrust needs to do to put things right.
I accept this will have been confusing and frustrating for Mr J. I dont accept it was a
potential matter of life and death as hes suggested. At no point was there any suggestion
Mr J was close to the indemnity limit for his policy and indeed at this stage his claim hadnt
been assessed as having reasonable prospects of success. So no funding under the policy
was available to him at this point.
And there has in fact been no loss of indemnity to him following the confirmation of the
correct position by Amtrust in mid September. Taking into account the relatively short time
period before this was corrected I dont think theres anything more it needs to do to put
things right here.
Were there other delays by Amtrust in progressing the claim?
Ive considered more generally whether there were any significant delays by Amtrust in
progressing the claim Mr J made. As Ive said I think it acted reasonably in asking Mr J to
complete its normal claims process (following initial contact from his solicitors). And I can
see it then responded to queries he made and contacted his solicitors once Mr J provided
permission for it to do so. I think that contact was appropriate.
However, I do think Amtrust could have sought its own prospects assessment on the case at
an earlier date. Initially it asked Mr Js solicitors for information to support this which I think
was reasonable. But it doesnt appear it had significant new information about the claim from
those solicitors when it asked panel solicitors to assess whether it had reasonable prospects
of success (which I understand was on 23 October  over ten weeks since the claim was
made by Mr J).I dont think there was any further delay by Amtrust following on from that so Ive thought
about the impact of this issue on Mr J. I can see that even after a prospects assessment was
completed the claim didnt move forward because Amtrust was waiting for confirmation from
Mr Js solicitors that they accepted the terms of appointment and those solicitors wanted to
obtain fee estimates about the claim from an expert before doing so. So I dont think matters
would have been significantly further forward even if Amtrust had sought an earlier prospects
assessment  the claim didnt progress (because an expert report was required) even after a
prospects assessment had been obtained.
However, Amtrust has only agreed to provide cover from a much later date (1 March 2021)
which is when Mr Js solicitors were authorised to act under the policy It says that under the
terms of the policy funding cant be authorised until theres a positive legal assessment and
terms of business have been agreed with the insureds choice of solicitor.
I appreciate the policy doesnt cover legal costs where prospects of success dont exist and
so that needs to be established for funding to be provided. However, having reviewed the
policy terms I cant see these do specifically say that funding wont be provided unless Mr Js
solicitor agrees to Amtrusts terms of appointment.
In any case the terms of appointment are a separate contract between the insurer and the
law firm. A policyholder wont generally have influence over it and our normal approach is
that a lack of agreement over this shouldnt prevent a policyholder getting cover theyre
otherwise entitled to. In this situation an insurer should provide the indemnity it thinks its
obliged to under the policy at an appropriate hourly rate.
Ive thought about what would be fair in this case taking that into account. I accept no cover
would be in place until a positive prospects assessment had been obtained. But I think it
would have been reasonable for Amtrust to ask panel solicitors to carry out that assessment
around a month earlier than it did. Allowing time for that to be completed I think it likely it
would have been available by the time Amtrust agreed to fund Mr Js solicitor on an hourly
rate basis (23 October 2020). So I think thats the date on which funding should be provided,
and on those terms, for Mr Js solicitors reasonable costs in pursing the claim since then.
Is there evidence of Amtrust discriminating against Mr J?
I appreciate Mr J is dyslexic and has other health problems. I understand he finds verbal
communication easier than written. Hes suggested there have been breaches of the
Equality Act 2010 in the way Amtrust communicated with him. In particular he says Amtrust
has refused to speak to him.
Ive taken the Equality Act 2010 into account when deciding this complaint  given that its
relevant law  but Ive ultimately decided this complaint based on whats fair and reasonable.
If Mr J wants a decision that Amtrust has breached the Equality Act, then hed need to go to
court.
I havent seen evidence Amtrust refused to speak to Mr J about this claim. I can see his
claims handler made clear he was happy to discuss the claim with him and offered dates
and times when he was available to do so. I can also see Mr J has spoken to him on a
number of occasions. I also think that Amtrust has generally responded to queries Mr J
raised within a reasonable period of time. So I dont think there is evidence to show it treated
him unfairly here.Did Amtrust handle Mr Js complaint correctly
Mr J says there were failings in how Amtrust handled the complaint he made about these
matters. I understand he thinks it should have recognised contact with it on 18 August as an
expression of dissatisfaction but a complaint wasnt progressed against Amtrust until 20
October. Hes also suggested Amtrust hasnt carried out a root cause analysis of the
complaint he did make.
I appreciate the DISP rules do require a business to consider individual complaints to identify
root causes common to types of complaint and consider whether they may affect other
processes or products. But in this case Amtrusts view was that, overall, it had dealt with
Mr Js claim correctly. So Im not clear further root cause analysis would be appropriate. And
in any case even if Amtrust should have done this and didnt I dont think theres been an
impact on Mr J which it would need to put right.
Mr J also says contact he had with Amtrust on 18 August should have been treated as a
complaint in line with the DISP rules. Mr J has referenced the definition of a complaint in the
rules which include any oral or written expression of dissatisfaction whether justified or
not... However, the rules go on to make clear that this needs to relate to an activity of that
respondent.
Ive looked at the email Mr J sent on 18 August and while he does refer to making a
complaint those concerns are directed against a different insurer. So I dont think this is
something Amtrust should reasonably have regarded as a complaint about an activity it was
responsible for.
In any case even if Mr J is right to say there were failings in how his complaint was handled
(and for the reasons Ive explained I dont think there were) I dont see theres been an
impact on him that would warrant a remedy. As a result I dont see this is something I need
to consider further.
Responses to my provisional decision
Mr J said he accepted the provisional decision. He then sent a more detailed paragraph by 
paragraph commentary on it. However, hes confirmed in subsequent correspondence that 
he doesnt object to the provisional decision and does accept it. He also said he didnt feel 
reinvestigation by the ombudsman was required. 
Amtrust asked for more time to respond. After that time had passed it said it would backdate 
cover under the policy to the date it received a positive legal assessment from its legal 
advisers (which was 29 October 2020). It said any costs it did pay would be subject to 
assessment at the end of the case to ensure they were reasonable.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive read the detailed comments Mr J provided. However, as Mr J has also said he accepts 
the provisional decision and doesnt feel further investigation is required I dont think its 
necessary to consider them in detail in this decision. I note Amtrust has said it will backdate cover until 29 October which is when it received a 
positive assessment from its legal advisers. However, in my provisional decision I explained 
why I thought cover should be in place from 23 October 2020. Thats because I thought the 
assessment would have been completed earlier but for the delay by Amtrust in requesting it. 
Amtrust hasnt challenged that or said why it thinks a later date should be used. So I dont 
have any reason to change what I said in my provisional decision. But, as Ive said, Id only 
expect it to pay the reasonable costs of Mr Js solicitors. 
Putting things right
Amtrust will need to pay the reasonable costs of Mr Js solicitors in relation to this claim from 
23 October 2020 on the basis of the terms of appointment it sent that day.
My final decision
Ive decided to uphold this complaint.  Amtrust Europe Limited will need to put things right by 
doing what Ive said in this decision. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr J and Mrs J to 
accept or reject my decision before 17 December 2021.
 
James Park
Ombudsman