DRN-3470832
The complaint
Mr and Mrs S have complained about an additional premium that they say they were miss-
led into paying to extend a trip under a travel insurance policy.
What happened
Mr and Mrs S say that they attempted to cancel a Travel Pack that they held with Barclays 
Bank UK PLC as they could not use the travel insurance that the pack provided. The reason 
for this was that Mr and Mrs S usual holiday length exceeded the maximum allowable under 
the terms of the travel insurance. 
They say that they were told by the branch manager in 2019 that they would be able to 
extend the term of the maximum trip covered by the travel insurance for free if they 
contacted the manager nearer the time of their next trip. However, when they went to 
attempt this in 2020 they were told that the manager was not available and therefore they 
had to pay for a trip extension directly with the insurer that cost them £152.04. 
They complained to Barclays about this and asked for compensation. Barclay declined their 
request as it did not believe that Mr and Mrs S were provided with incorrect information. One 
of our adjudicators looked into this and they did not think that Barclays did anything wrong.
Mr and Mrs S did not agree with this and therefore their complaint was passed to me to 
issue a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The crux of this complaint is whether Mr and Mrs S were promised by a branch manager a 
free trip extension next time they travelled. Mr and Mrs S have suggested that this 
conversation occurred in 2019. I should add that where there is a dispute about what has 
happened I must base my findings on the evidence that is available alongside what I think it 
most likely to have happened.
In this this instance, I have looked at the records of the conversations that Barclays had with 
Mr and Mrs S and I can see that there is a conversation in 2017 which suggests that they 
wanted to cancel their Travel pack as their usual holiday length exceeded the maximum 
allowable. The notes from the time suggest that this was not carried out by Mr and Mrs S as 
they wanted to keep the breakdown cover that also came with this pack. There is no other 
record of Barclays which mentions Mr and Mrs S wanting to cancel the Travel pack.
The only other record of Mr and Mrs S contacting Barclays about the Travel pack is in 2020 
after the travel extension had been paid for and the trip had been completed. This note 
suggests that Mr and Mrs S were unhappy that they were told by the travel insurer that they 
had purchased a brand new travel policy and therefore the cover that they had paid for as 
part of the Travel pack fees was not applicable to the trip in question.
Mr and Mrs S say they were promised in 2019 that their next trip extension fee would be 
waived by the branch manager. There are no records of this conversation. I think what Mr 
and Mrs S may be referring to is either the conversation in 2017 or 2020. But even had this 
conversation occurred, I do not think that it is likely that a free extension was promised. 
Afterall, the trip extension fee was not paid to Barclays but to the travel insurance provider, 
so I cant see how they wouldve reasonably been able to achieve this. I also think that had 
this conversation occurred and had a free trip extension been promised then this wouldve 
been mentioned in the notes of the 2020 phone call and I think a complaint wouldve been 
raised at this time rather than a year later.
I understand that in general there may some misunderstanding in the term trip extension. Mr 
and Mrs S have mentioned that they were told by the insurer that they were not buying an 
extension but a whole new travel insurance policy for the trip in question whereas Barclays 
refers to the additional premium as a trip extension. But ultimately how this is priced is down 
the travel insurance provider. All Barclays needs to do is set out the maximum length of a 
trip covered by the Travel Pack and how a consumer can purchase cover for a longer trip. I 
dont think that Barclays needed to have set out that it may have been more cost effective for 
a consumer to just purchase a stand-alone policy for a trip, rather than pay for a trip 
extension plus the normal monthly pack fees.
Overall, I dont think that Barclays has done anything wrong in relation to this complaint and 
therefore it does not need to pay Mr and Mrs S any compensation.
My final decision
I do not uphold this complaint
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs S and Mr S to 
accept or reject my decision before 16 November 2022.
 
Charlie Newton
Ombudsman