DRN-4248284
The complaint
Mr M complained through a representative that Stagemount Limited trading as 
Quidmarket (Quidmarket) gave him loans without carrying out sufficient affordability 
checks. 
What happened
Mr M took three loans from Quidmarket and Ive outlined a summary of the borrowing below.
loan 
numberloan 
amountdate loan 
was fundedrepayment 
dateterm 
(months)monthly 
repayment
1 £300.00 28/11/2018 15/02/2019 3 £139.02
2 £250.00 24/04/2019 13/09/2019 5 £86.11
3 £400.00 15/09/2019 13/03/2020 6 £132.01
Following Mr Ms representatives complaint, Quidmarket issued its response. It said it had 
carried out proportionate checks which showed these loans were affordable. Although, 
Quidmarket didnt uphold the complaint, as a gesture of goodwill and in full and final 
settlement on the bases the complaint wasnt progressed further, it offered to remove these 
loans from Mr Ms credit file. 
Mr Ms representative didnt agree and instead referred the complaint to the 
Financial Ombudsman.
The complaint was considered by an adjudicator who didnt uphold it. She didnt think
Quidmarket had made an error when the loans were provided because it had carried out 
proportionate checks. There also wasnt anything to suggest the loans would be 
unsustainable for Mr M. 
Mr Ms representative didnt agree and instead asked for an ombudsmans decision and 
therefore the complaint has been passed to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about this lending - including all the
relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice - on our website.
Quidmarket had to assess the lending to check if Mr M could afford to pay back the
amounts hed borrowed without undue difficulty. It needed to do this in a way which was
proportionate to the circumstances. Quidmarkets checks could have taken into account a
number of different things, such as how much was being lent, the size of the repayments,
and Mr Ms income and expenditure.
With this in mind, I think in the early stages of a lending relationship, less thorough checks
might have been proportionate. But certain factors might suggest Quidmarket should have
done more to establish that any lending was sustainable for Mr M. These factors include:
Mr M having a low income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make any loan
repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income);
The amounts to be repaid being especially high (reflecting that it could be more
difficult to meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income);
Mr M having a large number of loans and/or having these loans over a long period of
time (reflecting the risk that repeated refinancing may signal that the borrowing had
become, or was becoming, unsustainable);
Mr M coming back for loans shortly after previous borrowing had been repaid (also
suggestive of the borrowing becoming unsustainable).
There may even come a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable for Mr M. The adjudicator didnt consider 
this applied to Mr Ms complaint, and I agree as there are only three loans, for similar 
amounts.  
Quidmarket was required to establish whether Mr M could sustainably repay the loans  not
just whether he technically had enough money to make his repayments. Having enough
money to make the repayments could of course be an indicator that Mr M was able to repay
his loan sustainably. But it doesnt automatically follow that this is the case.
Ive considered all the arguments, evidence and information provided in this context, and
thought about what this means for Mr Ms complaint.
For each loan Quidmarket carried out the same sort of checks. Quidmarket has shown that 
as part of the affordability assessment it asked Mr M for details of his income and 
expenditure. 
Mr M declared his income to be £1,250 per month for loan one, £1,291 per month for loan 
two and £1,313 per month for loan three. Quidmarket says it electronically verified Mr Ms 
income and having done so it decreased Mr Ms income for loan two only to £1,162.  
Mr M was also asked to declare his monthly outgoings for things such as rent, utilities and 
existing credit commitments.  For loan one these costs came to £200, £150 for loan two and 
£50 for loan three. 
However, following a credit check before each loan Quidmarket adjusted Mr Ms living costs 
increasing them for each loan. For the affordability assessment it used monthly outgoings of 
£559 for loan one, £967 for loan two and £650 per month for loan three. 
Even with this smaller disposable monthly income figure there was still sufficient disposable 
income for Quidmarket to reasonably believe Mr M could potentially afford the largest 
planned repayment of around £186 per month. The loans looked affordable.
Before the loans were approved Quidmarket also carried out a credit search and it has
provided the Financial Ombudsman with a copy of the results it received from the creditreference agency. I want to add that although Quidmarket carried out credit searches there 
wasnt a regulatory requirement to do one, let alone one to a specific standard. But what 
Quidmarket couldnt do, is carry out a credit search and then not react to the
information it received.
Quidmarket was also entitled to rely on the information it was given by the credit reference
Agency in the absences of any contradictory information. So, Ive looked at the results to see 
whether there was anything contained within it, that wouldve either prompted Quidmarket to 
have carried out further checks or possibly have declined Mr Ms application.
Having reviewed the credit checks all the results showed much the same information. I can 
see that Quidmarket was aware at times of other loans outstanding. However, given the 
terms and monthly repayment of these loans these were likely to be longer term loans, 
rather than payday loans. For all the loans Mr M had fairly low credit utilisation and no 
evidence that he wasnt able to manage his existing credit commitments. 
I do accept that there was a default recorded on his credit file in September 2018  this 
appears to relate to a current account and therefore likely to be connected to an overdraft. 
While a default being recently applied before loan one could be a sign of financial difficulties, 
the fact there wasnt any other adverse credit file data, the loans looked affordable, and 
given that Mr M repaid them without apparent difficulty it has led me to conclude that it was 
reasonable for the loans to be approved. 
Moreover, in the marketplace that Quidmarket operates in, it is unlikely that all applicants will 
have a perfect credit score or file. So, the sight of one default wouldnt in my mind have 
prompted further checks. 
So, while I accept that Mr Ms representative have found in Mr Ms credit file that he had in 
fact opened a lot more credit accounts than the ones Quidmarket knew about, I still think for 
the beginning of a lending relationship that lasted only three loans it was reasonable and 
proportionate for Quidmarket to have relied on the credit check results it received, rather 
than to seek out a more detailed information. 
However, looking at the rest of the credit report, there wasnt any other adverse credit data 
or anything to suggest that Mr M was either overindebted or was having other financial 
difficulties. Therefore, the credit report wouldnt have prompted Quidmarket to carry out 
further checks. 
So, while Mr Ms representative has provided copies of his bank statements, I dont think 
given the loan history and what Quidmarket knew about Mr M that it reached the point where 
it needed to verify the information it was provided. In my view, to have reviewed the bank 
statements wouldve been disproportionate.
Im satisfied that Quidmarket carried out proportionate checks which showed it the loans 
were potentially affordable and I dont yet think it had reached the stage where it needed to 
verify the information it had been provided or have prompted it to conclude the lending was 
unsustainable for Mr M. 
Im therefore not upholding Mr Ms complaint about these loans.My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, Im not upholding Mr Ms complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 30 November 2023.
 
Robert Walker
Ombudsman