DRN-2480341
The complaint
Mrs H believes Everyday Lending Limited, trading as Everyday Loans, acted irresponsibly by 
agreeing a loan shed applied for.
What happened
In December 2011 Mrs H took out a £1,000 loan with Everyday, to be repaid over 11 months 
with repayments of £168.20 a month. This loan was repaid in June 2013.
Mrs H complained that Everyday didnt act responsibly when approving the loan  she didnt 
think the checks Everyday did were thorough enough. She said that she already had high 
interest and payday loans at the time she applied for the loan, and she had a gambling 
addiction. So she didnt think they shouldve approved the loan.  Everyday didnt agree, so 
Mrs H brought her complaint to us for investigation.
Our investigator said that the checks Everyday carried were reasonable and proportionate  
they checked Mrs Hs income and expenditure, carried out a credit search and checked her 
bank statements. And from the information available to Everyday, the loan was affordable to 
Mrs H - there was nothing that indicated Mrs H was reliant on payday lending or had a 
gambling addiction. So the investigator didnt think Everyday needed to do anything more.
Mrs H didnt agree. She said that, at the time of application, she had a rolling payday loan 
and she was in a debt management plan. Shes also said that she used to get cashback on 
supermarket transactions and then use this money to gamble with. And she thinks Everyday 
shouldve queried a lot of strange activities [on her bank statements] especially around 28th / 
29th Nov [2011]. So, shes asked for an ombudsman to make a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
When someone complains about irresponsible and/or unaffordable lending, I need to 
consider whether the lender completed reasonable and proportionate checks to satisfy itself 
that the lending was affordable, and that the affordability was sustainable. Where reasonable 
and proportionate checks were carried out, I need to consider if the lending decision was 
fair. And if reasonable and proportionate checks werent carried out, I need to consider if the 
loan wouldve been approved if the checks had taken place. 
Theres no set list for what reasonable and proportional checks are, but Id expect lenders to 
consider things such as the amount, duration and payments of the loan being applied for; as 
well as the borrowers personal circumstances at the time of each application. 
Ive seen the documents Everyday checked at the time they approved Mrs Hs loan. 
The credit search showed that Mrs H had two active loans, for which she paid a total of £294 
a month. Both of these loans were long-term lending and werent the short-terms associated 
with payday lenders. And Mrs H hadnt missed any payments on these loans.
The credit search also showed Mrs H had two historic defaults. Different lenders have 
different criteria for lending, so I think the defaults didnt necessarily meant that Everyday 
shouldve automatically declined the application. Especially because Mrs H had maintained 
payments on all of her live credit. But I do think that Everyday shouldve considered the 
defaults as part of their overall lending decision. And I havent seen anything to show me 
they didnt.
Ive also seen the bank statements Mrs H provided Everyday. These covered the period 
from 1 November to 9 December 2011. They show Mrs H was paid weekly and had an 
average weekly salary of £466.78. I calculate this to be the equivalent of £2,022.72 a month, 
but Im aware there are different ways of doing this calculation. Everyday calculated Mrs Hs 
equivalent monthly income to be £2,031.07 and used this in their affordability calculations.
Theres nothing Ive seen on the credit search, bank statements or the information Mrs H 
provided to Everyday that shows she was in a debt management plan and/or she was reliant 
upon payday loans. And I cant say that Everyday did anything wrong by not taking into 
consideration things they werent aware of.
In assessing affordability, Everyday deducted Mrs Hs £625 a month rent, and the monthly 
payments to her loans, from her monthly income. They also deducted a further 35% 
(£710.87) to account for her regular household expenditure and food etc. This left her with a 
disposable income of £401.20 from which to pay their loan of £168.20. 
Given the above, and the value and term of this loan, Im satisfied that the checks Everyday 
did were reasonable and proportionate at the time. And I wouldnt expect them to do 
anything more. 
But Ive also reviewed the bank statements in light of the comments made by Mrs H. These 
show a number of cash transactions, both into and out of her account. Using cash isnt 
unusual, and I dont think the fact that Mrs H did so shouldve meant that Everyday shouldve 
asked more questions. 
The transactions on 28 and 29 November 2011 that Mrs H has said were strange were five 
debit card transactions in two different supermarkets. These ranged between £3.86 and 
£47.59 and totalled £153.46. I dont consider that type of spending in supermarkets to be so 
unusual, especially given the time of year when people tend to stock up for Christmas, that 
Everyday shouldve queried it.
So, I remain satisfied that Everyday acted reasonably when approving the loan for Mrs H. 
And I wont be asking them to take any further action.
My final decision
For the reasons explained above I dont uphold Mrs Hs complaint about Everyday Lending 
Limited trading as Everyday Loans.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs H to accept or 
reject my decision before 27 February 2021.
 
Andrew BurfordOmbudsman