DRN-2538846
The complaint
Mrs Ws complained that Allianz Insurance PLC (Allianz) treated the claim she made for 
her dogs treatment under her pet insurance as an illness claim, rather than an injury claim  
which meant they declined it.
What happened
In mid-2019, Mrs W bought a pet insurance policy for her dog from Allianz.  The policy 
provided cover for treatment of an injury from the start date.  Cover for illness which arose in 
the first 14 days of the policy term was excluded.
A few days after she bought the policy, Mrs W let her dog out into her garden.  When the 
dog returned a few minutes later, she was limping.
Mrs W took her dog to the vets, who diagnosed an issue with the cruciate ligament. When 
the treatment was finished, Mrs Ws vets submitted a claim to Allianz.
Allianz assessed the claim but declined it.  They decided the cruciate issue should be 
classified as an illness.  And the illness wasnt covered, because it has started within 14 
days of Mrs W buying the policy.
Mrs W complained.  She didnt dispute the terms of the policy.  But she said that the cruciate 
issue should be considered an injury - not an illness - because it had appeared suddenly, 
after her dog came in from the garden.  So she thought Allianz should settle the claim.
Allianz rejected Mrs Ws complaint.  As part of their investigation, they considered evidence 
Mrs W had sent in from an expert.  But Allianz explained this was the same evidence on 
which they based their conclusion that the cruciate damage should be treated as an illness.  
So it didnt change their decision to decline the claim.
Mrs W wasnt satisfied with Allianzs response.  So she brought her complaint to us.  Our 
investigator considered it and said that, in her view, Allianz shouldnt have done anything 
differently.  She said the policy did exclude illnesses which occurred within 14 days of the 
start of the policy.  And she saw that the experts opinion both parties referred to said that 
the vast majority of cruciate ligament ruptures are caused by long term degeneration.  So 
she thought it was fair that Allianz viewed the condition as an illness.
Mrs W didnt agree with our investigators view.  So Ive been asked to make a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done that, Im not upholding Mrs Ws complaint.  I know that shell be disappointed 
by my decision.  Ill explain why Ive made it.
As our investigator said, insurers must deal with claims promptly and fairly  and in 
accordance with the policy terms.  My role is to decide whether theyve done that.  So Im not 
deciding how Allianz should have categorised Mrs Ws dogs cruciate ligament problem  but 
whether the decision they made was reasonable given the evidence available.
I sympathise with Mrs W.  She bought insurance so she could have peace of mind about 
getting treatment for her dog if she needed to.  Its very unfortunate that her dog showed 
symptoms so soon after she bought her policy.  And I can understand why Mrs W believes 
her dog was injured, not ill.  She went out into the garden walking properly.  And she came 
back limping.
Ive looked at the policy document.  Injury is defined as:
physical damage or trauma caused immediately by an accident. Not any physical damage 
or trauma that happens over a period of time.
Mrs W didnt go into the garden with her dog.  So theres no evidence to show the dog had 
an accident which immediately caused the rupture of her cruciate ligament  as opposed to 
that being the first time there were noticeable signs of a problem.
Mrs W has challenged Allianzs conclusion that symptoms were caused by a degeneration of 
the ligament.  She was supported by an email from her vet, who said that, in their opinion, 
cruciate ruptures are always due to trauma.  And she sent Allianz articles shed read about 
cruciate ligament problems.
Ive seen that Allianz took all this information into account.  But they didnt agree with her vet 
that Mrs Ws dog must have suffered an injury, because there was no evidence of a 
traumatic incident.  And they noted that the vet had submitted a claim for treatment of 
cruciate disease, rather than cruciate injury.
Ive looked at the extracts from the articles Mrs W submitted.  Although she says they 
support her position, Ive noted two particular comments.  The first says:
In the vast majority of dogs, the cranial cruciate ligament (CrCL) ruptures as a result of long-
term degeneration, whereby the fibres within the ligament weaken over time.
The second says:
Limping is the commonest sign of CrCL injury. This may appear suddenly during or after 
exercise in some dogs, or it may be progressive and intermittent in others.
Allianz told Mrs W they relied on the same experts to come to the conclusion her dogs 
problems were the result of an illness, not an injury.  Having read the extracts, I think they 
support Allianzs view -because they say the most likely cause of Mrs Ws dogs problem 
was degeneration.  And they say the issue may become apparent suddenly, even though its 
a long term problem.  So Im satisfied the conclusion drawn by Allianz about the cause of 
Mrs Ws dogs cruciate issue was reasonable.
And because of that, I think it was fair for Allianz to say they wouldnt settle the claim, 
because Mrs W noticed the condition within 14 days of taking out the policy. So Im not 
asking them to do anything different to resolve this complaint. 
My final decisionFor the reasons Ive explained, Im not upholding Mrs Ws complaint about Allianz Insurance 
PLC.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs W to accept or 
reject my decision before 25 February 2021.
 
Helen Stacey
Ombudsman