DRN-3295889
The complaint
Ms C complains that Revolut Ltd didnt do enough to prevent her loss when she fell victim to 
a scam. She is particularly unhappy with Revoluts handling of her fraud claim.
What happened
On 20 May 2021 Ms C made a payment of £1,426 from her Revolut account to an account in 
Spain for a rental property. Unfortunately, this turned out to be a scam.
Ms C contacted Revolut about the scam on 22 May 2021. Revolut contacted the beneficiary 
bank on 25 May 2021 to try and recover the money, but despite chasing a response on 
several occasions throughout May and June 2021, the beneficiary bank didnt reply.
Ms C complained to Revolut. It said it had provided Ms C with sufficient warnings when she 
made the transaction and it had attempted to recover the funds. So, it didnt consider itself to 
be liable for Ms Cs loss. It did however think it couldve provided clearer information to Ms C 
when she made contact about the scam. Revolut offered Ms C a two-month premium 
subscription for the inconvenience caused.
Ms C complained to our service. She didnt accept Revoluts response to her complaint nor 
did she accept its offer of a two-month subscription. Ms C said Revolut had failed to act 
promptly and prudently when she reported the fraud. And it didnt try and stop the 
transaction, recover the funds, or compensate her for her loss. Ms C said shed been left 
with no form of recourse to recover the money shed lost as a victim of fraud.  
Our investigator considered the complaint but didnt uphold it. She found Revolut had acted 
fairly and reasonably in the circumstances. 
Ms C didnt agree and has asked for an Ombudsmans decision. She maintained that 
Revolut hadnt dealt with her case with care and expediency, given the severity of what had 
happened, and because time was of the essence when trying to get the funds back. She 
said her interactions with several Revolut agents in the days after the fraud took place 
demonstrated that her case wasnt being handled with due care or process. She was 
particularly concerned that she was asked to complete the wrong forms  which she said 
added to her distress and led her to question whether her fraud claim was being properly 
dealt with. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided not to uphold this complaint. I know this is not the answer 
Ms C was hoping for and so this will come as a disappointment. Im really sorry to hear 
she has been the victim of a scam and has lost a considerable sum of money as a result. I 
can understand why shed want to do all she can to recover the money she has lost. But I 
need to decide whether Revolut can fairly and reasonably be held responsible for Ms Cs 
loss. Overall, Ive decided that it cant be. Ill explain why. 
Ive seen the correspondence between Ms C and the scammer. And Im satisfied she fell for 
a sophisticated rental scam. In the days before making the payment, shed been in contact 
with who she thought was the owner of the rental property, having found its details on what 
she believed to be a genuine web page for a well-known property rental company. But 
unfortunately, when she went to collect the keys for the property, no one was there to meet 
her. And after being unable to speak to anyone, she became suspicious and contacted 
Revolut. 
Its not disputed that Ms C authorised the scam payment of £1,426. So, although it wasnt 
her intention to pay money to the scammers, under the Payment Services Regulations 2017 
(PSRs) and the terms of her account, Ms C is presumed liable for the loss in the first 
instance. 
However, taking into account the law, regulatory rules and guidance, relevant codes of
practice and good industry practice, there are circumstances where it might be appropriate
for Revolut to take additional steps or make additional checks before processing a payment 
to help protect customers from the possibility of financial harm from fraud.
Revolut has said Ms C wouldve received warnings at the point she added the beneficiary 
and when she authorised the payment. These warnings are designed to alert customers to 
any suspicious activity on their accounts, as well as about common scams. Ive no reason to 
believe Ms C didnt receive those warnings  given she wouldve needed to acknowledge 
receipt for the payment to proceed. 
Ive thought about whether Revoluts warnings were sufficient in this case. But given the 
level of sophistication adopted by the scammer, the trust Ms C had in them and the 
interactions she had prior to making the payment, I think, on balance, its unlikely any 
warning Revolut issued wouldve stopped her making the payment. And so, I cant say 
Revoluts actions when processing the payment are to blame for Ms Cs loss.
Ms C notified Revolut shed been the victim of a scam on 22 May 2021 and it contacted the 
beneficiary bank in Spain on 25 May 2021 to see if any funds remained. Unfortunately, 
despite several further attempts by Revolut to contact the beneficiary bank, no response was 
received. 
Ms C is concerned that Revolut delayed in dealing with her fraud claim  and in turn didnt 
try to recover the money as swiftly as it could. I can understand Ms Cs point and agree that 
prompt action to try and recover funds can increase the likelihood of those funds still being 
available. However, Im also aware that funds are often removed very quickly from the 
beneficiary account in the case of scams. And I also must bear in mind that overseas 
beneficiary banks are under no obligation to respond to retrieval requests from UK banks. 
So, even if Revolut had tried to recover the funds sooner, I think its unlikely to have resulted 
in a different outcome. It did however make several attempts to chase a response and Im 
therefore satisfied Revolut made reasonable efforts to recover the funds Ms C lost through 
the scam. So, I dont think it needed to do anything else. 
Therefore, overall, I dont think it would be fair or reasonable to hold Revolut responsible for 
Ms Cs loss in this particular case.
Finally, Ms C is concerned about the level of customer service she received from Revolut 
after the fraud took place. I can understand her concerns, and from looking through the 
correspondence exchanged between both parties, I think Revolut couldve handled things 
better. But I believe Revolut has addressed Ms Cs points of complaint as best it can and has offered some redress. While I fully appreciate Revoluts poor handling added to the 
distress Ms C was already understandably feeling having been a victim of fraud, taking 
everything into account, I dont think Revolut needs to take any further action. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I do not uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms C to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 March 2022.
 
Anna Jackson
Ombudsman