DRN-1692407
The complaint
Mr M has complained about Lloyds Bank General Insurance Limiteds decision to reject a 
claim he made under his joint home insurance policy with Mrs M.
What happened
Mr and Mrs M came home to discover water leaking through the ceiling in the hallway of 
their home in June 2019. They made a claim under the home emergency section of their 
home insurance policy which they bought through a broker. 
The leak was located to a pipe in the floorboards underneath the bathroom above the 
hallway. 
Mr M made a claim for trace and access and a claim to Lloyds for internal damage and 
contents caused by the escape of water. Mr M has made a separate complaint about the 
trace and access section of the policy. This doesnt form part of my decision about their 
claim under the home insurance policy. 
Lloyds instructed a surveyor to attend Mr and Mrs Ms property. However, the surveyor 
reported that the internal damage being claimed for was a result of several leaks which 
appeared to have been ongoing for some time, signs of which would have been visible to Mr 
and Mrs M. So Lloyds rejected Mr Ms claim. 
Mr M complained to Lloyds, but it said its decision was correct. So he asked us to look at his 
complaint. 
Our investigator thought Lloyds had acted reasonably and in line with the policy. Their policy 
excludes cover for wear and tear, maintenance and loss or damage due to gradual 
deterioration.  
Mr M didnt agree. He cannot see the logic in the decision to decline the trace and access 
use of his policy as the leak had been found  only to then refuse the claim because there 
were more untraceable leaks. He said the surveyor couldnt evidence leaks without either 
removing the tiles or the walls. Mr M said they would have contacted the broker much 
sooner if they thought there was any visible evidence of ongoing leaks as that is why they 
paid for insurance. If the surveyor says there are unidentifiable leaks, then Lloyds should 
cover the claim under the trace and access section of the policy. 
So the case has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr and Mrs Ms policy provides cover for a number of circumstances  but it also has 
exclusions which arent unusual. Lloyds says it doesnt provide cover for loss or damage for 
a gradually operating cause.  It defines this as something that happens gradually over a 
period of time, for example corrosion, damp, condensation, decay or decomposition;
The policy also has a very common term Ive seen in all insurance policies which excludes 
cover for wear and tear, or damage caused by inadequate maintenance.
Photos of the bathroom above the area of the leak show the sealant and grout around the 
bath to be in very poor condition. Damp readings against the tiled wall where the shower and 
bath taps were high. The surveyor reported that the tiles were wet. Photos show black lathes 
where the ceiling was cut out to alleviate the pressure of the water from the leak, indicating 
water damage over time.  
The stopcock pipe sits in the hallway below the ceiling where the leak came through. Damp 
readings were high in the wall between the stopcock and ceiling. There was evidence of 
black mould and water marks around the stopcock.
The poor condition of the sealant and grout in the bathroom and the mould identified in the 
hallway by the stopcock seem to have occurred over time. I appreciate Mr M doesnt agree 
with the surveyors findings. But I dont think Lloyds acted unfairly in relying on the surveyors 
expert opinion and the photos which evidence damage hasnt occurred as a one off event.
So the reason for Lloyds decision to reject Mr Ms claim for trace and access and damage 
wasnt because it cannot locate the leaks. It is because it excludes cover for loss or damage 
caused gradually by inadequate maintenance and wear and tear. It refers to this as an 
uninsurable cause.
Lloyds explained its decision to Mrs M on 22 July 2019. In its reply to the complaint on 16 
August 2019, Lloyds said there was clear evidence of several leaks occurring over long 
periods of time which was excluded under the policy.
I understand Mr M will be very disappointed with my decision. But based on what Ive seen, I 
think Lloyds decision to reject their claim was reasonable and in line with the policy. So I 
dont think it needs to do anymore.  
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M and Mrs M to 
accept or reject my decision before 3 September 2020.
 
Geraldine Newbold
Ombudsman