DRN-4073178
The complaint
Mrs O has complained that Domestic & General Insurance Plc (D&G) unfairly dealt with a 
claim under a home emergency policy.
Mr O has mainly dealt with the complaint. He isnt named on the policy, but I will normally 
refer to him.
What happened
Mr O contacted D&G because the heating system was leaking. D&G sent an engineer, but 
then declined to deal with the claim because it said the fault was with the unvented cylinder, 
which wasnt covered under the policy. When Mr O complained, D&G maintained its decision 
to decline the claim.
When Mr O complained to this service, our investigator didnt uphold it. He said the policy 
didnt cover unvented cylinders or the pipework feeding into it. So, it was reasonable for 
D&G to decline the claim.
As Mr O didnt agree, the complaint was referred to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I dont uphold this complaint. I will explain why.
Mr O had an unvented cylinder. The policy described what systems it covered and said it 
covered vented cylinders, but didnt say it covered unvented cylinders. In a section headed 
What is not part of your heating equipment?, it said Work on anything not part of the 
heating equipment, for example unvented pressurised cylinders any pipework, controls 
or other parts associated with any of these items. 
The engineer said the pipework was for the unvented cylinder. I would normally say it was 
fair for an insurer to rely on its engineers assessment to decide if the claim was covered, 
which is what it did here. I havent seen anything that causes me to think it was unfair for 
D&G to do so for this claim. So, having looked at what happened, I think it was reasonable 
for D&G to decline the claim, as it wasnt covered by the policy.
Im aware Mr O has also said it was unfair for D&G to take the premiums if it didnt offer 
cover. Ive looked at the policy and can see it provided a range of cover, including a boiler 
service and emergency support for issues with locks, pests and the roof. So, this doesnt 
change my view on this complaint.
So, having considered the circumstances of this complaint, I dont uphold it or require D&G 
to do anything further.
My final decision
For the reasons I have given, it is my final decision that this complaint is not upheld.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs O to accept or 
reject my decision before 14 July 2023.
 
Louise O'Sullivan
Ombudsman