DRN-3145797
The complaint
Mr B complains that Portafina Investment Management Limited gave him unsuitable 
investment advice. In particular he says its advice to transfer two pension pots to a Self-
Invested Personal Pension (SIPP) and take a tax-free lump sum was unsuitable.
Mr B is represented in this matter by a third party.
What happened
I understand that Mr B discussed pension planning with Portafina in early 2019. It appears 
that Mr Bs main purpose for seeking advice was to look into whether he could obtain a lump 
sum of £5,000 in order to pay off a loan.
Portafina recorded that Mr B had three pension pots, with a total value of around £45,000. 
At the time the advice was given Portafina noted that Mr B was 55 years old, had a 
physically demanding job and was earning around £36,000 per year. It appears that Mr B 
had little or no savings (other than his pension pots) or property. Portafina recorded that 
Mr B wanted to retire, overseas, at age 61, in around six years time.
Portafina advised Mr B to transfer two of his pension pots to a SIPP. One pot was deferred 
benefits from a money purchase pension scheme and the other pot was a small additional 
voluntary contribution plan. The total combined value was around £20,000. I understand that 
the third pension had guaranteed benefits attached to it and Portafina did not advise Mr B to 
transfer this pension as part of its advice.
It advised Mr B to take the maximum tax-free cash available and invest the remaining funds 
in a global bond fund and a worldwide equity fund. 
Portafina received a fee of £1,409 for its initial advice (7% of the total amount Mr B was 
advised to transfer to the SIPP). It deducted this fee from Mr Bs SIPP. It also took an annual 
fee of 1% of the funds invested for ongoing advice.
In September 2020 Mr Bs representative complained on Mr Bs behalf about the advice he 
had received from Portafina. It said the advice was unsuitable and the investment funds 
recommended were non-standard and were too high risk given Mr Bs capacity for loss.
Portafina did not uphold Mr Bs complaint. It said it felt the advice it had provided was 
suitable and had met Mr Bs objective to obtain a lump sum to pay off the £5,000 loan.
Mr Bs representative was not satisfied with Portafinas response and referred the matter to 
this service.
Having carefully considered the matter our investigator said she thought Mr Bs complaint 
should be upheld as she didnt think the advice Mr B had received was suitable. 
In particular, she said she wasnt satisfied that Portafina had explored whether there might 
be other ways Mr B could repay the £5,000 loan, before it advised him to take tax-free cash 
from two of his pension pots. She also said she didnt think Portafina had adequately 
explained the risks and disadvantages of this course of action to Mr B.
She also said she didnt think Portafina had carried out an adequate assessment of the 
ceding schemes to compare the costs and charges for Mr B. Nor had it considered whether 
Mr B might be better off taking his benefits from the existing schemes, rather than 
transferring his pension pots to the SIPP it had recommended.
With regard to the funds Portafina advised Mr B to invest in, she said based on the 
information available, she didnt think the funds were suitable for Mr B. She noted that 
Portafina had assessed Mr Bs attitude to risk as moderately cautious. 
She said she felt the worldwide equity fund was too high risk for Mr Bs capacity for loss. In 
particular, she noted that on an investment risk scale of one to seven (with seven being high) 
the worldwide equity fund Portafina had recommended was rated as a six. Even when the 
lower risk bond fund Mr B had also been advised to invest in was taken into account, she 
said she felt the level of risk Portafina had advised Mr B to take was too high in view of his 
very low capacity for loss.
She noted that Mr Bs representative had said the investment funds Portafina had 
recommended to Mr B were non-standard investments. She said that although she was of 
the view the risk profile of the funds recommended was too high, given Mr Bs capacity for 
loss, there was nothing to suggest the funds were non-standard investments.
Having considered this matter she said she didnt think Portafina had taken sufficient steps 
to demonstrate that its recommendation was suitable, and she set out the steps she felt it 
should take to put matters right. 
Portafina did not accept our investigators view. In summary it said it felt its advice was 
correct and that the only way Mr B could have repaid the £5,000 loan was by releasing tax-
free cash from two of his pension pots. It also said it would have charged its 7% fee (£1,409) 
even if it had advised Mr B to retain his existing pensions and take the benefits from two of 
his plans.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I think Mr Bs complaint should be upheld. I dont think the advice he 
received was suitable for his personal and financial circumstances. Ill explain why.
Portafina says that it  did not simply facilitate the clients wants or needs but considered his 
whole circumstances and made a professional decision to recommend a drawdown option
It also says that it was concluded that there were no further options for [Mr B] to raise the 
funds other than accessing his tax-free cash.
It does not appear, however, that it obtained any information about the loan (which I 
understand had been taken out in Mr Bs ex-partners name) to determine whether there 
were any early repayment charges, or advantages to repaying the loan early. It is therefore 
not clear to me that Portafina established whether repaying the loan early was in Mr Bs best 
interests. I accept that Mr B wanted to repay the loan, but, as Portafina has noted, its role was not to simply facilitate the clients wants or needs but considered his whole 
circumstances. I think the absence of information about the loan indicates that Portafina did 
not consider Mr Bs whole circumstances.
There also appears to be a fundamental oversight in the advice Portafina provided to Mr B. 
In its final response letter to Mr B it said:
Your longer retirement objectives were to eventually cash all your pension in and move to 
Thailand in six years and live with your new partner. You explained that would have 
additional savings you could utilise due to not paying the car finance each month and the 
cost of living would be cheaper in Thailand. This information, along with everything else 
gathered in your factfind call, was then passed to the adviser to make a recommendation for 
you.
But it appears the adviser failed to consider how Mr B could meet his objective to retire at 
age 61, when his state pension would not be payable until he reached 67 years old. In a 
response to this service Portafina said:
Mr B informed [name of paraplanner] that he had an outstanding loan of £5,000 that he 
wanted to clear. This was a car loan in his ex-partners name, but he was sending her the 
money each month to clear. He felt it was best to pay the debt off in full... Portafinas adviser 
also agreed with this assessment. However, the adviser also considered Mr Bs other 
retirement provisions to assess the suitability of the transfer. It was noted that Mr B would 
have his state pension, residual from the potential drawdown fund (from the pension pots it 
had advised him to transfer) and his [name of employer] pension plan with guarantees (not 
transferred but maintained), all available at retirement. The adviser then assessed his future 
income requirements as follows: 
 Total yearly expenditure in Retirement: £4,020.00 
 The anticipated state pension benefit based on pension credit top up equates to £8,697.00. 
 This in addition to the 4% residual balance of £547.67 will provide a minimum of £9,244.67 
annually. 
The adviser demonstrated how Mr Bs core expenditure in retirement could be met and thus, 
the drawdown option for his [name of pension plans it had advised him to transfer] was 
feasible. It was assessed that Mr B could draw a potential income of 4% per annum from the 
fund in retirement based on the residual transfer value as shown in the analysis above.
It is not clear to me why the adviser did not explain that it was very unlikely Mr B would be 
able to afford to retire at age 61, even if he then moved to a country with a lower cost of 
living, as he would have little or no income to support himself until his state pension became 
payable at age 67. 
It appears the adviser failed to adequately consider Mr Bs objective to retire at age 61 and 
instead simply focussed on the current objective, I just want to pay off the car loan. In view 
of this I am not persuaded that Portafina did consider Mr Bs whole circumstances.
I cannot say with any certainty what Mr B would have done if the adviser had explained to 
him that it was unlikely he would be able to meet his objective to retire at age 61, unless he 
was able to save significant amounts over the next six years. But I cannot safely find that 
Mr B would definitely have gone ahead with the recommendation to take the maximum tax-
free cash from two of his pension pots and transfer the remaining amounts to a SIPP.I am also of the view that, without a detailed assessment of the amount Mr B would be able 
to save (to meet his objective to retire at age 61), if he did choose to repay the £5,000 loan 
early, it is not clear to me that the adviser did consider Mr Bs whole circumstances. 
In reaching this view I have taken into account that even if he were able to save all the 
money he had previously been making in loan repayments this would only amount to £5,000 
(£173 x 29 months). This is significantly less than the £24,120 (£4,020 x 6) Mr B had 
indicated he could live on once he retired at age 61, until his state pension became payable. 
Even allowing for the income Mr B might receive if he withdrew funds from his SIPP and took 
the benefits from his remaining workplace pension it is not clear to me that he would be able 
to achieve an income of £4,020 each year.
I am also concerned that the £4,020 per year income seems very low, even allowing for 
Mr Bs intention to live overseas, and I think the adviser should have explored whether this 
figure was realistic.
I therefore cannot safely find that the advice Mr B received was suitable for his personal and 
financial circumstances. And I am not satisfied that Portafina did adequately consider Mr Bs 
whole circumstances before making its recommendation.
I note the comments Portafina has made in relation to the suitability of the funds it advised 
Mr B to invest in. But, like our investigator, I think the risk profile of the funds recommended 
was too high given Mr Bs very limited capacity for loss. I appreciate that Mr Bs funds were 
invested in a worldwide equity fund and a lower risk global bond fund, but I dont think the 
lower risk fund adequately offset the higher risk of the worldwide equity fund. From the 
information available I am not satisfied that he had the capacity to withstand any significant 
investment loss. In reaching this view I have taken into account that Mr B only had six years 
to his intended retirement at the time the advice was given.
That said, I agree with our investigators view that Mr B could afford to take a small amount 
of risk with his pension savings, rather than no risk at all, and I have reflected this in the 
redress I have set out below.
Having carefully considered this matter my decision is that, for the reasons I have set out 
above, I am not satisfied that the advice was suitable and I think Mr Bs complaint should be 
upheld.
Putting things right
Fair compensation
My aim is that Mr B should be put as closely as possible into the position he would 
probably now be in if he had been given suitable advice.
I think Mr B would have invested differently. It is not possible to say precisely what he 
would have done, but I am satisfied that what I have set out below is fair and reasonable 
given Mr B's circumstances and objectives when he invested.
What must Portafina do?
To compensate Mr B fairly, Portafina must:
Compare the performance of Mr B's investment with that of the benchmark shown 
below. If the actual value is greater than the fair value, no compensation is payable.If the fair value is greater than the actual value there is a loss and compensation is 
payable.
Portafina should add interest as set out below:
Portafina should pay into Mr B's pension plan to increase its value by the total 
amount of the compensation and any interest. The amount paid should allow for the 
effect of charges and any available tax relief. Compensation should not be paid into 
the pension plan if it would conflict with any existing protection or allowance.
If Portafina is unable to pay the total amount into Mr B's pension plan, it should pay 
that amount direct to him. But had it been possible to pay into the plan, it would 
have provided a taxable income. Therefore the total amount should be reduced to 
notionally allow for any income tax that would otherwise have been paid. This is an 
adjustment to ensure the compensation is a fair amount  it isnt a payment of tax to 
HMRC, so Mr B wont be able to reclaim any of the reduction after compensation is 
paid.
The notional allowance should be calculated using Mr B's actual or expected 
marginal rate of tax at his selected retirement age.
Its reasonable to assume that Mr B is likely to be a nil rate taxpayer at the selected 
retirement age, so no reduction would apply in this case.
Pay to Mr B £150 for the trouble and upset caused.
Repay the advisers fees together with simple interest at 8% a year, from the date 
the fees were paid to the date of the settlement. If the above comparison shows that 
no compensation is payable, the difference between the actual value and the fair 
value can be offset against the fees with interest.
Income tax may be payable on any interest paid. If Portafina deducts income tax from the 
interest it should tell Mr B how much has been taken off. Portafina should give Mr B a tax 
deduction certificate in respect of interest if Mr B asks for one, so he can reclaim the tax 
on interest from HM Revenue & Customs if appropriate.
Portfolio 
nameStatus Benchmark From (start 
date)To (end 
date)Additional 
interest
Aegon 
Retirement 
Choices 
SIPPStill exists 
and liquidFor half the 
investment: 
FTSE UK 
Private 
Investors 
Income Total 
Return 
Index; for the 
other half: 
average rate 
from fixed 
rate bondsDate of 
investmentDate of my 
final decision8% simple 
per year from 
final decision 
to settlement 
(if not settled 
within 28 
days of the 
business 
receiving the 
complainant'
s 
acceptance)
Actual valueThis means the actual amount payable from the investment at the end date.
Fair value
This is what the investment would have been worth at the end date had it produced a 
return using the benchmark.
To arrive at the fair value when using the fixed rate bonds as the benchmark, Portafina 
should use the monthly average rate for one-year fixed-rate bonds as published by the 
Bank of England. The rate for each month is that shown as at the end of the previous 
month. Those rates should be applied to the investment on an annually compounded 
basis.
Any withdrawal from the Aegon Retirement Choices SIPP should be deducted from the 
fair value calculation at the point it was actually paid so it ceases to accrue any return in 
the calculation from that point on. If there is a large number of regular payments, to keep 
calculations simpler, Ill accept if Portafina totals all those payments and deducts that 
figure at the end to determine the fair value instead of deducting periodically.
Why is this remedy suitable?
Ive decided on this method of compensation because:
Mr B wanted Capital growth with a small risk to his capital.
The average rate for the fixed rate bonds would be a fair measure for someone who 
wanted to achieve a reasonable return without risk to his capital.
The FTSE UK Private Investors Income total return index (prior to 1 March 2017, 
the FTSE WMA Stock Market Income total return index) is made up of a range of 
indices with different asset classes, mainly UK equities and government bonds. Its 
a fair measure for someone who was prepared to take some risk to get a higher 
return.
I consider that Mr B's risk profile was in between, in the sense that he was prepared 
to take a small level of risk to attain his investment objectives. So, the 50/50 
combination would reasonably put Mr B into that position. It does not mean that Mr 
B would have invested 50% of his money in a fixed rate bond and 50% in some kind 
of index tracker investment. Rather, I consider this a reasonable compromise that 
broadly reflects the sort of return Mr B could have obtained from investments suited 
to his objective and risk attitude.
My final decision
I uphold the complaint. My decision is that Portafina Investment Management Limited 
should pay the amount calculated as set out above.
Portafina Investment Management Limited should provide details of its calculation to Mr B 
in a clear, simple format. Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 23 August 2022.
 
Suzannah Stuart
Ombudsman