DRN-3654685
The complaint
Mr C complained that he was given unsuitable advice to transfer his defined benefit (DB) 
British Steel Pension Scheme (BSPS), to a type of personal pension plan, in 2018.
The St. David's Partnership is responsible for answering this complaint and so to keep things 
consistent, Ill refer mainly to SDP.
What happened
In March 2016, Mr Cs employer announced that it would be examining options to restructure 
its business, including decoupling the BSPS from the company. The consultation with 
members referred to possible outcomes regarding their preserved benefits, which included 
transferring the scheme to the Pension Protection Fund (PPF), or a new defined benefit 
scheme (BSPS2). Alternatively, members were informed they could transfer their benefits to 
a personal pension arrangement.
In May 2017, the Pension Protection Fund (PPF) made the announcement that the terms of 
a Regulated Apportionment Arrangement (RAA) had been agreed. That announcement said 
that, if risk-related qualifying conditions relating to funding and size could be satisfied, a new 
pension scheme sponsored by Mr Cs employer would be set up  the BSPS2.
In October 2017, members of the BSPS were being sent a Time to Choose letter which 
gave them the options to either stay in BSPS and move with it to the PPF, move to BSPS2 
or transfer their BSPS benefits elsewhere. The deadline to make their choices was 
11 December 2017 (and was later extended to 22 December 2017). 
Mr C was concerned about what the announcement by his employer meant for the security 
of his preserved benefits in the BSPS. He was unsure what to do and was referred to SDP 
which is responsible for providing the pension advice. Information gathered about his 
circumstances and objectives at the time of the recommendation were broadly as follows:
Mr C was 44 years old, married and with one young dependent child. Mr and Mrs C 
didnt own a home and lived in rented accommodation.
Although still working full-time, Mr C was described having and arthritic type health 
concern which was undergoing assessment and at the time of the advice he was 
awaiting some further tests. It doesnt appear that Mrs C was employed at the time 
due to home and family caring responsibilities.
Mr C earned around £35,000. After expenses he and Mrs C had some disposable 
income left over. Mr C had savings of £2,000. He had no other major assets or 
liabilities.
The cash equivalent transfer value (CETV) of Mr Cs BSPS was approximately 
£260,820. Hed accrued over 21 years service. The normal retirement age (NRA) 
was 65.
SDP set out its advice in a suitability report in January 2018. In this it advised Mr C to 
transfer out of the BSPS and invest the funds in a type of personal pension plan. SDP said 
this would allow Mr C to achieve his objectives. Mr C accepted this advice and so transferred 
out. In 2021 Mr C complained to SDP about its advice, saying he shouldnt have been 
advised to transfer out to a personal pension. 
Mr C referred his complaint to our Service. One of our investigators looked into the complaint 
and said it should be upheld. In response, SDP said it hadnt done anything wrong and was 
acting on the financial objectives Mr C had at the time. As the complaint couldnt be resolved 
informally, its come to me for a final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive also taken into account relevant law and regulations, regulators rules, guidance and 
standards and codes of practice, and what I consider to have been good industry practice at 
the time. This includes the Principles for Business (PRIN) and the Conduct of Business 
Sourcebook (COBS). Where the evidence is incomplete, inconclusive or contradictory, 
I reach my conclusions on the balance of probabilities  that is, what I think is more likely 
than not to have happened based on the available evidence and the wider surrounding 
circumstances.
The applicable rules, regulations and requirements
The below is not a comprehensive list of the rules and regulations which applied at the time 
of the advice, but provides useful context for my assessment of SDP's actions here.
PRIN 6: A firm must pay due regard to the interests of its customers and treat them 
fairly.
PRIN 7: A firm must pay due regard to the information needs of its clients, and 
communicate information to them in a way which is clear, fair and not misleading.
COBS 2.1.1R: A firm must act honestly, fairly and professionally in accordance with 
the best interests of its client (the client's best interests rule).
The provisions in COBS 9 which deal with the obligations when giving a personal 
recommendation and assessing suitability and the provisions in COBS 19 which 
specifically relate to a DB pension transfer.
I have further considered that the regulator, the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA), states in 
COBS 19.1.6 that the starting assumption for a transfer from a DB scheme is that it is 
unsuitable. So, SDP should have only considered a transfer if it could clearly demonstrate 
that the transfer was in Mr Cs best interests. 
Ive used all this information we have to consider whether transferring away from the BSPS 
to a personal pension was in Mr Cs best interests. I have also carefully considered the final 
response letter from SDP. Ive carefully considered too, the various other responses made to 
the points contained within our investigators view.
Having done all this, Im upholding Mr Cs complaint. 
Introductory issuesId like to start by referring to the timeline of events. Ive already described above how 
members of the BSPS were given until 22 December 2017 to decide whether or not to join 
the BSPS2. Its not entirely clear whether Mr C ever made that choice. However, if he did so, 
hed have only remained signed up for the forthcoming BSPS2 for a short time. This is 
because we know that by 17 January 2018 SDP had advised him to transfer to a personal 
pension arrangement.
On the other hand, theres no documentation, which Ive seen, showing he did make a 
choice and we know that if no choice was made then the member would eventually move to 
the PPF if they didnt transfer away to a personal pension type arrangement.
However, I can see a fact-find was produced by SDP on 7 November 2017. This, of course, 
was several weeks ahead of the hard deadline of 22 December 2017 Ive mentioned above 
and where members of the BSPS needed to make a choice. So, I think by 7 November 2017 
there is clear evidence that SDP had started to advise Mr C. I also see that the transfer 
analysis by SDP  which is a significant part of the advice process  was issued on 22 
November 2017. Again, this was quite some time before the decision deadline. There were 
also some other documents and questionnaires that Mr C and SDP worked together on to 
complete as part of what was clearly a pension transfer advice process. I therefore think the 
advice process was substantially underway throughout November 2017 with SDP 
committing resources to analysing Mr Cs financial situation and a firm commitment to 
advising him about whether or not to transfer his DB pension.
SDP has asked me to consider that the formal advice to transfer was not made until 17 
January 2018. And Ive also noted that the client registration form for the advice wasnt 
signed until 19 January 2018. However, even though the suitability report which contained 
the recommendation for Mr C to transfer to a personal plan, was issued on 17 January 2018, 
we know that Mr C had engaged the advice of SDP quite a long time before this. In my view, 
the transfer analysis produced on 22 November 2017 was a major part of advising Mr C. I 
also know that whilst he didnt sign the client registration form until 19 January 2018, hed 
had it since November. In any event, even if I were to consider 19 January 2018 as the 
formal start of the advice, that wouldnt be right. This is because the suitability report had 
already been issued (on 17 January 2018). 
So, the only anomaly here is the client registration form that was signed rather late. I think 
the evidence strongly shows the signing of this was an administrative event and probably 
just swept up by the adviser after concluding the main part of the advice process. Everything 
else points to Mr C and SDP starting to engage with each other as of November 2017 and 
this is commensurate with the wider BSPS timeline of events. Clearly, if SDP is implying that 
19 January 2018 was the formal beginning of the process, then it shouldnt have been 
researching his pension  and more importantly, formally advising him to transfer away  as 
of 17 January 2018 which was before the client registration form was signed. 
In short, SDP cant have it both ways.
I should say that none of this really matters to the actual suitability of the advice. 
Nevertheless, it may matter to the redress that could be due for providing an unsuitable 
recommendation to transfer away from a DB scheme: redress would be measured against 
as if the member would have joined the BSPS2, rather doing nothing and entering the PPF 
by default. In my view, SDP had plenty of time to issue its suitability report ahead of the 
deadline as its advice process commenced in early November. At the very least, SDP could 
and should therefore have reinforced the deadline issue of 22 December 2017 to Mr C and 
he could have signed up for the BSPS2 as a precautionary measure. It could have advised 
Mr C that hed have still been able to change his mind and hed have been able to later 
transfer away from BSPS2 rather than from the PPF.Financial viability 
SDP referred in its transfer analysis and suitability report to critical yield rates. The critical 
yield is essentially the average annual investment return that would be required on the 
transfer value - from the time of advice until retirement - to provide the same annuity benefits 
as the DB scheme. In this case, SDP used the existing scheme (BSPS) for the critical yield 
comparisons, rather than the new BSPS2. But I think the yields for BSPS2 would have 
been between those for the BSPS and PPF (although probably much nearer to the BSPS).
The critical yield comparison was a requirement from the regulator at the time when advising 
clients on DB transfers. Its also important to point out that the critical yield comparison is 
only one of a number of different metrics Ive used to compare the different schemes. And in 
my view, these all point one way  that Mr C was probably going to receive lower pension 
benefits overall, as a result of transferring to a type of personal pension plan.
The critical yield required to match the benefits at the age of 65 in the BSPS, was 7.62% if 
Mr C took a full pension without a tax-free lump sum. If taking a tax-free lump sum, the 
critical yield was 6.24%. However, SDP also calculated the critical yield rates for an earlier 
retirement, at the age of 57. It did this because Mr C had apparently expressed a desire to 
retire early. I explain more about this issue later. But for the age of 57, the critical yields 
came out at 9.05% (no tax-free cash) and 7.02% (with tax free cash) respectively. For 
comparisons with the PPF, the critical yields were 5.68% (full pension with no tax-free cash) 
and 5.4%. 
SDP acknowledged that achieving the critical yields would be ambitious. I think thats right 
as the yields we should focus on here were showing that to make the transfer worthwhile 
from a financial perspective, the growth would need to exceed somewhere in the regions of 
6.24% - 7.02% per year. It would also have to do this year after year  for up to 20 years.
The advice was given after the regulator gave instructions in Final Guidance FG17/9 as to 
how businesses could calculate future 'discount rates' in loss assessments where a 
complaint about a past pension transfer was being upheld. Prior to October 2017 similar 
rates were published by the Financial Ombudsman Service on our website. Whilst 
businesses weren't required to refer to these rates when giving advice on pension transfers, 
they provide a useful indication of what growth rates would have been considered 
reasonably achievable for a typical investor. SDP assessed Mr C as a medium risk 
investor.
The relevant discount rate closest to when the advice was given which I can refer to was 
published by the Financial Ombudsman Service for the period was only 4.5% per year for 20 
years to retirement (age 65), which is well below all of the critical yield figures Ive referred to 
above. For a retirement at the age of 57, the discount rate was only 4%. Ive also kept in 
mind that the regulator's middle projection rate was 5% but this hadnt been updated for 
several years.
Ive also noted that using the NRA of 65, SDPs own transfer analysis said that in order to 
purchase an annuity to provide benefits of equal value to the estimated benefits provided by 
the existing scheme the estimated fund required (also known as the capital value) was 
£572,600. Even to purchase an annuity to provide benefits of equal value to the estimated 
benefits provided by the existing scheme, assuming no spouses pension, no increases in 
payment and no guarantee at retirement, the estimated fund required at 65 was £330,911. 
To reiterate, these figures are found in SDPs own analysis based on data the regulator 
required businesses to refer to at the time. And because these figures are far above Mr Cs 
CETV, they represent, in my view, a revealing window into the value of the guaranteed pension Mr C could be giving up by transferring away to a personal plan, rather than a 
similar DB scheme that was on offer here.
Elsewhere in its transfer analysis, SDP also made mention of the PPF, which it described as 
a compensation scheme providing a safety net for pension schemes when the sponsoring 
employer becomes insolvent. SDP said the critical yields to match the benefits available 
through the PPF at age 65 were lower. But these yields related to the reduced benefits 
available with the PPF and SDP itself says Mr C wouldnt have wanted to transfer to this 
scheme. Its also important to remember here that the effect of charges and fees associated 
with a personal pension such as the one being recommended to Mr C, would have further 
reduced the likely growth. 
I therefore think its fair to say that from a financial comparison perspective, SDPs own 
figures, shown in its suitability report and transfer analysis documents, showed that 
transferring to a personal pension plan would mean Mr C would likely receive lower pension 
benefits in the longer term. 
Of course, according to SDP, its recommendation that he should transfer out to a personal 
pension was not based on the financial comparisons with his current scheme alone. Rather, 
SDP said Mr C also had other reasons to transfer away, so Ive thought about all the other 
considerations which might have meant a transfer was suitable for him, despite providing the 
overall lower benefits mentioned earlier. 
Ive considered these below. 
Other needs and objectives
Ive noted that when listing his priorities Mr C said they were as follows:
The ability to retire early
Greater personal control and flexibility of the pension funds
Maximising death benefits
Maximising tax-free cash lump sum at retirement
To capatilise on the current high CETV
I have therefore considered all these issues in turn. 
Retiring early
Mr C was still only 44 years old. However, both he and / or the adviser seem to have 
assumed an apparent history of cancer in Mr Cs family as being a significant rationale for 
transferring away from a DB scheme and into a personal pension plan. This fear was 
apparently formed due to two of Mr Cs near family relatives having died from a particular 
form of the disease in the past; this seemed to form a foundation for thinking Mr C ought to 
retire early or that he too could pass away prematurely, just like his relatives. Ive considered 
the relevance of this. 
Clearly, this is an emotive subject. But Ive seen no real evidence that Mr C would likely 
suffer the same fate. Those relatives who had died had done so in the past when medical 
research and overall life expectancy were different. There was also very little detail and no 
analysis which substantiated a real requirement for Mr C to take action now to avoid the 
same fate. So, whilst Im sure hed be mindful of similar symptoms potentially emerging in the future, theres simply no link that the common cancer mentioned in the advice 
documentation Ive seen, would specifically and negatively affect Mr C. In reality, he had no 
symptoms or warning signs associated with the disease mentioned. So, I think the adviser 
should have been pointing out to Mr C that any assumptions based on this fear ought not to 
be predominantly directing his thoughts about transferring his pension when he was still only 
44 years old and completely disease-free and at no more proven risk than any other person.
Another health condition was recorded at the time, related to Mr Cs back. Again, I dont 
doubt this issue might have been a cause for concern. However, my understanding of this 
was that Mr C was still able to work full time in the steel industry and the condition was still 
awaiting further investigation.
Its always a sensitive issue when addressing health concerns of these types. And I certainly 
wouldnt want to trivialise fears about getting older. However, in my view Mr C was 
apparently well enough to work, and whilst Im sure any health concerns he had about his 
future might well have been real and genuine, his current situation did not justify transferring 
away from a DB scheme on this basis. In any event, the BSPS2 did contain some ill-health 
related protections which were not present in the personal plan he was recommended to 
transfer into. It appears to me that these protections were not duly considered. This is 
because the de-facto position of the adviser was evidently to recommend that Mr C should 
transfer into a personal pension plan.
Ive also considered whether these health concerns related more to Mr C just retiring early 
from what was a hard and heavy industry, rather than about fears of him actually dying or 
being completely physically unable to work. Put another way, did he just want to stop 
working because he was getting older? 
But if this was the case, then this too was a poor judgement. The notes from the time clearly 
show Mr C had an aspiration to retire early but he certainly didnt have any fixed plans which 
had been properly thought through. 
What I mean by this is that Im sure, like most people, Mr C probably wanted to stop working 
as early as possible, but I think what he told the adviser, would only ever have been general 
retirement aspirations on his part. In reality, there was no plan to retire early. At the age of 
44 it was simply far too early to speculate about this. In my view, Mr C could only reasonably 
be considered as mid-career. More so, the modest level of savings and assets he had at 
the time simply didnt seem to support a very early retirement without an uplift in his financial 
circumstances. In any event there was no real analysis around what his retirement income 
would need to be to achieve a comfortable lifestyle for himself and Mrs C when he stopped 
work. I explain a little more about this below.
Flexibility and control
In a similar vein, SDP also implied hed be able to select the timing and type of benefits 
taken at retirement and also vary his retirement income. 
However, I cant see that Mr C required flexibility in retirement in the way suggested. In any 
event, flexibility was poorly defined by SDP. I therefore think this was no more than a stock 
objective used to help justify the recommendation to transfer out to a personal plan. For 
example, Ive seen nothing that showed Mr C required changing how his retirement benefits 
ought to be paid. He had already signed up to a new and more flexible DC pension with his 
existing job as a consequence of the old BSPS scheme being closed to new contributions. 
This DC pension was being significantly contributed towards by both Mr C and his employer 
- 6% and 10% respectively. It still had up to 20 years left to run (almost 13 years if he did eventually manage to retire early, at the age of 57). So, this secondary pension would have 
provided him with any flexibility he might have needed in the years ahead.
This means Ive seen nothing explaining why Mr C wouldnt want to continue membership of 
a DB scheme and to use that scheme in exactly the way it was originally intended. Indeed, I 
think that by retirement, whenever it eventually came, Mr C could have been in an agreeable 
position. On one hand hed have an existing deferred DB scheme of considerable value. 
This would contain all the guarantees and benefits that such schemes normally bring which 
tend to include a promise to pay a known pension for life. Significant indexation guarantees 
also existed within BSPS2 and the scheme was still underpinned by the PPF. On the other 
hand, hed have also built up a DC scheme over a reasonable period of time  up to 20 
years. So, if Mr C ever found he needed so-called flexibility, then hed be able to use the 
latter, rather than transferring away from the former.
Ive also seen no evidence that Mr C had either the capacity or desire to exercise control 
over his funds. With his DB scheme, Mr C was being offered the opportunity to transfer to 
the new BSPS2. Its true there were some differences in this scheme when compared to the 
original BSPS, but it remained a DB scheme nonetheless and was run for him by trustees. 
Mr C himself had no experience of these types of money market investments and I think he 
would have found the complexity, scale and responsibility of managing over £260,000 of 
transferred funds to be onerous in the years ahead. What Ive seen tends to show Mr C 
would have required ongoing financial advice and support, all of which would cost him 
money which his DB scheme didnt require from him.
SDP itself set out the estimated pension hed get under the BSPS. As Ive implied, there is 
an unpredictability in assessing retirement needs so far in advance and at such a young age. 
So I dont think it was possible to accurately assess what Mr C might have needed as an 
income in retirement, particularly as he still had a young child and no owned property.
SDPs analysis said that if retiring at 65, Mr C could expect an annual pension of around 
£17,114 per year or £11,342 together with a tax-free lump sum of £75,614. Even if I were to 
only use the estimated pension calculated for the earlier retirement, at aged 57, the full 
pension was still £9,848 per year. And it certainly isnt unreasonable to say Mr C could have 
built up a DC fund well in excess of £100,000. I therefore dont think theres anything 
showing Mr Cs pension entitlements wouldnt have met his income requirements, without 
any need to transfer from a DB scheme.
These were BSPS figures, but that doesnt really matter because current members were 
being given similar estimates about the new scheme (BSPS2) at around the very time this 
advice was being sought. I dont think SDP adequately explained these things to Mr C as its 
advice simply discounted him transferring to the new scheme to obtain flexibility which was 
poorly defined and which he didnt need.
I therefore think Mr Cs circumstances here were much more aligned to him transferring to 
BSPS2 and retiring from that when he felt he was ready to do so. The evidence pointed to 
him still being able to retire perhaps a little earlier than 65 if he felt he really needed to  
there would have been an actuarial reduction involved, depending on his age at the time. But 
because he also had a smaller second DC pension, this supported that strategy in my view. 
Death benefits 
Death benefits are an emotive subject and of course when asked, most people would like 
their loved ones to be taken care of when they die. The BSPS2 contained certain benefits 
payable to a spouse and children if Mr C died. Mr C was married and had a child so I think 
the benefits found in BSPS2 would have been of value to Mr C. Its clear Mr C told the adviser that his mother had lost out when his father had died at a 
relatively young age because she only got half of his pension. He said he didnt want the 
same to happen to him and Mrs C. But this needed context. What I think was being referred 
to here was a DB scheme which had similar characteristics to the one Mr C was in himself. 
Mr Cs mother probably did get around half of her husbands pension, but this was 
guaranteed and paid for the rest of her life. And it was likely uplifted each year and to a large 
extent protected from inflation. His father had evidently been aged 55, so Mrs C may have 
received this pension for many years.
As an alternative strategy, the adviser also told Mr C that hed be able to pass on the whole 
value of a personal pension, potentially tax-free, to anyone he nominated. I think there was 
clearly a discussion about this, so the lump sum death benefits on offer through a personal 
pension was probably made to look like an attractive feature to Mr C. 
But whilst I appreciate death benefits are important to consumers, and Mr C might have 
thought it was a good idea to transfer the BSPS to a personal pension because of this issue, 
the priority here was to advise him about what was best for his retirement provisions. A 
pension is primarily designed to provide income in retirement. And I dont think SDP 
explored to what extent Mr C was prepared to accept a lower retirement income in exchange 
for different death benefits.
Mr C was only 44. An obvious drawback with a personal plans death benefits is that the 
amount left to pass on  to anyone  may be substantially reduced as the pensioner starts to 
withdraw his or her retirement income. To this end, if Mr C had lived a long life there could 
be nothing left at all in his personal pension plan. 
Although Ive questioned the ability to forecast an early retirement whilst still so young, 
theres no real doubt that retiring at 57 was at least mentioned  SDPs defence of this 
complaint is partially predicated on this. The adviser should have therefore additionally 
known that a male retiring at 57 would likely have many years ahead in which he would be 
drawing down his pension funds thus leaving very little left to pass on to someone. As Ive 
said, there was no credible or verified information showing Mr Cs life expectancy was going 
to be short. It also doesnt appear that SDP took into account the fact that Mr C could have 
nominated a beneficiary of any funds remaining in his other (TATA) DC scheme. So, to this 
end, Mr C already had options ensuring part of his pension wouldnt die with him.
Overall, in this case I dont think different death benefits available through a transfer to a 
personal pension justified the likely decrease of retirement benefits for Mr C. I think this 
objective, listed as it was in the suitability report, was no more than a generic comment and 
not meaningful to Mr Cs situation. 
Control or concerns over financial stability of the DB scheme 
Its clear that Mr C, like many employees of his company, was concerned about his pension. 
His employer had recently made the announcement about its plans for the scheme and SDP 
said he lacked trust in the company. Hed heard negative things about the PPF and SDP 
said he could have more control over his pension fund. 
So, its quite possible that Mr C was also leaning towards the decision to transfer because of 
the concerns he had about his employer and a negative perception of the PPF. However, it 
was SDPs obligation to give Mr C an objective picture and recommend what was in his best 
interests.By the point of the advice being delivered details of BSPS2 were known and it seemed likely 
it was going ahead. So, I think this should have alleviated any concerns about the scheme 
moving to the PPF.
However, even if there was a chance the BSPS2 wouldnt go ahead, I think that SDP should 
have reassured Mr C that the scheme moving to the PPF wasnt as concerning as he 
thought. The income available to Mr C through the PPF would have still probably provided a 
significant portion of the income he would have needed at retirement, and he was still 
unlikely to be able to exceed this by transferring out, given his attitude to risk and the effect 
of pension charges and fees. And although the increases in payment in the PPF were lower, 
the income was still guaranteed and was not subject to any investment risk. So, I dont think 
that these concerns should have led to SDPs recommendation to Mr C to transfer out of the 
DB scheme altogether.
Other issues
Tax-free cash
Mr C had an apparent objective to maximise his tax-free cash amount upon retirement, but I 
think most people would agree that this is generally a positive thing and if put before them, 
theyd say it was something they were interested in. I think SDP implied to Mr C that he 
could access more tax-free cash if he transferred to a personal pension plan. It said hed be 
able to access 25% of his pension as a lump-sum and then use the remaining funds more 
flexibly. Its usually the case that more tax-free cash can be accessed from a personal 
pension when compared against a DB scheme; this is because the values and benefits of 
the two schemes are calculated differently. But SDP should have been telling Mr C at the 
time that extra tax-free lump sums being removed from a personal pension, potentially from 
the age of 57 in his case, also came with consequences in that the amount left for his later 
retirement years would obviously decrease. 
The high CETV
Ive considered what SDP says about the historic high transfer values available at the time. I 
agree that in todays environment, these do seem high: Mr C would not be offered nearly as 
much today as he was in 2017 to transfer away from his DB scheme. But I think this is to use 
the benefit of hindsight. In 2017, we were in a sustained period of loose monetary policy and 
low interest rates and there was no indication at the time that this would change anytime 
soon. 
However, this still doesnt change what Ive said in relation to the financial considerations of 
transferring away from a DB scheme. Ive described above that Mr C, when looked at 
through the lens of that time, would likely be in line to receive lower benefits overall at 
retirement as a result of transferring away. There was very little to say hed achieve, let 
alone exceed, the various critical yield scenarios. He should not have been advised to 
transfer on the basis of the CETV.
Suitability of investments 
SDP recommended that Mr C invest his funds in a personal pension. As Im upholding the 
complaint on the grounds that a transfer out of the DB scheme wasnt suitable for Mr C and I 
dont think he wouldve insisted on transferring out of the scheme if clear advice had been 
given to him, it follows that I dont need to consider the suitability of the investment 
recommendation. This is because he should have been advised to remain in the DB scheme 
and so the investment in the new funds wouldnt have arisen if suitable advice had been 
given. Summary
I dont think the advice given to Mr C was suitable. 
He was giving up an opportunity of a guaranteed, risk-free and increasing income within the 
BSPS2. By transferring to a personal pension, the evidence shows Mr C was likely to obtain 
lower retirement benefits. And I dont think there were any other particular reasons which 
would justify the transfer and outweigh this. I think SDP ought to have advised him against 
transferring out of his DB scheme for this reason, particularly as it meant hed be worse off in 
retirement.
So, I dont think it was in Mr Cs best interests for him to transfer his DB scheme to a 
personal pension when he had the opportunity of opting into the BSPS2.
I think it was clear to all parties that the BSPS2 was likely to be going ahead. Mr C still had 
many more years before he intended to retire. So, I don't think that it would have been in his 
interest to accept the reduction in benefits he would have faced by the scheme entering the 
PPF, as it wouldn't be offset by the more favourable reduction for very early retirement. By 
opting into the BSPS2, Mr C would have retained the ability to transfer out of the scheme 
nearer to his retirement age if he needed to. The annual indexation of his pension when in 
payment was also more advantageous under the BSPS2. 
On this basis, I think SDP should have advised Mr C to opt into the BSPS2. As Ive 
explained, SDP was advising Mr C from early November 2017 and there was plenty of time 
for him to have first opted for the BSPS2 if only as a precaution at that stage. When the 
formal recommendation arrived, this should have advised him to stay in the BSPS2.
I have considered, given the circumstances of the time, whether Mr C would have 
transferred to a personal pension in any event. I accept that SDP disclosed some of the risks 
of transferring to Mr C, and provided him with a certain amount of information. But ultimately 
it advised Mr C to transfer out, and I think Mr C relied on that advice.
Im not persuaded that Mr C would have insisted on transferring out of the DB scheme, 
against SDPs advice. I say this because Mr C was an inexperienced investor and this 
pension accounted for most of his retirement provision at the time. So, if SDP had provided 
him with clear advice against transferring out of the DB scheme, explaining why it wasnt in 
his best interests, I think he would have accepted that advice.
Im also not persuaded that Mr Cs concerns about the PPF were so great that he would 
have insisted on transferring his pension, knowing that a professional adviser, whose 
expertise he had sought out and was paying for, didnt think it was suitable for him or in his 
best interests. So if SDP had explained Mr C was also unlikely to exceed the benefits 
available to him through the PPF if he transferred out, and that he could probably meet his 
income needs in retirement without risking his guaranteed pension, I think that would have 
carried significant weight.
In light of the above, I think SDP should compensate Mr C for the unsuitable advice, using 
the regulator's defined benefits pension transfer redress methodology. 
Putting things right
A fair and reasonable outcome would be for the business to put Mr C, as far as possible, into 
the position he would now be in but for SDPs unsuitable advice. I consider Mr C would have 
most likely opted to join the BSPS2, rather than transfer to the personal pension if he'd been given suitable advice and compensation should be based on his normal retirement age of 
65, as per the usual assumptions in the FCA's guidance. SDP should use the benefits 
offered by BSPS2 for comparison purposes.
SDP must therefore undertake a redress calculation in line with the rules for calculating 
redress for non-compliant pension transfer advice, as detailed in policy statement PS22/13 
and set out in the regulators handbook in DISP App 4: 
https://www.handbook.fca.org.uk/handbook/DISP/App/4/?view=chapter. 
SDP should use the FCAs BSPS-specific redress calculator to calculate the redress. A copy 
of the BSPS calculator output should be sent to Mr C and our Service upon completion of 
the calculation.
This calculation should be carried out using the most recent financial assumptions in line 
with DISP App 4. In accordance with the regulators expectations, this should be undertaken 
or submitted to an appropriate provider promptly following receipt of notification of Mr Cs 
acceptance of my final decision.
If the redress calculation demonstrates a loss, as explained in policy statement PS22/13 and 
set out in DISP App 4, SDP should:
calculate and offer Mr C redress as a cash lump sum payment,
explain to Mr C before starting the redress calculation that:
- their redress will be calculated on the basis that it will be invested prudently 
(in line with the cautious investment return assumption used in the 
calculation), and
- a straightforward way to invest their redress prudently is to use it to augment 
their DC pension
offer to calculate how much of any redress Mr C receives could be augmented rather 
than receiving it all as a cash lump sum,
if Mr C accepts SDPs offer to calculate how much of their redress could be 
augmented, request the necessary information and not charge Mr C for the 
calculation, even if he ultimately decides not to have any of their redress augmented, 
and
take a prudent approach when calculating how much redress could be augmented, 
given the inherent uncertainty around Mr Cs end of year tax position.
Redress paid to Mr C as a cash lump sum will be treated as income for tax purposes. So, in 
line with DISP App 4, SDP may make a notional deduction to cash lump sum payments to 
take account of tax that consumers would otherwise pay on income from their pension. 
Typically, 25% of the loss could have been taken as tax-free cash and 75% would have 
been taxed according to Mr Cs likely income tax rate in retirement  presumed to be 20%. 
So making a notional deduction of 15% overall from the loss adequately reflects this. 
Where I uphold a complaint, I can award fair compensation of up to £160,000, plus any 
interest and/or costs that I consider are appropriate. Where I consider that fair compensation 
requires payment of an amount that might exceed £160,000, I may recommend that the 
business pays the balance.Our investigator recommended that SDP should pay Mr C for the distress and inconvenience 
caused by the unsuitable advice. I have considered the impact this would likely have had on 
Mr C in his particular circumstances. This pension at the time represented nearly all his 
retirement provision. In his situation I think the thought of losing material benefits would have 
impacted heavily upon Mr C. So I agree the recommended payment of £400 for distress and 
inconvenience. SDP should pay Mr C this amount in addition to the redress Ive set out 
above.
My final decision
Determination and money award: I am upholding this complaint and I now direct The St. 
David's Partnership to pay Mr C the compensation amount as set out in the steps above, up 
to a maximum of £160,000.
Recommendation: If the compensation amount exceeds £160,000, I also recommend that 
The St. David's Partnership pays Mr C the balance. I would additionally recommend any 
interest calculated as set out above on this balance to be paid to Mr C.
If Mr C accepts my final decision, the money award becomes binding on The St. David's 
Partnership.
My recommendation would not be binding. Further, its unlikely that Mr C can accept my 
decision and go to court to ask for the balance. Mr C may want to consider getting 
independent legal advice before deciding whether to accept any final decision.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 27 September 2023.
 
Michael Campbell
Ombudsman