DRN-3834375
The complaint
The trustees of the E trust are complaining about the information provided to them by Zurich 
Assurance Ltd. They are represented in the complaint by Mr X, a son of the settlors and two 
trustees.
What happened
The trust held a joint life assurance policy with a sum assured of £1,000,000. The four 
beneficiaries are the children of the two settlors. During 2020, the beneficiaries were all 
experiencing various financial difficulties and the settlors wanted to help their children out. 
After some correspondence with Zurich, they decided to part-settle the life assurance policy 
to do so. In June 2020, they withdrew around £400,000 from the policy. Zurich sent a letter 
to the settlors which showed the new sum assured  which was simply the previous sum 
assured less the amount of cash withdrawn.
But in September 2020, Zurich reviewed the policy and this review said the sum assured 
would need to reduce further - from around £600,000 to £110,000. Or the settlors could 
increase their premiums from around £500 to over £6,000 if they wanted to keep the same 
sum assured.
The trustees were shocked as they felt theyd been assured by Zurich that the withdrawal 
wouldnt have a significant impact on the premium levels. So they complained to Zurich. 
Zurich didnt uphold the complaint  they said the failed review in September 2020 had been 
caused by an increase in mortality rates and the significant negative impact of coronavirus 
on the global markets, as well as the underfunding caused by the withdrawal.
Our investigator looked into the matter. His view was that Zurich should have provided 
clearer information, but he said he didnt think this would have made any difference and that 
the settlors would still have chosen to go ahead with the partial settlement. So he said Zurich 
should pay £250 to the trustees to compensate them for the shock theyd have felt. Mr X 
strongly disputed this and said that if theyd realised theyd lose half a million pounds from 
their sum assured his parents would have instead sold other investments to help their 
children out. 
Mr X asked for an ombudsman to review the complaint  and its come to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive reached the same conclusion as our investigator. Ill explain why.
Information given to the settlors and the trustees
Mr X says he exchanged several emails and had several phone conversations with a 
representative of Zurich. He says he was assured by the representative that it was 
extremely unlikely there would be any significant change in the premium levels needed to 
support the reduced sum assured of £600,000. Zurich have been unable to find any record 
of this call  so I cant be sure what was said.
Ive listened to a number of other calls between the settlors and Zurich  but they didnt 
contain any significant discussion about the impact of the partial withdrawal. Looking at the 
correspondence, however, I think Zurich could have done more.
In particular, the trustees asked Zurich specifically in an email on 18 May 2020: If 
wecontinue paying the usual £488.00 a month does that mean I still have a cover [of] 
1.000.000 less the cashed amount
Zurichs response said the cover would drop by the amount of money withdrawn and that the 
premium would stay the same until the next review. It then said that at the review one of 
three things would happen  no change, an increase in cover for no extra cost, or an 
increase in premiums to retain the level of cover (or alternatively a drop in cover for the 
same level of premiums). It went on to say: There are various factors involved in reviews 
(our claims experience, how the markets perform, as examples), but partial surrenders are 
also factored into the equation.  
In my view, this email is misleading. It suggests that even with a partial surrender, the sum 
assured could go up at the next review, or there might be no change. Neither of those 
scenarios would have been likely even with a small partial surrender  but the representative 
knew at this stage that the trustees were looking to surrender most of their fund value. So 
the Zurich representative should have been able to give a much clearer indication of what 
would happen. 
Page two of the partial surrender form sets out how the sum assured is reduced when a 
partial surrender is made. It says: a partial surrender will reduce your cover by a similar 
proportion. For example, if you take out 25% of your fund value, well reduce your cover by 
approximately 25%. Your cover will reduce by an amount equal to the partial surrender 
immediately and then well reduce it by the balance at the next plan review
This explanation is fairly clear  but it is in the small print on page two of the surrender form. 
When the trustees and their representatives asked Zurich directly about what would happen 
to their policy, they werent given this information  instead they were given vague 
information about policy reviews. Zurichs representatives should have explained to the 
trustees whats set out in the form  i.e. that the sum assured would reduce in a similar 
proportion to the fund value. They should have pointed out that the trustees were looking to 
withdraw around 90% of the fund value so the sum assured would reduce by around 90%. 
Whilst Zurichs role as policy provider doesnt extend to providing advice, they do have a 
duty to provide clear and not misleading information to their customers.
In summary, the information about the reduction in sum assured was available to the 
trustees, on the partial settlement form. But when they asked Zurich a direct question about 
it, they werent given clear information  so werent fully informed when making their 
decision. 
What would the settlors have done differently?
I explained to Mr X that we normally try to put things right by asking a business to put their 
customers in the position they ought to have been in. Mr X had been saying his parents 
would have sold other assets instead of partially settling the life assurance. I explained to Mr 
X that to put things right theyd have to take those steps now  selling other assets to put the 
money withdrawn back into the life assurance policy. I asked Mr X for more details about the 
decision his parents had taken at the time and for copies of any advice theyd received but I 
didnt hear any further from Mr X.Ive concluded that the settlors wouldnt have done anything differently. Theyve not provided 
any explanations of what they would have done. Its likely any other assets theyd have sold 
would have been subject to capital gains tax  whereas the partial surrender had no tax 
implications. The partial surrender had the advantage of speed over some of the assets Mr X 
had mentioned  art, gold, and property for example. And it was a way of giving the 
beneficiaries money that was already effectively in their names, rather than giving up assets 
that the settlors still had full control over.
For these reasons Im not asking Zurich to reinstate the policy.
Impact
As Ive explained above, I do think Zurich misled the trustees. And I think theyd have been 
shocked when they received the September 2020 review reducing their sum assured from 
around £600,000 to just £110,000. To compensate them for this shock, our investigator 
suggested Zurich pay the trustees £250. Whilst this may not seem like a lot, Im satisfied its 
a fair and reasonable amount  had the trustees read the partial settlement form more 
closely, theyd have realised there would likely be a significant change to their sum assured, 
regardless of what the Zurich representative had told them.
My final decision
As Ive explained above, Im upholding this complaint. Zurich Assurance Ltd need to pay 
£250 to the trustees of the trust. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs E, Mr E and 
Mr P as trustees of the E Trust to accept or reject my decision before 30 March 2023.
 
Clare King
Ombudsman