DRN-3947389
The complaint
Mrs D complains that she and her husband were mis-sold a holiday club membership and 
the loan used to pay for it. The loan was provided by Clydesdale Financial Services Limited, 
which trades as Barclays Partner Finance and which Ill refer to as BPF.
What happened
In December 2011, Mr and Mrs D bought a holiday club membership from Club La Costa 
(UK) Plc (CLC). The purchase was financed with a loan provided to Mrs D by BPF and 
arranged through CLC. The loan was repaid and the loan account closed in March 2013. Mr 
and Mrs D surrendered the club membership in or around September 2014. 
In December 2018 Mrs D contacted BPF to raise a number of concerns about the club 
membership. Specifically, she said: 
She and her husband had been pressured into buying the club membership.
Availability of holidays had been very limited. 
Maintenance fees had risen to unacceptable levels. 
The holiday resorts had not been exclusive to club members. 
They had been unable to sell membership points. 
Because the purchase of the holiday club membership had been financed with a loan from 
BPF, Mrs D said that it was equally liable with CLC to meet her claims. 
BPF said that, as the contract with CLC had been entered into more than six years earlier, 
any claim was out of time. Mrs D referred the matter to this service. In doing so, she said too 
that BPF had not properly assessed whether the loan had been affordable. Our investigator 
concluded, in summary, that (i) any claims under the Consumer Credit Act 1974 had been 
brought out of time and (ii) that BPF had carried out appropriate checks before agreeing to 
the loan. The investigator did not recommend that the complaint be upheld. Mrs D did not 
agree with the investigators assessment and asked that an ombudsman review the case. 
I did that and issued a provisional decision. In that decision I said (with minor errors 
corrected): 
The complaint about suitability and the credit assessment
I have not seen anything here to suggest that the lending was not affordable or that the loan 
was otherwise not appropriate for Mrs D. I note that the loan was repaid a little over a year 
after it was taken out. It does not necessarily follow of course that proper checks were 
carried out or that the loan was affordable, especially as it was repaid with another loan.  
However, our own rules say that we cannot generally consider a complaint unless it is 
referred to us within six years of the event complained of or, if later, within three years of the 
date on which the complainant knew, or ought reasonably to have known, that they had 
cause for complaint.  
The event complained of in this case is the credit assessment that BPF carried out (or did 
not carry out) in December 2011. Mrs D would have known fairly soon after that date if she 
was having difficulty making repayments. She certainly would have known by the time the 
loan was repaid. It follows that this part of the complaint should have been referred to this 
service by no later than December 2017 six years from the date Mrs D took it out. Because 
it was not, we have no power to consider it.  
Sections 56 and 75 of the Consumer Credit Act  
Under section 56 of the Consumer Credit Act statements made by a broker in connection 
with a consumer loan are to be taken as made as agent for the lender.  
In addition, one effect of section 75 of the Act is that a customer who has a claim for breach 
of contract or misrepresentation against a supplier can, subject to certain conditions, bring 
that claim against a lender. Those conditions include:
that the lending financed the contract giving rise to the claim; and 
that the lending was provided under pre-existing arrangements or in contemplation of 
future arrangements between the lender and the supplier. 
It is clear in this case that the loan financed the purchase of the club membership. I am 
satisfied too that the loan was set up as a result of pre-existing arrangements between CLC 
and BPF and that section 75 could therefore apply, as well as section 56.    
I must therefore consider the claims against CLC. Mrs D says that CLC misled her and her 
husband about the holiday club membership. 
Misrepresentation
A misrepresentation is, in very broad terms, a statement of law or of fact, made by one party 
to a contract to the other, which is untrue and which induces the other party into the contract. 
There is little detail in this case about what was said to Mr and Mrs D at the time of the sale. 
However, under the Limitation Act 1980 an action (that is, court action) based on 
misrepresentation cannot generally be brought after six years from the date on which the 
cause of action accrued. Any statements which might have induced Mr and Mrs D into the 
contract for the purchase of holiday club membership were made on or before 11 December 
2011. They did not however raise any complaint with BPF until December 2018, seven years 
later. I think it very likely therefore that a court would conclude that any claim against CLC 
would be outside the relevant time limit in the Limitation Act.  
It is not for me to decide whether any particular claim against CLC is now out of time under 
the Limitation Act. Rather, I must decide whether the response of BPF to the claim under 
section 56 and/or section 75 was reasonable. Given the real possibility that a court would 
say that the claims are time-barred, I think it was.
Section 140A claims
Under section 140A and section 140B of the Consumer Credit Act a court has the power to 
consider whether a credit agreement creates an unfair relationship and, if it does, to make 
appropriate orders in respect of it. Those orders can include imposing different terms on the 
parties and refunding payments. 
The usual time limit for these types of claims under the Limitation Act is six years from the 
time the relationship between the parties ended. The investigator thought that this meant that any claim under sections 140A and 140B would be out of time. However, the loan was 
repaid in March 2013 and the complaint was made in December 2018, less than six years 
later. 
Mrs D has not said expressly that the loan created an unfair relationship within the meaning 
of section 140A. I have nevertheless considered that issue  in line with this services 
inquisitorial remit. It does not appear to me however that the concerns Mrs D has about the 
sale of the holiday club membership  even if true  are sufficient for me to conclude that the 
loan itself created an unfair relationship. 
BPF had nothing to add in response to my provisional decision, and Mrs D has not replied to 
it. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done to, however, I see no reason to change my view from that set out in my 
provisional decision. My conclusions remain: 
The complaint about the credit assessment was brought out of time under our own 
rules, and so I have no power to consider it.
Any claims against which Mrs D might bring against CLC are likely to be out of time 
under the Limitation Act, so it was reasonable of BPF to decline claims brought under 
section 56 and/or section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act.  
I am not persuaded that the loan agreement created an unfair relationship within the 
meaning of section 140A of the Consumer Credit Act.
 My final decision
For these reasons my final decision is that I do not require Clydesdale Financial Services 
Limited to take any steps to resolve Mrs Ds complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs D to accept or 
reject my decision before 6 March 2023.
 
Mike Ingram
Ombudsman