DRN-3252834
The complaint
Mrs and Mr I complain because Great Lakes Insurance SE hasnt refunded the premiums 
they paid for an annual multi-trip travel insurance policy.   
What happened
Mrs and Mr I bought an annual multi-trip travel insurance policy, insured by Great Lakes. 
The policy was purchased on 11 October 2019 to cover trips up to 45 days in duration taken 
worldwide. The policy year started on 11 October 2019 and ended on 10 October 2020.
Mrs and Mr I paid £ £1,017.40 for the travel insurance cover. This also covered their 
declared medical conditions. 
On 20 March 2020 Mrs I contacted Great Lakes to cancel the travel insurance policy. 
Great Lakes said it wouldnt offer a refund of the premiums as the cancellation of the policy 
happened more than 14 days after the policy had been taken out, so under the policy terms 
no refund was payable.
Mrs and Mr I complained to us. They said they couldnt use the policy because on 16 March 
2020 the UK government advised everyone to stay at home due to the Covid-19 pandemic. 
They want a pro rata refund of their premium from 20 March 2020, £594.87.
During our investigation Great Lakes offered a 30% refund, £305.22. Our investigator 
thought the offer was fair based on Great Lakes reasons for calculating the refund in the 
way it had.
Mrs and Mr I disagree and want an ombudsmans decision. They said Great Lakes was in  
breach of the Consumer Rights Act 2015 section 62 and schedule 2, part 1 section 12 and 
that its offer was contrary to various Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) rules and guidance. 
They asked for the details of the information Great Lakes gave to us about its calculation for 
the premium refund and details of the commission paid to the insurance intermediary for the 
policy.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mrs and Mr I will need to contact the insurance intermediary for the policy to ask for the 
information they want about the commission it received (if any) on the policy. If they cant 
reach agreement on that matter Mrs and Mr I can ultimately make a separate complaint to us 
on the matter.  
This decision is about whether Great Lakes offer to refund part of the premiums is fair and 
reasonable.
Industry rules and guidance 
The insurance industry regulator, the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA), has set out rules 
and guidance about a consumers right to cancel an insurance contract. These are contained 
in the Insurance: Conduct of Business Sourcebook (ICOBS).
ICOBS says insurance contracts like the one Mrs and Mr I held have a cooling off period of 
up to 14 days for a consumer to cancel without penalty and without giving any reason. This 
is called the right to cancel. 
Under ICOBS, a firm may provide longer or additional cancellation rights voluntarily, as long 
as these are on terms which are at least as favourable to the consumer, unless the 
differences are clearly explained. 
ICOBS 7.2.2 addresses payment for the service provided before cancellation in the event 
that a consumer has the right to cancel. This rule says, if a consumer exercises the right to 
cancel, they may only be required to pay for the service actually provided in accordance 
with the contract. This may include an amount for cover provided (i.e. a proportion of the 
policys exposure that relates to the time on risk). 
Guidance set out under ICOBS 7.2.4 says:
In most cases, the FCA would expect the proportion of a policys exposure that 
relates to the time on risk to be a pro rata apportionment. However, where there is 
material unevenness in the incidence of risk, an insurer could use a more accurate 
method. The sum should be reasonable and should not exceed an amount 
commensurate to the risk incurred. 
Mrs and Mr I didnt cancel their travel insurance policy within 14 days. And, under industry 
rules, even if they had cancelled the policy within 14 days, they wouldnt be entitled to a full 
refund of the premium paid. This is because Great Lakes covered the risk of them cancelling 
any upcoming trip for reasons that were covered under the policy during that time.
The policy terms and conditions
The terms and conditions of Mrs and Mr Is insurance policy with Great Lakes outline their 
cancellation rights under the contract. These say:
Your cancellation rights
After the statutory cooling-off period you may cancel the policy at any time by 
contacting us, but no refund of premium will be available.
Mr and Mrs Is policy was purchased on 11 October 2019 and cancelled on 20 March 2020, 
which was more than the statutory cooling-off period of 14 days. This means I dont think 
Mr and Mrs I are entitled to any refund of premiums under the terms and conditions of the 
contract with Great Lakes.
What is fair and reasonable in all the circumstances
Ive also considered what I think is fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of the 
complaint. 
I understand Mrs and Mr Is future travel plans, and therefore the need for the remainder of 
this annual multi-trip insurance policy, changed due to circumstances outside of their control. 
So Ive thought about whether it would be fair and reasonable to ask Great Lakes to do 
anything further, taking into account the exceptional and extraordinary circumstances surrounding Covid-19. 
Covid-19 was an unanticipated and unforeseen event, outside of the control of both parties 
to the insurance contract. 
However, Covid-19 didnt make it impossible for Mrs and Mr Is contract with Great Lakes to 
be performed  cover under the policy started on 11 October 2019. 
Mrs and Mr I were insured from 11 October 2019 for travelling on any number of trips of up 
to 45 days duration which they may have taken until the policy was cancelled on 20 March 
2020. Because of the way annual multi-trip insurance policies work, an insurer has no way of 
knowing how many such trips Mrs and Mr I took (unless they made a claim under the policy). 
There may have been many trips or there may have been none, but Great Lakes was 
covering the risk of a claim during the time the policy was in force.
The price set by Great Lakes covered Mrs and Mr I for cancellation of any holidays which 
they had booked and were due to take from 11 October 2019 until 20 March 2020. So 
Mrs and Mr I would have been covered if they had to cancel any number of holidays 
because of any listed events insured under the policy including, for example, Mrs and Mr I 
falling ill with a declared pre-existing medical condition. 
So Great Lakes covered the risk of Mrs and Mr I making a successful cancellation claim for 
any number of pre-booked holidays, or the risk of travelling on any number of holidays, from 
11 October 2019 until 20 March 2020. Its a fundamental principle of insurance law that, if 
the insurer had commenced to bear the risk concerned  for however short a time  the 
premium paid is not returnable. So regardless of what Mrs and Mr Is cancellation rights 
were, it isnt unfair for Great Lakes to retain any premiums relating to the risk it covered.
However, from when the policy was cancelled on 20 March 2020, due to Covid-19, 
Great Lakes didnt bear any risk under Mrs and Mr Is insurance policy. Great Lakes was 
therefore no longer carrying the risk of any future holidays Mr and Mrs I may have booked 
being cancelled for any insured reason. And Great Lakes was also no longer carrying the 
risk of any claim being made while Mrs and Mr I were travelling abroad or within the UK. 
Great Lakes has said, in its claims experience, it receives varying percentages of claims 
across different months of an annual multi-trip travel insurance policy. Based on the 
explanations that Great Lakes has provided about its reasons for calculating the percentage 
refund in the way it has, Im satisfied Great Lakes has demonstrated theres a material 
unevenness in the way the risk is spread for this policy. And Im satisfied that Great Lakes 
hasnt treated Mrs and Mr I unfairly or any differently to other customers in similar 
circumstances for this policy. 
Having taken into account the unique and unprecedented circumstances surrounding the 
Covid-19 pandemic, I think the offer which Great Lakes has made of refunding 30% of the 
premium, £305.22, is fair and reasonable in the circumstances. So, I wont be asking 
Great Lakes to do anything further. 
I appreciate Mrs and Mr I want to know the full details of the information Great Lakes gave to 
us about its premiums calculation, but our investigator correctly explained thats 
commercially sensitive information which were not able to release to Mrs and Mr I. 
Mrs and Mr I havent detailed how they think Great Lakes is in breach of the 
Consumer Rights Act 2015. Section 62 of the Act is about the requirement for contract terms 
and notices to be fair and schedule 2, part 1 is about consumer contract terms which may be 
regarded as unfair. Its for the courts to decide whether or not a policy term is lawful, but in my opinion Great Lakes policy term about policy cancellation is in line with ICOBS and not 
unreasonable. As Ive said, Great Lakes offer to refund 30% of the premiums is more than 
its required to do under the policy terms.
Mrs and Mr I also believe Great Lakes offer isnt in line with FCA rules and guidance. But 
weve used the information Great Lakes provided to satisfy ourselves that its offer is fair and 
reasonable which included considering relevant laws, FCA guidance and industry guidelines.
Putting things right
Great Lakes should refund Mrs and Mr I 30% of the premiums they paid for the travel 
insurance policy, as its now offered to do.   
My final decision
My final decision is that Great Lakes Insurance SEs offer of settlement is fair.
I require Great Lakes Insurance SE to refund Mrs and Mr I 30% of the premiums they paid 
for the travel insurance policy, as its now offered to do.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs I and Mr I to 
accept or reject my decision before 10 February 2022.
 
Nicola Sisk
Ombudsman