DRN-3961032
The complaint
Ms C complains that John Lewis Financial Services Limited trading as John Lewis Finance 
(JLFS) didnt automatically send her credit balance back to her when it closed her account. 
Ms C also complains that the process took too long when she asked for the return of the 
credit balance. 
What happened
In October 2022 Ms C was notified that her JLFS account was moving to a new provider. As 
Ms C had a credit balance on her account, she was told she would need to initiate contact to 
have this returned. 
Ms C called on 27 November 2022 and spoke to an advisor to get her money returned and 
logged a complaint regarding the process. Ms C was unhappy she had to call and that it was 
going to take up to 15 days to get the money back.
JLFS looked into the complaint but didnt uphold it. It said that due to unexpected demand, 
where it would previously take five days to return a credit, this had been extended to 15. Ms 
C remained unhappy. So, she brought her complaint to our service. 
Our investigator looked into the complaint but didnt think it should be upheld. Our 
investigator found it was still within a reasonable amount of time to get the money returned. 
He also found that JLFS had decided to ask customers to call to get credit balances 
returned, and it could decide on what polices it had in place. 
Ms C responded and in summary didnt think the process was fair. She felt JLFS shouldve 
been more prepared for the increase in numbers given it knew the accounts needed to 
close. Ms C also found the companys policy of asking customers to call unfair. 
As Ms C didnt agree with the investigators view, the complaints been passed to me for a 
final decision.   
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive come to the same outcome as the investigator for largely the same 
reasons. Ill explain why.
I want to clarify that I've considered Ms Cs detailed submissions about what happened. 
However, if theres something Ive not mentioned, it isnt because Ive ignored it. I havent. 
Im satisfied I dont need to comment on every individual point or argument to be able to 
reach what I think is the right outcome. Our rules allow me to do this. This simply reflects the 
informal nature of our service as a free alternative to the courts.
Its clear from Ms Cs submissions that she was aware she needed to call JLFS to get the 
credit on her account returned. Although Ms C has said this was unfair, Im not satisfied that 
it was, or that it caused her any detriment. 
JFLS made the decision that credit balance account holders needed to call for money to be 
returned, as it says it doesnt have the facility to send these payments automatically. Our 
investigator has correctly pointed out that our service would rarely get involved in policy 
decisions like this. Our service can look at whether that decision has unfairly impacted Ms C, 
but I dont think it has. JFLS have always required customers to call when they wanted a 
credit balance returned, so this is consistent with its usual process. 
Credit balances were usually returned within five working days. On this occasion, as JFLS 
had an increase in requests due to the closure of the card, this moved to 15 days. I dont find 
this to be an excessive or unfair amount of time to wait for Ms Cs money to be returned. Its 
also not a large increase on its usual timeframe, so Im satisfied JLFS doesnt need to pay 
compensation for the time it took to send the money to Ms C. 
JLFS was clear in its communication when Ms C called that it would take 15 working days, 
and it settled the credit three days before this timeframe had passed. 
Its worth noting that although Ms C has said it was JLFS that chose to close the account, it 
was actually the retailer that decided to change finance providers and not the organisation.
Although I can understand Ms Cs frustration at not getting her money sent back 
automatically or instantly when she called, I havent found JLFS has made any error or 
treated her unfairly when processing the refund. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms C to accept or 
reject my decision before 22 May 2023.
 
Tom Wagstaff
Ombudsman