DRN-3944296
The complaint
Mr B complains The Co-operative Bank Plc closed his current account without notifying him 
this would happen.
What happened
The details of this complaint are well-known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here. The facts arent in dispute, so Ill focus on giving the reasons for my decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having considered everything, Ive reached the same conclusions as our Investigator for 
these reasons:
Co-op say they closed Mr Bs account because it hadnt been used since 
February 2021. Ive reviewed the terms and conditions that applied to Mr Bs 
account. They explain Co-op can close an inactive account, but theyll give their 
customer two months notice (in writing) before doing so.
Co-ops system notes show a letter was sent to Mr B in early June 2022 explaining 
his account was inactive and giving him two months notice of its closure if it wasnt 
credited in that time. Ive also seen a copy of this letter, which was addressed 
correctly, so Im satisfied Co-op sent it. I have no reason to disbelieve Mr B when he 
says he didnt receive this letter, but I dont consider it would be fair or reasonable to 
hold Co-op responsible for any potential problems with the postal service  
particularly when they couldnt have foreseen these problems.
Ive noted what Mr B has said about receiving emails from Co-op about the benefits 
that came with his account after they would have sent him their notice of closure. 
However, their June 2022 letter explained he may still receive correspondence from 
them about the account, so I dont consider Mr B was treated any differently to other 
customers with similar circumstances. Ultimately, Mr B hadnt used his account for 
some time, and for reasons beyond Co-ops control, he didnt credit the account 
before it was closed. But Im satisfied Co-op did what Id expect them to do before 
closing Mr Bs account. 
Given the above, I cant agree Co-op treated Mr B unfairly when they closed his 
account. Its for this reason I wont be asking them to re-open it. If Mr B wants 
another account with Co-op, hell need to go through the relevant application 
process.
For these reasons, while I appreciate Mr Bs frustrations, Im not upholding his complaint.
My final decision
My final decision is that Im not upholding Mr Bs complaint about The Co-operative Bank 
Plc.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 29 March 2023.
 
Sarrah Turay
Ombudsman