DRN-3606124
The complaint
Mrs H is unhappy with the Society of Lloyds decision to decline her claim under her income
protection insurance policy.
What happened
Mrs H was employed by C, which is partly or wholly owned by a company outside of the
United Kingdom. C is however is a limited company registered in the United Kingdom.
Mrs H had an income protection policy which she took out in July 2018. In the event of a
successful claim, the policy would have paid out just over £2,000 per month over 12 months
following a 30 day deferred period. Mrs H had been paying approximately £300 per month in
premiums.
Around August 2021 Mrs H made a claim on the policy stating she was made redundant by
C. In the claim form she said that she hadnt reached a specific target set by her employer.
The underwriters and the Society of Lloyds declined to consider the claim further until Mrs H
provided a copy of the Settlement Agreement. They said if Mrs H entered into a Settlement
Agreement, this would mean she did not meet the requirements under the terms of the policy
in order to make a successful claim. Ultimately, the Society of Lloyds wanted to be satisfied
that Mrs H did not leave her job voluntarily.
Our investigator looked into the complaint and recommended we uphold it. She said this was
because Mrs Hs employer confirmed she was made redundant, and did not voluntarily
resign. And the Society of Lloyds insisted they are entitled to see a copy of the Settlement
Agreement, Mrs H said she accepted the settlement verbally and she did not have a copy of
it. She said because C wasnt a company that mainly operated in the United Kingdom,
Settlement Agreement and redundancy are used synonymously.
Our investigator asked Mrs H to provide a copy of the Settlement Agreement because the
communication from her employer suggested it was provided to her. But Mrs H maintained
she could not provide a copy of this, and that she had only verbally accepted the Settlement
Agreement.
Society of Lloyds didnt agree and asked an ombudsman to make a decision. They said, in
summary, that they didnt think Mrs H had evidenced that shed been made redundant.
In July 2022 I issued a provisional decision explaining that I wasnt intending to uphold Mrs 
Hs complaint. I said: 
The Society of Lloyds has a responsibility to handle claims promptly and fairly and 
they should not reject a claim unreasonably.
Mrs H is unhappy that Society of Lloyds have declined her claim  thats the crux of 
her complaint. And whilst Ive considered everything both Mrs H and the Society of 
Lloyds have said, I will refer to what I think is most relevant to the complaint.
Page 1 of the Insurance Product Information Document (IPID) states:
What is not insured?
You voluntarily leave your employment
And page 5 of the terms and conditions of the policy, under unemployment 
exclusions states:
In addition to the General Exclusions below, you cannot claim for 
unemployment if:
You voluntarily leave your last employment
I have kept the above terms in mind when making my decision. And having done so, 
I think the position taken by the Society of Lloyds  that the current evidence 
suggests, Mrs Hs departure as an employee of C was likely voluntary, is fair and 
reasonable. I say that because:
The policy Mrs H took out is essentially designed to cover situations of 
compulsory redundancies. There are usually specific requirements for a 
redundancy to be considered compulsory which the letter from C does not meet. 
For example, usually a compulsory redundancy process includes a period of 
consultation and selection. And, typically, a letter of compulsory redundancy 
would include information such as:
- The criteria used to select the employee(s) for compulsory 
redundancy
- How much redundancy pay the employee(s) will get and how that was
calculated
- Any holiday pay, or other pay due to the employee(s)
- How the employee can appeal the employers decision on compulsory
redundancy
On 15 July 2021 C wrote to Mrs H, setting out a proposal and asked her to seek
independent legal advice in relation to the Settlement Agreement. C offered Mrs 
H a lump-sum ex gratia payment of £15,000 to be paid tax free, and, for her to 
remain of garden leave and continue to receive her salary for her three-month 
notice period. There was no mention of a statutory redundancy pay or 
compulsory redundancy. The letter also suggested the offer could be withdrawn if 
Mrs H didnt keep the matter confidential, or if she didnt accept the proposal by 
30 July 2021. I think this suggests that this was unlikely to be a compulsory 
redundancy process.Cs letter also referred to Section 111A of the Employment Rights Act 1996. This 
is usually referred to when an employer and their employee(s) have off the 
record conversations about mutually agreeing the basis of termination. In my 
experience this is often used as an alternative to redundancies, which may lead 
to a Settlement Agreement. In such situations, the termination is unlikely to be 
classed as redundancy as the relevant process would not have been followed. 
So, the very nature of such negotiations and Settlement Agreements are 
therefore voluntary. Thats because an employee does not have to agree to any 
of the terms proposed by the employer with regards to termination of their 
employment through a Settlement Agreement.
C told the Society of Lloyds that Mrs H had been made redundant and had not
voluntarily resigned. However, C did not confirm whether Mrs Hs redundancy 
was voluntary or compulsory. Without this information, it wasnt unreasonable for 
the Society of Lloyds to raise questions to clarify this. And to date, they have not 
had a full response from C or Mrs H as to the nature of the Settlement 
Agreement.
Although Mrs H said Cs main operations were outside of the United Kingdom, 
she was employed by a limited company registered for operations within the 
United Kingdom. So, I think its most likely that C would have been required to 
follow the compulsory redundancy process if it wasnt voluntary in nature. I 
appreciate that Mrs H considered her redundancy to be compulsory but thats not 
what the available evidence suggests.
Im aware that Mrs H has had a very difficult time following her redundancy  
shes explained that its had an impact on her wellbeing and mental health. Im 
very sorry to hear that and I also understand why she doesnt want to keep 
contacting her former employer. But, based on the evidence available to me, I 
dont think it was unreasonable for Society of Lloyds to decline the claim and ask 
for more information about the Settlement Agreement.
I asked Mrs H and Society of Lloyds to let me know if they had anything to add. Society of 
Lloyds didnt any comments. Mrs H reiterated that she had not left work voluntarily and said 
that her contract was with Cs firm abroad. She said she was made redundant and didnt 
resign. She provided a further email from her employer stating that she didnt resign 
voluntarily and that they initiated proceedings to invoke a redundancy settlement to eliminate 
Mrs Hs position.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive taken into account Mrs Hs further comments and information. But they havent changed 
my thoughts about the overall outcome of this complaint and Im not upholding this 
complaint. 
I appreciate that Mrs H has provided more recent emails from C which refer to her being 
made redundant. But I dont think thats consistent with the contemporary evidence I referred 
to in my provisional decision. As I outlined in my provisional decision C wrote to Mrs H, setting out a proposal and asked 
her to seek independent legal advice in relation to the Settlement Agreement. C offered Mrs 
H a lump-sum ex gratia payment of £15,000 to be paid tax free, and, for her to remain of 
garden leave and continue to receive her salary for her three-month notice period. There 
was no mention of a statutory redundancy pay or compulsory redundancy. The letter also 
suggested the offer could be withdrawn if Mrs H didnt keep the matter confidential, or if she 
didnt accept the proposal by 30 July 2021. I think this suggests that this was unlikely to be a 
compulsory redundancy process.
Ive also taken into account the claim form Mrs H completed at the time which said that shed 
failed to meet a target set by her employer. Although Mrs H says that her contract was with 
Cs non UK company the letter she was sent refers to UK employment legislation. And, as I 
explained in my provisional decision, this suggests that its most likely that a redundancy 
process wasnt followed. The available evidence suggests it is most likely that Mrs H left 
voluntarily, having reached a settlement with her employer. 
Whilst Ive considered the further information Mrs H provided, I remain persuaded that it was 
reasonable for Society of Lloyds to conclude that she most likely left her job voluntarily and 
decline her claim. 
My final decision
Im not upholding this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs H to accept or 
reject my decision before 18 August 2022.
 
Anna Wilshaw
Ombudsman