DRN-2687241
The complaint
Mrs H complains that ERGO Reiseversicherung AG has turned down a cancellation claim
she made on her travel insurance policy.
Mrs Hs represented by Mr R.
What happened
In September 2018, Mrs H booked a fly-cruise holiday abroad. She was due to travel in July
2019. Mrs H called a broker on 22 February 2019 to take out a single trip travel insurance
policy, which was insured by ERGO. During the call, she declared a number of medical
conditions. She also told the broker that she was waiting to see a cardiologist following an
episode of chest pain a few weeks earlier. The broker told Mrs H that because she was
waiting for investigations, ERGO would need to exclude cover for all of her medical
conditions. But that once Mrs H had seen the cardiologist, she could call back and that
potentially, medical cover could be added.
Unfortunately, on 24 February 2019, Mrs H suffered a mild heart attack. She said she called
ERGO to let it know about her diagnosis and that it told her shed need to pay an additional
£200 for cover. Due to uncertainty about her health, worries about the additional costs and
the fact she hadnt seen the cardiologist; she cancelled the trip on 22 March 2019. Mrs H lost
the deposit shed paid of £500. So she made a claim on her travel insurance policy for this
amount.
ERGO turned down Mrs Hs claim. Initially, it said her heart attack was linked to high blood
pressure which Mrs H had declared and which ERGO had excluded. Ultimately though, it
said that if Mrs H had told the broker about her cardiology referral, it wouldve excluded all
claims related to that condition.
Mrs H was unhappy with ERGOs decision. So Mr R asked us to look into Mrs Hs complaint.
Our investigator didnt think Mrs Hs complaint should be upheld. He felt the policy wording
made it clear that ERGO wouldnt cover claims which were linked to a medical condition for
which a policyholder was undergoing investigations. There was no dispute that Mrs H was
waiting to see a cardiologist when she took out the policy. He considered that if Mrs H had
declared her cardiology referral at the point she bought the policy, ERGO wouldve excluded
cover for all claims related to it. He added that even if she had told it about her referral; the
policy terms still wouldnt cover the situation. So he didnt think ERGO needed to do anything
more.
Mr R disagreed. He said that by initially linking Mrs Hs high blood pressure with her heart
attack; ERGO had been trying to fob her off. He also said that Mrs H had declared her
referral during the policy sale and that cover had been accepted. He also provided new
medical evidence which showed that Mrs H hadnt suffered from a heart attack  but a
different cardiac condition which had caused the chest pain shed suffered. So he felt this
was further evidence that the condition which had led to Mrs Hs claim wasnt linked to her
high blood pressure.
I issued my provisional decision on 22 February 2021. In my provisional decision, although I 
acknowledged the outcome would be disappointing for Mrs H, I explained the reasons why I 
thought it was fair for ERGO to turn down her claim. I said:
The relevant regulators rules say that insurers must handle claims promptly and fairly. And
they mustnt turn down claims unreasonably. So in making my decision, Ive thought about
the terms of Mrs Hs travel insurance policy; the circumstances of her claim and the available
evidence.
Is the claim covered by the policy terms and conditions?
Ive first considered what the terms and conditions of Mrs Hs policy say, as these form the
basis of her contract with ERGO. The policy includes a Medical Declaration section, which
sets out conditions policyholders need to comply with relating to their health. This section
includes the following condition:
The insurance will also NOT cover you for any of your pre-existing medical conditions
whether diagnosed or not, if you have any undiagnosed symptoms that require attention, or
investigation in the future (that is symptoms for which you are awaiting investigations/
consultations, or awaiting results of investigations, where the underlying cause has not been
established), or are awaiting any medical procedure, surgery, radiotherapy,
chemotherapy, or dialysis.
ERGOs also included a definition of what it means by a pre-existing medical condition. This
says: any past or current medical condition that has given rise to symptoms, or for which
any form of treatment, or prescribed medication, medical consultation, investigation, or
follow-up/check-up, has been required, or received, during the 2 years prior to the
commencement of cover under this policy and/or prior to any trip: and any cardiovascular or
circulatory condition (e.g. heart condition, hypertension, blood clots, raised cholesterol,
stroke, aneurysm, brain haemorrhage) that has occurred at any time prior to the
commencement of cover under this policy and/or prior to any trip.
I think the policy terms and conditions make it clear that pre-existing medical conditions
which are being investigated (even if they havent been diagnosed) wont be covered.
Its common ground that Mrs H suffered from chest pain on 30 January 2019  around three
weeks before she took out the travel policy. She didnt receive any diagnosis at this point
and was referred to a cardiologist for investigations into what was causing her pain. Theres
also no dispute that Mrs H suffered further chest pain on 24 February 2019  which was
initially diagnosed as a heart attack. I say that because the GP who completed Mrs Hs
cancellation claim form said the reason for cancellation was a non-ST elevation myocardial
infarction. I appreciate that subsequently though, the cardiologist has found further cardiac
issues which may have been the cause of Mrs Hs chest pain.
Mr R has told us that Mrs H cancelled her trip in part due to the uncertainty about her health
on 22 March 2019  a month after taking out the insurance and suffering the further episode
of chest pain. I can see from the claim form that Mrs H stated shed cancelled her trip
because she didnt want to miss the appointment with the cardiologist. At the point she
cancelled the trip, she still hadnt seen the cardiologist shed been referred to.
On this basis, it seems to me that it was fair and reasonable for ERGO to conclude that Mrs
Hs symptoms of chest pain were under investigation when she took out the policy. I also
think it was reasonable for ERGO to conclude that this referral was linked to the cancellation
claim, regardless of whether the trip was cancelled because, as the GP said, Mrs H had
suffered a heart attack or because she didnt want to miss her appointment. So I think it was
reasonable for ERGO to consider the claim wasnt covered by the policy terms.Did ERGO agree to cover Mrs Hs referral?
ERGO says Mrs H didnt tell it about her cardiology referral and that if shed done so, it
wouldve told her any claims related to it werent covered. Mrs H says she did tell ERGO
about the referral.
Ive listened to the sales call between Mrs H and the broker. Mrs H did clearly tell the call
handler about her chest pain in January 2019 and about her referral to cardiology, as well as
other medical conditions she suffered from. Im satisfied from listening to the call that she
was open and honest with ERGO about her health and that she was waiting to be seen by a
cardiologist. Its disappointing that in its responses to Mrs H and to her representatives,
ERGO said that Mrs H hadnt told it about the referral. I dont doubt that this wouldve caused
Mrs H some confusion and upset.
But while Mrs H did tell the call handler about her referral, I dont agree that ERGO did say it
would cover the condition. Thats because having listened to the call, Im satisfied the call
handler clearly explained to Mrs H that until shed seen the cardiologist, ERGO would need
to exclude cover for all of her medical conditions. She told Mrs H that once shed received
the results back, to get back in touch and medical cover could be added. Mrs H confirmed
her understanding of what the call handler had said. She decided to take up cover while
knowing that medical cover was excluded. I think the policy schedule Mrs H was sent after
she took up the policy also clearly sets out that pre-existing medical conditions were
excluded.
So I currently think that when Mrs H took out the policy, itd been made clear that she didnt
have medical cover and wouldnt have any medical cover until shed seen the cardiologist.
And the call Ive listened to makes me think its most likely that Mrs H understood this was
the case and the possible implications if she needed to make a claim.
Based on the evidence to hand, it seems that Mrs H was under referral when she took out
the policy; she hadnt seen the cardiologist at the point she cancelled the trip and the
cancellation was directly linked to the referral. I appreciate it may not have been a heart
attack which caused Mrs Hs pain on 24 February 2019. But the available medical evidence
still points to a cardiac issue being the cause and its still the case that this wasnt diagnosed
until after shed seen the cardiologist. So despite my natural sympathy with Mrs Hs
circumstances, Im currently persuaded that it was fair for ERGO to rely on its policy terms to
turn down her claim.
I asked both parties to send me anything further they wanted me to consider.
ERGO didnt respond by the deadline I gave.
Mr R disagreed on Mrs Hs behalf. He reiterated that Mrs H was seeking the payment of her 
claim and a refund of the policy premium shed paid. Ive summarised the points Mr Rs 
made:
Mrs H agrees that the call handler told her that cover for her medical conditions   
would be excluded. But she wasnt told that this would also mean that she didnt have 
cancellation cover for her holiday. Shed come away from the call thinking she had 
cancellation cover for her trip;
It wouldnt have made logical sense for Mrs H to pay for a policy unless shed 
believed shed be covered for cancellation. If the call handler had fully explained the 
implications of being without medical cover to Mrs H, its reasonable to suggest that 
she wouldnt have taken out the policy. Mrs H considers she was misled by the call handler and that she was mis-sold a worthless policy;
Mrs H had been angry and distressed when ERGO told us that she hadnt declared 
her cardiology referral. Shed remembered telling the call handler about the referral 
and on reading ERGOs submissions to us, she began to doubt her own recollections 
of events. She was worried that it might mean the onset of dementia and this caused 
Mrs H significant distress.
Mrs H was offended by ERGO calling her integrity into question and gave her serious 
anxiety. She was pleased that Id acknowledged that she had declared her referral. 
But she was unhappy that ERGO had told us that she hadnt called medical 
screening and wishes for an investigation into this misrepresentation. She feels this 
was an attempt to brush off her insurance claim;
Mrs H wanted to clarify the cardiologists diagnosis. This was the single issue of 
myocardial bridging of a blood vessel - a congenital malformation which hadnt been 
known to Mrs H or her doctors.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, while Im sorry to disappoint Mrs H, I still think it was fair and reasonable for 
ERGO to turn down her claim and Ill explain why.
First, its important I explain that were not the industry regulator. I have no power to punish 
or fine financial businesses if I think theyve done something wrong. Its unfortunate that 
ERGO told us in its initial submissions that Mrs H hadnt declared her cardiology referral. 
This wouldve avoided Mrs H suffering unnecessary upset and worry. I appreciate that this 
mistake caused Mrs H additional distress on top of the inevitable upset of her claim having 
been turned down. But I think this was more likely down to human error rather than a 
deliberate attempt to mislead us. I havent seen enough evidence to persuade me that 
ERGO purposely sought to misrepresent the facts of this complaint. 
Its also important I make clear that ERGO didnt sell Mrs Hs policy. The policy was sold by 
a broker, which was responsible for the sale. So if Mrs H feels that the policy was mis-sold to 
her, or that the call handler didnt make the implications of having no medical cover clear, 
shell need to complain directly to the broker which sold it to her. If Mrs H is unhappy with the 
outcome of that complaint, she may be able to bring a new complaint to us about that issue 
alone.
But on the evidence to hand, I think that it was reasonable for ERGO to conclude that Mrs H 
didnt have cover for her medical conditions at the time she made the claim and that shed 
agreed to exclude medical cover when she bought the policy. Im also persuaded that Mrs 
Hs cardiac condition was under investigation at the time of sale. And I think it was 
reasonable for ERGO to conclude that the reason Mrs H cancelled her trip was linked to the 
cardiology referral and planned investigations. This was specifically excluded by the terms of 
Mrs Hs policy.
So overall, despite my sympathy with Mrs Hs position, I still think it was fair for ERGO to 
turn down her claim.
My final decisionFor the reasons Ive given above and in my provisional decision, my final decision is that I 
dont uphold Mrs Hs complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs H to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 April 2021.
 
Lisa Barham
Ombudsman