DRN-4383989
The complaint
Mr L complains that Society of Lloyd's rejected a claim on the property damage section of 
his commercial insurance policy.
What happened
Mr L sought to make a claim on his insurance relating to a property owned by him. He said 
the property had been badly affected by a loss of light following the development of 
neighbouring buildings. He wanted to claim for the legal costs of a claim against the authority 
responsible for the housing development and/or the damages sustained as a consequence 
of the loss of light.
Society of Lloyds said the claim was not covered because:
Cover is for physical loss or damage caused by accidental means.
Although loss of light has been defined as being a nuisance and light could be 
considered a physical object, theres no evidence loss of light has caused any 
physical damage to the property.
There is no physical damage for the insurers to repair (or meet the costs of repair). 
That means the additional cover for professional fees doesnt arise so there is no 
cover for legal expenses.
When Mr L referred his complaint to this service our investigator didnt think it should be
upheld. She said:
Mr L needs to show an insured event has taken place, and specifically that there is 
physical damage to the property.
He hadnt provided evidence of physical damage to the property as a result of the 
loss of light, so the policy cant come into force as theres nothing to be repaired.
In relation to professional fees, there needs to be a direct link between the damage to 
the property and the fees. As there wasnt evidence of damage to the property, there 
would be no cover for professional fees either.
Mr L disagreed and requested an ombudsmans decision. He provided detailed comments in 
support. I wont set them out in full but they included:
Light is physical and therefore tangible; so it is a loss, whether or not there is 
damage.
The policy defines damage and damaged property as physical loss to the property.
The policy defines event to include any nuisance and loss of light is a nuisance.
Its wrong for the insurer to say the definitions of Event and Nuisance in section B 
were not operative terms and so dont apply.
It is established law that where a property is affected by loss of light, reinstatement is 
made by the payment of compensation.
The damage which has arisen as a result of the deprivation of his light, plus the 
'Trespass' and 'Nuisance' it clearly represents, brings into play the policy cover in 
question and so he is entitled to be compensated to the degree covered by the 
policy.
The damage meets the accepted legal definition of accidental damage.
Where a nuisance has occurred, that is an event which is covered by the policy, and 
so related legal costs are also covered, together with professional fees related to the 
reinstatement of the property.
I issued a provisional decision saying I didnt intend to uphold the complaint. I set out my 
reasons as follows:
In making my decision I need to consider whats fair and reasonable in all the circumstances
of the case, taking into account relevant law and regulations; regulators rules, guidance and
standards; codes of practice; and (where appropriate) what I consider to have been good
industry practice at the time.
Mr Ls policy provides cover for a range of things including employers, public and products
liability, none of which is relevant here. The relevant section of cover for this claim is Section
B - Commercial Property Insurance. And the relevant part of this is Section 1  Property
Damage All Risks. This provides cover as follows:
The Insurers will indemnify the Insured against Damage arising from any accidental cause
not being an Excepted Cause, occurring during the Period of Insurance, subject always to
the Excess(es) and the limits, terms, conditions and exclusions of this Section and the
Policy.
Replacement or Reinstatement
In the event of Damage under Item A (Building(s)) and/or Item B (Contents) insured hereby,
the basis upon which the amount payable by the Insurers is to be calculated shall be the
reinstatement of the Property Insured suffering Damage, subject to the following Special
Provisions and subject also to the limits, terms, conditions and exclusions of the Policy
except insofar as the same may be varied hereby.
For the purpose of this Clause reinstatement shall mean the carrying out of the after-
mentioned work, namely:
a where Property Insured is lost or destroyed, the rebuilding of the property, if a
Building, or, in the case of other property, its replacement by similar property, in either case
in a condition equal to but not better or more extensive than its condition when new;
b where Property Insured is damaged, the repair of the Damage and the restoration of
the damaged portion of the property to a condition substantially the same as but not better or
more extensive than its condition when new.
The policy includes definitions for a number of terms including the following:
Damage
means accidental physical loss of, destruction of or damage to the Property Insured.
Damage to Property
means physical loss of, destruction of or damage to material property.
In the first instance, its for Mr L to prove he has a valid claim.
Mr L has provided lengthy submissions with reference to various legal arguments and
judgments. I have considered all of these carefully but wont set them out in detail. The
statutory basis of our service is to deal with complaints quickly and with minimal formality.
Ive taken into account any relevant law but ultimately my role is to use my judgement todecide what is fair, based on the main crux of a case. So, I will focus on what is relevant to
the outcome Ive reached.
Mr L says his property has been damaged and explained why he thinks the loss of light
amounts to physical damage. He cites the judgments from various cases (including for
example Fay v Prentice; Colls v Home and Colonial Stores; and Jan de Nul [UK] Ltd v AXA
Royale Beige SA) as authority for saying interference with the right to light amounts to
physical damage.
These cases refer to different situations. Fay v Prentice for example, concerns part of a
building projecting over a garden, which was a trespass. Mr L refers to an inference by the
courts that injury has occurred as a result of the trespass  or in other cases (for example
Colls v Home and Colonial Stores) as a result of nuisance. He says it follows that the
nuisance in the loss of light constitutes damage to property. And he refers to the judgment in
the Jan de Nul case that damage occurs where the property is physically significantly
affected. The decision in that case might suggest contamination of land is enough for a
finding of damage, but that policy had a broad definition of damage which included loss. In
that case the property was physically altered with large amounts of silt deposited on it. And
this part of the judgment was in relation to the issue of nuisance.
I agree the courts have said that where someone has a right to light and another person
interferes with that right, this may be actionable with a claim for compensation. What Im
concerned with here is the contract of insurance, with terms and conditions agreed between
Mr L and the insurer. Whether Mr L has a valid claim under the specific terms and conditions
of this policy isnt necessarily the same as whether he has an actionable case against the 
other party to the dispute; different considerations apply.
Mr L has referred to various definitions of damage, but I need to bear in mind the general
approach to interpreting policy terms, where the following principles generally apply:
the words of the policy must be given their ordinary meaning and reflect the intention 
of the parties and the commercial sense of the agreement;
a literal construction that leads to an absurd result or one obviously contrary to the 
parties intention should be rejected, if an alternative more reasonable construction 
can be adopted;
where theres ambiguity, the construction which is more favourable to the insured 
should be adopted.
Ive considered the way damage is generally looked at in insurance. The precise meaning of
damage can vary, and will be influenced by the context in which the word appears. Theres
no universal definition which applies in all circumstances; its necessary to construe the word
in the context of the policy. But damage generally means some change in the physical state
of the building. And in this case the policy term refers to physical damage which needs to be
put right by carrying out repair work. So I need to consider the meaning of damage in that
context.
In my view, the policy wording is clear. It defines damage as physical loss, destruction or
damage to the property. Giving that its ordinary meaning, the building needs to be physically
damaged or destroyed. That means some physical change to the structure. I dont consider
a loss of light meets that definition.
But more than that, where the property is damaged the policy terms say the way the policy
will respond to this is to cover the cost of the work needed to repair the damage.
I dont see theres any ambiguity in this. Applying the ordinary meaning of the wording in the
relevant terms, the intention set out in the policy is that if the building is physically damaged,the insurance will cover the cost of repair work to fix that damage. So Mr Ls claim will only
be covered if he can show both that
his property has been physically damaged and
repair work is needed to put it right and restore the property to a condition 
substantially the same as it was in before.
That isnt the case here. There has not been a physical alteration to the building which
needs repair work. He may have a right that he can pursue through the courts but that 
doesnt mean this policy will provide cover for his legal costs in pursuing that action.
Mr L doesnt agree with Society of Lloyds that the definitions of Event and Nuisance in
Section B were not operative terms and so dont apply. But whatever definition is given to
those terms, the key point is whether the claim is covered under the terms I have set out
above. Those terms dont refer to nuisance and limit cover to the circumstances described.
It may be established law that where a property is affected by loss of light, reinstatement is
made by the payment of compensation but the issue Im deciding is not what the relevant
remedy would be if Mr L took his case to court. Im only considering whether his claim is
covered under the policy terms, not what might happen in any legal action he wishes to take.
Mr L also says the policy provides cover for professional fees and so hes entitled to cover
for his legal expenses. The definition of Professional Fees in Section B of the policy refers
to architects, surveyors, consulting engineers and legal fees necessarily and reasonably
incurred with the Insurers consent in the reinstatement of the Property Insured directly
consequent upon its Damage by an event insured hereby.
So again, this cover only arises where the property has been physically damaged, work is
needed to repair the damage, and the legal fees relate directly to that work. It wouldnt
extend to legal fees for taking legal action against the authority responsible for the loss of
light.
I appreciate this case means a great deal to Mr L, given the impact on his property. But for
the reasons Ive explained the decision by Society of Lloyds is both in line with the policy
terms and is fair.
Replies to the provisional decision
Society of Lloyds hasnt provided further comments in reply to the provisional decision but 
Mr L has. They are detailed and I wont set them out in full, particularly where they repeat 
any points made previously, but some key points include:
I have misdirected myself by not considering the provisions of the General Insuring 
Clause of Section B of the policy and similar provisions in the Introduction, instead 
focusing on the Property Damage All Risks section
The General Insurance Clause and the Introduction both say the insurers agree to 
reimburse any loss, destruction or damage, accident or injury occurring.
So hes insured against any loss or damage he suffers, not simply damage to 
property. The loss of light is covered by the definition in the General Insuring Clause.
Damage is defined as comprising three things - physical loss, destruction of, and 
damage to, the property insured. So it must follow that the loss of light suffered is a 
physical loss to the property.
The policy does not say damage must be considered in the context of physical 
damage that needs to be put right by repairs.
The Ombudsman is bound by the many cases which prove that damage does not 
require a result which causes the dismantling of the building (or parts of it).A loss of light such as in this case is comparable with all those previously highlighted 
cases and examples, and on such a loss of light damage arises  a property can 
sustain physical loss or damage without any structural alterations.
The Replacement or Reinstatement definition only applies when damage, which 
represents a dismantling of the structure of the building, has arisen  it does not 
apply when a loss has arisen, as in the case of the loss of light to his building.
The loss of light is also a nuisance, which is covered by the General Insuring Clause 
and the Introduction clause.
When using his judgement to decide what is fair, the Ombudsman must be guided 
by what the legal authorities say.
The law is clear that a breach of an easement (such as a right to light) results in  
damage and when this happens the law stipulates that the damage must be 
recognised; damage is in law automatically deemed to have arisen and the 
Ombudsman is bound to accept this.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr L refers to the General Insuring Clause at the beginning of Section B of the Policy. As he 
rightly points out, this says the insurer will provide cover for loss, destruction or damage, 
accident or Injury occurring during the Period of Insurance 
But that clause also says the cover is provided to the extent hereafter described and is 
subject to the limits, terms, conditions and exclusions contained herein or endorsed 
hereon.
So while Mr L may be covered for any loss, destruction or damage, the cover is subject to 
the terms and conditions set out in the policy and must be considered in that context. 
Mr L says I am bound by the many cases he has referred to and must be guided by what the 
legal authorities say. I do need to take account of any relevant law, but Im not bound by it in 
the same way as the courts. Its one of the considerations for me to take into account. And I 
need to look at any relevant conditions or exclusions and consider whether Society of 
Lloyds has applied those fairly in the circumstances of Mr Ls case.
Mr L has explained in great detail what the law says about damage. As I explained in my 
provisional decision, the policy terms say that where there has been damage, what the 
policy covers is reinstatement and that is defined in the policy as meaning carrying out 
works for the repair of the Damage and the restoration of the damaged portion of the 
property. I dont see any ambiguity in this. 
It's for an insurer to decide what risks to cover. This policy says clearly that Society of 
Lloyds will provide cover where the damage is physical and where the way to deal with it is 
to carry out repairs to the property. That simply isnt the situation here. There is no repair 
work that Society of Lloyds can pay for.
In these circumstances it remains my judgment that the decision by Society of Lloyds is in 
line with the policy terms and is fair.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold the complaint.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr L to accept or 
reject my decision before 6 November 2023.
 
Peter Whiteley
Ombudsman