DRN-1983957
 
The complaint
Mr and Mrs M complain about the service they received from Admiral Insurance Company 
Limited when they tried to change the details for their cars on their insurance policy.
The changes werent made correctly, and Mr and Mrs M say they were given conflicting 
information. Mrs M says she spent hours on the phone to Admiral trying to sort things out 
and was caused a lot of unnecessary stress.
What happened
Mr and Mrs M got a new car in early 2019. Mrs M phoned Admiral to change the policy 
details and insure the new car, but she says Admiral got her and her husband mixed up as 
policyholders. She didnt get a cover note as shed been promised so she could drive the car 
home, and there was a mix-up with a claim she made on the policy soon afterwards. Mrs M 
says Admiral then asked her for payments when she didnt owe anything, and dealt poorly 
with her complaint.
Admiral accepted it had made mistakes. It refunded £144.38 to Mr and Mrs M, reduced their 
premium by £40, and offered them £125 for their trouble and upset. Mr and Mrs M didnt 
think that went far enough, so they got in touch with us.
Our investigator looked at what had gone wrong and the impact it had had on Mr and Mrs M. 
He didnt think Admiral had done enough to put things right, so he recommended it pay an 
additional £125 by way of compensation.
Admiral didnt accept that conclusion and asked for an ombudsmans review. Mr and Mrs M 
didnt say whether or not they accepted it. Neither Admiral nor Mr and Mrs M had any further 
comments or evidence to add.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Having done so, Ive come to the same 
overall conclusion as the investigator did, for much the same reasons.
Theres no dispute that Admiral made mistakes. It has accepted it got the policyholders 
mixed up and missed a number of opportunities to correct the problem, it gave Mrs M wrong 
information about payments, and it failed to call her back when it said it would. It has also 
accepted Mrs M had to spend a lot of time on the phone sorting things out.
I think its clear from Mrs Ms calls with Admiral that she found the whole situation very 
frustrating and upsetting. She has also said she felt as though she was the one at fault when 
she received various correspondence saying she owed money or wrong amounts. 
I can see from the call logs Mrs M has provided that she spent hours on the phone to 
Admiral. She has said this was very disruptive as she was caring for a small child alone at the time, and she had to keep changing her plans to accommodate promised calls from 
Admiral which never came. 
In all the circumstances, given the impact of what went wrong on Mr and Mrs M, I think they 
should fairly receive more compensation than Admiral has offered, as set out below.  
I have noted what Mrs M has said about the anxiety she experienced when driving her car. 
But both she and Mr M remained insured, and I dont think either of them was at any risk of 
not being covered if something had happened. I have also noted Mrs Ms comments about 
Admirals handling of this complaint and that it never heard her out. Complaint-handling isnt 
a regulated activity, so this isnt something I can consider. Its for Admiral to decide whether 
to take Mrs Ms comments on board.
Putting things right
Admiral should increase its offer of compensation by £125.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint. In settlement, Admiral Insurance Company 
Limited should pay Mr and Mrs M an additional £125 by way of compensation.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M and Mrs M to 
accept or reject my decision before 5 August 2020.
Janet Millington
Ombudsman