DRN-3552823
The complaint
Mr P complains that AWP P&C SA (AWP) has declined a claim on his motor warranty 
insurance policy.  
What happened
Mr Ps vehicle was taken in for a repair and the garage recommended that the rear drive 
shafts needed replacing. Mr P submitted a claim on his motor warranty policy for the drive 
shafts, but the claim was declined as it was deemed the drive shafts had failed due to 
corrosion. Corrosion is excluded from cover.
Mr P doesnt think this is fair. He says he has a comprehensive warranty and that wear and 
tear is covered under the level of warranty cover he has. Mr P says that corrosion is in effect 
wear and tear and should be covered. He also says that under the specific wording that 
relates solely to his level of cover, corrosion is not excluded, and by excluding corrosion, 
AWP is breaching the terms of its own policy. 
However, AWP continue to decline the claim. So, Mr P brought his complaint to this service. 
An investigator investigated the complaint and said that AWP hadnt done anything wrong by 
declining the claim. 
Mr P doesnt agree, and hes asked for an ombudsman to review the complaint.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im not upholding this complaint. Ill explain why.
The crux of this complaint is whether AWP has acted fairly and reasonably by declining the 
claim under the terms and conditions of this policy. 
Ive watched the video taken by the repairer. The video shows both rear drive shafts in place 
when the vehicle is raised. The repairer says the ring from the drive shaft is damaged, both 
sides. He says both will require replacement along with the ABS sensors. Both drive shafts 
are clearly showing signs of corrosion in the video.
The link to the video is attached to an email from the repairer. This email says The drive 
shaft is metal and is exposed to the elements of road moisture and salt etc. This exposure 
over time will cause corrosion to develop on the drive shaft. The corrosion expands the size 
of the drive shaft and cause contact on the ABS speed sensors at the ends. This causes 
damage to the sensors. So, the drive shafts and sensors need replacing, and from the video 
Ive seen, and the accompanying email from the repairer, they need to be replaced because 
theyve been damaged by corrosion.
Mr P doesnt question the presence of corrosion on the drive shafts. He has made two 
arguments as to why this failure should be covered. Firstly, he says that corrosion is the 
same as wear and tear and that any effort to separate corrosion from wear and tear is a 
technicality used by AWP to enable it to decline claims. He says the failure is due to normal 
degradation, and this is covered under the level of cover he has. He says a covered part has 
failed and as per the policy terms this failure is covered.
Secondly, Mr P says that corrosion is not listed as excluded under the section detailing the 
specific level of cover he has, comprehensive component cover. He says details of the cover 
hes paid for are set out on pages 16  20 only and these standalone terms cannot be 
ignored. 
Ive read the terms and conditions of this policy in its entirety. The policy sets out from the 
start that The level of cover may vary depending on which option you choose.
The policy goes on to say Your policy and confirmation of cover is a contract between you 
and us. We will pay for any claim you make which is covered by the policy and level of cover 
chosen that occurs during the period of insurance. Unless specifically mentioned, the 
benefits and exclusions within each section, apply to the insured vehicle. Your policy does 
not cover all possible events and expenses.
The policy then sets out the different types of cover. Mr P has comprehensive component 
cover and it covers all components except those listed. And driveshafts arent listed, so 
theyre covered. The comprehensive component cover is set out on page 16 and it directs 
the reader to page 19 for wear and tear cover. This section says:
Our policy on wear and tear: During the service life of your insured vehicle, normal 
degradation will naturally occur to some components, we term this wear and tear. For 
instance, components which are subjected to constant or sustained periods of movement, 
such as suspension bushes/ball joints and steering joints, would be subject to wear and tear. 
Dependant on the age and mileage of your insured vehicle, we may not be able to cover this 
type of failure and the cost of replacement will be your responsibility. If you have the 
Comprehensive level of cover however, we have included all insured components even if the 
failure is due to normal degradation (wear and tear) up to 100,000 miles from the date of 
registration. In addition, if a component has previously been replaced with a (manufacturers) 
genuine part, the same rule will apply, in this case evidence of mileage at fitment will be 
required.
So, wear and tear is specifically covered under the scope of Mr Ps comprehensive cover.
The next page deals with the terms and conditions of the policy. It says the terms and 
conditions must be adhered to and under this section it says the warranty will not cover the 
following: 
Cleaning, polishing, recalls, operations performed under normal maintenance, corrosion, 
adjustments, modifications, alterations, or damage caused by tampering, disconnection, 
improper adjustments or repairs or incorrect fuel, failures due to oil degradation or carbon/
soot build up.
So, the drive shafts are covered under Mr Ps policy. And wear and tear is also covered. But 
corrosion is excluded.
Mr P says wear and tear and corrosion are the same and differentiating them is just a 
technicality used to decline claims. And I can see Mr Ps argument. Wear and tear can be as a result of ordinary in-service deterioration, or when a previously sound material has 
undergone a process of deterioration, such as corrosion. 
But even though Mr Ps point is valid, that doesnt mean that AWP would need to 
automatically consider a corroded part under its cover for wear and tear. I say this because 
AWPs inclusion of a specific term later in the policy, that excludes cover for corrosion, 
means it doesnt want to offer cover for corroded parts. And as this is clearly set out in the 
policy terms, I cant say AWP has done anything wrong by declining a claim for the corroded 
drive shafts.
Mr P also argues that the specific cover he has for comprehensive cover is featured on 
pages 16  19 and these terms should be read in isolation. Mr P says corrosion isnt 
mentioned on these pages and because of this AWP has failed to follow compliance and 
procedures in the policy handbook and is in breach its own conditions. 
But I dont agree with Mr Ps interpretation of how the policy terms and conditions should be 
read. This policy booklet is written to incorporate three separate levels of cover. The core 
conditions are the same, but there are different levels of cover. These levels are set out 
separately under specific headings and they set out differently what is and isnt covered 
under each cover level. For example, one cover lists all components covered, another lists 
the parts it excludes. But the core terms and conditions of the policy, definitions, and general 
information are shared across all three levels of cover. And Im satisfied this is clear in the 
document. 
The policy says Unless specifically mentioned, the benefits and exclusions within each 
section, apply to the insured vehicle. Mr P says that corrosion is not specifically mentioned 
under the comprehensive cover section so it should be covered. But again, I dont agree with 
Mr Ps interpretation of this term. This term relates to individual sections, and the benefits 
and exclusions of each section. Just because corrosion isnt included or excluded under the 
specific comprehensive cover section doesnt mean Mr P should benefit. Under the general 
terms and conditions of this policy, corrosion is excluded across all levels of cover. As such 
Mr Ps claim for parts that have failed due to corrosion are excluded no matter what level of 
cover he has. 
Mr P also argues that as corrosion is not specifically mentioned under what is not insured 
on the insurance product information document. This document is a summary of key 
information and doesnt list every exclusion. What wed expect to see on this document is an 
overview of cover or any unusual exclusions. And as an exclusion for corrosion is not 
unusual for this type of product, I wouldnt expect to see it here. However I do note that on 
the summary of cover which is on page 10 of the policy document, it does warn the 
purchaser that there are some financial limitations in some sections of cover and youre 
specifically directed to page 20 of the policy terms and conditions, where the corrosion 
exclusion is set out.
I appreciate and understand all of Mr Ps arguments in this complaint. And I know Mr P will 
be disappointed by the outcome of this complaint. But failure due to corrosion is excluded 
from cover, and this is set out clearly in the policy terms and conditions. As such AWP has 
acted fairly and reasonably and hasnt done anything wrong by declining Mr Ps claim.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I don't uphold this complaint.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision before 22 July 2022.
 
Derek Dunne
Ombudsman