DRN-4040375
The complaint
D says ClearBank Limited, trading as Tide, should refund the money they lost as the result 
of an authorised push payment (APP) scam.
Mrs N has brought this complaint on behalf of D, for ease of reading I will refer to Mrs N in 
this decision.
What happened
In summary, Mrs N received a one-time password (OTP) from Tide to authorise a payment 
on 14 November 2021. She ignored it as she was not expecting it. She then received a call 
from Tide, she believed, saying it had noticed some suspicious payments about to debit her 
account. The call cut off but as she was concerned Mrs N blocked her account. 
The caller rang back and had sufficient information to reassure Mrs N he was from Tide.  
Mrs N was then transferred to another party who explained that to refund the suspicious 
payments Mrs N would first need to approve them. There were three payments to two 
different merchants:
payment value, £ method merchant
1 2,151.98 Apple Pay Dimprice.com
2 2,939.96 Apple Pay Dimprice.com
3 2,380.98 Apple Pay Laced
Worried the money would leave her account if she did not do as instructed, Mrs N provided 
the caller with the authorisation codes that were sent to her by text. All three payments 
debited her account on 14 November 2021 within an hour. The next day, when no refunds 
came through, Mrs N realised it was a scam and contacted Tide.  I note merchant three 
refunded £1,640 directly to Mrs N on 19 November 2021.  
Tide refused to refund the payments saying Mrs N had authorised the payments. 
Our investigator upheld Mrs Ns complaint. She said Tide ought to have intervened before 
payment 2 and had it done so it would have prevented Mrs Ns subsequent losses. She said 
Tide must refund Mrs M £5,320.94, less any merchant refunds, and add simple interest of 
8% a year from the date of the payments to the date of settlement. She didnt think Tide 
could have recovered payment 1 as a chargeback would most likely have been successful.
Mrs N accepted this assessment but Tide disagreed. 
It said, in summary, Mrs N had shared the OTPs and was aware payments would be made; 
she knew the call was not from a known Tide number; its not possible a code was sent to 
Mrs N via its app; Mrs N has kept none of the communication she refers to; she ignored red 
flags such as accepting the transactions needed to be approved to then be refunded; and 
one of the merchants has already refunded £1,640. In the round, it argues Mrs N had 
concerns yet went ahead and this is gross negligence.
Our investigator explained it is not in dispute the payments were authorised by Mrs N, and 
that gross negligence is a consideration for complaints about unauthorised transactions. She 
said she was upholding the complaint as Tide ought to have detected out of character 
activity when there was an attempted payment of £34,999 prior to payment 2. Had it 
intervened then it could have stopped payments 2 and 3. Finally, she was satisfied Mrs N 
thought it was a genuine call from Tide based on the information the caller had and a 
spoofed text. She added it is not uncommon for victims of a scam not to have saved the 
relevant messages.
Tide still disagreed and asked for an ombudsman to review the complaint.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I am upholding Mrs Ns complaint in part. 
Theres no dispute that Mrs N made and authorised the payments. Mrs N knew why she was 
making the payments. At the stage she was making these payments, she believed
they had to be authorised so that the related refunds could then be processed. I dont 
dispute Mrs N was scammed and she wasnt making payments for the reason she thought 
she was, but I remain satisfied the transactions were authorised under the Payment Services 
Regulations 2017.
Its also accepted that Tide has an obligation to follow Mrs Ns instructions. So in the
first instance Mrs N is presumed liable for her loss. But there are other factors that must be 
taken into account.
To reach my decision I have taken into account the law, regulators rules and guidance, 
relevant codes of practice and what I consider to have been good industry practice at the 
time. This means I think that Tide should have:
been monitoring accounts and payments made or received to counter various
risks, including fraud and scams, money laundering, and the financing of terrorism.
had systems in place to look out for unusual transactions or other signs that
might indicate that its customers were at risk of fraud (amongst other things). This is
particularly so given the increase in sophisticated fraud and scams in recent years,
which financial institutions are generally more familiar with than the average
customer.
in some circumstances, irrespective of the payment channel used, taken
additional steps or made additional checks before processing a payment, or in some
cases declined to make a payment altogether, to help protect its customers from the
possibility of financial harm.
In this case I think Tide ought to have taken additional steps before processing payment 2. 
After the first payment at 12.03pm Mrs N blocked her card when the initial call with the 
scammers dropped. But she was then persuaded by them to lift the block at 12.27pm due to 
the amount of accurate information they had about her account. A payment of £34,999 was 
then attempted by the scammers at 12.31pm. It only failed as it was over Mrs Ns daily limit.
Tide ought to have detected this attempted payment as out of character and unusual based 
on Mrs Ns account history.  Had it done so, and contacted Mrs N, I am certain it would have 
broken the spell of the scam. Mrs N has said she was unsure of what she was being asked 
to do  but as she had never needed to speak to Tide and wasnt sure of its usual process she complied with the scammers requests. In such circumstances - and if the attempted 
high value transaction had been queried with Mrs N  I am confident Tide would have 
effectively prevented Mrs N from sharing any further OTPs and suffering any loss beyond 
payment 1.
It follows I find had Tide intervened as it should have, the scam would have stopped before 
payment 2. So I now need to decide what Tide must do to put things right.  
In response to the investigators assessment Tide argued that Mrs N followed the callers 
instructions despite being unsure - and so I assume it would argue she should share some 
responsibility for her loss. But I am not persuaded that is the case in these circumstances. 
Mrs N has accepted she was unsure of the process the scammers said she must follow to 
facilitate the refunds, but she has explained this was due to her lack of previous interaction 
with Tide. She balanced this out against the information they had about her account and the 
messages she received. Unfortunately I have not had sight of the messages, but this does 
not change my conclusion and I find her justification of why she went ahead to be 
reasonable. Its what I could fairly expect a lay person to do in the circumstances. Tide 
needs to take into account that it is the expert in fraud prevention, and not Mrs N. 
Overall, this means I am instructing Tide to refund the full value of payments 2 and 3, 
adjusted only for the merchant refund on payment 3.
I have then considered whether Tide ought to have done more to help Mrs N recover 
payment 1 as she asks. It could have looked to raise the dispute as a chargeback. In certain 
circumstances card issuers (so here Tide) can request refunds from sellers by raising a 
chargeback claim  but theres no obligation on an issuer to do this. This system has rules 
which means there are only certain grounds under which a chargeback can succeed. So in 
this case I need to decide whether Tide acted fairly and reasonably in its decision not to 
present a chargeback on behalf of Mrs N. I have already found that Tide must refund 
payments 2 and 3, but my finding that follows would have been equally applicable to those 
transactions, if relevant.
Tide said a chargeback claim would have been unsuccessful as the transaction was 
authorised. I accept the reason code unauthorised transaction would have failed  as I 
clarified at the start of my findings it is not in dispute that all payments were authorised. Tide 
could have considered anther reason code but I think this would have most likely failed too. 
Given the fraudulent nature of the transaction Mrs N had no evidence to support the 
payment, such as an agreement, invoice or order form. And the merchant most likely would 
have had evidence of delivery  albeit to the scammer. So, overall, I think Tides decision not 
to raise a chargeback claim to try to help Mrs N recover payment 1 was fair in the 
circumstances, albeit that I dont find it made its decision for the right reason. 
Putting things right
Tide must pay Mrs N £5,320.94 (the sum of payments 2 and 3) minus the merchant refund 
of £1,640 on payment 3. It should add 8% simple interest a year from the date of the 
payments until the date of settlement*. 
 *HMRC requires Tide to deduct any tax from any award of interest. It must give Mrs N a certificate showing
the deductions if she asks for one.
My final decision
I am upholding Mrs Ns complaint in part. ClearBank Limited, trading as Tide, must put 
things right as set out above.  Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs N, on behalf of 
D, to accept or reject my decision before 27 April 2023.
 
Rebecca Connelley
Ombudsman