DRN-4083098
The complaint
Mr F complains that Advanced Payment Solutions Limited trading as Cashplus Bank 
(Cashplus) restricted his account after failing security questions and requested posted 
identification during a postal strike.
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here. Instead, Ill focus on giving my reasons for my decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Its clear from what Mr F has said that he feels strongly about the events in question. But for 
me to uphold his complaint and make an award of compensation, I must be satisfied that 
Cashplus has done something wrong. In this case, I dont think it has and Ill explain why.
Cashplus has legal and regulatory obligations to meet when providing accounts to 
customers. Part of meeting these obligations is to ensure when speaking with a 
customer on the telephone that it is in fact speaking to the correct person.
Ive listened to the calls in question, and Im satisfied that this is precisely what 
Cashplus did in this instance. Mr F was unable to pass the necessary security 
questions and its terms and conditions allow Cashplus to restrict the account in this 
scenario. Im satisfied that Cashplus acted in line with the terms Mr F agreed to when 
opening the account, so I cant say Cashplus did anything wrong when applying this 
restriction.
I understand that it must have been frustrating to have Cashplus request posted 
identification when a postal strike was underway, but Im satisfied that Cashplus were 
following its own business process correctly when it did so. I can see it was also quite 
reasonable in offering that same day to accept emailed correspondence and prioritise 
the review.
When full proof of identity was not submitted in time for resolution that day, Cashplus 
went further to accommodate Mr Fs circumstances and agreed to transfer a small 
amount to an account of his choice.
Mr F feels Cashplus should have told him his account would be restricted if he failed 
the security questions. But Im satisfied Cashplus acted reasonably when not 
disclosing this information about the account - as it was talking to someone it couldnt 
be satisfied was Mr F.
I fully acknowledge the impact losing access to the account had on Mr F, he was 
without access to funds at a point in time when he really needed them. But again, Id 
have to be satisfied Cashplus had done something wrong for this lack of access to be 
its responsibility. 
For the reasons already explained Im satisfied Cashplus acted fairly and reasonably 
in this instance, appropriately escalating and resolving the issue in a timely manner.
 
For these reasons, my decision is to not uphold Mr Fs complaint.
My final decision
My final decision is that this complaint should not be upheld.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr F to accept or 
reject my decision before 8 June 2023.
 
Paul Clarke
Ombudsman