DRN-3203900
The complaint
R complains about the way HSBC UK Limited handled its request for a refund of a flight it 
paid for that didnt go ahead. R is represented in this complaint by its director, Mr M. 
What happened
In March 2020 R paid £860 to a supplier I shall call A for a flight, for Mr M, from the 
Dominican Republic to the UK. R used its HSBC company debit card. The flight was 
cancelled by A because of the Covid-19 pandemic. R says it was promised a refund by A in 
April 2020, but it didnt materialise, so it contacted HSBC for a refund. R says HSBC told it 
that it would credit the cost of the flight to its account straight away in early May 2020. 
This didnt happen and R has said there were serious consequences for Mr M because he 
was stuck in the Dominican Republic without any money for food or accommodation  
resulting in him becoming homeless for a short while before a local resident agreed to house 
him until he was able to fly back to the UK. R says Mr M also had to borrow money while in 
the Dominican Republic which required a third-party guarantor. It has said that because it 
didnt get the refund when promised, Mr M couldnt repay the loan when he was supposed to 
and the guarantor had to pay a large sum in interest and is in danger of losing her car (which 
was put up as security for the guarantee). 
R complained to HSBC about the way it handled its request for a refund. HSBC accepted it 
had been difficult for R to get through to it when it was calling about its refund and that it had 
unnecessarily delayed looking into its request for a refund. It also said it had asked R for 
information about the disputed payment by writing to it in the UK when it knew its 
representative, Mr M, was abroad and that this had also delayed matters. It offered to pay 
total compensation of £300 for these errors. 
Our investigator thought HSBCs offer was reasonable in the circumstances. She explained 
that a company like R cannot not suffer distress as it is a separate legal entity from its 
owners. She said the claims R could make against HSBC were limited to its own losses or 
inconvenience and not that of Mr M.
 
R didnt agree with the investigator and asked that an ombudsman review his complaint. It 
has said that HSBC should be responsible for the losses Mr M suffered. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I want to first assure R that I have taken all of the information provided into consideration, 
even if not every point made by R is mentioned in this decision. Ill only address the 
comments and evidence I see to be relevant in reaching a fair and reasonable outcome 
here.
I believe it is also important to re-iterate that this complaint is brought to us by R, a separate 
legal entity from Mr M. The transaction that forms the basis of the complaint was made from 
Rs account and it can generally only complain about matters relevant to its relationship as a 
customer of HSBC.
What this means for Rs complaint is that when deciding what is fair and reasonable, I need 
to consider if HSBC did anything wrong which impacted on R, not Mr M. For example, it may 
have caused a financial loss to R or it may have caused R to suffer inconvenience. A limited 
company cannot suffer distress so it wouldnt be appropriate to make an award of 
compensation for such matters in this case.
 
I cannot reasonably tell HSBC to pay compensation to Mr M for things it did on Rs account 
which may for example have caused a financial loss personal to him or distress and/or 
inconvenience personal to him. Mr M is a separate legal entity to R and so his losses are not 
necessarily those of R  much as it may seem to Mr M that the two are indistinguishable. 
R has said that HSBC paid compensation to Mr M so it doesnt see why I cant ask it to do 
the same. From reviewing HSBCs record of communication with R however I can see that 
while it addressed Mr M personally in some emails, any payments of compensation were 
made to Rs account. And even if HSBC had had paid Mr M this wouldnt change what Ive 
explained in the paragraph above i.e. I cant generally ask HSBC to compensate R for things 
that happened to Mr M. 
With all of this in mind, and as much as I recognise the awful series of events Mr M 
experienced when looking at what R wants from HSBC in this complaint, I think the majority 
of its requests are for losses and distress and inconvenience suffered by Mr M. This 
includes:
its request for compensation for Mr M having no money for food or accommodation 
while stranded in the Dominican Republic;
the money Mr M said he owes to a third-party guarantor in the Dominican Republic in 
respect of a loan taken out while he was there.
In relation to the request for compensation, Mr M has said he was on holiday in the 
Dominican Republic and not on company business. So, he experienced the distress of what 
went wrong personally. And, in relation to the money Mr M borrowed, he took the loan out in 
his own name and he has said that he, not R, owes the interest to the third party. So again, 
these are losses suffered by Mr M in a personal capacity.
Also, just because HSBC made a mistake, doesnt mean it is necessarily liable for 
everything that followed thereafter  although I have not explored this further because, as I 
say, I am not satisfied these are Rs losses.
The cost of the flight could have been a loss to R. But it received a refund of this in 
September 2020. It took HSBC around five months to secure the refund via what appears to 
have been a successful chargeback.
I think the delay in securing the refund does look to have been in part down to errors made 
by HSBC, for example it accepts it dropped Rs claim for a refund prematurely, gave it 
incorrect information and contacted it in the UK when it knew its representative was not 
present there.
 
I explained earlier that a limited company can be caused inconvenience. R has said it had to 
make numerous telephone calls from the Dominican Republic and was often left on hold in excess of an hour. And it didnt get the money for the flight back as quickly as it should have 
because of the way HSBC handled matters. I find it likely that R was caused inconvenience 
by this.
When thinking about what if anything HSBC needs to do to put things right, Im mindful that 
A had caused the issues in the first place by not refunding R in a timely manner when it 
seems it should have. Although I acknowledge that HSBC didnt help by the further delay on 
its part. 
Ive also taken into account that it was an unprecedented and unusual time for the banks, 
dealing with significant numbers of enquires from consumers looking to get money back as 
the global pandemic unfolded. Many of these claims will have brought up issues which were 
relatively novel, and the banks were having to digest new information, rules and guidance at 
a very unusual time. I also need to consider the operational challenges faced by firms during 
this period.
R has also asked to be paid for the cost of the calls it made to HSBC. It has not however 
provided evidence of the exact cost of them or evidence that such cost was met by R rather 
than Mr M. Ive nevertheless thought about what the reasonable likely cost of these calls 
might have been based on HSBCs records of its calls with R  keeping in mind also that 
some degree of communication between R and HSBC would have been necessary in order 
to progress Rs refund request. 
All things considered, I think the £300 that HSBC offered R is fair compensation for the 
inconvenience it was put to and Rs likely telephone costs for calling HSBC (if it met this 
cost).
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained above, my final decision is that HSBC UK Bank Plc has 
offered fair compensation to R in the circumstances. 
If it hasnt already done so HSBC Bank UK Bank Plc should pay £300 to R. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask R to accept or 
reject my decision before 17 January 2022.
 
Michael Ball
Ombudsman