DRN-3489914
The complaint
Mr T has complained that he was not happy with Shawbrook Bank Limiteds offer of 
settlement for his claim against it under Section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974.
What happened
Mr T bought solar panels for his home in 2015. The purchase was funded by a loan from 
Shawbrook, and that business is therefore liable for the acts and omissions of the installer 
under the relevant legislation. In this case, that relates to the installer misleading Mr T into 
believing that the panels would be self-funding, which they werent. 
The loan had a term of 15 years. No payment was due for the first 12 months, but the loan 
was interest free if repaid within that time. Mr T says he always intended to repay the loan 
within that time and pay no interest, which is what he did. He understood that in doing so the 
solar panels would pay for themselves after 8 years.
Shawbrook offered Mr T £2,000 in settlement of the claim. It said that its usual method of
calculating settlement in a case like this would be to, in effect, make the solar panels self-
funding within the term of the loan  15 years in this case. And that its calculations showed
that Mr T would not be due a payment. 
Mr T referred the complaint to us. He argued that the solar panels should be made self-
funding over one year, as he always intended to repay the loan within that time. Or at worst 
made self-funding over 8 years.
Mr Ts complaint was considered by one of our adjudicators. They thought that the benefits 
of the panels were mis-represented to Mr T, and that fair redress would be for the loan to be 
restructured to make the panels cost no more than the benefit they would provide over a 
reasonable period of ten years.
Shawbrook disagreed, so I was asked to make a decision to confirm what Shawbrook must 
do to put things right. I issued a provisional decision saying that I thought that, in the specific 
circumstances in this case, the redress should be based on the benefits of the solar panels 
over 8 years. 
Mr T said he would accept my provisional decision. 
We had some discussion with Shawbrook and it said it might accept my provisional decision, 
so I allowed it more time to respond to my provisional decision. However, that time has now 
passed and Shawbrook has not accepted my provisional decision or provided any further 
comments or information for me to consider. As such, this final decision is in line with what I 
said in my provisional decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Shawbrook is familiar with all the rules, regulations, and good industry practice we consider 
when looking at complaints of this type, and indeed our well-established approach. So, I 
dont consider it necessary to set all of that out in this decision.
Shawbrook has accepted that the complaint should be upheld and made an offer of 
settlement. So, I dont need to decide whether there was a misrepresentation  as that has 
been accepted  only what must happen to put things right.
Looking at the documents from the time of sale it is clear that Mr T was told the solar panels 
would pay for themselves within 8 years. Given that he bought the solar panels intending to 
pay off the loan within the 12 month interest free period, I think his expectation was that if he 
did so, then after 8 years the cumulative benefits of the solar panels (through feed-in tariff 
payments, and savings on his energy bills) would be equal to or more than the amount he 
paid for them.
In light of this, I think it would be fair and reasonable in the specific circumstances of this 
case for Shawbrook to calculate redress based on the benefits of the solar panels over 8 
years. By Shawbrooks own calculations, it appears this would result in a settlement in 
excess of the £2,000 it has offered. As such, I uphold this complaint.  
Putting things right
I think that it would be fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of Mr Ts complaint for 
Shawbrook to put things right by restructuring the original loan based on the known and 
assumed savings and income to Mr T from the solar panels over an 8-year period so he 
pays no more than that, and he keeps the solar panel system, and any future benefits.
Because Mr T has settled the loan, Shawbrook should pay him the difference between what 
he paid in total and what the loan should have been under the restructure above, with 8% 
interest.
If Mr T has settled the loan by refinancing, he should supply evidence of the refinance to 
Shawbrook and Shawbrook should:
1. Refund the extra Mr T paid each month with the Shawbrook loan.
2. Add simple interest from the date of each payment until Mr T receives his refund.
3. Refund the extra Mr T paid with the refinanced loan.
4. Add simple interest from the date of each payment until Mr T receives his refund.
5. Pay Mr T the difference between the amount he paid and the amount he wouldve 
owed if the system had been self-funding over an 8-year period.
Im satisfied that there was sufficient information available at the time that Mr T first 
contacted Shawbrook that means the claim should have been upheld and settled in this way. 
So, I direct that Shawbrook should pay £100 compensation for the trouble and upset caused.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, Im upholding Mr Ts complaint. Shawbrook Bank Limited 
should put things right in the way Ive set out above.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr T to accept or 
reject my decision before 14 July 2022.
 
Phillip Lai-Fang
Ombudsman