DRN-3343230
The complaint
Mrs S complained that Prudential Assurance Company Limited (Prudential) caused delays in 
processing a payment from her pension. This caused her distress and inconvenience and a 
material financial loss. Prudential has offered her compensation in respect of her distress 
and inconvenience, which she would like to be increased.
What happened
Mrs S contacted Prudential on 8 March 2021 to request a partial lump sum return of funds 
(ROF) payment of £9,000 from her pension due to her ill health. She had previously 
submitted an ill-health declaration and was not told that a new declaration would be required.
Mrs S received an options pack from Prudential on 23 March, which she responded to and a 
call was booked on 26 April. Following this, Mrs S had to contact Prudential a number of 
times to try and find out the progress of her claim before being told that a new ill health 
declaration was required, as the previous one was out of date. Mrs S complained to 
Prudential that she should have been told this on the original call on 8 March. Mrs S was 
also concerned that the delay in receiving funds would cause her to miss scheduled 
mortgage deadlines with her lender on the 17 May and 1 June, which she confirmed was the 
case in a call to Prudential on 9 June. 
Mrs S provided the updated declaration on 11 June, and the funds were paid to Mrs S on 18 
June, over three months after she first contacted Prudential. Prudential agreed to pay Mrs S 
£300 in compensation for the delay in the process.
Prudential sent Mrs S a response to her complaint on 2 July 2021. It accepted that it made 
mistakes that led to the delay, not least that Mrs S should have been told she needed a new 
ill health declaration when she first contacted Prudential on 8 March. Prudential offered a 
further £300 compensation but explained that she had not suffered a material loss as her 
pension had increased in value as a result of the delay, so fewer units needed to be sold to 
provide the £9,000 payment to her. Prudential also asked her to provide evidence of any 
financial loss she had suffered. 
Mrs S replied to Prudential asking for further compensation of £25 to reimburse her for the 
cost of the ill health declaration and £1,000 for distress and inconvenience. No claim was 
made for any loss relating to the missed mortgage deadlines. Prudential agreed to reimburse 
the cost of the declaration but felt that the £600 it had already offered was fair and 
reasonable compensation.
Mrs S subsequently contacted Prudential to tell it that she was not satisfied with their offer of 
compensation, but also to let it know that she had not received the compensation promised 
on 18 June.
Prudential wrote again to Mrs S on 2 August apologising once more for its mistakes and 
confirming that it had failed to add interest in respect of the late payment. It calculated a loss 
of interest of £174.19 using a rate of 8%pa and paid a further £200 for distress and 
inconvenience.
However, Mrs S had still not received the £300 compensation offered on 18 June, so she 
had to contact Prudential again. It transpired that Prudential had made a further mistake, and 
that the payment had not been properly authorised. The payment of £300 was finally made 
on 15 November 2021, to which Prudential also added a further £100 compensation.
In total, Prudential paid Mrs S £900 compensation for its mistakes, £25 for the ill health 
declaration and a further £174.19 paid in respect of interest on the late payment.
Mrs S did not feel that this was adequate compensation for the delay, inconvenience, and 
distress this had caused her, so she has brought this complaint to the Financial Ombudsman 
Service. 
Our investigator reviewed all the information provided and reached the conclusion that the 
compensation already offered by Prudential was fair and reasonable in the circumstances. 
Mrs S disagreed, repeating the key points of her complaint and asking for compensation to 
be increased to £5,000 to reflect the numerous mistakes Prudential had made. She outlined 
these mistakes, the effort she put in to try and progress her claim and the effect these 
mistakes and the consequent three month delay in her receiving her pension have had upon 
her. As a result, this case has been passed to me to take a fresh look at all the evidence and 
make a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, and considering the view of our investigator, I have reached the same 
conclusion and will not be upholding Mrs Ss complaint.
I can appreciate that this will be disappointing for her, so Ill explain how I have reached my 
decision.
Firstly, it is clear that Prudential fell below the standards that Mrs S was entitled to expect 
when processing her request for a return of funds due to her ill health. Mrs S had to contact 
Prudential on several occasions to try to prompt it to complete what should have been a 
relatively straightforward process. She has explained how Prudentials repeated failure to 
efficiently manage her request or communicate with her had caused her additional distress 
at what was a difficult time. However, while Prudentials service was poor, it has apologised 
for these mistakes and made a number of separate compensation awards to reflect these, 
totaling £925.
I am aware that Mrs S has asked for the compensation payment to be increased to £5,000, 
but considering our guidelines for compensation awards for distress and inconvenience, I do 
find that the £925 compensation already offered by Prudential is be fair and reasonable, and 
is in line with what I would expect to see in a case like this where service has fallen far short 
of what a customer should reasonably expect.
Prudential has also paid £174.19 in respect of loss interest caused by the delay, using a 
nominal 8% interest rate, which is the rate this service would usually apply in these 
circumstances, so I dont think it needs to do anymore to compensate Mrs S for any financial 
loss caused by the delayed payment.
My final decision
For the reasons explained above, I do not uphold Mrs Ss complaint.Prudential Assurance Company Limited should fulfil its offer to pay Mrs S the sum of £925 
compensation and £174.19 in loss of interest, if it has not already done so.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms S to accept or 
reject my decision before 29 December 2022.
 
Bill Catchpole
Ombudsman