DRN-1619042
 
The complaint
This complaint is about a store card payment protection insurance (PPI) policy taken out in 
1999. Mrs I says AXA France IARD (AXA) mis-sold her the PPI.  
What happened
Briefly:
In 1999 Mrs I took out a PPI policy at the same time as applying for a high street store card 
during a visit to a store.
The policy provided protection for Mrs I's store card payments in the event she couldn't work 
because of accident, sickness or unemployment. The monthly policy benefit was 15% of the 
outstanding account balance and it would pay out until Mrs I returned to work or the balance 
was paid off - whichever happened first. It cost £1.00 for every £100 Mrs I owed on the card.
At the time of the sale Mrs I was employed, and she says she was entitled to one month full 
pay if she was off work sick. She said she had a couple of hundred pounds or so in savings 
she could've used to make her repayments, and she was in good health at the time.
AXA's records show Mrs I paid just under £200 for PPI in total.
The adjudicator didn't recommend the complaint should be upheld. They said Mrs I chose to 
take out the cover. And there was nothing to indicate it was wrong or inappropriate for her.
Because Mrs I disagrees, the complaint comes to me for a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken into account whats relevant here in deciding Mrs I's case.
Having done so, Ive decided not to uphold Mrs Is complaint and my reasons are set out 
below.
did Mrs I have a choice about PPI? 
did she agree to take it out?
I can see Mrs I says she thinks PPI was added without her knowledge. I've therefore 
considered this carefully.
Having done so, I think AXA made it clear that Mrs I didn't have to take out the PPI and that 
she chose to take it out  although I can understand why she cant now remember this.AXA has provided a copy of Mrs I's store card application. Looking at this I can see there 
was a separate section about PPI, which required a customer to sign if they wanted to take 
out PPI. And in Mrs I's case she signed this section. If Mrs I didn't want to take out PPI she 
could've left this section blank. By having to give her signature on the application and in the 
way it was required, I'm not persuaded she would've done so without knowing what she was 
signing for - notwithstanding the fact that she might not have understood all that she needed 
to know about it.
I'm also mindful that the PPI premiums would've appeared on Mrs I's statement for several 
years. So if she didn't recognise what they were, I might've expected her to have queried it 
with AXA at the time.
So, overall I think Mrs I chose and agreed to take out PPI. 
the information  
AXA says it didn't recommend or give advice to Mrs I to take out PPI, and I've not seen 
anything to suggest that it did. So AXA didn't have to ensure the cover was right or suitable 
for Mrs I. But it did have to give her enough clear and timely information about the policy, so 
she could make an informed decision about it.
While the application gave a broad outline of the cover, I accept its possible the information 
AXA gave Mrs I about the PPI at the time of the sale wasn't as clear as it shouldve been. I 
also accept that because the sale took place in a non-financial business there wasn't likely 
anything that could reasonably be described as a conversation about it.
But as I found above, Mrs I chose to take it out - so it looks like she wanted this type of 
cover. And based on her circumstances at the time it doesn't appear that it was 
inappropriate for her - for example she was eligible for the cover; she wasn't affected by the 
significant exclusions on or limits to the cover such as those relating to existing medical 
conditions or unusual employment circumstances; and given her relatively limited existing 
means it seems like it would have been useful for her if something went wrong. It also looks 
like it was affordable. So I dont think better information about the PPI would have put Mrs 
I off taking out the cover. 
conclusion
While AXA might not have done everything it should fairly and reasonably have done when it 
sold Mrs I PPI, in light of her circumstances at the time I think she'd have still gone ahead 
and taken out PPI had AXA done anything more.
This means I dont think Mrs I has lost out as a result of having PPI, so AXA doesn't have to 
pay back to Mrs I what she paid for PPI.
Ive thought about everything Mrs I has said - including what she's said about her savings 
she could've used to help her out. But these points dont change my decision.
The policy would've paid out in addition to Mrs I's existing means and for longer if necessary 
- it also had the potential to pay off the outstanding balance in full. Because of this and in 
light of Mrs I's existing means, I think that if she had got clearer information she'd have still 
gone ahead and taken the policy out - I think in weighing up the cost and benefit proposition 
on offer, she'd have thought the policy was useful to her.
My decisionFor the reasons above, I've decided not to uphold this complaint and I make no award. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs I to accept or 
reject my decision before 20 April 2020.
Paul Featherstone
Ombudsman