DRN-4442926
The complaint
This complaint is brought by Mrs O in her capacity as Executor of the estate of the late Mr O. 
Mrs O in turn is represented in the complaint by a relative, Miss C.
Mrs Os complaint is that TSB Bank plc told her that, after the death of her husband, Mr O, 
she could continue to pay the mortgage on the property indefinitely. However, three days 
later, TSB said that this was an error.
To settle the complaint, Mrs O wants TSB to transfer the mortgage into her name, pay 
compensation and stop harassing her.
What happened
This complaint arises out of unhappy circumstances  the death of Mrs Os husband, who 
passed away in January 2022. He owned a property in his sole name, which had an 
interest-only mortgage on it with TSB. 
Mrs O was named as the executor and beneficiary of his estate. The title to the property has 
been transferred into her name. In error, TSB told Mrs O that she could continue to pay the 
mortgage indefinitely, but very quickly realised that this was an error and informed Mrs O of 
this.
The mortgage term has expired, and the capital balance remains due and payable. Mrs O 
has applied for a mortgage in her sole name, but that application has been declined. (A 
separate complaint has been made about this, which is also with me for a final decision.)
Miss C says that the banks promise to allow Mrs O to continue to pay the mortgage has 
created a binding contract. Mrs O therefore disputes that TSB is entitled to ask for payment 
of the mortgage balance, or that she is required to take out a mortgage in her own name. 
Miss C says that she considers the banks attempts to contact Mrs O to be harassment, 
contrary to the provisions of the Protection from Harassment Act 1997.
After TSB issued its final response letter confirming that it would not deal with Miss C any 
further, Mrs O raised the complaint with our service, authorising Miss C to speak for her.
An investigator looked at what had happened but didnt think the complaint should be 
upheld.
Miss C said that Mrs O wanted a final decision on the complaint.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I will start first by explaining the extent of our powers in relation to this matter.
Under our rules, we can consider a complaint from a consumer. Mr O was a consumer and 
so met the definition of an eligible complainant set out in our rules. For the purposes of this 
complaint, the rules say that a complaint may be brought on behalf of an eligible complainant 
by a person authorised by the eligible complainant or authorised by law. In this respect, 
Mrs O is bringing the complaint on the estates behalf, and as such she is authorised by law 
to do so.
But I must explain that, although Mrs O is representing the estate, it is Mr O who was TSBs 
customer. Mrs Os role is to bring the complaint on the estates behalf, in the same way that 
other consumers might instruct a relative, solicitor or accountant to represent them in a 
complaint. Indeed, Mrs O has herself asked Miss C to represent her in this complaint. But 
this does not entitle Mrs O or Miss C to air their own grievances about TSB, because they 
are not its customer; their role is limited to putting forward the estates complaint.
I also note from the case file that Miss C has expressed her own opinions about what she 
perceives to be TSBs failings  and I do not doubt her strength of feeling about this. But 
because she is not TSBs customer, her concerns about TSB dont form part of this 
complaint.
Ive noted the points Miss C has made about her belief that there is a legally-binding contract 
between Mrs O and TSB that Mrs O can pay the mortgage indefinitely. Only a court can 
determine if a contract exists and so I dont have any power to decide whether there is a 
contract or not. However, I will explain that, although Mrs O has inherited the property on 
which the mortgage was secured, a mortgage itself cannot be inherited, so there is no 
automatic transfer of a mortgage to the beneficiary of the estate.
In addition, we have no powers to investigate criminal matters. If Mrs O believes the bank 
has committed a criminal offence under the Protection from Harassment Act 1997, that 
would be a matter for the police or the courts.
Mrs Os role as executor of Mr Os estate is to administer the estate  which includes 
payment of the debts of the estate. The main debt of the estate is the mortgage owed to 
TSB. I know Mrs O wants to stay in her home, but her application to TSB for a new mortgage 
has not been successful. Therefore Mrs O will need to make other arrangements, either to 
arrange a mortgage with another lender, or otherwise the only option will be for her to sell 
the property in order to repay the mortgage. 
I know this is not what Mrs O wants to hear, and I am sorry if my decision causes her any 
distress. But there is no basis on which TSB is required to allow the mortgage to continue 
now the term has expired. The full amount is due and payable to TSB, and arrangements 
need to be made to repay the outstanding mortgage balance. In this regard, Mrs O might 
find it helpful to speak to an independent financial adviser to discuss her options. Given her 
age, Mrs O might qualify for an equity release mortgage, or a Later Life retirement 
mortgage. TSB does not offer these types of mortgage.
TSB had previously made an offer of compensation of £1,000 for its error in telling Mrs O 
that she could continue with the mortgage. Under our rules, we can make awards of 
compensation for distress and inconvenience to an eligible complainant. Mr O would have 
been the eligible complainant, as he was the mortgage account holder. Mrs O as Executor is 
representing his estate, but has no entitlement to be compensated for any distress and 
inconvenience incurred by her personally. Miss C, as a representative of a representative 
has no entitlement to compensation either. In addition, the estate of a deceased consumer 
cant experience feelings of distress or inconvenience. I therefore have no power to make any award of compensation to Mrs O as Executor and so 
am unable to order TSB to pay the £1,000 it had previously offered. If the bank wants to do 
this as a gesture of goodwill, then it can do so, but I cannot order TSB to make this payment.
I know this isnt the outcome Mrs O was hoping for. But it would be remiss of me to give 
Mrs O false hope that she can continue with the mortgage indefinitely when the opposite is 
the case. 
In all the circumstances, I am unable to find that TSB is obliged to allow the mortgage to 
continue to run, now that the term has expired and the balance is due to be paid to the bank 
out of the estate of the late Mr O. Mrs O is, of course, under no obligation to accept my 
decision, and if she doesnt want to she will be free to pursue her grievance against TSB in 
court. If Mrs O decides to take legal action, I would strongly suggest she takes legal advice 
from a qualified solicitor.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
This final decision concludes the Financial Ombudsman Services review of this complaint. 
This means that we are unable to consider the complaint any further, nor enter into any 
discussion about it.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs O, on behalf 
of the estate of Mr O, to accept or reject my decision before 8 January 2024.
 
Jan O'Leary
Ombudsman