DRN-3558421
The complaint
Mr and Mrs O complain that GE Money Consumer Lending Limited (GE Money) unfairly
turned down their claims under the Consumer Credit Act 1974 (CCA).
What happened
Mr and Mrs O bought membership of a timeshare from Business C in September 2007. 
The cost of the timeshare was £15,238 and it was funded by a point of sale loan from 
GE Money, arranged by Business C. The loan was for a higher amount than this, because 
it included an amount for refinancing. The loan was in joint names and it was set to run for 
fifteen years. GE Money says that the loan was repaid in full in February 2011 and it has 
provided evidence to support this.
In February 2020, Mr and Mrs O contacted GE Money to claim that, at the time the loan 
was arranged, Business C didnt have the correct regulatory permissions to arrange the 
loan. Mr and Mrs O are represented, but for ease I will generally refer to them throughout 
this decision.
GE Money treated the claim as a complaint and didnt uphold it. It said that the complaint 
had been brought too late. But that, in any case, Business C did have the necessary 
permissions to arrange the loan.
Mr and Mrs O then contacted us. In addition to maintaining that Business C hadnt had the 
right permissions when it arranged the loan, they also raised a number of new issues. In
summary:
- Business C had misrepresented the benefits of the timeshare membership.
- Mr and Mrs O had been put under pressure during the sale and didnt recall being given 
additional time to sign the loan documentation.
- GE Money hadnt carried out the correct affordability checks.
- There was an unfair relationship between GE Money and Mr and Mrs O due to
various issues, including misrepresentation by Business C of the timeshare
membership benefits and the high interest on the loan. 
- Mr and Mrs Os allegations are supported by the fact that a Spanish court found the
structure of Business C to be akin to a fraud.
We notified GE Money of the additional points raised. It sent another final response letter
which said, in summary, that most of the issues had been raised too late. And that for a
number of the issues, Mr and Mrs O should contact Business C about them.
An investigator here looked into things and reached a view. He said, in summary, that the
claims under CCA had been brought too late. He said that for section 75 (s.75),
Mr and Mrs O had 6 years from the date the cause of action accrued to make a claim to the
supplier and that he thought this was the date of sale. He said that for section 140A
(s.140A), Mr and Mrs O had 6 years from when the credit agreement ended to make a claim.
He said that in both instances Mr and Mrs O were out of time and that he therefore couldnt
say that GE Money had handled their claims unfairly.
Mr and Mrs O disagreed. They said, in summary, that:
- The view in relation to the time limits set out in the LA was overly technical. The 
Ombudsman Service has an inquisitorial remit, looks at things on a fair and reasonable 
basis and should take a holistic view of matters.
- The issues with the timeshare membership were fraudulently concealed from 
Mr and Mrs O at the point of sale and only came to light when they saw material online 
about timeshare mis-selling and when they subsequently sought advice. As such, the 
limitation period was postponed under section 32 (s.32) LA.
- The investigators view didnt address the concerns raised about Business C not
having had the necessary permissions to arrange the loan.
- Section 8 (s.8) of the LA is relevant and imposes a twelve-year limitation period.
Since the matter remained unresolved, it was passed to me to decide. I issued a provisional 
decision in May 2022. In it, I said:
GE Money has said that Mr and Mrs O would need to approach Business C about the 
allegations to do with information provided by Business C at the point of sale. However, I 
disagree. Under s.75 CCA, GE Money is required to consider claims for misrepresentation 
and/or breach of contract. And clearly allegations of misrepresentation are to do with 
information provided by the supplier of a product or service at the point of sale. S.140A is 
also relevant here.
However, for reasons that Ill go on to explain, I dont think this ultimately makes a 
difference to the outcome of this complaint.
Was the timeshare supplier authorised to arrange the loan?
Ive first considered Mr and Mrs Os concern that Business C wasnt authorised to arrange 
the loan. They say this means the loan was unlawful and that they lost out as a result.
At the date of sale the regulation of consumer credit was handled by the Office of Fair 
Trading (OFT). Having looked, I can see that the timeshare supplier did have the right 
OFT authorisations at the relevant time.
Mr and Mrs Os representative has also referred to a number of parts of the Financial 
Conduct Authority (FCA) Handbook that they say Business C didnt properly adhere to 
when it arranged the loan. But the FCA didnt regulate the sale of this particular loan, so I 
dont think they are relevant to this complaint.
Ive seen that Mr and Mrs Os representative has framed much of their complaint in the 
terms that Business C breached its authorisations by mis-selling the timeshare to them, so 
therefore the loan was granted contrary to the Financial Services and Markets Act 2000. 
But I think the concerns about that are dealt with in the claims made under the CCA. I dont 
think it follows that as Business C may have acted in a way that leads to a legal claim, they 
will have acted without authorisation in arranging the loan.Was the claim under s.75 CCA brought in time?
Mr and Mrs O say that Business C misrepresented to them the nature and benefits of the 
timeshare agreement, so they say GE Money is jointly liable under s.75 CCA and as such 
they have brought a like claim. GE Money has said Mr and Mrs Os claim has been 
brought out of time, by reference to the LA. If GE Money could show the claim was brought 
outside of the time limits set out in the LA, it would be entitled to rely on the LA as a 
defence to answering the claim. I should make it clear however that Im not deciding if any 
right that Mr and Mrs O may have to bring these claims has expired under the LA - thats a 
matter for the courts. In this decision Im considering if GE Money acted fairly and 
reasonably in turning down Mr and Mrs Os claims.
A claim for misrepresentation against the supplier would be ordinarily brought under s.2(1) 
of the Misrepresentation Act 1967. And it was held in Laws v. The Society of Lloyds [2003] 
EWCA 1887 that this type of claim is an action founded in tort covered by s.2 LA or an 
action brought for a sum recoverable by statute within s.9 LA. Under both of those 
provisions, a claimant has a period of six year to bring a claim from the date on which the 
cause of action accrued.
The date on which a cause of action accrued is the point in time that everything needed to 
make a legal claim occurred. So, in Mr and Mrs Os case, thats when they could have 
brought a claim for misrepresentation against Business C or a like claim against GE 
Money. I think that was the date they entered into the agreement to buy the timeshare  
which was in September 2007. It was at that time that they entered into an agreement 
based, they say, on the misrepresentations of Business C. And they say, had the 
misrepresentations not been made, they wouldnt have bought the timeshare. So, it was 
on that day that they suffered a loss, as they took out the loan from GE Money.
It follows, therefore, that I think the cause of action accrued in September 2007.
Mr and Mrs O had six years from then to make a claim. But they didnt try to contact GE 
Money about their claim until February 2020, which was outside of the time limits set out 
in the LA. So, I think GE Money acted fairly in turning down this misrepresentation claim.
The claim under s.140A CCA
Under this section a court may make an order under section 140B in connection with a 
credit agreement if it decides that the relationship between the debtor and the creditor 
arising out of the agreement is unfair. Only a court has the power to make such a 
determination but I think this is relevant law and I have taken it into account.
GE Money has provided evidence to show that Mr and Mrs Os loan agreement was paid 
off in February 2011 and this isnt disputed.
The LA applies to a claim under s.140A CCA too. It was held in Patel v. Patel [2009] 
EWHC 3264 (QB) that when considering s.140A CCA, the time for limitation purposes ran 
from the date that the credit agreement ended if it was not still running at the time the 
claim was made. And as the limitation period is six years, Mr and Mrs O had to make their 
claim within six years of February 2011. As they didnt do that, I think theyre likely to have 
made their claim too late.
Is there anything that extends the time limits?Ive thought about whether there is anything else that extends the time period under the 
LA. But having done this, I dont think there is. Mr and Mrs Os representative says that 
s.32 LA applies, because issues with the timeshare agreement were deliberately 
concealed by the supplier. They also say that the suppliers structure has been found to 
be akin to fraud.
S.32 LA states that in cases of fraud, deliberate concealment or mistake, the limitation 
period only starts to run from when a claimant discovers the fraud, concealment or 
mistake (or could have discovered it using reasonable diligence). But Mr and Mrs Os 
representative hasnt provided much in the way of detail about why it considers there was 
any deliberate concealment on Business Cs part. Im not currently persuaded by this 
argument. I have not been pointed toward any fact that Mr and Mrs O say was 
deliberately concealed from them that meant they were unable to realise they had a 
cause of action against Business C or GE Money.
In terms of the suggestion of fraud, again Mr and Mrs Os representative hasnt provided 
any real detail about what this was. Theyve referenced a court case which they say 
comments on the structure of Business C  saying that it was akin to fraud. But that is not 
an argument for specifically what it was about this case, that amounts to fraud committed 
against Mr and Mrs O.
Mr and Mrs Os representative has also suggested that section 8 (s.8) LA applies and that 
this means the limitations period is in fact twelve years. However, I think that it is section 9 
that applies here. S.8 is about actions on a speciality, but here Mr and Mrs O are 
attempting to recover monies paid using the CCA. That is plainly an action for sums 
recoverable by statute, so s.9 LA applies.
As Ive already said, its ultimately for the courts to decide whether or not any claim that
Mr and Mrs O may have against the supplier or GE Money has expired under the LA. But, 
as far as I can see from the information available, any claim that Mr and Mrs O might have 
against the supplier and/or GE Money most likely exceeded the time limits set out in the LA. 
I think it is reasonable to take that into account. And as a result, I am not persuaded that
GE Money acted unfairly in declining the claims.
Ive considered Mr and Mrs Os representatives comments about the basis upon which this 
service makes decisions and how it thinks that the investigators view about the relevance 
and application of the LA is overly technical. But Mr and Mrs O are making a legal claim 
against GE Money and I must take into account any defence it may have against those 
claims. Im satisfied that my provisional findings are in keeping with my remit and that GE 
Money acted fairly in turning down the claim.
Unaffordable lending
Mr and Mrs O say that GE Money didnt carry out the necessary checks to establish that 
the loan was affordable for them. However, Mr and Mrs O have provided very little detail 
about this particular allegation. And even if I were to find GE Money didnt do everything 
that it should have when it agreed to lend (and I make no such finding), in order to uphold 
this complaint on that basis, Id have to be satisfied that the lending was unaffordable for 
Mr and Mrs O and that they lost out as a result.
I havent seen any evidence to show that Mr and Mrs O had any affordability issues during 
the life of this loan. Theres nothing to suggest that they struggled to meet the loan 
repayments - for example - or otherwise had financial problems during the relevant time.So, I find there is insufficient evidence for me to uphold this complaint for this reason.
I asked for any further evidence or arguments to be provided by 17 June 2022 at the latest. 
GE Money didnt respond. Mr and Mrs Os representative did. They said, in summary:
- As regards the issue of whether the timeshare supplier had the correct permissions to 
broker the loan, I didnt specify which entity arranged the loan. When originally 
challenged on this point, GE Money didnt provide evidence of this and negative 
inferences should continue to be drawn from this.
- My provisional decision said that this issue could be dealt with under section 75 CCA 
when that isnt the case.
- They did not follow nor agree with my findings in relation to the timescales for 
Mr and Mrs O to bring a complaint under s.75 CCA. Mr and Mrs O did not know about 
the issues giving rise to a claim at the point of sale  in fact until they brought their 
complaint, nor could they have known using reasonable diligence. Therefore, time 
was not running for the purpose of limitations.
- As regards concealment, Mr and Mrs O were not informed that holiday availability 
would be on a first come first served basis, nor that members of the public had 
access to the same resorts. The timeshare suppliers lack of authorisation to arrange 
the loan was also concealed from Mr and Mrs O. 
- The act of the timeshare supplier requesting maintenance fees after the finance 
agreement ended, created a new limitation period.
- I should consider matters in the round. It cannot be fair or reasonable for GE Money to 
deploy a limitations defence when Mr and Mrs O have paid the timeshare supplier a 
lot of money and bearing in mind the findings of another ombudsman on another case, 
about the marketing practices of the timeshare supplier.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I still do not uphold this complaint. Ill explain why. 
Before I do, I again want to assure Mr and Mrs O that, if I dont address every point thats 
been raised, its not because I havent thought about it. I have considered everything thats 
been said and sent to us. But, Im going to concentrate in this decision on what I think is 
relevant and material to reaching a fair and reasonable outcome.
When evidence is incomplete, inconclusive, incongruent or contradictory, Ive made my
decision on the balance of probabilities  which, in other words, means Ive based it on what
I think is most likely to have happened given the available evidence and the wider
circumstances.
Mr and Mrs O say that it isnt fair or reasonable for GE Money to deploy a limitations defence 
and that I should consider matters in the round. They also reference a decision reached by 
another ombudsman on a different case involving the same supplier and argue that, given 
the findings in that case, I should reach a different outcome on this one. Claims under s.75 and s.140a are legal claims and so I still consider that I must take into 
account any defence GE Money may have against those claims. On the other point, each 
case is individual with different facts, issues and evidence and must be considered on its 
own merits. 
GE Money has said that Mr and Mrs O would need to approach Business C about the 
allegations to do with information provided by Business C at the point of sale. However, I still
disagree. Under s.75 CCA, GE Money is required to consider claims for misrepresentation
and/or breach of contract. And clearly allegations of misrepresentation are to do with
information provided by the supplier of a product or service at the point of sale. S.140A is
also relevant here.
However, for reasons that Ill go on to explain, I still dont think this ultimately makes a 
difference to the outcome of this complaint.
Was the timeshare supplier authorised to arrange the loan?
In response to my provisional findings (which form part of this decision), Mr and Mrs O have 
said that I havent said specifically which entity brokered the loan. Theyve said that negative 
inferences should be drawn from the fact that GE Money hasnt provided any evidence on 
this point. 
The legal entity that brokered the loan had different trading names at the time, one of which 
appears on the loan agreement. The legal entity had OFT registration. As such, Im satisfied 
the timeshare supplier had the necessary permissions to arrange the loan. 
Was the claim under s.75 CCA brought in time?
In response to my provisional findings, Mr and Mrs O have said that disagree with my 
analysis for when the time starts for the purpose of limitation. They say they didnt know of 
the issues giving rise to a claim under s.75 until they made their claim. And that, as such, the 
claim hasnt been brought too late.
Im not persuaded by Mr and Mrs Os arguments. As set out in my provisional findings, the 
date on which a cause of action accrued is the point in time that everything needed to make 
a legal claim occurred. So, in Mr and Mrs Os case, thats when they could have brought a 
claim for misrepresentation against Business C or a like claim against GE Money. I still think 
that was the date they entered into the agreement to buy the timeshare  which was in 
September 2007.
Notwithstanding this, I note that Mr and Mrs Os misrepresentation claim incorporates them 
saying they were misled as to the availability and exclusivity of holidays arranged through 
Business C. This is something that in all likelihood would have come to light not long after 
the time of sale. Mr and Mrs Os representatives claim that Mr and Mrs O didnt know about 
these misrepresentations until they made their claim in 2020 isnt persuasive. 
I continue to find that the claim under s.75 was brought too late.
Was the claim under s.140A CCA brought in time?
Mr and Mrs O have said that the time limit for a claim under s.140A is extended by virtue of 
the fact that Business C continued to demand maintenance fees from them under the 
agreement, as late as 2018. They say the demand of fees created new limitation periods. I disagree. S.140A CCA looks at the fairness of the relationship between a debtor and 
creditor arising out of the credit agreement (taken together with any related agreement). But 
once Mr and Mrs O repaid the loan in full, the agreement between them and GE Money 
ended. As it was only the relationship between Mr and Mrs O and GE Money that could be 
found unfair, I still find that limitation started to run when the credit agreement ended.
Is there anything else that extends the time limits?
Mr and Mrs O have also referenced concealment by Business C. They say that Business Cs 
lack of permissions to arrange the loan and the limited availability and non-exclusivity of 
holidays were all concealed from them and that this extends the time available to bring 
claims. 
I have already found that Business C did have the necessary permissions to arrange the 
loan, so it follows there was nothing to conceal in this regard.
Regarding the limited availability and non-exclusivity of holidays point, these are 
fundamentally misrepresentation arguments (framed as such by Mr and Mrs Os 
representative in the original letter of complaint to this Service) i.e. that Mr and Mrs O were 
led to believe they would enjoy unlimited availability and complete exclusivity. Therefore, my 
earlier findings about any claim under s.75 for misrepresentation apply. I also repeat the 
point I made earlier  it is highly unlikely that Mr and Mrs O werent aware of these issues 
shortly after buying the timeshare and taking out the associated loan.
To conclude, Ive seen no evidence of any deliberate concealment on Business Cs part that 
would extend the time limits to bring claims under either s.75 or s.140 CCA.
Unaffordable lending
Neither party have provided any further evidence or arguments on this point. As such, I see 
no reason to depart from my provisional findings. I still therefore find that there is insufficient 
evidence for me to uphold this complaint for this reason. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold Mr and Mrs Os complaint against GE Money 
Consumer Lending Limited.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr O and Mrs O to 
accept or reject my decision before 21 July 2022.
 
Ben Brewer
Ombudsman