DRN-3040885
The complaint
Mr P complains that Smith & Williamson Financial Services Limited (SWFS) gave him
unsuitable advice in connection with the transfer of his benefits in a final salary occupational
pension scheme (OPS) to a self invested personal pension (SIPP).
What happened
Ive considered Mr Ps complaint before. I issued a provisional decision on 10 August 2021. 
Ive recapped here what I said had happened and what Id (provisionally) decided and why. 
Mr P was a financial adviser with SWFS. He had preserved benefits in a former employers 
defined benefits pension scheme. He approached a colleague who was a pension transfer 
specialist. Theres a dispute about what was agreed about fees. There are also other areas 
of disagreement.
There was an initial meeting in October 2015. The file note of the meeting records that Mr 
P would like to facilitate the transfer of his [deferred OPS benefits] to a SIPP and that he 
was required to obtain appropriate independent advice from a FCA [Financial Conduct 
Authority] authorised adviser. In a questionnaire Mr P said he wanted to transfer to a SIPP 
to give him greater control over his investment decisions.
There was a further meeting in November 2015. The file note (which Mr P doesnt agree 
is accurate) dated 2 November 2015 records:
SWFSs adviser and Mr P discussed the TVAS (transfer value analysis report) 
and the critical yield. Mr P explained why he thought he could achieve the 
critical yield. The adviser said hed urge Mr P to reconsider as the critical yield 
was so high at 7.3% that it would be very difficult to achieve.
The adviser explained the difference between defined benefits and money 
purchase pensions. Mr P said he understood but hed still like to transfer.
Mr P could arrange a transfer himself against SWFSs advice. The adviser 
would sign a declaration to confirm hed given advice. But the advice was not to 
transfer.
Mr P wanted to transfer anyway. SWFS provided the declaration to the OPS trustees to 
confirm Mr P had received advice. The transfer went ahead and a transfer value of £57,446 
the OPS to Mr Ps new SIPP.
SWFSs adviser contacted Mr P by email on 22 November 2018. By then Mr P was 
working for another firm of financial advisers. Hed also qualified as a pension transfer 
specialist. SWFSs adviser said that the regulator had asked all firms with permissions to 
give defined benefit transfer advice to complete a questionnaire about advice given, if the 
advice was to transfer or not and the number of insistent clients  which the adviser 
indicated was zero. The adviser said he hadnt done an advice letter for Mr P. Hed made 
a file note (as referred to above) but he planned to send a brief note or letter to confirm 
hed advised Mr P not to transfer, that hed signed a form to say hed given advice, and 
that Mr P had arranged the transfer himself and against the advice.
In June 2019 Mr P complained to SWFS. In summary he said the usual advice process 
hadnt been followed; discussions had been inaccurately recorded; his attitude to 
investment risk wasnt ascertained; the difference between defined benefits and money 
purchase schemes hadnt been adequately explained; errors in the TVAS hadnt been 
identified; and historic discretionary increases to pensions in payment from the OPS hadnt 
been taken into account. Mr P also said he shouldve been treated as an insistent client. He 
wanted to be put in the position hed be in if the transfer hadnt gone ahead.
SWFS didnt uphold the complaint. In summary it said:
Although Mr P wasnt (at the time) authorised to provide defined benefit transfer 
advice, he did give pensions and investment advice and he was aware of the risks 
of defined benefits transfers.
The standard process hadnt been followed. That was due to Mr Ps unique 
position and because he wanted to keep fees to a minimum. The adviser hadnt, 
in the end, charged any fee as Mr P didnt accept the advice given.
It had been agreed that Mr P would undertake administrative requirements to 
the firms normal standards but that wasnt done.
At the time there was no requirement to issue a suitability report for advice not 
to transfer.
Mr P wasnt an insistent client as SWFS didnt arrange the transfer on his 
behalf. SWFS do not, and has never, processed insistent client defined benefit 
transfers.
Mr Ps main reason for transferring was that he felt he could achieve or better the 
critical yield. The risks were pointed out but Mr P repeatedly brought the 
discussions back to how he thought he could beat the critical yield over the long 
term. The adviser urged him to reconsider but Mr P decided to transfer against 
SWFSs advice.
Mr P referred his complaint to us. He set his concerns in some detail. His main points were:
SWFS had overplayed his pension knowledge and experience. He gave details of 
his financial services career and his qualifications, which predated the pensions 
freedom changes. He hadnt held pension transfer advice permissions and he 
wasnt a pension transfer specialist. He provided evidence to show that when he 
joined SWFS his pensions knowledge was poor. In 2015 hed been instructed to 
study for a further qualification to address a gap in his knowledge.
His stated objective in transferring  to give him greater control over investment 
decisions  wasnt a valid reason for transferring and shows a lack of 
understanding. The technicalities of defined benefits transfers were beyond his 
then skill set and he was reliant on advice.
He explained the timing for his complaint. He didnt agree with what the adviser said 
in his email of 22 November 2018. Mr P hadnt seen the note of the meeting on 2 
November 2015 before then. But he didnt act as he didnt want to get the adviser 
in trouble. But he revisited the email the following year and noticed the reference 
to zero insistent clients which he took as an attempt by SWFS to inform him he 
wasnt an insistent client.The meeting note was inaccurate and incomplete. Hed explicitly said hed be 
entering a drawdown arrangement and there had been a conversation about that. 
Hed given conflicting answers in the questionnaire which hadnt been identified 
and challenged. Suitability had been based on the critical yield alone. SWFS had 
failed to consider his risk profile  if hed been a low risk investor, a critical yield of 
7.3% pa wouldve been virtually impossible to achieve. SWFS had failed to make 
sure he understood how the CETV (cash equivalent transfer value) was calculated.
Hed approached Prudential for a TVAS as the adviser had said thered be no 
charge. The TVAS used the wrong rate of revaluation. It should have been 
prepared with a retirement age of 65 and taking into account late retirement 
factors. The drawdown rate needed to match the benefits wouldve been higher 
which wouldve influenced his decision to transfer. As the advice was based solely 
on the critical yield then the adviser shouldve ensured it was correct. It wasnt and 
so hed made his decision based on incorrect information.
SWFS had confirmed it hadnt followed the standard advice process. There was 
no fee agreement. It hadnt been agreed that the adviser would charge on time 
costed basis. Or that Mr P had agreed to carry out the administrative duties 
himself.
A suitability report shouldve been provided (see COBS (Conduct of 
Business Sourcebook) 9.4.1R).
He shouldve been treated as an insistent client as per COBS 9.5A.2R. SWFS had 
facilitated the transfer by signing the confirmation of advice form. SWFS shouldnt 
have facilitated the transfer, especially as he hadnt disclosed his income and 
assets. It wasnt the case that hed been unwilling to engage in a conversation to 
show that he did understand the risks.
In support of his complaint Mr P provided a TVC (transfer value comparator). The TVAS 
said the estimated pension at 60 was £5,895.18 and £6,669.86 at 68. The TVC, using the 
same calculation date, estimated benefits at 60 of £6,816.97, £8,869.69 at 65 and 
£10,540.08 at 68. The difference, at age 65 which is when he wanted to retire, on the TVAS 
was about £2,000 less. That was a huge difference and wouldve meant he wouldnt have 
transferred. 
The investigator issued his view on 22 May 2020. For the reasons he set out he was unable 
to uphold the complaint. In summary he said:
The circumstances surrounding the complaint were unusual. Mr P wasnt an 
average consumer or retail client. The usual procedures werent fully undertaken.
SWFS recommended that Mr P didnt transfer. It seems he made his own decision 
to go ahead anyway. SWFS wasnt responsible for Mr Ps decision. He intended to 
transfer and needed to confirm to the OPS trustees that hed had advice. Although 
hed suggested he wouldnt have gone ahead had a full review been undertaken, 
hed transferred against advice. He was knowledgeable about pensions and the 
requirements surrounding pension transfers.
The note of the meeting on 27 October 2015 recorded that Mr P wanted to 
facilitate the transfer of his OPS to a SIPP and he knew he had to obtain 
independent advice from an authorized adviser. It didnt seem he wanted advice 
on the suitability of the transfer. He said he wanted to transfer to a SIPP to give 
him greater control over investment decisions.
SWFS shouldve treated Mr P as a standard retail customer and followed and   
documented the correct process and charged Mr P its usual fee. But the investigator understood why, in the circumstances, a more informal approach was 
adopted.
There was no regulatory requirement at the time to produce a full 
written recommendation when the advice was not to transfer.
If a retail client is advised against but nevertheless wants to proceed, it may 
be possible to treat them as an insistent client. That involves completing 
relevant paperwork. But SWFS didnt provide an insistent client facility so it 
wasnt able to treat Mr P as such.
What Mr P had said about why the transfer shouldnt have been recommended 
wasnt relevant, given that SWFSs advice was not to transfer. Mr P was able to 
undertake his own research and decide whether or not to transfer. Even if the 
normal process wasnt undertaken, it wasnt reasonable to hold SWFS responsible 
as SWFS had told Mr P not to  transfer.
Mr P was disappointed by the investigators findings. His main points were:
He wasnt qualified as a pension transfer specialist at the time and he had no 
understanding or experience of the procedures for defined benefits transfers. 
Hed only passed the relevant examinations in 2018. It was unrealistic to suggest 
he shouldve undertaken his own research. He hadnt intended to transfer from 
the start. He was reliant on the advisers advice  the adviser had over twenty 
years experience. His decision to transfer was based on incorrect information 
provided by the adviser.
Both parties had different views about what happened. The burden of proof was 
with SWFS. If it couldnt prove or disprove any disputed facts then Mr Ps version 
of events should prevail. SWFS hadnt kept orderly records as requested by 
SYSC
9.1.1 and SWFSs own compliance manual.
SWFSs advice was unsuitable. SWFS may have recommended the correct 
outcome
 that Mr P shouldnt transfer  but breaches of COBS 19.1R meant the advice 
was unsuitable. COBS 9.2R and COBS 8.1R had also been breached.
He reiterated that SWFS shouldve followed an insistent client procedure. If, as it 
says, it doesnt process insistent client transfers, then it shouldnt have signed to 
say advice had been given. SWFS does transact business with insistent clients on 
an execution only basis. He shouldve been treated as an execution only client 
and the adviser shouldnt have signed the advice confirmation.
The benefits at age 65 were understated by 39%, making the rate of return 
required to match the OPS benefits unachievable. He wouldnt have been 
prepared to risk losing the guaranteed income from the OPS if the correct figures 
had been used as he wouldnt have been confident he could achieve the 
necessary rate of return. He should have waited until he was closer to retirement.
The advisers responsibility was to help prevent him from making a foolish 
decision. There shouldve been a formal, in depth conversation as to why he was 
transferring contrary to the advice. Hed have taken on board any suggestion to 
defer his decision. Instead the adviser simply said he was mad to consider 
transferring based on the critical yield. That wasnt something that was important 
to Mr P and so he discounted the advisers rationale for not transferring.The investigator considered Mr Ps comments but he wasnt persuaded to change his 
view. Mr P replied, reiterating earlier made points. He said hed made a mistake but the 
transfer shouldnt have been allowed to happen.
As agreement wasnt reached the complaint was referred to me to decide.
What Ive provisionally decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Im broadly in agreement with the 
investigators findings. But I wanted to set out in more detail my findings, especially as Mr 
P has made extensive comments.
Ive focused on what I consider to be the central issues. I havent dealt with each and 
every point Mr P has raised. For example, hes cited a large number of possible breaches 
of the COBS rules. Im required, under DISP 3.6.4R, in considering whats fair and 
reasonable in all the circumstances of the case, to take into account relevant law and 
regulations; regulators rules, guidance and standards; codes of practice and, where 
appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry practice at the relevant time. 
Given that a main aim of regulation is consumer protection, any regulatory breaches may 
well be relevant to our consideration of a complaint. That said, we dont fine or impose 
other sanctions for regulatory breaches. Ive not considered each and every alleged 
breach in isolation but as part of Mr Ps overall complaint.
Theres no dispute that SWFS advised Mr P not to transfer. So in that sense SWFSs 
advice wasnt unsuitable. SWFS accepts that, because Mr P was an employee, the usual 
advice process wasnt followed. Although Mr P is correct that, as he wasnt a professional 
client or eligible counterparty he was a retail client and shouldve been treated as such, I 
can see how it happened that things were done more informally.
Where the evidence is incomplete, inconclusive, or contradictory (as some of it is here), I 
reach my decision on the balance of probabilities  in other words, what I consider is most 
likely to have happened in light of all the available evidence and the wider circumstances. It 
isnt really the case, as Mr P has suggested, that its for SWFS to prove or disprove any 
areas of dispute. Sometimes, particularly if theres no contemporaneous documentary 
evidence and its just a question of which partys recollection is more likely to be accurate, 
it may not be possible to reach any firm conclusions. And Ill only decide issues that I 
consider are relevant  that is material to the outcome of the complaint.
As Ive noted above, there are several areas of disagreement between the parties. For 
example, about what was agreed as to fees; whether Mr P agreed to undertake 
administrative and file keeping tasks himself to keep costs down; and if he approached 
Prudential for a TVAS because the adviser told him to do so. Mr P also says the note of 
the meeting on 2 November 2015 wasnt accurate. And his and the advisers recollections 
differ as to how that meeting went and what was discussed.
I dont see that much turns on how it came about that Mr P asked Prudential for a TVAS. 
Ive considered below what he says about inaccuracies in the TVAS and the impact on his 
decision to transfer. But I dont think why he approached Prudential matters much. And, as 
to fees, given that, in the end, SWFS didnt charge Mr P, whether that was agreed at the 
outset or the adviser later decided to waive his fee, is, to some extent at least, irrelevant. 
But a signed fee agreement or some other record as to what was agreed wouldve put the 
matter beyond doubt.Mr P says that SWFS was obliged to keep proper records and, as he didnt agree hed do 
some of the work himself to keep costs down, it isnt his fault if SWFSs records are 
incomplete. In my view, even if Mr P did agree to agree to undertake some administrative 
or file maintenance tasks himself, it would still be up to SWFS or its compliance team to 
check that adequate records had been maintained.
Mr P says the note of the meeting on 2 November 2015 isnt accurate. Hes explained why 
he didnt query it when he first saw a copy in November 2018. Although SWFS says the 
note was available on file to Mr P during the time he worked for SWFS, I think a copy 
shouldve been given to Mr P at the time. That wouldve gone some way to avoid later 
arguments about the accuracy or completeness of what was recorded. And it wouldve 
helped SWFS meet the requirement under COBS 19.1.9G (mentioned further below) to put 
its advice in writing.
The note records that Mr P believed he could better the critical yield of 7.3%. And thats the 
advisers recollection. Mr P says the note shouldve recorded hed be entering into a 
drawdown arrangement and his decision to transfer was based on his belief the required 
drawdown rate of return (say 5%) was achievable. But I dont see any real reason to doubt 
that the note was prepared at the time. And, I think, given its importance, the adviser is 
likely to have recorded accurately what he understood was Mr Ps reason for wanting to go 
ahead with the transfer, despite advice to the contrary.
The note also says that the adviser explained the difference between defined benefits 
and money purchase pension arrangements. Although Mr Ps said his pension skills 
were lacking, I think hed have understood the main distinctions and, importantly, that his 
OPS offered guaranteed benefits whereas the new arrangement would be dependent on 
investment returns and hed be taking on that investment risk himself.
Mr Ps point is that SWFSs advice wasnt detailed enough and, in some respects, was 
wrong. But SWFS is right when it says that, at the time, there was no requirement to issue 
a suitability report if the advice was not to transfer. So regardless of whether Mr P 
dispensed with a suitability report to save money, SWFS wasnt obliged to provide one.
However, SWFS shouldve confirmed its advice in writing. COBS 19.1.9G (as it was at the 
time) says that if a firm proposes to advise a retail client not to proceed with a pension 
transfer, it should give that advice in writing. SWFS accepts that. And I think the adviser 
recognised that when he emailed Mr P on 22 November 2018. But I dont see that Mr P 
has been disadvantaged when its clear he knew that SWFSs advice was that he 
shouldnt transfer. Simply restating that in writing wouldnt, in my view, have made any 
difference.
Mr P says he gave conflicting answers in the questionnaire he completed which werent 
explored. I think Mr P is referring here to the section of the form dealing with capacity for 
risk  he says his attitude to risk wasnt assessed or taken into account. He makes the 
point that a low risk profile would make the critical yield impossible to achieve. But, 
regardless of the degree of risk Mr P had indicated he was prepared, and could afford, to 
take, SWFSs adviser didnt think the critical yield was achievable and told Mr P that. I dont 
see that further discussions around Mr Ps risk profile wouldve changed that.
Mr P also says SWFS shouldve recognised that his stated objective  to give him greater 
control over investment decisions  wasnt a valid reason for transferring. But, again, the 
advice was not to transfer  because Mr P wouldnt be able to generate the necessary 
investment returns to match the benefits hed be given up. I dont think, in the 
circumstances, it was necessary for SWFS to specifically address Mr Ps stated aim and 
say why that didnt justify transferring.Mr P says that the adviser was wrong to proceed when Mr P hadnt been prepared to make 
full disclosure of his financial position. I can understand why Mr P didnt want to give a 
colleague that sort of information. But, as a financial adviser, Mr P wouldve known the 
risks in not providing full details of his finances. And Mr P confirmed (in an email to the 
adviser on 27 October 2015) that he understood that failure to provide that information 
could impact on the advice (an which might be different if full information had been given) 
and he took full responsibility for that. Mr P couldve gone to an unconnected adviser. I 
dont see that SWFS is responsible for his decision not to do that. Or that SWFSs adviser 
was wrong to proceed on the basis of the information he had and when hed made Mr P 
aware of the risks.
The key information that the adviser had was the TVAS. Mr P has said the adviser didnt 
explain how the critical yield was calculated. The calculation is complex and Mr P may well 
not have fully understood it. But I think hed have known that it was the average year on 
year rate of return required to match the benefits hed be giving up in the OPS.
Mr P has suggested the TVAS contained errors. I can see he might have an argument 
that although he thought hed be able to achieve growth of around 7.3% pa, he might not 
have been so confident if the correct critical yield was higher. Hes mentioned RPI (Retail 
Price Index) revaluation, late retirement factors and discretionary increases.
I dont fully follow Mr Ps argument about RPI. He says SWFS was wrong to say that RPI is 
assumed to be 2.5% in the TVAS and as such the critical yield is unaffected by whether 
RPI is capped at 2.5% or 5% pa. Mr P says the TVAS uses the actual RPI figures from 30 
January 2011 to 20 September 2015 and thereafter a rate of 2.5% is assumed. I think that 
is the case. So the TVAS correctly uses the higher (that is more than 2.5% pa) and actual 
rate for the period 30 January 2011 to 20 September 2015. On that basis the TVAS would 
be correct even if what SWFS may have said about the rate used was wrong.
Possible discretionary increases to pensions in payment from the OPS werent 
considered. But theres no suggestion the OPS had any recent history of agreeing such 
increases. The OPS was in deficit and, although the employer had agreed to provide very 
substantial extra funding, I dont think that meant there was a realistic possibility the OPS 
would end up in surplus and discretionary increases agreed in the future.
The TVAS was based on benefit up to age 60 (the normal retirement age under the OPS) 
and age 68, when Mr Ps state pension would become payable. But Mr P had said he 
wanted to retire at age 65 and the TVAS didnt take into account late retirement factors. 
SWFS has agreed that there is an argument that two TVAS shouldve been obtained, one 
for NRA 60 and another for late retirement at age 65.
As to what difference that wouldve made to the critical yield, I note that Mr P has since 
obtained his own TVC. Thats a slightly different and, in some respects, a simpler 
calculation to a TVAS. But critical yields feature in both.
The TVC gives figures for Mr Ps estimated OPS benefits at age 60 (£6,816.97) and 65 
(£8,869.69) and taking into account late retirement factors. As Mr P has said, theres a 
significant difference. The critical yields for annuity purchase at age 60 are 7.46% (joint 
life, all benefit taken as pension); 6.94% (single life, all benefits taken as pension); and 
5.27% (hurdle rate, all benefits taken as pension). The drawdown income (assuming the 
medium rate of return) will exhaust the fund at age 84. The comparable critical yields at 
age 65 were 6.73%; 6.26%; and 5.06% with the fund running out at age 87. Those figures 
are lower than the critical yield of 7.3% on which Mr Ps decision to proceed with the 
transfer was based.Mr P says advice shouldnt just be based on the critical yield. I agree. In some 
circumstances a transfer may be justified despite a high critical yield. Conversely, where 
the critical yield is more modest, other factors may mean that a transfer shouldnt be 
recommended. SWFS says discussions about whether a transfer might be justified despite 
the high critical yield didnt proceed further because Mr P wasnt receptive. Mr P doesnt 
agree thats how it was. But the point is that he was prepared to go ahead despite very 
clear advice to the contrary. In the circumstances I think its difficult for Mr P to argue 
successfully that his decision wouldve been different if the discussions had been more 
detailed and if more reasons had been put forward as to why he shouldnt transfer.
As to the timing and whether Mr P shouldve been told to defer any decision to transfer, 
given that the advice was not to transfer then, by implication, the possibility of 
transferring later couldve been revisited at a later date. I dont see SWFS is at fault for 
not suggesting that Mr P defer his decision when the advice was not to transfer anyway.
Mr P also says he was an insistent client and shouldve be treated as such. And he says 
SWFSs advisers email of 22 November 2018 seeks to reduce his time for bringing a 
complaint. Mr P refers to there being a carve out from the primary six year period where 
the complainant isnt aware of the negligence (or cause for complaint). In that case the time 
limit is three years from when the complainant became aware (or shouldve become aware) 
he had cause for complaint. He says that would mean hed be unable, because of the 
advisers email, to complain after 22 November 2021 about SWFSs failure to classify him 
as an insistent client.
I think the three year time limit is more of an addition rather than a carve out. Any 
complaint, whenever made, would centre on the advice that was given and how SWFS 
dealt with the matter generally. The advice was given in November 2015. That means Mr P 
had six years to complain. That takes him to November 2021. And if hed only later 
discovered that he might have cause to complain hed have three years from when he 
became aware (or reasonably ought to have become aware). In any event, nothing turns 
on this as theres no suggestion that Mr Ps complaint has been made too late. He 
complained in June 2019 which is very comfortably within the primary six year period for 
making a complaint.
Ive considered what Mr P says about being an insistent client. Firms arent required to deal 
with insistent clients. It seems that was generally SWFS position  that it wouldnt 
undertake transactions on an insistent client basis. Mr P has pointed to COBS 9.5A.2G. It 
says that a client should be considered an insistent client where the firm has given the 
client a personal recommendation but the client then decides to enter into a transaction 
which is different from that recommended and the client wishes the firm to facilitate that 
transaction.
COBS 9.5A.3G goes on to set out the information that must be communicated to an 
insistent client. The client must be informed that the firm hasnt recommended the 
transaction and it wont be in accordance with the firms personal recommendation; the 
reasons why that is; the risks of the proposed transaction; and the reasons why the firm 
didnt recommend that transaction to the client. And COBS 9.5A.4G requires an 
acknowledgement from the insistent client and, where possible, in the clients own words.
Those COBS provisions werent introduced until 3 January 2018. But I think they reflect the 
general position prior to then in terms of what constitutes an insistent client and the sort of 
process firms who deal with such clients might be expected to have in place. Including 
asking the client to sign documentation recording that they are proceeding against the 
advice given and, ideally, explaining in their own words, why they want to act contrary to the advice theyve received. SWFS doesnt have that sort of procedure in place because it 
says it doesnt act for insistent clients.
And I dont think Mr P was an insistent client. I agree hed been given a personal 
recommendation and he wanted to enter into a transaction different from that. But I dont 
see that SWFS facilitated the transaction. From what Ive seen Mr P arranged the transfer 
himself and SWFS didnt benefit financially from the transaction.
Mr P has pointed to the fact that the adviser signed the confirmation of advice. I 
agree, without that, the transfer couldnt have gone ahead. But thats because of 
obligations imposed on the OPS trustees. Section 48 of the Pension Schemes Act 
2015 requires that trustees or scheme managers check that advice has been given 
(by a firm with the relevant permissions) before allowing a transfer to proceed where 
there are defined benefits or other safeguarded benefits worth more than £30,000. 
The requirement doesnt extend to ensuring that positive advice to transfer has been 
given. Someone who has received advice not to transfer can still go ahead.
I dont think simply confirming that the required advice has been given amounts to 
facilitating the transfer. Even though, and as SWFS knew, without its confirmation the 
transfer couldnt have gone ahead. Facilitating the transfer would, in my view, mean that 
SWFS undertook further work in connection with the transaction. I havent seen anything to 
suggest that was the case. It seems Mr P undertook the further steps (such as setting up 
the new SIPP and liaising with the OPS trustees and the SIPP provider as to the transfer) 
himself.
Mr Ps argument is that, if a formal insistent client procedure been undertaken, with more 
steps taken to draw to his attention the fact that he was acting contrary to SWFSs advice 
and why he wanted to proceed despite advice to the contrary discussed, that wouldve 
concentrated his mind further and may have led to him reconsidering his decision to go 
ahead. But, as Mr P wasnt an insistent client, there was no obligation on SWFS to take 
those extra steps and or have those conversations.
Mr P has also mentioned execution only clients. It seems that SWFS did, in certain 
circumstances, transact business on an execution only basis. The regulators handbook 
describes an execution only transaction as:
a transaction  executed by a firm upon the specific instructions of a client where
the firm does not give advice on investments relating to the merits of the transaction and in 
relation to which the rules on assessment of appropriateness ( COBS 10) do not apply.
But that wasnt the situation here  SWFSs adviser had given advice to Mr P (and even if 
that advice wasnt confirmed in writing). The adviser acted correctly by confirming  
presumably at Mr Ps request so that the transfer could go ahead  that advice had been 
given. I dont see, having given advice, that SWFS could then have treated Mr P as an 
execution only client.
Mr P says he made a mistake in transferring and, knowing what he now knows, he wouldnt 
make the same decision again. He says SWFS shouldnt have allowed him to make the 
mistake he did. But SWFS clear advice was that he shouldnt transfer. In the 
circumstances, and despite any shortcomings in SWFSs advice and approach, I dont think 
it would be fair and reasonable to say that SWFS is responsible for any losses Mr P may 
have sustained as a result of transferring.
SWFS didnt comment on my provisional decision. Mr P said he agreed with what Id said 
about a number of issues (fees, TVAS production, and completion of paperwork having little or no relevance to advice). He maintained that S&W had facilitated the transfer but he 
accepted what Id said about that and that there was no requirement to produce a suitability 
report and treating him as an insistent client. 
But he asked me to revise my views and reach a finding in his favour based on his further 
comments. In summary:
Id accepted that the advisers file note had recorded correctly that Mr Ps position 
was that he could better the critical yield. But that contradicted information in the 
advisers own notes and the pension questionnaire about Mr P wanting greater 
control and flexibility which Mr P suggested may have been overlooked. 
Even if Mr P had said (which he didnt) that he could beat the critical yield, the 
adviser shouldnt be using the critical yield as the basis of his recommendation and 
when Mr P had expressly stated that he didnt intend purchasing an annuity at 
retirement. 
The adviser had ignored information that was relevant to Mr Ps decision to transfer 
and hadnt paid proper attention to the TVAS report. The regulator has said that firms 
shouldnt recommend pension transfers based solely on whether or not the critical 
yield is below a certain rate set by the firm for assessing transfers generally. The 
recommendation wasnt adequately justified. That meant the advice was unsuitable.  
The OPS was now in surplus and its possible that discretionary increases would be 
agreed in the future. 
Both the critical yield and the TVAS were incorrect. Pension increases in deferment 
had been incorrectly calculated. The benefits payable at age 60 had been 
understated by 19.8%. And the critical yield was understated too. The correct critical 
yield was 8.1%. The drawdown calculations were wrong too. 
Had the correct critical yield been quoted and discretionary bonuses/late retirement 
factors disclosed he wouldve decided not to transfer. He wasnt in a position to make 
an informed decision.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive considered carefully all Mr P has said in response to my provisional decision. But I 
havent been persuaded to change my mind. I maintain that his complaint shouldnt be 
upheld. I set out my views in some detail in my provisional decision and I dont have much to 
add, aside from some comments on the main points Mr P raised in response to my 
provisional decision.  
I dont agree that what the advisers own notes and the pension questionnaire recorded as to 
Mr Ps reasons for contemplating a transfer cast doubt on my finding that the meeting note 
dated 2 November 2015 correctly recorded that Mr P had said he could beat the critical 
yield. Im still prepared to accept, on balance, and for the reasons Ive given, that what the 
note says was accurate. 
The discussion at the meeting on 2 November 2015 appears to have centred on the critical 
yield. I note what Mr P has said about the advice being unsuitable because other factors 
werent explored. But the point is that the adviser gave suitable advice  he told Mr P he 
shouldnt transfer. Regardless of what Mr P may perceive as shortcomings in that advice, such as not looking at factors other than the critical yield, the advice not to transfer was 
suitable. 
I dont think, having identified that the transfer wasnt suitable, the adviser needed to have 
gone further. Particularly given that he was advising a colleague and a somewhat more 
informal advice process was adopted. The adviser had identified a central reason why he 
couldnt recommend the transfer. I think in the circumstances of this case that was enough 
for the adviser to make his recommendation  that Mr P shouldnt transfer.
I can see Mr Ps argument that, if thered been further or more detailed discussions, hed 
have thought again. But, and as I said in my provisional decision, given that Mr P was 
prepared to go ahead despite very clear advice against, I think its difficult for him to argue 
successfully that his decision wouldve been different if more reasons had been put forward 
in an attempt to dissuade him. 
I note what Mr P says about the OPS currently being in surplus. But I maintain what Ive said 
previously about discretionary increases. As Mr P concedes, whether bonuses will be paid or 
not cant be predicted.
Ive also noted all Mr P has said about why the TVAS and the critical yield were incorrect. 
But, and even if the critical yield was understated by 0.8%, that wouldnt change my 
decision. Mr P has said there was no way hed have given up a 8.1% guaranteed return 
and which potentially might be higher through the payment of bonuses. 
But the point is that he was apparently prepared to give up a guaranteed return of 7.3%.  I 
know hes said he didnt indicate that hed be able to beat that critical yield but, for the 
reasons Ive previously explained, Im prepared to accept that he did say that. And, in the 
face of clear advice not to proceed, he went ahead. Against that background I think its 
difficult to say that his position wouldve been different if the stated critical yield had been 
higher. My view might have been different if, for example, the differential between the critical 
yield quoted and the correct critical yield was very large. But I dont think the margin Mr P 
has pointed to (and assuming what he says is right and that the correct critical yield was 
8.1% and not 7.3%) is significant enough to make me change my mind, given the 
background Ive set out. 
Mr P says he wasnt in a position to make a properly informed decision. But he was prepared 
to transfer in the face of clear advice against. I dont think, despite any shortcomings in the 
advice process, that I can say his decision wouldve been different. n the circumstances, 
SWFS isnt responsible for any losses Mr P has sustained in consequence of transferring. 
My final decision
I dont uphold the complaint and Im not making any award. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision before 13 October 2021. 
Lesley Stead
Ombudsman