DRN-3906236
The complaint
Mrs D and Mr D complain Alwyn Insurance Company Limited wrongly declined their claim for 
cover under their legal expenses insurance policy.
Where I refer to Alwyn this includes their agents and claims handlers acting on their behalf.
What happened
In October 2016 Mrs D and Mr D instructed a conveyancing firm (C) to act on the purchase 
of a property (Property A). They intended to move into Property A to help resolve their 
financial difficulties at the time. In the end they were able to get back on track and didnt 
need to sell their existing property (Property B). So they decided to let Property A.
In 2017 they fell into debt and took a buy-to-let mortgage on Property A. In around May 2021 
the lender discovered Mrs D and Mr Ds title to Property A hadnt been properly registered, 
so their loan wasnt secured. They contacted C to find out what steps were being taken to 
resolve the matter. When no progress was made, they asked for a copy of Cs file and found 
that title had been rejected.
In late August 2021 Mrs D and Mr D took out legal expenses insurance (LEI) with Alwyn 
which came into effect on 7 September. On 21 September Mrs D and Mr D received a letter 
from the lenders lawyers informing them of the problem. Mrs D and Mr D made a claim on 
their LEI policy to take action against C and the seller of Property A.
Alwyn rejected the claim. They said there was no cover as the claim Mrs D and Mr D wished 
to make didnt involve a dispute about the purchase or sale of their home. And whilst there 
might be cover for a dispute about the purchase of goods or services, that claim was 
excluded since the dispute existed before the policy began.
Mrs D and Mr D said their claim was about the service theyd received from C in relation to 
the purchase of Property A. And since they werent aware of the dispute before they took out 
the LEI policy, their claim should be covered.
Alwyn didnt uphold Mrs D and Mr Ds complaint, so they brought it to the Financial 
Ombudsman Service. Our investigator said the claim was covered and Alwyn should deal 
with it. Mrs D and Mr D accepted her view, but Alwyn didnt respond. So, the complaint was 
passed to me to decide. I recently issued a provisional decision, an extract of which follows:
What Ive provisionally decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. 
Im sorry to hear of the difficult position Mrs D and Mr D find themselves in. Im issuing a 
provisional decision to give the parties the chance to make further comments. Thats 
because Mrs D and Mr Ds claim for cover to pursue the seller of Property A hasnt been 
considered so far.
In line with the relevant Financial Conduct Authority rules relating to insurance, wed expect 
Alwyn to deal fairly and promptly with Mrs D and Mr Ds insurance claim and not to decline it 
unreasonably. Ive considered their complaint against that background.
The starting point is the terms and conditions of Mrs D and Mr Ds policy under which Alwyn 
have rightly considered their claim. They say:
This insurance will provide assistance to pursue or defend [Mrs D and Mr Ds] legal 
rights in a range of issues affecting everyday life including:

Disputes over the purchase of goods and services
Disputes over the purchase or sale of your home.
Both those types of dispute fall within the Insured incident 2: Consumer Contract Disputes 
section of the policy which says the cover provided is for the legal costs and expenses to
Pursue or defend a dispute arising from a breach or alleged breach of contract
entered into by an insured person for:

b) buying or hiring in services;

d) buying or selling your home.
The section says:
Please note that:
(i) the contract must be entered into in a personal capacity and not for an insured 
persons business use
Home was defined in the policy as:
The private residence, normally occupied by you as a principle or holiday home, 
located in the territorial limit at the following address:
[Mrs D and Mr Ds home address].
Cover is subject to the terms and conditions of the policy which include the following 
exclusion on which Alwyn rely:
There is no cover for:
1) Claims arising before this insurance started
Any event or dispute which an insured person was aware of, or should 
reasonably have been aware of, which could give rise to a claim under this 
insurance and existed or happened before this insurance first started.
Mrs D and Mr D have claimed for cover to pursue not only C but also, or alternatively, the 
seller of the property.
The dispute with C relates to the conveyancing service C provided. Arguably that is a dispute relating to an alleged breach of contract entered into for buying a property. A claim 
against the seller is likely to be made on that basis.
The question as to whether Property A falls within the definition of home is therefore 
relevant. On balance I dont think it does. Even though Mrs D and Mr D planned to live there, 
Im not aware they ever did. I dont think it was ever their home. Even if Im wrong about that 
home is defined as Property B, not Property A, in the policy. So, I dont think the section 
relating to buying or selling your home provides cover here.
Ive gone on to consider if the policy provides cover under buying or hiring in services. As 
Ive mentioned, Mrs D and Mr Ds relationship with the seller is likely to have been governed 
by the contract for the purchase of the property. The seller wasnt providing them with 
services. So, there is no cover under this part of the policy to pursue a claim against the 
seller.
However, C was providing Mrs D and Mr D with conveyancing services. So, on the face of it, 
the claim for cover to pursue them falls under the buying or hiring in services section of the 
policy. Alwyn acknowledged it might but said it wasnt covered since Property A had been 
bought to let out for business purposes. And they said cover was excluded anyway as the 
issues giving rise to the claim arose before the policy began.
Mrs D and Mr D say their plan was initially to live in Property A. But they were able to stay in 
Property B when their circumstances changed. Ive no reason to doubt what they say. And I 
think its reasonable to conclude Mrs D and Mr D planned to buy Property A in a personal 
capacity. Since the purchase wasnt for business reasons, it wouldnt be fair for Alwyn to 
decline their claim on that basis.
Im satisfied from the evidence Mrs D and Mr D have provided they werent aware of the 
mistake C had allegedly made until around 22 September 2021 and had no reason to think 
there was a problem before then. The lenders lawyers have confirmed they were instructed 
by the lender to write to Mrs D and Mr D, which they did on 21 September 2021. Mrs D and 
Mr D say they got the letter the following day. So, I dont think its fair to apply the exclusion.
Bearing the above in mind, I dont think Mrs D and Mr D have LEI cover to pursue a claim 
against the seller. But they are covered to pursue a claim against C subject to the other 
terms and conditions of the policy, including whether there are reasonable prospects of 
success. Alwyn should therefore accept their claim and deal with it on that basis.
My provisional decision
Mrs D and Mr Ds LEI policy provides cover for them to pursue C under the Insured incident 
2: Consumer Contract Disputes b) buying or hiring in services section. Alwyn Insurance 
Company Limited should now deal with the claim subject to the remaining terms and 
conditions of the policy.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The parties have accepted my provisional decision. So, I uphold the complaint for the 
reasons I explained there. Putting things right
Alwyn should deal with Mrs D and Mr Ds claim as Ive directed below. 
My final decision
Mrs D and Mr Ds LEI policy provides cover for them to pursue C under the Insured incident
2: Consumer Contract Disputes b) buying or hiring in services section. I direct Alwyn 
Insurance Company Limited to deal with their claim subject to the remaining terms and 
conditions of the policy.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs D and Mr D to 
accept or reject my decision before 15 February 2023.
 
Julia Wilkinson
Ombudsman