DRN-3038177
The complaint
Mr B complains on behalf of Mrs B that she has been charged more to end her car finance 
agreement than PSA Finance UK Limited explained to her.
 
What happened
Mrs B took out a finance agreement in March 2018 to fund the purchase of a car. In October 
2020 after a change of circumstances Mrs B wanted to end the agreement early. Mrs B 
contacted PSA and was told that she would need to pay around £617. Mrs B handed the car 
back and was then sent a further bill for £1072.95 because of excess mileage and damage 
charges. Mrs B complained and the excess mileage charges were reduced by £268.24 
leaving an outstanding balance of £804.71. Mr B says that the bill doesnt take into account 
the £670 that was paid. 
Our investigator looked into the complaint and didnt think that PSA had done anything 
wrong. They said that the charges were fair and reasonable and in line with the terms of the 
agreement signed by Mrs B. They said that the damage charges were fair and reasonable 
and in line with industry guidelines. 
Mr B didnt agree and replied to say in summary that PSA had totally misled Mrs B about the 
costs of terminating the agreement and the £670 they paid was not reflected anywhere in the 
paperwork. Mr B thought that PSA had been keeping the information from this service and 
asked for an ombudsman to review the complaint. 
 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The facts are well known to the parties and are not in dispute, so I wont repeat them in 
detail in this decision. Instead Ill focus on giving reasons and an explanation for my 
conclusions. I can understand why Mr B has brought this complaint on behalf of Mrs B and 
why he is upset that she has paid more than he thinks she should have. I can see from the 
letters that there has been a misunderstanding about the costs of terminating Mrs Bs 
agreement early.
In October 2020, PSA wrote to Mrs B to explain about the charges to return the car. Within 
the letter there was a cost estimate to return the car early. This cost is £617.57. This amount 
is to bring the amount paid under the agreement up to 50% of the total. Mrs B borrowed 
£12,034.53 and up to that point she had only repaid £5,399.70. Because Mrs B hadnt paid 
half of the total she originally borrowed, she needed to pay a further £617.57 before she 
could voluntarily terminate the agreement. This was set out fully and clearly in the letter.
Immediately under that information is the following, As weve explained in the letter that 
came with this quotation, you may have to pay an additional amount for damage and excess 
mileage. Our representatives will advise you of any further costs in due course. The letter 
explained that if the car was not returned in good condition then there may be further 
charges for example for an incomplete service history, missing or damaged items or excess 
mileage. These costs are in addition to the early termination fee.
When Mrs Bs car was collected it was subject to an inspection. I have seen a report which 
estimates a damage amount of around £500 and details damage to the wheel trims and 
paintwork and the missing service history. After the car was recovered a further charge was 
advised in relation to excess mileage. The agreement signed by Mrs B states that the 
agreed mileage was 6,000 miles per year and the charge per mile for excess miles is 5 
pence per mile. Mrs B had travelled 13,542 miles more than the agreed mileage. The 
charges for the damage and the excess mileage totalled £1072.95. These costs were 
correctly charged in line with the terms and conditions of the agreement and the relevant 
industry standards. As Ive explained above, these were costs in addition to the early 
termination fee.
I do understand why Mr B thinks that this fee has been overlooked. In my view, the letters in 
response to his complaint didnt properly explain what had happened. But I do think that the 
process was clearly explained in the letter of 2 October 2020 and at that stage PSA didnt 
know that there would be excess mileage or damage charges as the car hadnt been 
inspected. Before Mrs B decided to terminate the agreement, the process was fully set out in 
the letter and so I dont think that PSA has acted unfairly. 
I think the charges were fair and reasonable and in line with the terms of the agreement 
signed by Mrs B so I cant ask PSA to do anything more. 
 
I know my decision will be a disappointment to Mrs B and if they are in financial difficulty, I 
would expect PSA to arrange an affordable repayment plan. I hope that this decision 
reassures Mrs B that the correct amounts have been charged.  
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs B to accept or 
reject my decision before 8 November 2021.
 
Emma Boothroyd
Ombudsman