DRN-3856446
The complaint
Mr S has complained that Lloyds Bank PLC (Lloyds) mis-sold him a number of fee-paying 
packaged bank accounts. 
Mr S has given a number of reasons why he says they were mis-sold. Including that he was 
told that by having the account, Lloyds would look favourably upon him if he were to apply 
for a loan or a mortgage in the future.
Account history
Account opened  1996
Upgraded to a fee-paying Select account  at some point prior to September 2001
Upgraded to a fee-paying Platinum account  November 2001
Downgraded to a fee-paying Gold account  February 2002
Upgraded to a fee-paying Platinum account  January 2004
Upgraded to a fee-paying Premier account  June 2008
Premier package removed from account, Club Lloyds bolt on added to account  
September 2015
What happened
Lloyds upheld Mr Ss complaint about the sale of the Select and Gold accounts and 
arranged to refund the account fees Mr S paid for those accounts, and also added 8% 
simple interest, less tax, to the fees that were refunded as well.
Lloyds however said that Mr S had complained too late about the sale of the two Platinum 
accounts for our service to be able to consider them. One of our ombudsmen issued a 
decision to say that was the case, therefore our service is unable to look into Mr Ss 
complaint about the sale of the Platinum accounts.
An adjudicator then assessed Mr Ss complaint about the sale of the Premier account. The 
adjudicator ultimately thought that Lloyds recommendation that Mr S upgrade his Platinum 
account to a Premier account was unreasonable, as she thought that there was insufficient 
evidence to show that Mr S had a need for the added benefits that came with the Premier 
account.
Lloyds agreed to put Mr S back into the position he wouldve been in, had the Premier 
account not been sold to him. So it agreed to pay him the difference in account fees between 
what he did pay and what he wouldve paid had he continued with the Platinum account until 
the package was removed in 2015. It also agreed to pay Mr S 8% simple interest, less tax, 
on those fees.
Mr S didnt agree with this, so the matter was referred for an ombudsmans decision.
This decision will only address whether what has been proposed regarding the sale of the 
Premier account is fair and reasonable.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve explained our approach to complaints about packaged accounts on our website, and 
Ive used that to help me decide this complaint. And having considered everything, I think 
what has been proposed so far is fair and reasonable in the circumstances. I will explain 
why.
Firstly, it seems that both parties now agree that Premier account should not have been sold 
to Mr S. So I need to consider what would have happened if everything had gone right. And 
in the circumstances, I think that Lloyds wouldve recommended Mr S to continue with the 
Platinum, rather than recommend he upgrade to the Premier account.
I say this because, overall, it appears that Mr S only really had a need for the breakdown 
cover that he already had on the Platinum account. For example, there is evidence that Mr S 
made a number of claims, including making use of some of the enhanced levels of cover that 
was provided by the Platinum account. But there is little evidence to show that Mr S had a 
need or interest in most of the added benefits that came with the Premier account (that 
werent already provided by the Platinum account). So had things gone as they shouldve, I 
think Lloyds wouldve in all likelihood recommended Mr S stick with the Platinum account, or 
simply not have recommended the Premier account to him.
As such, I think agreeing to refund the difference between the Premier and Platinum 
accounts is reasonable - as it essentially puts Mr S back into the position as though the 
Premier account had not been sold to him and hed instead continued with the Platinum 
account until he downgraded his account in September 2015. I say this bearing in mind that 
it has already been explained to Mr S that our service cant consider whether the Platinum 
account he held prior to the sale of the Premier account was mis-sold and so Im not able to 
comment on whether that account was mis-sold.
I note in response to the settlement offer, Mr S said that he should only be charged for the 
account in the years he made a claim, and get a full refund in the years he didnt. However, if 
hed not been sold the Premier account, I think its likely he wouldve paid the Platinum 
account fee each month instead - given that he was clearly still relying on the cover it 
provided  so this is something I think he wouldve paid anyway. Therefore, I dont think a full 
refund of fees in the years he didnt make a claim is reasonable. I say this especially as he 
still had the benefit of the cover in those years, even if it was the case that he didnt need to 
claim on it. 
Mr S has also questioned the redress, as he says the Platinum account cost £12 per month, 
and not £17 per month. Mr S has provided a copy of a statement from May 2004 to show 
this. So Mr S says that the amount to be refunded to him should be more. But as the 
adjudicator explained to Mr S, the cost of the Platinum account had increased to £17 per 
month around April 2008. And from what I can see, it remained at that level up until he 
downgraded his account in 2015. So Im satisfied that this is the correct amount to use when 
calculating the redress over the period of time that Mr S had the Premier account. 
Mr S has also said that he didnt register a phone around the time the Premier account was 
sold to him  and so questions why Lloyds records say that he did this. However, regardless 
of whether he did or didnt register a phone, I still think putting him back in the position as 
though the Premier account had not been sold to him is reasonable in the circumstances.
Putting things right
Because of the reasons given above, I require Lloyds to:
Refund the difference between what Mr S paid, and what he wouldve paid had he 
continued with a Platinum account between June 2008 and September 2015; andPay Mr S 8% simple interest, less tax*, on the amounts to be refunded. This should 
be calculated from the date of each fee to the date of settlement.
*HM Revenue & Customs requires Lloyds to take off basic rate tax from this interest. Lloyds must 
provide a certificate showing how much tax it has taken, if requested.
My final decision
Because of the reasons given above, I uphold this complaint and require Lloyds Bank PLC 
to do what I have outlined above, in full and final settlement of this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 16 January 2023.
 
Thomas White
Ombudsman