DRN-3678361
The complaint
This complaint concerns a claim against Barclays Bank UK PLC (Barclays) under the 
Consumer Credit Act 1974 (the CCA) in relation to a holiday product Mr and Mrs F 
purchased in August 2015 (the Time of Sale).
The claim, which is the subject of this complaint, is Mr Fs, because it relates to a credit card 
in his sole name  which is why the complaint is only in his name. But as the transaction in 
question relates to a contract entered into by both Mr F and his wife, Ill refer to Mr and Mrs F 
throughout much of this decision.
What happened
In August 2015, Mr and Mrs F were on a family holiday when they agreed to attend a holiday 
product presentation, in return for free theme park tickets. Following this, they paid a total of 
$24,244 in return for a timeshare product and an associated holiday club membership (the 
Timeshare). They made a down payment of $4,849 on Mr Fs credit card and arranged to 
repay the remaining balance of $19,395 by way of a mortgage loan over 10 years, with the 
monthly repayments to be made via Mr Fs same credit card. 
Unhappy with what had happened at the Time of Sale and since, Mr and Mrs F initially wrote 
to Barclays via a professional representative (AL) in August 2018 (the Letter of Complaint) 
to make claims under s.75 and s.140A CCA. For ease, I will generally refer to 
Mr (and Mrs) F throughout, regardless whether a particular point was made by them or their 
representative. 
In summary, they alleged that when they first purchased membership from the supplier, they 
were told that their purchase represented an interest in freehold land and was a valuable 
asset linked to the Florida property market. And that the Suppliers representative specifically 
said that prices in Florida, particularly Orlando, were booming. They say they were told the 
timeshare would have a good re-sale value and could easily be sold on the second-hand 
market. And that they would have membership of a holiday club, through which they could 
obtain free or heavily discounted luxury holidays, for the rest of their lives. 
They said they had come to realise these things hadnt been true. The timeshare had little or 
no re-sale value and merely gave accommodation rights, rather than an interest in a freehold 
property, as had been suggested. Attempts to sell the timeshare hadnt come to fruition. 
They also said theyd experienced difficulties booking accommodation through the holiday 
club membership and that the exchange power of the Timeshare had been greatly 
exaggerated. 
Mr and Mrs F said theyd contacted the Supplier directly to say they would be treating the 
Timeshare as terminated and the associated mortgage loan as void. However, Mr and Mrs F 
still continued to receive demands for maintenance fees and the mortgage loan repayments. 
Mr and Mrs F also said that the purchase of the Timeshare via Barclays credit card had led 
to an unfair relationship between Mr F and Barclays, under s.140A of the CCA. 
They said a number of terms in the agreement gave rise to an unfair relationship, including 
one that said any non-payment would result in the supplier taking back ownership of the 
Timeshare, with Mr and Mrs F not getting any money back and still needing to repay the 
loan. They also said that the maintenance fees were set by the supplier, with no influence or 
control from the timeshare owners (in contrast to typical service charges under a lease)  
which had contributed to the difficulties trying to sell the Timeshare.
On this basis, they were asking Barclays to provide a full refund plus statutory interest. 
It appears Barclays initially treated the claim as a PPI complaint. Mr and Mrs F pointed this 
out and asked for a response to the claim they had raised. After not receiving a satisfactory 
response, they contacted this Service about their concerns. And when they described why 
they were unhappy in the Complaint Form and associated documentation, they gave broadly 
the same reasons as those in the Letter of Complaint.
After we notified Barclays of the complaint, it eventually provided Mr and Mrs F with a final 
response. It said, in summary, that it had reviewed the claim under s.75 CCA. And that, 
having done so, there was insufficient evidence of either misrepresentation or a breach of 
contract. It did though credit Mr Fs account with £100 to reflect the amount of time it had 
taken to respond.
An investigator issued an opinion. She said, in summary, that she didnt think Barclays had 
acted unfairly when it decided not to uphold Mr Fs claim. This was because she didnt think 
there was sufficient evidence of a misrepresentation, nor that there was an unfair 
relationship between Mr F and Barclays.
Mr and Mrs F disagreed and asked for the matter to be passed to an ombudsman. They said 
that Mr F had produced a detailed witness statements recounting the representations and 
why they were false. They pointed out that neither the supplier nor the bank had produced 
evidence to rebut what Mr F had said. They also said that nothing in the documentation 
explained how maintenance fees would be calculated  nor did anything to warn of the 
consequences of the foreclosure provision and the fact that the product had little intrinsic 
value.
The complaint was passed to me to decide. I issued a provisional decision in August 2022. 
In it, I said:
The claim under s.75 CCA
When a customer uses certain types of regulated credit to finance the purchase of goods or 
services (for example, a regulated credit card or point of sale loan), the transaction has the 
potential to be covered by Section 75 of the CCA.
Section 75(1) provides that, if the debtor has a valid claim against the supplier of the goods 
or services in respect of misrepresentation or breach of contract, the debtor has a like claim 
against the creditor  who is jointly and severally liable with the supplier. The debtor may, 
therefore, choose to pursue a claim against either the supplier or the creditor or both.
Barclays doesnt dispute that Mr F entered into a contract with the Supplier for services 
financed by a relevant debtor-creditor-supplier agreement. And based on the information Ive 
seen so far, I havent seen anything to persuade me that Section 75 doesnt apply to the 
purchase in question.On my reading of this complaint, the crux of it relates to the allegation that Mr and Mrs Fs 
timeshare was misrepresented to them because they were told they were buying an interest 
in freehold land  which represented a valuable asset which could be sold in the future. Mr F 
recalls that the suppliers representative had said that prices in Florida, particularly Orlando, 
were booming. They now say theyve found this to be untrue  that they were really only 
acquiring accommodation rights and that the Timeshare has little if any value, demonstrated 
by them not having been able to sell it, despite efforts to do so. 
Mr and Mrs F have also said the benefits of the associated holiday club membership were 
exaggerated and that theyve had difficulty arranging suitable holidays via the membership, 
in terms of a lack of availability where they wanted to travel and the quality of 
accommodation their membership entitled them to. 
Having not been present at the Time of Sale, its not possible for me to determine with 
certainty what Mr and Mrs F were or werent told by the Supplier. Its possible that their 
timeshare was misrepresented for the reason alleged. But the allegation doesnt carry with it 
a detailed enough description of the conversation and circumstances surrounding it to 
conclude that its probable. And in the end, the part Mr Fs testimony plays here comes down 
to how much it can be relied on given everything else thats been said and/or provided.
There was some point of sale paperwork submitted with this complaint  including:
-A Purchase Agreement;
-A Real Estate notice;
-Documentation relating to Property tax;
-Mortgage documentation;
-A Settlement Service Provider List.
Some of the paperwork is difficult to decipher in places given the quality of the copies 
submitted. But the fact that Mr and Mrs F signed forms for what appear to have been a 
mortgage suggests that their timeshare may have included some sort of beneficial interest. 
After all, a mortgage is, by its very definition (even in the USA), an agreement between a 
borrower and a lender that gives the lender the right to take the borrowers property if they 
fail to repay what they borrowed. And as a result, that may mean that their timeshare was 
presented and sold to them as an investment.
If that was the case, I cant see why describing Mr and Mrs Fs timeshare as an investment 
would have been untrue. And while Mr F alleges that he and his wife were told that the 
Florida/Orlando property market was booming, as things stand, that looks like nothing more 
than an honestly held opinion.
A statement of opinion can amount to a misrepresentation, but it can only do so if  having 
amounted to a false statement of existing fact  it is apparent that it was an opinion that the 
supplier didnt hold or for which it lacked any reasonable basis. As I havent seen any 
persuasive evidence to demonstrate that the suppliers sales representative had information 
that suggests they knew or ought reasonably to have known at the Time of Sale that the 
representation in question wasnt true, Im not persuaded that it was anything more than an 
honestly held opinion even if it was made.
In addition, there isnt anything in the paperwork provided so far to suggest that 
Mr and Mrs F were given some sort of assurance that the value of any such interest was only going to increase when that wouldnt have been true. Nor is there anything in the 
paperwork indicating that their holiday club membership guaranteed availability of a 
particular quality of accommodation in all locations at all times. As such, Im not currently 
persuaded that the allegation of misrepresentation should succeed.
The claim under s.140 CCA
Only a court has the power to decide whether the relationship between Mr F and Barclays is 
or was unfair for the purpose of s.140A. But, as it is relevant law, when deciding what a fair 
and reasonable outcome is in this complaint given its particular circumstances, I still have to 
consider it along with what I think a court is likely to conclude.
And having done that, Im not persuaded a court is likely to reach the conclusion that the 
relationship between Mr F and Barclays was unfair.
The crux of Mr and Mrs Fs argument is that the combined effect of a number of the clauses 
contained within the Timeshare agreement between the supplier and Mr and Mrs F, lead to 
there being an unfair relationship between Barclays and Mr F under s.140A CCA.
In particular, they point to the requirement for Mr F to pay maintenance fees, that those fees 
can be set (increased) unilaterally by the supplier and that non-payment of those (and other) 
fees leads to foreclosure  where the supplier would take back ownership of the Timeshare 
with Mr and Mrs F still being liable for the loan repayment. Mr and Mrs F have provided 
evidence to show that foreclosure proceedings have been initiated. 
Mr and Mrs F have pointed to a court judgement  Link Financial v Wilson [2014] which they 
say is relevant, because the judge in that case reached a conclusion that the relationship 
between the borrower and the lender was unfair, owing to the presence of a clause in the 
relevant agreement similar to the foreclosure clause in Mr and Mrs Fs agreement with the 
supplier. 
However, I dont think that judgment has much relevance to this case. I say this because the 
judgement makes reference to EU/English statute and regulations, including the Unfair 
Terms in Consumer Contracts Regulations, 1999 (UTCCR).
However, the agreement between Mr and Mrs F and the supplier isnt subject to the same 
statute and/or regulations. Mr F states that he has been advised that under Florida State 
Law, if he stops paying the maintenance fees, the timeshare will be foreclosed. There is no 
suggestion that the agreement between Mr and Mrs F and the supplier is governed by UK 
law and it seems unlikely to me that it would be. I havent been provided with anything 
suggesting or showing me that the agreement between Mr and Mrs F and the supplier is 
contrary to the law or regulations applicable to it. 
Mr and Mrs F also argue that the misrepresentations they say occurred also lead to there 
being an unfair relationship. However, my analysis regarding misrepresentation under s.75 
earlier in this decision applies here as well. 
Overall, therefore, I dont think a court is likely to conclude that the relationship between Mr F 
and Barclays was unfair based in the information currently available. And for that reason, I 
dont think Barclays has to do anything further in relation to Mr Fs Section 140A claim.
I note that Barclays paid Mr F £100 in recognition of the delay in handling the claim. This 
doesnt appear to be in dispute and, as things stand, this seems like a reasonable figure of 
compensation.That being the case, there are currently no grounds upon which I should uphold Mr Fs 
complaint about the way in which Barclays handled his claims under the CCA.
I asked for any further evidence and/or arguments to be provided by 1 September 2022. 
Barclays didnt provide a response. Mr Fs representative responded saying it disagreed with 
my provisional findings. Much of what it said was a reiteration of evidence and arguments 
already provided. In summary, the key points it made, were:
- Given the detailed witness statement provided by Mr F and the lack of response from 
the Supplier to the allegations of misrepresentation, I should accept what Mr F has 
said as being true. My approach cannot be correct, because it would in effect mean 
that no allegation of misrepresentation would ever be accepted. 
- It is generally accepted that Timeshares have little or no re-sale value. The lack of 
any offer to purchase Mr and Mrs Fs Timeshare after it was put up for re-sale and 
the fact that there has been no capital return following the foreclosure, support the 
notion that Mr and Mrs Fs timeshare had little or no value. The supplier would have 
been aware of this and so the statements made about the Timeshare being a 
valuable investment were knowingly false.
- The foreclosure clause does lead to unfairness as has already been found to be the 
case by the court in a case with a very similar clause. On this basis, it would be 
perverse for me to find that a court would not likely find there was an unfair 
relationship between Mr F and Barclays. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
When evidence is incomplete, inconclusive, incongruent or contradictory, Ive made my 
decision on the balance of probabilities  which, in other words, means Ive based it on what 
I think is most likely to have happened given the available evidence and the wider 
circumstances.
And having done all of that, I still dont think this complaint should be upheld. I realise that 
this will be disappointing for Mr F. But I hope hell understand why Ive come to the 
conclusion I have.
Before I explain why, I want to set out my role as an ombudsman. It isnt to address every 
single point thats been made to date. Instead, its to decide whats fair and reasonable given 
the circumstances of this complaint. And for that reason, Im only going to refer to what I 
think are the most salient points when I set out my conclusions and my reasons for reaching 
them. But, having read all of the submissions from both sides in full, I will continue to keep in 
mind all of the points that have been made, insofar as they relate to this complaint, when 
doing that.
The claim under s.75 CCA
I set out in my provisional decision (which forms part of this final decision) the basis upon 
which a s.75 claim can be made. There remains nothing to indicate that s.75 doesnt apply to 
the purchase in question. The crux of Mr Fs misrepresentation claim remains that the Timeshare was misrepresented 
to Mr and Mrs F because they were told they were buying an interest in property that 
represented a valuable asset. Mr F says I should accept the alleged misrepresentations did 
take place, because he provided a detailed witness statement unchallenged by the Supplier. 
Mr F says that in the circumstances, if I dont agree there was a misrepresentation here, 
then no allegation of misrepresentation would ever succeed. 
However, to be clear, I didnt make a finding in my provisional decision that a particular 
representation was or wasnt made and I dont doubt the honesty of Mr Fs recollections. I 
said that there wasnt sufficient evidence to say there has been a misrepresentation for the 
reasons alleged. 
The key issue in this case, is that even assuming the representations in question were 
made, I still dont consider they amount to an actionable misrepresentation, for the reasons 
given in my provisional decision. Which is to say that the point of sale documentation Ive 
seen indicates that Mr and Mrs F were acquiring a beneficial interest in an asset. And with 
that being the case, I still cant see why describing Mr and Mrs Fs Timeshare as an 
investment would have been untrue. 
Ive considered what Mr F says about (1) the House of Commons Briefing Paper, (2) he and 
Mrs F not receiving any offers for the Timeshare when it was put up for sale and (3) the 
foreclosure not generating  a capital return. 
But none of this has changed my mind. I still havent seen any evidence from the Time of 
Sale to indicate that what the sales representative is alleged to have said about how the 
Timeshare would be a valuable asset, would have been anything more than an honestly held 
opinion. 
On my reading of The House of Commons Briefing Paper, it discusses the issue of re-sale 
values in general terms and at a high level. In any case, my findings on this case must be 
made on the basis of the facts of this complaint.  
Regarding what Mr F has said about he and Mrs F not receiving even a low offer for their 
Timeshare prior to foreclosure and that the foreclosure didnt result in a capital return. 
Neither of these things necessarily mean that the Timeshare had little or no value at the 
Time of Sale (or that the sales representative would have considered this to be the case).
In conclusion, I still find that there is insufficient evidence to demonstrate an actionable 
misrepresentation. 
The claim under s.140 CCA
As set out in my provisional decision, only a court has the power to decide whether the 
relationship between Mr F and Barclays is or was unfair for the purpose of s.140A. But, as it 
is relevant law, when deciding what a fair and reasonable outcome is in this complaint given 
its particular circumstances, I still have to consider it along with what I think a court is likely 
to conclude.
And having done that, I remain unpersuaded that a court is likely to reach the conclusion that 
the relationship between Mr F and Barclays was unfair.
In response to my provisional decision, Mr F re-iterated why he considered that the 
foreclosure clause in particular leads to there being an unfair relationship between himself and Barclays  including reference to the conclusion reached by a court where it says the 
agreement contained a very similar clause. 
Mr F didnt comment at all on the point I made that there is nothing to suggest that the 
agreement between Mr and Mrs F and the Supplier is governed by UK law. As such, I still 
cant see that the caselaw referenced by Mr F has much relevance to this case. I still havent 
been provided with anything suggesting or showing me that the agreement between 
Mr and Mrs F and the Supplier is contrary to the law or regulations applicable to it. 
And regarding any unfairness arising from the alleged misrepresentations, my analysis 
above in the context of the claim under s.75 applies here as well. 
Overall, therefore, I still dont consider that a court is likely to conclude that the relationship 
between Mr F and Barclays was or is unfair. And for that reason, I still dont think Barclays 
needs to do anything further in relation to Mr Fs s.140 claim. 
The £100 Barclays paid to Mr F in recognition of the delay in handling the claim still doesnt 
appear to be in dispute and still seems like a reasonable figure of compensation. 
That being the case, there are no grounds upon which I should uphold Mr Fs complaint 
about the way in which Barclays handled his claims under the CCA.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr F to accept or 
reject my decision before 29 September 2022.
 
Ben Brewer
Ombudsman