DRN-3325434
The complaint
Mr D is unhappy that his broker, Wesleyan Assurance Society (Wesleyan), offered him a 
policy for home insurance priced significantly higher than his previous policy.
What happened
Mr D bought his home insurance policy through the broker, Wesleyan. It provided him with a 
renewal quote significantly more expensive than his previous policy. Mr D complained to 
Wesleyan because he didnt think it shouldve offered him such an expensive policy and he 
thought it shouldve looked for alternatives.
Wesleyan explained that it had looked for policies across its panel of insurers and they were 
all priced similarly because of the way the flood risk was determined. Mr D remained 
unhappy and complained Wesleyan shouldve looked to obtain a better price for him using 
other insurers.
Our investigator didnt think Wesleyan had done anything wrong. She said Wesleyan could 
only offer the policies its panel of insurers provided, and it had correctly told Mr D that he 
could look for alternative cover elsewhere. Mr D was not obliged to accept the offer 
Wesleyan made, so our investigator didnt think there was anything to put right.
Mr D didnt agree because hed found a cheaper policy elsewhere and considered hed 
saved himself from being ripped off. He said Wesleyan shouldve obtained a better policy for 
him by approaching different insurers to those on its panel.
The complaint was passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Although I realise Mr D will be disappointed, Ive decided not to uphold his complaint. Ill 
explain why.
The issue is that Mr D thinks Wesleyan shouldve looked for a less expensive policy with 
other insurers rather than offer him the more expensive policy. 
To begin with, its important to note that Wesleyan has a panel of insurers which it asks to 
provide insurance quotes for its customers. Wesleyan isnt responsible for setting the price 
of those policies: instead, it lets Mr D know what is available to him through its panel. There 
is no requirement for Wesleyan to look beyond its panel of insurers.
When Wesleyan offered Mr D a policy provided through its panel, he had a choice to accept 
the policy or look elsewhere. I see that he challenged the reason for the price increase and 
Wesleyan passed his concerns to the insurer. Ive seen the insurers response confirming 
that the increase was due to the change in assessment of flood risk. Wesleyan is not 
responsible for that change, so Im satisfied it treated him fairly by simply passing on the 
explanation.
Because Mr D remained unhappy with the policy Wesleyan offered, he chose to take out a 
cheaper policy with another insurer. Wesleyan simply offered him a renewal quote which he 
chose not to accept, so I cant see that it has caused him any detriment that needs putting 
right.
I understand Mr D is aware of the limitations of what I can require of Wesleyan, so hell know 
that I cant ask it to change its panel of insurers in response to his complaint.
Overall, Im satisfied that Wesleyan simply presented an insurance quote to Mr D that its 
panel of insurers had provided, and I havent seen anything to suggest that it did anything 
wrong. Therefore, I see no reason to require anything of Wesleyan in respect of Mr Ds 
complaint.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, my final decision is that I dont uphold Mr Ds complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision before 14 April 2022.
 
Debra Vaughan
Ombudsman