DRN-1396357
The complaint
Mr R complains about the settlement figure Hitachi Capital (UK) Plc (T/A Hitachi Personal 
Finance) gave him when he tried to repay his loan early.
What happened
On 15 May 2019 Mr R took out a loan for £25000 with Hitachi Personal Finance, hereafter 
referred to as Hitachi in this decision. The loan agreement, which Mr R signed 
electronically, was a fixed sum per month interest bearing credit agreement.
The interest rate was 7% with an APR of 12.9%. And the loan was repayable over 81 
months at a rate of £454.35 per month.
The funds credited Mr Rs account on 16 May 2019 and he made his first payment on 15 
June 2019. That day Mr R asked Hitachi to send him a settlement figure as he wanted to 
terminate his loan agreement because hed found a loan cheaper elsewhere.
Hitachi provided Mr R with a settlement figure pursuant to his request. However, the 
outstanding balance was higher than the figure Mr R was expecting to pay to settle the loan 
in full. So, he contacted Hitachi on 17 June 2019 to query the accuracy of the settlement 
figure.
Hitachi said it explained to Mr R that the terms of the agreement meant that interest was 
calculated on the outstanding balance over the month that the loan had been active. But Mr 
R telephone Hitachi again later the same day to complain as the thought the amount of 
interest hed been charged and the settlement figure hed been given was incorrect.
After Hitachi investigated Mr Rs concerns it told him the settlement figure hed been given 
had been correctly calculated. It explained the calculation was automated due to its 
complexity. And it provided him with a written interest breakdown. So, it didnt think it had 
made any errors in calculating Mr Rs settlement figure and it didnt uphold his complaint. 
But Mr R still didnt agree with the way in which Hitachi had calculated the interest due under 
the loan. And he didnt feel the settlement figure hed been given reflected the payment hed 
already made and the short duration over which hed had the loan. So he referred his 
complaint to our service.
Our investigator looked into his complaint but didnt recommend it should be upheld. They 
thought Hitachi had calculated the early settlement figure correctly and in line with the terms 
of the loan agreement Mr R signed. And they thought it had acted fairly and reasonably. But 
Mr R didnt agree and asked for his complaint to be reviewed by an ombudsman.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.Im sorry to hear about the difficulties Mr R experienced here. I can see how strongly he 
feels about his complaint. 
My role is to assess whether I think Hitachi made a mistake, or treated Mr R unfairly, such 
that it needs to now put things right. And, having thought carefully about everything he and 
Hitachi have said, Im afraid to say that I dont think it did. I appreciate Mr R will be 
disappointed by this outcome. But I hope he can understand the reasons behind my 
decision.
Mr R entered into his loan agreement with Hitachi online. His loan is regulated by the 
Consumer Credit Act 1974 and Ive seen the terms and conditions that he signed 
electronically on 15 May 2019. As the loan agreement is a binding agreement Id expect Mr 
R to have read it before signing it. 
In signing the loan agreement Mr R accepted the terms and conditions. So, Im satisfied its 
fair and reasonable Hitachi now relies on these terms and conditions given each agreed to 
contract on this basis. 
As the crux of this complaint is about how interest has been calculated up to the date Mr R 
terminated his loan agreement Ive looked carefully at what the loan agreement says about 
interest and early repayment.
On page 1 of the loan agreement, under the interest charges section, it states:
The interest and APR are calculated on the assumption that you will make each monthly 
payment on its due date. Interest at the above interest rate has been calculated in advance 
of the amount of loan and applied on the date of the agreement.
The agreement therefore outlines in clear intelligible language that the interest due under the 
loan is calculated in advance and added to the loan as a lump sum. It follows that Im 
satisfied that Mr R was given sufficient information about how interest would be calculated 
under the loan agreement to enable him to decide whether this loan was right for him. So, I 
dont believe he was misled by the agreement as to how interest would accrue.
I can see that Mr Rs right to repay his loan early is set out clearly in the agreement, as wed 
expect it to be. Hitachi isnt required to give a personal illustration regarding early repayment 
at the start of the agreement - only to confirm the option is available. The early repayment 
clause does this and clearly states:
You can settle this agreement early at any time, in part or in full, by paying us some or all of 
the amounts you owe us. We will take account of any rebate to which you may be 
entitledFor the purpose of calculating the rebate, the settlement date will be taken to be 28 
days after the date you tell us you want to settle (unless the duration of the agreement is 
longer than 12 months, in which case we may defer the settlement date by a further 30 
days).
Its clear Mr R believes the settlement figure Hitachi gave him has been calculated 
incorrectly. But the reason the amount outstanding was more than he expected is because 
of the way interest is charged on a loan of this type. And I think Hitachis position on early 
settlement was made clear to him in the agreement he signed.
Our service has seen the formula Hitachi uses to calculate the settlement figure. I can see 
Hitachi shared this formula with Mr R. It also provided him with a step by step guide on how 
its calculations are completed. I think this demonstrates Hitachi has been candid and tried to 
show how the settlement figure was calculated. I acknowledge Mr Rs comments that the calculation is complex and confusing. However, the 
calculation itself is based on a complex statutory formula, which is set out in the relevant 
regulations. These regulations are in place to ensure borrowers dont pay all the interest due 
under the agreement when repaying their loan early.
Hitachi explained to Mr R that the calculation is undertaken on an automated basis. It gave 
him a breakdown of payments on 20 June 2019 together with an explanation of the type of 
loan agreement he had signed. I think that was helpful. And, I can see that Mr Rs first loan 
payment has been deducted from his outstanding balance as Id expect.
In the overall circumstances of this complaint, Im persuaded the settlement figure Hitachi 
gave Mr R is correct and in line with the agreement he signed. Im satisfied Hitachi applied 
the correct formula and tried its best to explain it to Mr R. It follows that I cant fairly conclude 
its done anything wrong.
Whilst I know my decision will come as a disappointment to Mr R I do hope hes able to 
accept the explanations hes now been given. But based on what Ive seen Im in agreement 
with the investigator for the same reasons that this complaint should not be upheld. This now 
brings to an end what we, in trying to resolve Mr Rs dispute with Hitachi informally, can do 
for him. Im sorry we cant help Mr R further on this.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision before 8 July 2020.
Julie Robertson
Ombudsman