DRN-2922189
The complaint
 Mr M and Miss S complain that Royal & Sun Alliance Insurance Plc (RSA) declined their 
claim for theft of their bicycles which were in the communal bike store.    
What happened
 In July 2020 Mr M and Miss Ss bikes were stolen from a communal bike store in their 
apartment block. The bikes were secured and locked at the time.  
They held a joint contents insurance policy with RSA and so they made a claim for their loss. 
On 11 August 2020 RSA authorised the claim and offered a payment of £812.78.  Miss S 
ordered a new bike on 12 August. 
On 13 August 2020 RSA contacted them and advised that following a review of the claim, 
they were withdrawing the offer of settlement as they had identified that the policy didnt 
have the specific cover needed for that type of incident.
Mr M and Miss S complained. They said that they had already ordered replacements on the 
basis of the offer. 
In October 2020 RSA sent their final response. They said that the contents cover in the 
policy did not include theft from communal areas. Mr M and Miss S had not purchased the 
optional cover for upgraded contents, personal possessions away from home or pedal cycle 
which would be required for the claim to be valid. 
RSA have apologised for their error in initially advising that they would settle the claim and 
have offered £100 compensation for this.  
Mr M and Miss S were unhappy with this and so they complained to us. They thought that 
the policy did cover them for outbuildings which would include the bike store, and also that 
RSA should honour their initial offer to settle the claim because following the offer they had 
purchased new bikes. 
One of our investigators has looked into Mr M and Miss Ss complaint. She thought that RSA 
had fairly applied the policy terms and that the offer of £100 was fair.  
Mr M and Miss S disagreed with our investigators view, arguing that they still think the bike 
store is covered as an outbuilding. The case has therefore come to me to review.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
 I have upheld the complaint and I will explain why below. 
What I have to decide is whether RSA have acted in accordance with the terms and 
conditions of their policy, and fairly and reasonably in declining the claim.  
 
I have read the schedule and the policy wording which were provided to Mr M and Miss S, 
the notes from RSAs system, and the testimony of Mr M and Miss S. 
The policy schedule states the cover that has been purchased in the About your cover 
section. The cover level is:
 Primary contents cover including Accidental Damage (excluding upgrade) . 
According to the policy wording, this level of cover provides for theft as follows:
Covers the contents in your home against loss or damage by the following causes: theft or 
attempted theft
Home is defined in the policy as the house, together with its garages and outbuildings all 
used for domestic purposes including any part of the house used for business purposes.
Mr M and Miss S say this definition provides them with cover. They argue that it is 
reasonable to interpret a secure bike store as being within the definition of an outbuilding 
and therefore their bikes are covered as contents within their home. They think that RSA 
have failed to clearly communicate that this type of outbuilding isnt covered. 
RSA says that the communal bike store is not part of the outbuildings because the 
outbuildings must belong to the house and definition of house restricts it to the private 
dwelling at the address shown on your schedule
I have thought about this, and I am satisfied that the policy wording is clear in that any 
outbuildings must be part of the policyholders private dwelling, and therefore for their 
exclusive use. In this case the communal bike store doesnt belong to the private dwelling 
but is part of the communal areas of the apartment block similar to stairways and landings, 
which presumably are part of the freeholders responsibility. 
 
As the bikes arent covered in the policy as contents in the home, they would only be 
covered if the policy had been upgraded to include an option that allowed for their cover, 
such as pedal cycle cover or personal possessions cover for contents away from home. 
In the policy schedule it clearly states:
 Personal possessions  --- Not included
Personal money and credit cards  --- Not included
Pedal cycles --- Not included  
I consider that these exclusions are explicit and clear, and therefore I cant fairly say that 
RSA had not made Mr M and Miss S aware of them. 
Further down the policy schedule document is the Insurance Product Information Document 
which details what is insured. It again lists personal possessions, pedal cycles and upgraded 
contents cover as optional. I therefore find that the terms of the policy have been fairly applied and the decision to 
decline the claim was fairly made. 
Mr M and Miss S have also said that they purchased bikes on the basis of the settlement 
offer that was made on 11 August 2020. I have therefore thought about whether Mr M and 
Miss S have incurred any expenses as a result of the incorrect information that was given to 
them about their claim being paid. 
I can see that Miss S placed an order for a new bike on 12 August 2020 which was before 
the revised decision. I accept that this bike was purchased with the expectation of receiving 
a particular sum from RSA. However, the bike wasnt collected until 18 August 2020 and the 
order could have been cancelled once the revised decision from RSA was received. I 
therefore cant fairly say that unavoidable expense was incurred as a result of the incorrect 
advice. 
However, it is clear that RSA made a mistake when they initially advised that the claim would 
be settled, and this has caused some distress and inconvenience to Mr M and Miss S. RSA 
have offered £100 compensation for the inconvenience caused by this. I think that on 
balance this offer is fair as the correct decision was notified to Mr M and Miss S two days 
later, so the inconvenience caused was short term. This has not yet been accepted or paid, 
and so my decision will be to direct that this is paid.  
I appreciate that this is not the decision that Mr M and Miss S had hoped for, and they have 
lost items of value through no fault of their own, but I dont think in view of the above that I 
can fairly say that RSA have done anything wrong in declining the claim. However, I accept 
that they made an error in communicating an incorrect decision.     
My final decision
Royal & Sun Alliance Insurance plc have already made an offer to pay £100 to settle the 
complaint and I think this offer is fair in all the circumstances.  
So my decision is that Royal & Sun Alliance Insurance plc should pay Mr M and Miss S 
£100. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M and Miss S 
to accept or reject my decision before 10 August 2021.
 
Joanne Ward
Ombudsman