DRN-2340425
The complaint
Mr P is unhappy with what Great Lakes Insurance SE did after he made a claim on his legal 
expenses insurance policy.
What happened
In July 2018 Mr P completed the purchase of a new build property. Subsequently he found 
there were problems with the property which he raised with the developer and the insurer 
who provided a building warranty for the property. A report was compiled of the required 
work which the developer didnt carry out within the set timeframe. The building warranty 
insurer said it would take responsibility for these. It made a settlement offer for the cost of 
carrying out the work. 
Mr P was unhappy with that offer and contacted Great Lakes to make a claim on his legal 
expenses insurance in September 2019. Great Lakes asked panel solicitors to consider 
whether the claim had reasonable prospects of success (as required by the policy terms). 
That assessment concluded the claim was likely to win in court but a revised offer from the 
building warranty insurer appeared reasonable. 
Great Lakes said Mr Ps policy required him to minimise legal costs where possible and that 
where a fair offer had been made it wouldnt be liable for any further costs incurred. In this 
case there was no evidence to show the offer from the building warranty insurer was 
unreasonable as Mr P hadnt provided any alternative quotes for this work. So it said it 
wouldnt provide funding for any legal claim. It said it would reconsider if Mr P could show 
the offer that had been made was unreasonable. 
Mr P said he didnt think the work the building warranty insurer had identified covered all of 
the issues at his property. That was considered by the panel solicitor who said there wasnt 
evidence showing the other issues were caused by defective work (so there wasnt evidence 
of a breach of contract). And Mr P would need to show this was the case for this claim to 
have reasonable prospects of success 
Our investigator thought Great Lakes had acted reasonably in not providing funding for 
Mr Ps claim given the offer that had been made. The prospects assessment had been 
produced by a paralegal but she was satisfied they had been appropriately supervised. So 
she thought it was reasonable of Great Lakes to rely on this advice. 
Mr P didnt agree. He didnt accept the prospects assessment had been carried out by 
someone appropriately qualified and said the paralegal accepted he didnt have the 
expertise to deal with the matter. And he wanted someone who did have that knowledge to 
advise on the legal issues hed raised. So I need to reach a final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The relevant rules and industry guidelines say Great Lakes has a responsibility to handle 
claims promptly and fairly. It shouldnt reject a claim unreasonably.
Ive looked first at the terms and conditions of Mr Ps policy. I can see these say that for a 
claim to be accepted it must have reasonable prospects of success. And thats defined as: 
A 51% or greater chance that you will recover losses or damages (or obtain any other legal 
remedy.. 
So I think Great Lakes was right to refer the matter to one of its panel solicitors to see if that 
requirement was met in relation to the claims Mr P wanted to bring against the developer 
and the building warranty insurer. 
Ive read the legal advice from the panel firm. I do find this confusing in parts as it appears 
contradictory as to whether the claims would have reasonable prospects of success or not. 
But it does say that for the issues covered in the report from the building warranty insurer 
they would. The issue is that the offer made by that insurer appears reasonable and Mr P 
hasnt provided evidence to show otherwise. 
I can see the advice makes clear that for a contrary view to be taken Mr P would need to 
evidence the amount offered wasnt enough to carry out the remedial works. And that for 
other issues hed raised not covered by the warranty hed need to evidence there was a 
breach of contract. And it doesnt appear Mr P has provided that information to Great Lakes. 
Mr P says the insurer instructed a solicitor that wasnt qualified to provide advice. But I dont 
think thats right. I appreciate that advice was provided by a paralegal but as long as the 
paralegal was appropriately supervised then an insurer is entitled to rely on the assessment 
they produce. And the evidence Ive seen in this case suggests they were.
I think the legal advice is, overall, properly written and reasoned so I think it was appropriate 
for Great Lakes to take this into account when deciding whether funding should be provided 
for the claim that Mr P had made. And his policy does say if an offer of settlement is made 
which an appointed representative or the insurer deem fair (and the insured doesnt accept 
this) the insurer wont be liable for further costs.   
In this case I appreciate the panel solicitor wasnt Mr Ps appointed representative because 
the claim hadnt been accepted. But its legal advice was the offer from the building warranty 
insurer was fair. So I dont think Great Lakes acted unfairly in in concluding that, in line with 
the terms of the policy, it wouldnt be reasonable to provide funding for the claim Mr P 
wanted to make. 
I also note the policy does require Mr P to take all necessary precautions to reduce the risk 
of a claim and to prevent or minimise legal costs wherever possible And in this case he did 
have a way of challenging the amount offered by the building warranty insurer without the 
need for legal action by making a complaint to us about its actions. Hes done that and were 
considering that complaint separately. I think that further supports Great Lakes assessment 
that this claim isnt one for which legal expenses funding should be provided.  Its also not clear that even if Mr P were to provide additional evidence to challenge the 
amount offered by the building warranty insurer this claim would be covered by his policy. I 
note this has been considered under the breach of contract section of his policy which 
specifically excludes Any settlement payable pursuant to any insurance or other policy.  
Great Lakes hasnt sought to rely on this exclusion to date so I havent considered it in this 
decision but it is something Mr P may want to be aware of when deciding whether to pursue 
this claim under his legal expenses policy. 
I appreciate Mr P has other concerns about issues with his property which fall outside of the 
scope of the report compiled by the building warranty insurer. But the legal advice was that 
there wasnt evidence to show these would constitute a breach of contract claim. Again I 
think it was reasonable of Great Lakes to rely on that advice. 
I recognise that in his advice the paralegal does say he isnt qualified to give advice on 
property law but this appears to relate to whether Mr P would need local authority approval 
for the removal of a tree at his property. Thats a separate issue to the one Mr P initially 
raised with Great Lakes and its not clear at that point it had reached the stage of being a 
legal dispute. 
I can see Great Lakes did subsequently register a separate claim and complaint about this 
issue but had difficulties in progressing it further. Thats because the panel firm said
Mr P had withdrawn his consent for it to discuss these matters with Great Lakes. It asked Mr 
P if he would provide consent but he doesnt appear to have done so. 
So I do think that limited Great Lakes options in progressing this. And Im not clear if this 
issue is still one that Mr P wants to pursue. However, if he does and its something his policy 
would cover I think it would be reasonable for Great Lakes to instruct an alternative panel 
firm to look at this. But Mr P would first need to explain what the legal dispute he has here is. 
However, from what Mr P has said what he really wants is legal advice on how to deal with 
the issues hes facing at his property. For the reasons Ive explained I dont think Great 
Lakes has treated him unfairly in deciding these matters arent covered by his policy. But if 
he wants more general legal advice then his policy does offer a free helpline which provides 
advice on any personal legal matter. So Mr P may want to consider making use of that. 
My final decision
Ive decided not to uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 January 2021.
 
James Park
Ombudsman