DRN-2557995
The complaint
Mr M complains that he was misled about a number of matters when he entered into a hire
purchase agreement with Oodle Financial Services Limited. Specifically, he says he was
misled about the price of the car, incentives offered by the dealership and whether the car
was front-wheel drive. He also says he was entitled to withdraw from the agreement.
What happened
In November 2019 Mr M entered into a five-year hire purchase agreement with Oodle for a
BMW 1 Series car. All the discussions about the car and the finance arrangements were
made through the dealership, C. Mr M signed the agreement on 29 November and it was
signed on behalf of Oodle on 30 November.
The agreement and accompanying sales invoice recorded that the car was a BMW 1 Series,
first registered in June 2012. The purchase price was £10,620, all of which was funded by 
the finance agreement.
Before signing the agreement, Mr M says he was told by the dealership that he would have
his train fare to the dealership to collect the car refunded and that he would receive a £300
cashback payment. He says he was also told that the car was front-wheel drive  something
which was important for him.
Mr M says that, a few days after he took delivery of the car, he found out  in the course of
discussions about insurance  that the value of the car was around £4,000 less than the
cash price he had agreed. He also found out that the car was not, after all, a front-wheel
drive model. He contacted Oodle to complain.
Oodle directed Mr M back to C. It didnt however accept that Mr M had been misled. For its
part, Oodle didnt accept that it had any obligation to take the car back or otherwise to
compensate Mr M.
Mr M referred the matter to this service, where one of our investigators considered it. He
wasnt persuaded that Mr M was misled about the price of the car or that the incentives Mr M
said he was promised induced him into agreeing to take the particular car he did.
The investigator noted too that Mr M was entitled to withdraw from the agreement within 14
days, but that he would then have had to pay the outstanding amount due under the
agreement. He couldnt simply hand the car back, unless there was something wrong with it.
The investigator did accept, however, that Mr M had been assured that the car was a front-
wheel drive model. In fact, it was rear-wheel drive; had Mr M not been misled about that, the
investigator thought that he would not have agreed to take that particular car. He therefore
recommended that Oodle collect the car at no cost to Mr M and unwind the hire purchase
agreement. Mr M accepted the investigators recommendation, but Oodle didnt and asked
that an ombudsman review the case.
I did that and issued a provisional decision. I broadly agreed with the investigators findings 
about the incentives Mr M said hed been offered by the dealership and what hed been told 
about the price of the car. I also agreed with the investigators comments about Mr Ms right 
to withdraw from the hire purchase agreement. I wasnt persuaded however that Mr M would 
have acted differently if he had known that the car was a rear-wheel drive model. 
Mr M did not accept my provisional findings. He reiterated that he had been promised certain 
incentives by the dealership. He said too that he had many years of driving experience and 
that he considers front-wheel drive models to be far superior. That was important to his 
choice. He mentioned too that the test drive was very limited as the dealership was closing. 
Mr M pointed out too that the right to withdraw from the deal was an important protection 
from dealers and businesses seeking to take advantage of consumers  which was what 
had happened here.       
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Price and incentives
Mr M says first of all the price of the car was too high, in the sense that it was well above the 
guide price. That is not however something that could give rise to a claim against Oodle. It 
was the price he agreed to pay and both the dealership and Oodle were open about what it 
was. The cash back incentives were, in my view, independent of the finance agreement. If 
they were offered, that was a matter between Mr M and the dealership. 
Right of withdrawal
The Consumer Credit Act 1974 gives a consumer the right to withdraw from a relevant credit 
agreement (which includes the hire purchase agreement here) within 14 days. That was 
reflected in the hire purchase agreement itself. Mr M said within 14 days that he wanted to
exercise that right.
Where a consumer wants to withdraw under this provision, however, they must then repay
the amount borrowed within 30 days, together with any interest accrued. The lender must
then transfer ownership of the hired goods to the customer. In this case Mr M would have
had to pay £10,620 plus £5.18 for each day he had the car, in return for which he would
have become the owner. The 14 day right to withdraw is not, therefore, a way of unwinding a
hire purchase agreement and returning the goods. Rather, its a way to end an agreement 
and keep the goods. That was not however what Mr M wanted. Further, he has not 
suggested that he was in a position to repay what he had borrowed under the hire purchase 
agreement. So, whilst Mr M may have been legally entitled to withdraw, this was not a 
practical option or one which achieved Mr Ms aims. 
Front-wheel drive
Mr M says he was told that the car was front-wheel drive. The investigator concluded that
this constituted a misrepresentation and that the appropriate remedy would be, in effect, to
put Mr M and Oodle in the position they would have been in had no agreement been made.
In very broad terms, a party to a contract may have a claim for misrepresentation if the other
party makes an incorrect statement of fact on which the first party reasonably relies in
deciding whether to enter into the contract. In this case Mr M says the dealership, acting on
behalf of Oodle, told him the car was front-wheel drive. It wasnt and, Mr M says, he wouldnt
have signed the hire purchase agreement if he hadnt been told that.
I accept first of all that the car was rear-wheel drive. Until 2019, all BMW Series 1 modelswere rear-wheel drive; more recent models are front-wheel drive.
I accept too Mr M expressed a wish to take a front-wheel drive car. That doesnt mean
however that the dealership told him specifically that this car was. Even if I accept that it did,
however, Im not persuaded that this was a key factor in his decision-making.
Mr M has said that he wanted a front-wheel drive because he feels theyre safer in bad
weather. Oodle says that there is no significant difference between front- and
rear-wheel drive cars; its not something thats usually specified on sales particulars, and it
wasnt here.
Mr M has explained how much driving experience he has over many years and in many 
different conditions, so is firmly of the view that a front-wheel drive car is better. Hes also 
said that the options provided were very limited and the test drive very brief. Nevertheless, 
its reasonable to assume that, taking all things into account  including for example the 
model, price, age, mileage and features  he concluded that, of the cars available to him, the 
BMW was the most appropriate for his needs.
Im not therefore persuaded that, had Mr M known that the BMW was in fact a rear-wheel
drive model, he would have made a different choice.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont require Oodle Financial Services Limited to do anything more 
to resolve Mr Ms complaint. Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im 
required to ask Mr M to accept or reject my decision before 1 March 2021. 
Mike Ingram
Ombudsman