DRN-2764443
The complaint
Mr T complains that a car acquired with finance from FirstRand Bank Limited (trading as 
MotoNovo) wasnt of satisfactory quality. 
What happened
In October 2017 Mr T was supplied with a car and entered into a hire purchase agreement 
with MotoNovo. At the point of supply the car was around 5 years old and had covered 
mileage of around 52,261.
At the point of supply, Mr T took out GardX protection, tyre and alloy wheel insurance and a 
30-month warranty subject to a claim limit of £2000.
Mr T experienced several issues with the car during the first two years, but the warranty 
covered most of the repairs.
Recently, the car had a serious issue with the engine. Mr Ts mother was driving the car at 
the time. The engine went bang, and black smoke started pouring out. The car was 
recovered to a garage who told Mr T that it couldnt be repaired and that the engine needed 
replacing. The warranty doesnt cover the cost of an engine replacement.
Mr T complained to MotoNovo. He said there had been several issues with the car since the 
point of supply and he didnt think it was of satisfactory quality. He asked MotoNovo to 
replace the car at no cost to him, or to write off the balance under the finance agreement.
In response, MotoNovo said that because Mr T had owned the car for more than six months, 
it was his responsibility to provide evidence to show that the fault was present or developing 
at the point of supply. MotoNovo advised Mr T that this evidence should be in the form of an 
independent engineers report. It said that if the report concluded that the car wasnt of 
satisfactory quality, it would reimburse Mr T for the costs of the report.
Mr T wasnt happy with the response and complained to this service. Hes unhappy that hes 
been left without a car, which has affected his ability to work. 
Our investigator didnt uphold the complaint. She looked at the faults which had occurred 
since the point of supply but was satisfied that these were due to general wear and tear. In 
relation to the current fault with the engine, the investigator said that based on the mileage 
covered in the car since the point of supply, she didnt think it was likely that the fault had 
been present or developing at the point of supply.
Mr T didnt agree. He said hed never known a car which had so many things go wrong with 
it.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Because MotoNovo supplied the car under a hire purchase agreement, theres an implied 
term that it is of satisfactory quality. Cars are of satisfactory quality if they are of a standard 
that a reasonable person would find acceptable, taking into account factors such as  
amongst other things  the age and mileage of the car and the price paid. I would expect a 
second-hand car  such as that supplied to Mr T  to have a degree of wear and tear and to 
require repairs and maintenance more often than, say, a brand-new car. This is reflected in 
the price paid. So, in order to uphold this complaint, I would need to be satisfied that there 
was an inherent fault with the car, as opposed to a fault caused by general wear and tear. 
Under the Consumer Rights Act 2015, where a fault occurs in the first six months of the point 
of supply, theres a presumption that it was present or developing at the point of supply and 
its generally up to the business to put things right. After six months, the burden of proof is 
reversed and its up to the consumer  in this case Mr T  to show that the car was of 
unsatisfactory quality at the point of supply.
Mr T and MotoNovo disagree about whether the car had a fault at the point of supply. In 
order to reach a decision, I need to look at all of the available evidence and determine, on 
the balance of probability, whether the car was of satisfactory quality at the point of supply.
I can see that Mr T has experienced a number of issues with the car since he acquired it in 
October 2017.  In November 2018 there was a fault with the glow plug. In February 2019 
there was an exhaust sensor fault. In June 2019 a tyre needed replacing and in August 2019 
the timing belt and water pump were replaced.
Ive considered the nature of these faults and Ive taken the age and mileage of the car into 
account. As Ive already said, a second-hand car is more likely to require repairs and 
maintenance than a brand new car. Whilst I appreciate that it can be frustrating when things 
go wrong with a car, I can see that Mr T has covered a significant amount of mileage during 
the first two years of owning the car, covering over 45,000 miles during this time. Looking at 
the type of issues Mr T has experienced with the car, I dont think these are outside of what 
might reasonably be expected with a second-hand car due to wear and tear. I dont think any 
of these faults would have been present or developing at the point of supply because of the 
time and mileage elapsed before they presented themselves. On balance, Im of the view 
that the issues were due to general wear and tear.
I understand that the current fault with the engine occurred when the car had covered 
around 109,000 miles. This means that the car had covered over 56,000 miles since Mr T 
acquired it and before the fault occurred. If there had been a fault with the engine at the point 
of supply, I would have expected this to have become apparent much sooner. I dont think it 
would have been possible to cover so much mileage if the engine fault had been present or 
developing at the point of supply. Under the relevant legislation, its up to Mr T to show that 
the car wasnt of satisfactory quality at the point of supply. I can see that MotoNovo 
suggested to Mr T that he obtained an independent engineers report to comment on this. I 
cant see that such a report has been obtained. Taking everything into account, I dont think 
theres enough evidence to show that the car had a fault at the point of supply. 
Based on what Ive seen, Im unable to say that the car was of unsatisfactory quality at the 
point of supply. The time and mileage which has elapsed since the point of supply up until 
when the various issues  including the engine fault  occurred, make it more likely than not 
that the faults were due to general wear and tear.
 
My final decisionMy final decision is that I dont uphold the complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr T to accept or 
reject my decision before 1 June 2021.
 
Emma Davy
Ombudsman