DRN-1739722
 
The complaint
Mrs W complains about the way AmTrust Europe Limited (AmTrust) handled claims she
made on a home services policy and about the service shes received from it.
What happened
Mrs W had a home services contract, underwritten by AmTrust, which offered her heating
cover and annual servicing for her boiler. Mrs Ws boiler was serviced in February 2019 and
the engineer found no issues.
In late May 2019, Mrs Ws boiler broke down. She claimed on her policy and an engineer
came out. He replaced a pump and suggested Mrs W might need a new boiler. The heating
company called Mrs W a few times over the next day to arrange a quote for a new boiler.
She told it she didnt want to go ahead with the quote.
A couple of days later, Mrs W let AmTrust know her boiler was overheating. Another
engineer came out. He tested the pipework for sludge and suggested Mrs W might want a
powerflush on the heating system. Mrs W didnt go ahead with this. At this point, a visit to
quote for a new boiler was booked in with the heating company. Mrs W bought a boiler from
another business.
In July 2019, Mrs W complained to AmTrust. She said that the company that installed her
new system found the old boilers faults were caused by issues with the water tank. Mrs W
complained that AmTrusts engineers hadnt inspected her water tank and so didnt correctly
identify the faults. She felt shed had a new boiler installed unnecessarily and that because
of this; AmTrust had cost her about £3000. She also wanted to cancel her policy with
AmTrust.
AmTrust didnt think its engineers had done anything wrong. But it agreed to waive the
cancellation fee for the policy. Mrs W wasnt happy with AmTrusts response, so she asked
us to look into her complaint.
Our investigator thought Mrs Ws complaint should be partly upheld. He didnt think AmTrust
needed to pay Mrs W for the cost of her boiler. He said shed had the benefit of a new boiler
system. But he did think AmTrust should pay Mrs W £150 for the trouble and upset itd
caused her. AmTrust agreed and sent Mrs W a cheque for this amount.
Mrs W disagreed with the investigator. She felt the compensation wasnt enough. She said
the engineers had left her with no working boiler. She didnt think shed received the service
shed been paying for. And she felt that AmTrust had misled her about the life of her boiler.
She believed it wanted new installation business.
I issued a provisional decision on 11 March 2020. In my provisional decision, I explained the 
reasons why I planned to reach the same overall outcome as the investigator. I said:First, Ive thought about the claims Mrs W made on her policy and what AmTrusts engineers 
told her about the life of her boiler. In May 2019, an engineer came out because Mrs W 
reported she didnt have any heating or hot water. The engineers notes show that he
replaced a pump and say he advised on age of boiler and may need a new boiler. It looks
like the engineer did try to repair the boiler and also that he thought Mrs W may need a new
boiler system.
AmTrusts records suggest that the next day, Mrs W was called to arrange a quote for a new
boiler. But the notes say she no longer wanted a quote. So it seems to me that at this point,
Mrs W was happy to keep the boiler she already had. And that she didnt think getting a new 
boiler was essential.
A couple of days later, Mrs W claimed again because her boiler kept going off. The notes
from AmTrusts engineer say the boiler was still overheating. It seems the engineer tested
the pipework for sludge. The notes say: Advised customer about powerflush, but with 16
rads and 22 year old boiler customer requests boiler lead instead.
I wasnt present during the discussion between the engineer and Mrs W, so I cant know
what was said. Its possible that the engineer did tell Mrs W she needed a new boiler and
that the notes dont reflect the conversation. But from what Ive seen so far, it looks like the
engineer offered Mrs W the option of a powerflush. And that she wanted to arrange a quote
for a new boiler system.
Based on what Ive seen so far, I dont think AmTrusts engineers sought to mislead Mrs W.
It looks like she knew she had a choice about whether to go ahead with a new boiler quote,
or explore the option of a powerflush to try to fix the boiler.
The replacement of the boiler
Its clear Mrs W feels strongly that she was let down by AmTrusts engineers. Shes said the
third party company which installed her new boiler system told her AmTrust had
misdiagnosed the faults with her boiler. She sent both AmTrust and us a list of the faults she
says the company found, which she says wouldve been obvious if AmTrusts engineers had
checked the water tank. AmTrust accepts it didnt check the tank and says it wasnt required
to as part of mandatory gas safe checks.
We asked Mrs W if she could provide a report from the third party setting out the faults itd
found. She told the investigator that she didnt have anything in writing from the third party 
shed written down what he told her.
AmTrust said if itd been provided with a report from the third party before the boiler was
replaced, it may have been able to arrange for a lead engineer to go out and check the
original diagnosis. If shed had repairs carried out by the third party, its possible Id have told 
AmTrust to pay Mrs W the cost of those repairs. But in this case, Mrs W didnt get the faults 
repaired. Instead, the boiler was replaced without AmTrust having a further chance to put 
things right. I cant fairly hold AmTrust responsible for Mrs W deciding to replace her boiler, 
rather than getting repairs done. As the investigator said, Mrs W has now had the benefit of 
the new boiler system and so I dont plan to tell AmTrust to refund her the cost of the boiler.
 
 
The service AmTrust providedIts clear from the notes that Mrs W needed to call on AmTrust a few times to try to fix the
faults with her boiler. Shes said she was without hot water or heating as a result, up until
she got the new boiler put in. I dont doubt that was highly frustrating. So I think its
appropriate that AmTrust should pay Mrs W some compensation for the trouble and upset
the repeated call outs and loss of heating and hot water caused her.
I know Mrs W doesnt think £150 is enough. Ive thought about this. Ive also borne in mind
that AmTrust wrote off the cancellation fee for Mrs Ws policy, which was worth over £160.
So taking both of these sums together, Mrs W will have effectively had over £300 to
recognise poor service. Overall, I currently think the additional £150 compensation payment
AmTrust has agreed to pay Mrs W is fair compensation for her trouble and upset. So Im
currently only planning to direct AmTrust to pay Mrs W £150.
I asked both Mrs W and AmTrust to send me any further evidence or submissions they 
wanted to me to look at by 10 April 2020.
AmTrust didn't respond.
Mrs W disagreed with my provisional decision. She thought I hadn't understood her full 
complaint. She felt the service she'd received from AmTrust had been neglectful. She'd 
experienced the same fault for at least three years - but at no time did an engineer go up into 
the loft to do a full diagnostic check. She felt AmTrust had been on a mission to get a new 
boiler - at least three engineers told her she needed a new boiler. But she said her old boiler 
had had many more years of life left in it. The boiler system had been off for several weeks. 
And Mrs W said she'd never dealt with AmTrust, only the service provider.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive reconsidered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Having done so, while I'm sorry to 
disappoint Mrs W, I still think an award of £150 for Mrs W's trouble and upset is fair. I'll 
explain why.
I understand Mrs W usually deals with the service company. It's that company which carries 
out checks and repairs faults. But her policy is insured by AmTrust and when claims are 
made on the policy, AmTrust is responsible for the actions of the engineers. That's why this 
complaint has been set-up and considered against AmTrust.
It's clear Mrs W feels strongly that AmTrust should've gone into her loft to do a full diagnostic 
check. She said the same issues had been going on for at least three years.
As I explained in my provisional decision, AmTrust accepts it didn't do such a check. It told 
us  this isn't a part of its mandatory checks and I accept this as a reasonable explanation. I 
can see that although Mrs W needed to make a few breakdown claims during 2016 and then 
again in September 2018, it doesn't seem as if the faults were consistent between 
December 2016 and September 2018. This suggests that for around twenty months, the 
boiler was working efficiently. AmTrust's records suggest each time Mrs W's boiler 
experienced issues, the engineers tried to investigate what was causing the boiler faults and 
to put things right.  So I'm satisfied AmTrust did try to deal with Mrs W's boiler in line with the 
terms of the policy.
Mrs W feels that AmTrust was on a mission to sell new boilers. She says three engineers 
told her that she needed a new boiler. It's possible Mrs W had these discussions with 
multiple engineers and they simply haven't been recorded in the notes. And it's clear that at 
least one engineer seems to have told Mrs W she might need a new boiler. But when AmTrust tried to call her to arrange a quote, Mrs W didn't want to go ahead. And I've 
borne in mind that the notes from another engineer's visit say she wanted a boiler lead, 
rather than the engineer suggesting it was necessary.
So based on what I've seen, I don't think it looks like AmTrust was trying to sell Mrs W a 
boiler aggressively. It seems it was suggested and Mrs W chose not to do so at that time. I 
appreciate she feels the boiler had years of life left in it. But it seems to have been her 
choice to buy a new system through a third party company at a later date, rather than get the 
boiler repaired. This suggests that she did decide a new boiler was necessary. And she's 
had the benefit of that new boiler system. So I won't be directing AmTrust to refund Mrs W 
the cost of her boiler.
Putting things right
Overall, I think £150 for Mrs W's trouble and upset is fair. I understand she may have been 
without the use of the boiler for a few weeks and I don't doubt this was stressful. But given 
AmTrust has written off her cancellation fee too in recognition of the issues, I feel £150 
compensation is reasonable compensation. Mrs W says she didn't cash the cheque AmTrust 
sent. It's likely this cheque is now out of date. So if appropriate, AmTrust will need to issue a 
new cheque to Mrs W.
 My final decision
 For the reasons I've given above and in my provisional decision, my final decision is that I 
uphold Mrs W's complaint in part.
I direct AmTrust Europe Limited to pay Mrs W £150 for the trouble and upset it caused her.
 Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs W to accept 
or reject my decision before 11 May 2020.
Lisa Barham
Ombudsman