DRN-3860268
The complaint
Miss and Mr J complain, via a loss assessor, about the decisions and poor handling of their 
claim for the damage caused by an escape of water under their building insurance policy 
with AXA Insurance UK Plc. I have just referred to Miss J in this decision and Ive referred to 
her representative as a loss assessor to distinguish him from AXAs loss adjusters.
What happened
I set out the background to the complaint within my provisional decision and also here. 
In November 2019 Miss Js home suffered an escape of water and she claimed to AXA. 
AXA appointed a loss adjuster who agreed it was a leak and requested a quote for repairs. 
Miss J said he called his office and said the house was uninhabitable and AXA paid for the 
first months alternative accommodation. She said when AXA saw the quote for the repairs it 
stopped paying for the alternative accommodation and requested a great deal of information.
Miss J engaged a loss assessor who said AXA used a new loss adjuster who advised there 
was no moisture present, but he had no equipment to confirm this and wasnt qualified to 
make this decision. Ms J engaged a firm to conduct a moisture survey, S and they advised 
her that the property was still saturated and that there was clear evidence of mould. The loss 
assessor said instead of dealing with the claim, AXA investigated Miss J for fraud. AXA said 
Miss J made a claim in 2017 that she hadnt mentioned to its loss adjuster. 
AXA said it settled Miss Js first claim on a cash in lieu of repairs basis as she wanted to 
undertake additional works on her home. During the work a second leak was found in a pipe 
on the heating system and a new claim was made for additional damage to the property. 
AXA investigated the claim and got Miss J to provide a statement. Miss Js loss assessor 
recorded a meeting with AXAs loss adjuster 15 months after the incident and said Ms J was 
forced to answer questions or AXA wouldnt consider the claim. He said she helped as far as 
possible but ended the meeting when it was obvious the loss adjuster had false information. 
AXA declined liability for the second claim and Miss J complained. The loss assessor said 
they proved AXA was incorrect and got the decline of the claim overturned. He said Ms J 
was away from home for a year and carried out the repairs when AXA agreed to review her 
claim and paid her £1,500 compensation. The loss assessor said AXA then engaged 
solicitors and they requested documentation in respect of the repair work and then said there 
was no cover because the work had been completed without allowing AXA to inspect. 
The loss assessor said AXA should accept it was wrong that there was no moisture present 
when it had evidence to the contrary and wrong to investigate Miss J making her prove the 
claim time and again despite it holding the relevant information. And also wrong to decline it 
and then say that as the work was complete, the claim couldnt be paid. He said AXA should 
apologise for leaving Miss J and her family homeless and financially distressed and pay her 
claim and alternative accommodation with interest and pay his fees as she wouldnt have 
been able to dispute this claim without assistance. 
A number of complaints have been raised by Miss and Mr J since their claim and AXA has 
sent them several final response letters. Our investigator said that as Miss and Mr J only 
referred their complaint to our service in November 2021, we can only consider matters 
pertaining to AXAs last response in June 2021. Miss Js loss assessor said the investigator 
was trying to separate the complaint from the claim, which wasnt possible. And AXA had 
stated it would review the claim so there was no need to bring the complaint earlier. He said 
the investigator was twisting words to support AXA as had it reconsidered the claim the 
complaint to us wouldnt have been required.
 
Our investigator maintained his view of what we can consider (delays in providing a decision 
following AXAs final response of January 2021 and the decline of the claim). He didnt 
recommend the complaint be upheld. The Investigator reviewed reports from the parties and 
said S reported damp within the concrete slab, but described this as a long-term issue from 
a slow leak. He said the report doesnt mention the joists being damaged, but does say 
theres mould behind the kitchen units and on furnishings. He said AXAs first loss adjusters 
reported the floor was rotten and the second loss adjusters reported on a slow leak with no 
visible damage as water went to the void below the floorboards. 
The investigator said the photos of the testing are of the wall plaster and under the joists 
where the concreate was wet, and are in line with comments by all parties. He said photos 
show significant mould in the affected area and on the ceiling. He said the loss adjuster 
noted that Miss J was topping up the boiler weekly for about three years, though Miss J said 
she had checked the pressure weekly and topped up monthly. He said this was abnormal. 
The investigator said a longstanding leak caused the damage and the policy excludes claims 
for damage due to gradual deterioration or maintenance. He said the boiler pressure and 
mould should have alerted Miss J to an issue with the boiler/heating system. He said that as 
damage caused by mould or lack of maintenance wouldnt be covered, AXA had reasonably 
declined the claim. He thought AXAs payment of £200 compensation for delaying its 
reassessment of the claim following its final response in January 2021, was reasonable.
Miss Js loss assessor said its outrageous for the investigator to accept the leak was out of 
sight, but not covered because its a gradual operating cause. He said he didnt have the 
energy to explain why this was incorrect. He said the investigator had gone against our own 
rulings where it states that if a leak is out of sight and theres no evidence of damage then 
the date of loss is the date of discovery. He said AXAs surveyor and drying firm didnt notice 
damage from the leak, but the investigator thinks Miss J should have noticed. He requested 
an ombudsman review the complaint and wanted a hearing.
The investigator thought it most likely from the reported moisture levels, damp and mould the 
leak had been ongoing for some time. He thought this would have shown as a pressure loss 
on the boiler, meaning it would need to be filled more frequently than is recommended and 
the system should be checked for leaks or a fault by a qualified engineer. 
My provisional findings and the parties responses
In my provisional findings I said I intended to uphold the complaint in part. I said Miss J and 
her loss assessor brought part of her complaint to us outside the time set for referrals by the 
Financial Conduct Authority. We dont have AXAs permission to ignore the time limit and so 
this means I could only consider the issues addressed by AXA within its final response letter 
of 22 January 2021. These were set out by our investigator, viz, the decline of the claim and 
delays in providing a decision following AXAs final response letter. 
 
AXAs decision to decline the claimI said we consider if the terms AXA relied on to decline the claim are in line with the policy 
and are fair. I said the source of the leak, a broken pipe, was discovered when Miss J was 
having unrelated works carried out on her home. In this case AXA didnt decline the claim 
because the damage was pre-existing, but because it was a gradually operating cause.
  
Home insurance policies have standard exclusions for damage that occurs gradually, 
including damp and mould. These clauses mean that insurers dont have to accept liability 
for things that their policyholders have to do to ensure their homes function properly. The 
clauses have the effect of distinguishing an insurance policy, that covers one-off events such 
as storm, flood etc, from general maintenance that we all have to do from time-to-time.
Miss Js loss assessor said the damage to her home from the leak was hidden from view 
and so should be treated as an insured event from when it was discovered. I understood this 
point and we have seen cases where this approach has been applied, but not where there is 
evidence of damage occurring. In this case there appeared to have been a steady 
accumulation of mould and damp as reported on in the assessments of Miss Js home. 
Miss J told AXAs loss adjuster that for over three years since she moved into her house in 
2015, she had to top up her boiler. General advice is it shouldnt be necessary to regularly 
refill a boiler as it indicates a leak on a closed system. But Miss J did this for over three 
years before dealing with the escape of water. 
I said the loss adjusters and S found damage to the floorboards, laminate floor, wallpaper, 
skirtings and patch repairs to the ceiling and decorations, but found no damp to floor joists or 
pipework. S subsequently found widespread mould and damp which it described as long 
term. Collectively, from the reports, photos and communications between the parties I could 
see why AXA and our investigator thought there were enough reasons for Miss J to have 
realised there was a leak a long time before she did. The investigator said that as the 
heating is a closed system water is maintained within the system and doesnt flow away. And 
so it would be reasonable to expect Miss J to have acted on detecting and dealing with the 
leak and its consequences a long time before the damage occurred or increased. 
From my review of the evidence I provisionally concluded that it was fair for AXA to decide to 
decline the claim and that this was in accordance with the policy exclusion for gradually 
occurring damage. 
Delays in AXA providing a decision
Miss Js loss assessor said AXA had all the evidence needed to reach a decision, but failed 
to do so in a reasonable time, taking about five months. I said AXA reached an initial 
decision to decline the claim but agreed this should be reviewed, and having done so it 
confirmed the decline of the claim. I thought AXA was entitled to take this action.
AXA said Miss J didnt respond to all its enquiries, which held up its initial investigation, but it 
acknowledged delay when it reconsidered its decision. AXA paid Miss J £200 compensation 
for this and the loss of expectations about her claim. I thought AXA had adopted different 
positions on the claim and by stating in its final response letter that it considered its decision 
on her claim to be incorrect, it allowed Miss J to anticipate that her claim would be paid. 
Although I thought it was fair for AXA to decline the claim, the uncertainty and delay and the 
loss of Miss Js expectations caused her a lot of distress and inconvenience over a five-
month period, and I thought the impact of this should be reflected by AXA paying her further 
compensation of £200.I said theres no cover in Miss Js policy for her loss assessors costs to be met. Our service 
is free and straightforward to use, and we wouldnt consider it fair to require an insurer to 
meet these costs unless the loss assessor had made a significant difference to the outcome 
of the complaint.
AXA agreed with the provisional decision for it to pay £200 further compensation. 
Miss Js loss assessor responded on her behalf expressing their dissatisfaction with the 
provisional decision. He said I had missed the fraud investigation that Miss J was forced to 
endure and wanted to know why this was necessary and what information was collected.
Miss Js loss assessor said my references to mould at the back of kitchen units and the back 
of floors suggested these were visible, whereas it wasnt until the hole in the floor was made. 
He said I had constantly referred to a drop in the boiler pressure but, if true, why wasnt this 
noticed on the first claim, which involved the same area of damage. He said the insurance 
surveyor identified the proximate cause and areas of moisture damage, but it only became 
apparent there was another issue subsequently and investigations were undertaken. 
The loss assessor said I had failed to understand that the insurer found damage to the 
floorboards, laminate floor, wallpaper and skirting boards, post loss. He said the insurers 
own surveyor had missed these problems only weeks before the second loss was 
discovered. He said I was stating that the problems were missed yet they were all pre-
existing and fall under gradually operating causes.
The loss assessor said my appraisal is completely flawed because I dont have an accurate 
timeline of events and he requested information that I had relied on. He said I had failed to 
consider the possibility that the second leak may have occurred after the first leak was 
discovered and repaired. He said that the leak could have been ongoing for a week which 
could be why it was not noticed previously. And that the leak, and the associated damage 
was out of Miss Js view until the strip out works in the adjoining room were completed. He 
said the insurer could have run a pressure test on the boiler for the first claim or the second 
claim, but they have not requested or arranged one.
The loss assessor said AXA should have engaged its own drying and restoration firm 
instead of appointing a loss adjuster whose sole intention was to reduce liability. This would 
have identified the second leak and may have avoided the mould. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Miss Js loss assessor commented that I had missed the fraud investigation part of her 
complaint. I set out the limitations on what we can consider within the provisional decision, 
as follows, I can only consider the issues addressed by AXA within its final response letter 
of 22 January 2021. These were set out by our investigator, viz, the decline of the claim and 
delays in providing a decision following AXAs final response letter. 
Miss Js loss assessor said that they failed to see how she could be expected to notice pre-
existing damage when AXAs loss adjuster had been in the property but did not notice any 
mould. He said none of the damage was visible prior to the loss occurring and the loss 
adjuster didnt notice any damage following the first claim. From the record of the claim, I 
can see that the insurers surveyor said Miss J made the claim because she noticed damp.Miss Js loss assessor asks why the boiler pressure wasnt noticed on the first claim. In my 
provisional decision I said, Miss J said this was an ongoing problem since she moved into 
her house in 2015. That means she had been topping up the boiler for over three years 
before dealing with the escape of water. I think this was a clear indication that the boiler 
wasnt functioning properly. 
In declining Miss Js claim AXA has relied upon the exclusion clause in her policy for 
damage that occurs gradually, including damp and mould. Miss Js loss assessor said the 
damage to her home from the leak was hidden from view and so should be treated as an 
insured event from when it was discovered. 
Ive considered the possibility that the second leak occurred after the first leak was repaired, 
but from the evidence Ive seen, I think it very unlikely. The reason is that the loss adjusters 
and S found damage to the floorboards, laminate floor, wallpaper, skirtings and patch 
repairs to the ceiling and decorations. S subsequently found widespread mould and damp 
which it described as long term. From the reports, photos and communications between the 
parties I can see why AXA and our investigator thought there were enough reasons for Miss 
J to have realised there was a leak a long time before she acted. 
Additionally, Miss Js heating is a closed system and so water is maintained within the 
system and doesnt flow away. Miss J told AXAs loss adjuster that for over three years since 
she moved into her house, she had to top up her boiler. General advice is it shouldnt be 
necessary to regularly refill a boiler as it indicates a leak on a closed system. And so it would 
be reasonable to expect Miss J to have acted on detecting and dealing with the leak and its 
consequences a long time before the damage occurred or increased. 
I think there was evidence of damage occurring before it was dealt with including a steady 
accumulation of mould and damp as reported on in the assessments of Miss Js home. From 
my review of the evidence I think it was fair for AXA to decide to decline the claim and that 
this was in accordance with the policy exclusion for gradually occurring damage. 
Ive thought again about the delays that AXA caused in its reconsideration of Miss Js claim. 
Miss Js loss assessor said AXA had all the evidence needed to reach a decision, but failed 
to do so in a reasonable time. I agree with this, and I think AXA taking five months to decide 
was far too long. AXA paid Miss J £200 compensation for its delay and the loss of 
expectations about her claim. I remain of the view that AXA adopted different positions on 
the claim and by stating in its final response letter that it considered its decision on her claim 
to be incorrect, it allowed Miss J to anticipate that her claim would be paid. 
I can see that the uncertainty and delay and the loss of Miss Js expectations caused her a 
lot of distress and inconvenience over a five-month period, and I think the impact of this 
should be reflected by AXA paying her further compensation of £200. Im pleased AXA has 
agreed to this. I recommend that Miss and Mr J accept this award. However, I can see that 
Miss J and her representative strongly disagree with my conclusions, and so if she rejects 
this decision, it will be of no legal effect, and she can pursue her complaint by other means.
I was sorry to learn about the impact on Miss J and her family of the prolonged handling of 
her claim. However, I still think AXAs decline of Miss Js claim was fair taking all of the 
circumstances into account and was in accordance with the policy exclusion for gradually 
occurring damage. My final decision
For the reasons I have given above and in my provisional decision the complaint is upheld in 
part. I require AXA Insurance UK Plc to pay Miss J and Mr J further compensation of £200 
for the distress and inconvenience they have been caused.
 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss J and Mr J to 
accept or reject my decision before 7 February 2023.
 
Andrew Fraser
Ombudsman