DRN-1536015
complaint
Ms M complains that Canada Square Operations Limited, trading as Egg, mis-sold her a 
payment protection insurance (PPI) policy.
background
Ms M took out a credit card online with Egg in 2003. At the same time she bought a PPI 
policy which wouldve covered 10% of her outstanding balance each month for up to 12 
months at a time if she couldnt work.
Ms M says she was made to believe the PPI was compulsory and that she wasnt told she 
had a choice about taking it. She says she didnt need it.
The adjudicator thought that Ms Ms complaint shouldnt be upheld. Ms M disagrees, so her 
case has been passed to me to make a decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding Mrs Cs case.
Ive decided the policy wasnt mis-sold because:
I think Egg made it clear that Ms M didnt have to take out the PPI and she chose to 
take it out  although I can understand why she cant remember this now. Ms M 
completed her credit card application online and Egg has provided screenshots of 
what she wouldve seen. She had a clear choice about whether to take the PPI and 
could not have progressed through her application without making a decision about 
it. The boxes were not pre-populated to select PPI.
 
Ms M says she was falsely led to believe it was mandatory, so she didnt query the 
PPI when she saw it on her credit card statements. But Ms M hasnt said who led her 
to believe this. Egg has supplied all the call notes of their contacts with Ms M over 
the years and it doesnt seem she ever queried it directly with Egg. And as she 
applied online she wouldnt have spoken to anyone then either. So I cant safely say 
Ms M was misled by anyone at Egg into the belief it was a mandatory product.
 
Egg didnt recommend the PPI to Ms M so it didnt have to check if it was right for 
her. But it did have to make sure Ms M got the information she needed to decide if it 
was right for her. 
 Its possible the information Egg gave Ms M about the PPI wasnt as clear as it 
shouldve been, but this doesnt mean I should automatically uphold Ms Ms 
complaint. Ms M chose to take out the PPI - so it looks like she wanted this type of 
cover; and I think she wouldve understood enough about the policy to know it would 
help meet her repayments if she wasnt working. Based on what Ive seen of 
circumstances at the time it doesnt look like she was affected by any of the 
exclusions to or limits on the PPI cover - so it would have been useful for her if 
something went wrong. I also havent seen anything to suggest it was unaffordable 
for Ms M. So I dont think better information about the PPI would have put her off 
taking out the cover. 
 
So, in summary, I dont think Ms M lost out as a result of anything Egg mightve done wrong.
 
my final decision
Im not upholding Mrs Cs complaint, so it follows that Canada Square Operations Limited, 
trading as Egg, doesnt have to pay any compensation.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms M to accept or 
reject my decision before 23 April 2020.
Sally Allbeury
Ombudsman