DRN-3053590
The complaint
 Mr B has complained that Bank of Scotland plc trading as Halifax (Halifax) continued 
charging him excessive amounts for his overdraft when he was in financial difficulty.
 
What happened
 Mr B complained to Halifax that the overdraft charges applied to his account left him in a 
cycle of debt and that it acted unfairly by continuing to apply these charges when he was in 
financial difficulty. Halifax didnt uphold the complaint. And as Mr B was dis-satisfied he 
referred the complaint to our service.
Mr Bs complaint was considered by one of our adjudicators. She thought that Halifax ought 
to have realised that Mr B was experiencing financial difficulty by November 2017 and so 
shouldnt have added any more interest, fees and charges from this point onwards. Halifax 
didnt respond so the case was passed to an ombudsman. 
 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Halifax will be familiar with all the rules, regulations and good industry practice we consider 
when looking at whether a bank treated a customer fairly and reasonably when applying 
overdraft charges. So I dont consider it necessary to set all of this out in this decision.
Having carefully considered everything provided, Im intending to find that Halifax acted 
unfairly when it continued charging overdraft interest and associated fees on Mr Bs 
overdraft from November 2017. By this point, it ought to have been clear that Mr B was in no 
position to sustainably repay what he owed within a reasonable period of time. 
By this point, Halifax ought to have realised that Mr Bs use of his overdraft was 
unsustainable. Mr Bs statements show significant gambling and that he hadnt maintained a 
credit balance for an extended period of time and that he was in a cycle of repeated high-
cost borrowing. In these circumstances, Halifax ought to have realised that Mr B was at a 
significant risk of being unable to repay what he already owed. So Halifax should have 
stopped providing the overdraft on the same terms and treated Mr B with forbearance rather 
than charge even more interest, fees and charges on the overdraft.
Mr B ended up paying additional interest, fees and charges on their overdraft and this ended 
up exacerbating difficulties he already had in trying to clear it. So I think that Halifax didnt 
treat Mr B fairly and he lost out because of what Halifax did wrong. And this means that it 
should put things right.
Putting things right
 Having thought about everything, I think that it would be fair and reasonable in all the 
circumstances of Mr Bs complaint for Halifax to put things right by:
Reworking Mr Bs current overdraft balance so that all interest, fees and charges 
applied to it after the renewal in November 2017 are removed.
AND
If an outstanding balance remains on the overdraft once these adjustments have 
been made Halifax should contact Mr B to arrange a suitable repayment plan for 
this. If it considers it appropriate to record negative information on Mr Bs credit 
file, it should reflect what would have been recorded had it started the process of 
taking corrective action on the overdraft in November 2017.
It is unclear whether Halifax has sold an outstanding balance on this account to a 
third-party debt purchaser, or asked a third-party to collect the balance on its 
behalf. But if Halifax  has sold an outstanding balance on this account to a third-
party debt purchaser, it will need to either buy the account back from the third-
party and make the necessary adjustments, pay an amount to the third party in 
order for it to make the necessary adjustments, or pay Mr B an amount to ensure 
that it fully complies with this direction.
OR
If the effect of removing all interest, fees and charges results in there no longer 
being an outstanding balance, then any extra should be treated as overpayments 
and returned to Mr B along with 8% simple interest on the overpayments from 
the date they were made (if they were) until the date of settlement. If no 
outstanding balance remains after all adjustments have been made, then Halifax 
should remove any adverse information from Mr Bs credit file. 
 HM Revenue & Customs requires Halifax to take off tax from this interest. Halifax must 
give Mr B a certificate showing how much tax it has taken off if they ask for one.
 
My final decision
 For the reasons Ive explained, Im upholding Mr Bs complaint. Bank of Scotland plc should 
put things right in the way Ive set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 1 November 2021.
 
Caroline Davies
Ombudsman