DRN-3667499
The complaint
Mr R has complained about an income protection plan he has with Vitality Corporate 
Services Limited trading as VitalityLife. He feels that the plan was not suitable for his needs 
as in the event of a claim his occupation would not be assessed on an own occupation 
basis.
What happened
The facts are well known to the parties, so I dont propose to repeat them in detail here. Our 
investigator didnt find that Vitality had done anything. Mr R appealed.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I should explain that Im aware Ive set out the background to this complaint in less detail 
than Mr R. Im not going to respond to every single point made - no discourtesy is intended 
by this. Instead, Ive focused on what I think is the key issue here. Our rules allow me to take 
this approach. It simply reflects the informal nature of our service as a free alternative to the 
courts. If theres something I havent mentioned, it isnt because Ive ignored it. I havent. Im 
satisfied I dont need to comment on every individual argument to be able to reach what I 
think is the right outcome. 
Whilst I recognise that Mr R will be disappointed by my decision, I dont uphold his 
complaint, for broadly the same reasons as our investigator. Ill explain:
The policy wasnt sold by Vitality, so Im not able to consider the sale as part of this 
complaint.
Mr R says that had he known the plan did not permanently offer him own occupation 
cover he wouldnt have taken it out. However the plan did offer own occupation 
cover. It explained under How we will assess your claim: We will assess any claims 
you make according to the occupation you were in immediately before you claimed.
Benefit would have been paid if Mr R became ill, injured or disabled and his 
incapacity met the standard definition: A standard definition means that illness or 
injury makes you unable to perform the material and substantial duties of your own 
occupation. These are the duties that are normally needed to do your own 
occupation and that cannot reasonably be omitted or modified by you or your 
employer. To meet this definition, you must also not be working in any other 
occupation for payment or profit.
I understand that Mr R was concerned that his occupation would be assessed at 
point of claim rather than point of sale. However its clear from the policy documents, 
which Mr R has said he received, that this is how the policy works. Mr R could have 
cancelled the policy if he didnt feel it met his needs.
Mr R didnt need to claim on the policy, but if he had there is nothing to suggest that it 
wouldnt have met any eligible claim. Therefore there is no basis on which I could 
require Vitality to return the premiums paid, as it was on risk and Mr R was enjoying 
the policy benefits.
I understand Mr Rs concern that Vitality may have changed its guidance in the future 
 but Vitality has confirmed that as long as he remained in his given occupation his 
cover wouldnt change.
I dont find that Vitality have been inconsistent in its messaging or failed to be 
transparent about the cover provided. 
My final decision
My final decision is I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision before 13 February 2023.
 
Lindsey Woloski
Ombudsman