DRN-3440581
The complaint
Mrs J complains Mercedes-Benz Financial Services UK Limited (MBFS) unfairly applied end 
of contract charges to her car finance agreement. 
What happened
In November 2018, Mrs J entered into a 24 month personal contract purchase (PCP) 
agreement for a new car. The cars cash price was around £56,800. Mrs J was required to 
pay monthly instalments of £635 followed by an optional final payment of £34,300. The 
agreement was due to end in November 2020.
The car was returned in December 2020 and in line with MBFS returns process it was 
inspected. Damage was found to the wheels, bumper, bonnet, door, and the spare key was 
missing. MBFS said Mrs J needed to pay £2,475 for the damages and £457 for 17 days of 
extra hire. Meaning Mrs J was required to pay a total of £2,932.
Mrs J complained that the damages charged had been unfairly applied. She also said she 
had an insurance policy that covered damage to the car and she had booked for it to be 
repaired in November 2020. However that appointment had been cancelled due to the 
Covid-19 pandemic. She said she was advised by a technician at a manufacturer approved 
dealership to return the car and the repairs would be carried out by them meaning Mrs J 
would avoid having to pay increased extra days hire.
MBFS said the charges had been fairly applied and Mrs J would have to complain to the 
dealership directly concerning the information she was told by the technician.
Unhappy with their response, Mrs J referred the complaint to our service. Our investigator 
recommended the case was partially upheld. With the exception of the charge for the quarter 
panel, they found all other charges for the damage and extra days hire had been fairly 
applied.
MBFS accepted the opinion. Mrs J disagreed. In summary, she said:
- There were delays in getting the car repaired under the insurance due to the 
pandemic because garages were closed;
- She was advised to return the car by a technician at the dealership in the condition it 
was in;
- Not all damage to the car was mentioned on the collection report. 
As an agreement couldnt be reached, the complaint has been referred to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided to partially uphold Mrs Js complaint. Ill explain why. 
Damage charges
The terms of the agreement outline that in the event the car is returned, it will be inspected 
and in the event it doesnt meet MBFS return standards, they are entitled to apply a charge. 
Mrs J signed this agreement in November 2020 so Im satisfied she was aware of the same. 
Ive reviewed MBFS return standards which sets out what is considered acceptable 
damage. In addition to this, Ive considered the guidance of the British Vehicle Rental & 
Leasing Association (BVRLA). It is used industry wide to assess damage when new cars 
have been returned as part of a car finance agreement. In this case, the car was new when 
supplied so I believe its fair to also take this guidance into account.
MBFS has applied the following damage charges:
Bonnet Dented £260
Right hand front door Dented £260
Quarter panel Dented £260
Spare key Missing £360
Wheel left hand front Rim damaged £557
Wheel left right front Rim damaged £557
Wheel left hand rear Spoke damaged £110
Wheel left right rear Rim damaged £110
Total (excluding VAT) £2,475
The wheels  Having considered the collection report, I can see damage to the wheels were 
noted at the time of collection. MBFS return standards say minor scuffing or damage under 
25mm to the vehicle alloy or steel rim edge or wheel face is acceptable. The BVLRA 
guidance says up to 50mm is acceptable. Having looked at the pictures of the four wheels, 
its clear there was significant damage and this exceeded what MBFS and the BVLRA would 
consider to be acceptable so they were entitled to charge for this. 
The bonnet  MBFSs return standards say dents on high profile panels such as bonnets 
arent acceptable. Based on the pictures, I can see theres a dent on the bonnet so MBFS 
were entitled to charge for this. 
The right hand door- the return standards say dents to the bodywork up to 13mm are 
acceptable, the BVRLA say up to 10mm. Based on the picture and the measuring tool 
shown next to the dent, Im satisfied the dent exceeds this amount therefore MBFS can 
charge for it.
The quarter panel  As MBFS has accepted the investigators findings that they shouldnt 
charge for this damage, I wont comment on this further. This charge should be removed. 
The spare key  I understand Mrs J accepts the spare key was missing. Therefore I wont 
make any further comment about this. Im satisfied it has been charged correctly and from 
my understanding she has already paid this charge. 
I note Mrs Js comments that with the exception of the wheels the other damage wasnt 
noted on the report when the car was collected. While I accept that, the terms outline once 
the car is collected it would be thoroughly inspected so its not unreasonable not all damages 
were listed on the collection report. Given the car was in Mrs Js possession for over two 
years, I believe its more likely than not the damage was caused while it was in her 
possession as opposed to being damaged while in the care of MBFS agents after collection.
Overall, with the exception of the charge for the quarter panel, I consider MBFS were entitled 
to charge for all other areas of damage. Insurance 
Ive carefully thought about Mrs Js comments regarding the insurance she had. Based on 
the information Ive seen, this policy covered damage to the wheels only, not any other 
damage to the car. Evidence shows Mrs J made a claim in December 2020, she received 
confirmation the claim was being processed and she would be contacted to arrange a repair 
but this may be delayed due to the pandemic. However she said she was told by a 
technician at a dealership that the repairs would be carried out when the car was returned 
and any repairs to the wheels would be claimed under the insurance.
Having looked at the agreement, I cant see this insurance policy formed a part of this 
agreement. It was a separate contract and not with MBFS. I also note the technician was 
from a dealership, not MBFS itself. On that basis, it wouldnt be fair to hold MBFS 
responsible for the delays by the insurance company nor the information provided by the 
technician. I appreciate Mrs J will be frustrated by this and Im sorry this is the situation she 
finds herself in. As per the terms of the agreement, the car had to be returned in line with 
MBFS standards otherwise charges would apply. In this case, for the reasons already 
explained, Im not satisfied it was therefore MBFS were entitled to apply the damage 
charges (with the exception of the damage to the quarter panel). 
Extra days hire
The agreement was due to end in November 2020 but the car wasnt returned until 
December 2020. According to MBFS, Mrs J had the car for an additional 17 days. For this, 
they said she needed to pay £475. As Mrs J had use of the car for longer than the 
agreement allows, I find it was fair for MBFS to apply this charge. From my understanding, 
Mrs J doesnt dispute this charge and shes paid it.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, Ive decided to partially uphold Mrs Js complaint.
To put things right, Mercedes-Benz Financial Services UK Limited (MBFS) must remove the 
damage charge for the dent to the quarter panel from the balance owed by Mrs J.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs J to accept or 
reject my decision before 26 December 2022.
 
Simona Charles
Ombudsman