DRN-4223971
The complaint
Ms S complains that Revolut Ltd failed to refund transactions that she didnt recognise.
What happened
What Ms S says
Ms S was in a meeting when she received an alert from Revolut. Her payment card used on 
the account had been frozen and Ms S noticed several transactions had been made from 
her account that she didnt recognise.
Ms S asked Revolut about them and sought a refund. She said she wasnt aware of the 
payments or the merchant (offering multi-currency accounts) who had received them. After 
looking into the matter, Revolut declined to make a full refund, although one of the payments 
was later paid back to Ms S. The loss was also reported to the police.
What Revolut says
Revoluts security system froze her card after repeated transactions to the same merchant. 
After Ms S contacted them, they considered whether they could approach the merchant 
using a chargeback process. Due to the specific circumstances of these payments, Revolut 
decided they couldnt use a chargeback because their records showed the payments were 
made with Ms Ss registered card through the use of Apple Pay. 
The process for authorising Apple Pay linked to Ms Ss account (and card) was completed 
just prior to the start of the disputed transactions. Revolut said this could only have been 
done by Ms S. They said the one refund received by Ms S was a gesture of goodwill.
The investigation so far
After Revolut declined to refund the complete set of disputed transactions, Ms S complained 
to the Financial Ombudsman Service and sought an independent review of the complaint.
An investigator was assigned to look into the situation and both parties were asked to 
provide whatever evidence they could. Ms S explained how she was in the office when she 
received an alert and hadnt authorised these transactions. She confirmed she had Apple 
Pay on her phone(s) but wasnt responsible for these transactions.
Ms S also confirmed she retained possession of her phone(s) and no one else knew the 
details of her Revolut account or the payment card attached to it. She also confirmed that 
she hadnt received any unusual messages or requests for information from anyone.
Revolut provided details about the payments and records from their system about Ms Ss 
account. After reviewing the evidence, the investigator didnt uphold it, believing the 
evidence pointed to Ms S being responsible or enabling someone else to use her account 
due to the information needed for Apple Pay to be authorised. The investigator didnt think 
that Revoluts decision to decline the chargeback application was unreasonable as it was 
likely to fail based on their understanding of what had happened. 
Ms S disagreed what the investigators outcome and asked for it to be reinvestigated. A 
second investigator looked at the complaint who asked Revolut for further information about 
the circumstances, including the specific audit data concerning the use of Apple Pay.
Revolut supplied that data and it was confirmed that a message with a specific code was 
sent to Ms Ss registered phone to enable Apple Pay to be linked to her card. Revolut said 
the system is designed to prevent anyone adding this type of payment system without the 
owner of the account being aware.
Considering this additional information, coupled with:
Ms Ss confirmation that she hadnt provided her account details to anyone else; and
there was no evidence of a second phone being added to her account.
The second investigator didnt think there was a plausible explanation of how Apple Pay 
could have been authorised without Ms Ss knowledge. 
Ms Ss assertion that she hadnt made them herself was acknowledged, but the evidence 
couldnt explain how an unauthorised third party could have carried them out.
The investigator considered whether Revolut should have intervened at the time but based 
on the how they were made and for how much, she didnt think Revolut could have 
reasonably prevented the loss.
Ms S again disagreed with the second outcome and said:
Apple Pay was already authorised on her two phones that were in her possession.
She didnt receive any codes the day of the disputed transaction and didnt carry 
them out.
Ms S usually received notification for larger payments but didnt in this case. She also 
said these payments were much higher than she usually used the account for.
As no agreement could be reached, the complaint has now been passed to me for a 
decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The complaint brought by Ms S is that she wasnt responsible for adding Apple Pay or 
making the disputed transactions. Revoluts case is that she had to be responsible because 
their records showed she used a code sent to her mobile phone, which enabled Apple Pay 
to be added to a device. Where there is a dispute about what happened, as it is here, and 
the evidence is incomplete or contradictory, I must reach my decision on the balance of 
probabilities  in other words, on what I consider is most likely to have happened in light of 
the available evidence.
The relevant law surrounding authorisations are the Payment Service Regulations 2017. The 
basic position is that Revolut can hold Ms S liable for the disputed payments if the evidence 
suggests that its more likely than not that she made them or authorised them. 
Revolut can only refuse to refund unauthorised payments if it can prove Ms S authorised the transactions, but Revolut cannot say that the use of Apple Pay conclusively proves that the 
payments were authorised. 
Unless Revolut can show that consent has been given, it has no authority to make the 
payment or to debit Ms Ss account and any such transaction must be regarded as 
unauthorised. To start with, Ive seen the banks technical evidence for the disputed 
transactions. It shows that the transactions were authenticated using the payment tools 
issued to Ms S. Ill now need to consider the information provided by both parties to 
determine whether theres sufficient evidence to hold Ms S responsible for the disputed 
transactions or not.
Revoluts audit evidence shows that just prior to the disputed transactions took place, a new 
request for Apple Pay was made and authorised after the successful completion of the 
passcode sent to Ms Ss phone. Ms S denies ever receiving the code on that day and said 
that Apple Pay was already set up on her two devices. Their records also show that two 
other devices had already been set up to use Apple Pay.
The payments themselves do show the type of transaction youd expect to see from 
someone emptying the account as soon as possible (often how hijacked accounts are 
exploited), that is quick payments over a short period of time. None of them are particularly 
large payments, so I can see why they didnt alert Revolut, but there are several declined 
attempts made  supporting the case that whoever made them wasnt aware of what the 
balance was in the account.
The timeline of the Apple Pay authorisation and the following disputed transactions suggests 
that the account with the merchant that received the payments was already set up. Thats 
because the account the funds were paid to required an application supported by 
identification. Its unlikely such an account was set up on the spur of the moment. What that 
indicates is that the payments made from Ms Ss account had an element of planning 
involved. 
It doesnt appear likely that these payments were made as the result of a scam because Ms 
S confirmed she hadnt been asked to provide any details to anyone or received unusual 
requests for information. So, whoever made them had access to Ms Ss phone, because 
otherwise the passcode issued by Revolut couldnt have been used to create the Apple Pay 
facility on another phone. Theres no evidence of compromise of Ms Ss account or anything 
that would point to how someone could have obtained the necessary information to set up 
Apple Pay.
I do recognise there are some aspects of this complaint that supports the notion that Ms Ss 
account was used by someone without her permission. But, without a plausible and realistic 
explanation for how the code sent to her phone was somehow obtained by a third party, I 
cant uphold this complaint. 
Whilst Im sure Ms S will disagree with me, I think its implausible to conclude they werent 
authorised without stronger evidence to the contrary. That means I think its more likely than 
not that Ms S carried out these transactions herself  or that someone else with consent did 
so.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms S to accept or 
reject my decision before 1 December 2023.
 
David Perry
Ombudsman