DRN-3567881
The complaint
Mr N has complained that Drydens Limited are pursuing him for a debt which a previous 
company had said was settled.
What happened
This complaint is about a consumer credit debt which Drydens are managing on behalf of 
Arrow Global. Arrow were sold the account and own it now. In 2021, Arrow asked Drydens to 
manage the account on their behalf.
In 2017, Arrows previous managing agent  Elderbridge  told Mr Ns debt management 
company at the time that the debt was settled. The debt management company passed this 
information onto Mr N.
So when in 2021, Drydens were instructed by Arrow to pursue Mr N, Mr N raised a dispute. 
He explained his debt management company had said theyd been told the debt was settled. 
Drydens tried numerous times to get in touch with the debt management company, but got 
no reply for many months. They also queried things with Arrow, who provided records 
showing the debt was still outstanding. So in the meantime, they pursued Mr N.
In 2022, the debt management company confirmed to Drydens that theyd been told the debt 
was settled. Though at that point, they did not give Drydens any further evidence.
Mr N came to our service. Our investigator looked into things independently and explained 
that Mr N was complaining about the wrong business. They explained that either Arrow 
made a mistake by not settling the debt, or Elderbridge made a mistake by telling the debt 
management company it had been settled when it hadnt. And they explained that only 
Arrow could close the account now, not Drydens, as Drydens didnt own it.
Mr N didnt agree. He felt that because Arrow had transferred the management of the 
account to Drydens, the complaint should be against them. And he felt Drydens had not 
made any effort to follow up on his dispute.
The complaints been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
First, I will clarify that Drydens do not own this account, Arrow do. Arrow just transferred the 
management of the account to Drydens. That means Drydens administer things on Arrows 
behalf and on Arrows instructions. I appreciate that this is not intuitive and I appreciate why 
Mr N may have found this confusing. But as our investigator said, Im afraid he really has 
complained about the wrong company.
It's not clear what happened here. Arrows statements show that this account was never 
settled, nor close to being settled  the balance was nearly £4,000 and Mr N had been 
paying between £3 to £9 per month. But the debt management company had a call 
recording where Elderbridge said Mr Ns account with Arrow was fully settled  though I note 
they didnt give any further details about which account it was. So realistically, one of three 
things have happened:
1.) The account was never settled, and Elderbridge made a mistake in telling the debt 
management company it was; or
2.) The account was settled, and Arrow made a mistake by continuing to ask companies like 
Drydens to pursue it for them; or
3.) Mr N had more than one account with Arrow, and his debt management company made 
a mistake by marking the wrong one as settled on their end.
But whichever of those possibilities was the case, the mistake was not made by Drydens. 
Drydens only got involved in 2021, four years after the 2017 phone call. And they were just 
acting on Arrows instructions. Theyre not responsible for the situation this is in now.
Further, because this case is against Drydens, and not any of the businesses who were 
potentially responsible, I cant compel those businesses to give me evidence, and so I cant 
really find out what happened within the limitations of this case. And I cant tell Drydens to 
stop the account from being pursued anymore or write it off, because they dont own it  
Arrow do. So Mr N was never going to get the solution he wanted in a case against Drydens. 
The only party who can close this account is Arrow.
So in order to get this issue resolved, Mr N really needs to raise it with Arrow, Elderbridge, 
and potentially his former debt management company. He can complain to them himself, or 
if he likes he can ask our investigator to help him set up complaints against them. Hopefully 
hell be able to resolve things with those companies directly. But if he needs our help, he can 
then ask us to look at those companies as separate cases to this one, and we should then 
be in a better position to find out what actually happened.Lastly, I understand Mr N doesnt feel Drydens did enough to follow up on his dispute. But 
I can see that Drydens tried quite a lot to get in touch with his former debt management 
company to clarify things. In fact, the debt management company eventually rang Drydens 
asking Drydens to stop sending them all this correspondence as they dont deal with Mr Ns 
accounts anymore. I can also see that Drydens queried things with Arrow, and were given 
statements which showed that the debt was outstanding and had never been settled. And 
while there was a call recording of Elderbridge telling the debt management company the 
account was settled, this wasnt provided until after the case came to our service. So I think 
Drydens acted broadly reasonably given the information they had at the time. Again, Im 
afraid this complaint has been made against the wrong business. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I dont uphold this complaint about Drydens Limited.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr N to accept or 
reject my decision before 31 August 2022.
 
Adam Charles
Ombudsman