DRN-4074758
The complaint
Mr M complains that Santander UK Plc blocked his account and wont return money to him. 
Hes also unhappy that Santander closed his account.
What happened
Mr M had a current account with Santander. In May 2021, a credit of around £13,000 was 
paid into Mr Ms account. Following this, Santander decided to review how Mr M was 
operating his account. As part of its review Santander asked Mr M to provide them with 
information about the money which had been paid into his account. Whilst it completed its 
review Santander blocked Mr Ms account. This meant Mr M couldnt access the money held 
in his account, which was just over £3,000.
Mr M told Santander that the money that had been paid into his account had meant to be 
paid into another account he held. And that hed provided the wrong account details to the 
person who sent the money to him, who I will refer to as Ms A. Mr M said that he traded in 
cryptocurrency with Ms A, and hed received the money in exchange for trades. He provided 
Santander with a copy of an account statement he held with another bank showing the 
money coming into the account from Ms A, and a print-out of Ms As bank statement, which 
he said showed he was entitled to the money that had been paid into his account.
In response, Santander said it had contacted the sending bank and if it didnt get a 
response, it would go back to Mr M and ask him for more information. Despite sending  
chasers Santander didnt get a response from the sending bank. Santander reviewed all the 
information Mr M provided and what hed said about the credit. But it wasnt happy with 
Mr Ms explanation and said it wouldnt release the funds until Mr M could provide the bank 
with satisfactory proof of his entitlement to the money. Following this, Santander closed Mr 
Ms account. 
Mr M brought his complaint to our service where one of our investigators looked into what 
had happened. The investigator asked Mr M to provide, copies of his communications with 
Ms A regarding the payment she made to him, such as a contract relating to the 
Cryptocurrency trades, or anything else that would show his entitlement to the money 
Santander were withholding. In response, Mr M said that he hadnt been able to contact Ms 
A as shed changed her phone number, hed lost his mobile phone and his other bank 
account had been shut down. So, he had nothing further to send.
Mr M then told the investigator that he hadnt been dealing with Ms A himself directly, and 
that all communications had been done via a friend. The investigator asked Mr M to contact 
his friend to see if he could get any more information about the transaction that would 
support his explanation. But Mr M didnt provide anything further. 
After reviewing all the information, the investigator didnt uphold Mr Ms complaint. She 
thought the bank had acted fairly in not releasing the money, blocking, and then closing his 
account. Mr M disagreed. He wants Santander to release the money to him. 
As no agreement could be reached the matter has come to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive first considered whether Santander acted fairly when it closed Mr Ms account. Mr M has 
pointed out that the closure of his account has caused him a lot of problems and stress. Im 
sorry that whats happened has caused Mr M trouble and upset. But its generally for banks 
to decide whether or not they want to provide, or to continue to provide, banking facilities to 
any particular customer. Unless theres a very good reason to do so, this service wont 
usually say that a bank must keep customer or require it to compensate a customer who has 
had their account closed.
Ive considered whether Santander acted fairly in closing Mr Ms account. Ive looked at the 
terms and conditions of his account and Im satisfied they did. The terms and conditions 
outline that the bank can close a customers account with two months notice, and in certain 
circumstances they can close an account immediately. In this case Santander closed Mr Ms 
account with notice. However, Mr M wasnt able to use his account from the date Santander 
blocked it. So, I consider Santander closed the account immediately. For Santander to act 
fairly here they needed to meet the criteria to apply their terms for immediate closure  and 
having looked at these terms and all the evidence Im satisfied that the bank has applied the 
terms fairly. And it was entitled to close the account as its already done. 
release of funds
Im very aware that Ive summarised the events in this complaint in far less detail than the 
parties and Ive done so using my own words. No discourtesy is intended by me in taking 
this approach. Instead, Ive focussed on what I think are the key issues here. Our rules allow 
me to do this. This simply reflects the informal nature of our service as a free alternative to 
the courts. If theres something Ive not mentioned, it isnt because Ive ignored it. Im 
satisfied I dont need to comment on every individual argument to be able to reach what I 
think is the right outcome. I do stress however that Ive considered everything that Mr M and 
Santander have said before reaching my decision.
I would add too that our rules allow us to receive evidence in confidence. We may treat 
evidence from banks as confidential for a number of reasons  for example, if it contains 
security information, or commercially sensitive information. Some of the information 
Santander has provided is information that we considered should be kept confidential. This 
means I havent been able to share a lot of detail with Mr M, but Id like to reassure him that I 
have considered everything.
Santander are strictly regulated and must take certain actions in order to meet their legal and 
regulatory obligations. Theyre also required to carry out ongoing monitoring of new and 
existing relationships. That sometimes means they need to restrict customers accounts  
either in full or partially while they carry out their review. 
Ive looked at the information that has been provided by the parties, Mr Ms account was 
flagged for review and was restricted by Santander due a number of payments coming into 
the account. As part of their review, Santander asked Mr M for detailed information about the 
money in his account and where it came from  which theyre entitled to do under their 
obligations and the terms of the account. 
Having reviewed everything, I think Santanders requests were reasonable in the 
circumstances. Ultimately it is Santander who decide what information they do or do not 
require as part of a review and they have a duty to protect their customers money and understand where it came from. Because of that, I cant fairly conclude Santander acted 
inappropriately when it blocked Mr Ms account and asked him to provide information.
Ive thought about whether Santander acted fairly in not releasing the remaining funds to 
Mr M when it closed his account. Mr M says the money in his account belongs to him. Ive 
looked at the information Mr M has provided and what hes said about the money. Santander 
asked Mr M what the credit that was paid into his account was for and he told the bank hed 
been trading cryptocurrency with Ms A. 
Santander asked for proof of this, and Mr M provided a picture of a screen shot of a bank 
account and a print-out of an account in Ms As name. On contacting our service Mr M was 
asked for evidence surrounding the transaction he says he made with Ms A, including any 
contract and communications he had with Ms A. But Mr M said hed provided all he could 
and after initially saying he would contact Ms A, said that he hadnt actually had any direct 
contact with Ms A. And that this had all been arranged through a friend. I find it surprising 
that if as Mr M has suggested that the money Santander are withholding is from a legitimate 
sale, Mr M hasnt been able to provide any evidence of how or why he received money from 
Ms A  such as any messages between him and Ms A, or any evidence that hed sold Ms A 
cryptocurrency in exchange for the money that was deposited into his account.
Ive also not seen any evidence that Mr M contacted or attempted to contact the person he 
says dealt with Ms A directly  I think this wouldve been a reasonable course of action to 
take especially if as Mr M has said the money Santander is withholding is legitimately his as 
he wouldve been out of pocket. 
I realise this will be disappointing to Mr M, but Im satisfied that hes been provided with a 
number of opportunities both by the bank and this service to demonstrate his entitlement to 
the outstanding funds. Having looked at the information Mr M has provided, and in the 
absence of further information, Im not satisfied that this shows Mr M is entitled to the money 
which was paid into his account. So, Im unable to conclude that Santander has acted 
unfairly in withholding the funds. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained above, my final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 4 September 2023.
 
Sharon Kerrison
Ombudsman