DRN-4143747
The complaint
Mr and Mrs K are complaining that they have had to pay for repairs to pipework which they 
wouldnt have had to had Hiscox Insurance Company Limited installed a LeakBot as 
agreed in a previous claim they made on their commercial property insurance policy.
Mr K has largely represented both himself and Mrs K throughout this complaint.
What happened
The facts of this complaint are well known to all parties, so I wont set them out in detail 
again. But, in short, Mr and Mrs K were notified of a leak in their shower room which was 
causing damage. So they claimed for the damage on their commercial property insurance 
policy. It was later discovered the damage was to the pipework which needed replacing and 
Hiscox said this wasnt covered under the terms of the policy. Hiscox also set out that this 
work needed to be completed before the consequential damage could be rectified.
Mr K arranged to have the pipework replaced, but he complained to Hiscox that it had 
agreed to install a LeakBot in a previous claim theyd made the year before. And they said 
the terms and conditions of the LeakBot contract specified that the LeakBot provider would 
have paid for the work hed paid for. So he wanted Hiscox to refund what he paid and also to 
remove the claim from his record.
Hiscox didnt agree with Mr K. It said there wasnt anything to show it had agreed to install 
the LeakBot, so it didnt agree it had done anything wrong. But it also set out that the 
LeakBot contract covers scenarios where the leak can be identified in one visit. It set out that 
it didnt cover trace and access and it highlighted numerous visits had been required to 
rectify the issue. So it didnt think the LeakBot contract would have covered Mr and Mrs Ks 
losses even if one had been installed.
Our investigator upheld this complaint. He said this Service had already considered in a 
different complaint whether Hiscox should have installed the LeakBot and he said an 
ombudsman had decided it should have done. He was also satisfied that the LeakBot 
contract would have covered Mr and Mrs Ks losses. So he thought Hiscox should refund 
what Mr and Mrs K had paid, plus 8% simple interest. He also thought it should pay them 
£200 in compensation for the distress and inconvenience this matter had caused them. But 
he thought that Mr and Mrs K would have always had to make a claim on the insurance 
policy, so he didnt think Hiscox needed to remove the claim from their record.
Hiscox didnt agree with the investigator and asked for an ombudsman to review the 
complaint. Mr and Mrs K also set out that they still think the claim should be removed from 
their record.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive decided to uphold this complaint and Ill now explain why.
This Service has already considered Mr and Mrs Ks complaint that Hiscox didnt install the 
LeakBot. And an ombudsman has decided that it should have done. So the issue for me to 
decide now is whether Mr and Mrs K have since lost out because the LeakBot wasnt 
installed. 
Ive looked at the terms of the LeakBot contract and they specify:
10. Creating Access and Reinstatement  Upon arrival at your property, the engineer will 
attempt to locate the leak relating to your homes cold water system. If direct access is not 
available, for instance if there are floor tiles or floorboards in the way, the engineer will need 
to create access. If you want our engineer to do this, you will be asked to confirm it in writing 
while the engineer is at your property. We will endeavour to provide the Service without 
causing unnecessary damage to your property: [LeakBot provider] will not be liable 
for any damage which may be caused to the property, its contents, fixtures, fittings, 
floorings or sanitary ware. We will fill any holes and leave the surface level but will not 
replace the original surface or construction. Any redecoration or repair of damage 
that may be needed following our work is your responsibility. If you do not want our 
engineer to create access, they will be unable to progress your job until you have arranged 
for access to be made.
11. Once the engineer has detected the leak and carried out the repair you will then have 
two options if reinstatement works are required:
Make a claim on your home insurance policy if your policy covers reinstatement work 
and proceed with making a claim should this be covered, or
Arrange and pay for the reinstatement work yourself.
As a starting point its clear that the LeakBot contract doesnt cover trace and access or any 
consequential damage arising from the leak or any damage caused by accessing the leak. 
This means that Mr and Mrs K were always going to have to make a claim on their 
commercial insurance policy to pay to access the damaged pipework and then to rectify the 
consequential damage. So, it follows, that I cant reasonably require Hiscox to remove this 
claim from their records.
However, I do note Hiscoxs comments that the LeakBot contract wasnt designed to cover 
this scenario. It says the contract allows for one free engineer visit on a find and fix service, 
which it thinks covers where the engineer can easily find, access and fix the leak all in one 
visit, with no further remedial work or visits being required. It maintains that, given the extent 
of the work required and the number of visits required, it wouldnt have been possible to 
resolve this on one visit. I also note its highlighted that the process sets out that, where 
trace and access is required, the LeakBot engineer will inform Hiscox that trace and access 
is required.
I recognise and have considered Hiscoxs comments, but Im particularly minded by what the 
terms of the LeakBot contract set out. I havent seen anywhere in the contract that sets out 
Mr and Mrs K were only entitled to one visit. It sets out that they can only make one claim in 
a 12 months period, but this doesnt set out that this is limited to one individual engineer visit.
As I said above, the contract doesnt cover the cost of accessing the cause of the leak. So, 
where the leak is not immediately accessible, Mr and Mrs K have to pay for this first. And it 
seems to me that they have three options in this event:
1. Pay the LeakBot engineer privately to create access;2. Arrange for their own private contractor to create access; or
3. Claim on their Hiscox commercial insurance policy. 
I think the term Hiscox has referred to where trace and access is required refers to the 
scenario where the consumer doesnt want to pay for the cost of trace and access 
themselves and chooses option (3). But crucially they dont have to use Hiscox. 
Had Hiscox installed the LeakBot as part of the previous claim, Mr and Mrs K could have 
made use of the LeakBot contract. Had they been able to do so, they would have had to 
arrange trace and access and they would have required Hiscox to do this under the terms of 
their insurance policy. But, I think they would have then been covered for the repair work that 
was required to the pipes that Mr and Mrs K had to pay to fix themselves. And Hiscox hasnt 
given me anything to make me think the repairs wouldnt have been covered. So, it follows 
that I think Hiscox should refund the amount Mr and Mrs K paid to fix the leak.
I also think Mr and Mrs K have suffered a lot of distress and inconvenience in this matter. 
They have had to source their own contractor to carry out the repairs, pay for the cost 
themselves and had to spend a lot of time and effort to resolve this complaint. So I think it 
should pay Mr and Mrs K £200 in compensation for the distress and inconvenience theyve 
suffered.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive set out above, its my final decision that I uphold this complaint and I 
require Hiscox Insurance Company Limited to:
1. Refund amount Mr and Mrs K paid to fix the leak. It should add 8% simple interest per 
year from when Mr and Mrs K paid it until they get it back. If Hiscox thinks that its 
required by HM Revenue & Customs to deduct income tax from that interest, it should 
tell Mr and Mrs K how much its taken off. It should also give them a tax deduction 
certificate if they ask for one, so they can reclaim the tax if appropriate.
2. Pay Mr and Mrs K £200 in compensation for the distress and inconvenience this matter 
has caused them.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr and Mrs K to 
accept or reject my decision before 23 December 2023. 
Guy Mitchell
Ombudsman