DRN-3436369
The complaint
Mr M, through his representative, complains that Everyday Lending Limited, trading as 
Everyday Loans, lent to him irresponsibly.
What happened
From what Ive seen, Mr M was given the following loans by Everyday Lending:
Date taken Amount Term Monthly 
repayment
Loan 1 30/03/2012 £2,000 13months £243.46
Secondary 
loan to loan 130/03/2012 £270 13 months £32.87
Loan 2 07/01/2013 £4,000 48 monthly 
payments£199.88
Secondary 
loan to loan 27/01/2013 £442 48 monthly 
payments£22.09
Mr M was sold insurance as well and the premiums were added as secondary loans to each 
of these two loans. So, the total monthly repayment for Mr M on loan 1 was £276.33 and on 
loan 2 was £221.97.
Documentation fees were charged as well.
At first, Everyday Lending responded to Mr Ms complaint by saying that the complaint had 
been brought out of time. But a colleague ombudsman has issued a decision on that point in 
which she said the Financial Ombudsman can look at these two loans.
One of our adjudicators assessed the complaint and thought that Everyday Lending had
completed proportionate checks and that Mr M was able to afford these loans. 
Mr M disagreed and asked that the unresolved complaint be passed to an ombudsman and
so it was passed to me to decide. I issued a provisional decision on 25 April 2022 in which 
I gave reasons as to why I considered that Mr Ms complaint should be upheld. I gave each 
party time to reply. 
A duplicate of the provisional findings is set out in smaller type in the next section of this 
decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about unaffordable/irresponsible lending - 
including all the relevant rules, guidance, and good industry practice - on our website.
Taking into account the relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice, what I need to 
consider in deciding whats fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint are 
whether Everyday Lending completed reasonable and proportionate checks to satisfy itself 
that the complainant would be able to repay in a sustainable way? And, if not, would those 
checks have shown that they wouldve been able to do so?
If I determine that Everyday Lending did not act fairly and reasonably in its dealings with Mr 
M and that he have lost out as a result, I will go on to consider what is fair compensation for 
each.
The rules and regulations in place required Everyday Lending to carry out a reasonable and 
proportionate assessment of Mr Ms ability to make the repayments under this agreement. 
This assessment is sometimes referred to as an affordability assessment or affordability 
check.
These creditworthiness checks needed to be undertaken from the borrowers perspective  
so Everyday Lending had to think about whether repaying the loan would be sustainable. In 
practice this meant that the business had to ensure that making the repayments on the loan 
wouldnt cause Mr M undue difficulty or significant adverse consequences. That means each 
should have been able to meet repayments out of normal income without having to borrow to 
meet the repayments, without failing to make any other payment each had a contractual or 
statutory obligation to make and without the repayments having a significant adverse impact 
on their financial situation.
In other words, it wasnt enough for Everyday Lending to simply think about the likelihood of 
it getting its money back, it had to consider the impact of the loan repayments on Mr M. 
Checks also had to be proportionate to the specific circumstances of the loan application.
In general, what constitutes a proportionate affordability check will be dependent upon a 
number of factors including  but not limited to  the particular circumstances of the 
consumer (e.g. their financial history, current situation and outlook, and any indications of 
vulnerability or financial difficulty) and the amount/type/cost of credit they are seeking. Even 
for the same customer, a proportionate check could look different for different applications.
I think that a reasonable and proportionate check ought generally to have been more 
thorough:
the lower a consumers income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make any 
loan repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income);
the higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income);
the greater the number and frequency of loans, and the longer the period during 
which a customer has been given loans (reflecting the risk that repeated refinancing 
may signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, unsustainable).
duplicated provisional findings dated 25 April 2022
Ive carefully considered all the arguments, evidence and information provided in this context and 
what this all means for Mr Ms complaint.Everyday Lending carried out some checks before it lent to Mr M. This included asking for details of 
his income and expenditure, carrying out a credit check, requesting proof of income and/or payslips 
and bank statements. It calculated Mr Ms regular living expenses using statistical data and assessed 
his monthly credit commitments. Ive seen a summary of the information gathered by Everyday 
Lending, including the credit report and bank statements provided to it at the time. And Ive been 
provided with account contact notes some of which are revealing and all of which Everyday Lending 
would have known about.
Before approving loan 1, Mr M told Everyday Lending  which has noted  that he had six payday 
loans already. It saw on his bank statements that Mr M was regularly making payments towards those 
payday loans, and still obtaining credit from those same lenders  sometimes on the same day that 
loans were being repaid.
Its clear to me that the information available to Everyday Lending from its own standard checks was 
enough for it to have realised that Mr M had a debt problem with so many outstanding payday loans. 
Further debt with Everyday Lending would have increased Mr Ms overall indebtedness. I am planning 
to uphold loan 1.
About £890 of loan 1 was paid off from capital taken from loan 2 which was approved in 
January 2013. I have reviewed the payment history Mr M had built up with Everyday Lending on 
loan 1 and in July, August and November 2012. There were arrears and/or missed payments with a 
series of contact notes in which Mr M gave reasons as to why he was not able to pay.
I have reviewed the bank statements Mr M gave to Everyday Lending when applying for Loan 2 and 
he had two sets of bank accounts. There are large withdrawals of cash taken out a day or so after 
each Mr Ms salary from work credited his account. And although Mr M explains it on one occasion, 
this seemed to be a regular thing. I have looked to see how it was that Mr M was able to live and pay 
any bills or credit commitments when so much cash was removed each month immediately after his 
salary was paid to him. And I cannot find the answer. This was clearly not investigated by Everyday 
Lending at the time but still it lent to him. And this was despite the bank statements revealing he had 
at least two payday loans (possibly more than one with the same company) and at least one credit 
collector repayment.
All in all, I consider that Everyday Lending lent to Mr M irresponsibly as the second loan would have 
committed him for four years and the amount taken was double what he had been approved for 
before. I have seen that the monthly repayments for loan 2 were less than for loan 1 but as these 
were going to be over 48 months then I consider the overall debt commitment was much higher. And 
as I pointed out earlier, with most of Mr Ms monthly salary being withdrawn in cash immediately after 
his payday then I am aware that Everyday Lending would have seen what I have noted  that he 
would not have had enough to pay even his basic credit commitments and living expenses never 
mind the payday loans and this additional sum for the loan (plus the connected insurance).
I am planning to uphold Mr Ms complaint for loans 1 and 2.
I understand loan 2 remains unpaid and was transferred to the Recoveries Department around 
August 2016.
This is the end of the duplicated provisional decision. 
How did each respond? 
Everyday Lending has acknowledged the email sending to it the provisional decision but has 
not responded.
Mr M has responded and has said he agrees with my provisional decision.
In the circumstances I see no reason to depart from the findings and conclusion in my 
provisional decision and I repeat those here and they form part of this final decision.I uphold Mr Ms complaint. 
Putting things right
To put things right Everyday Lending should:
remove all interest, fees and charges applied to Loans 1 and 2 relating to the main 
loans (including the interest charged on the secondary loan sums),
treat any payments made by Mr M in respect of these loans as payments towards the 
total capital amount of £6,000 (excluding the secondary loan sums),
If Mr M has paid more than the capital on the main loans 1 and 2 then any 
overpayments should be refunded to him with 8% simple interest* from the date they 
were paid to the date of settlement,
If the debt has been sold to a third party, Everyday Lending should buy it back if it 
can. Everyday Lending is entitled to use any refunded sums to offset against the 
capital amount Mr M owes it for the main loans 1 and 2 only, but to do that Everyday 
Lending must own that debt. It is not entitled to do that set-off unless it owns the 
debt.
If theres still an outstanding balance, Everyday Lending should come to a 
reasonable repayment plan with Mr M.
remove any adverse payment information (including any defaults) about Loans 1 and 
2 from Mr Ms credit file.
*HM Revenue & Customs requires Everyday Lending to take off tax from this interest. It 
must give Mr M a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if he asks one.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold Mr Ms complaint and I direct that Everyday Lending Limited 
trading as Everyday Loans, does as I have outlined above. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 7 June 2022.
 
Rachael Williams
Ombudsman