DRN-3213761
The complaint
Miss S complains about Monzo Bank Ltd closing her bank account without giving a reason.
What happened
Miss S held a personal bank account with Monzo and between December 2020 and August 
2021 she liaised with Monzo due to some difficulties with her account. These included:
a) The non-receipt of a new card and a requirement to change address before another 
card could be dispatched
b) A problematic / delayed payment 
c) The loss of her card with Personal Identity Number (PIN) attached to the card
d) Multiple disputed transactions 
In August 2021, following issues c and d, Monzo informed Miss S that they would be closing 
her bank account and they gave her two months notice. 
Miss S needed her account and didnt understand why her account was being closed, so she 
complained to Monzo. Monzo didnt give her a specific reason and stated that they regularly 
review and sometimes close accounts as part of their legal and regulatory responsibilities. 
Miss S complained to our service, but our investigator said this was an action Monzo were 
entitled to take.
As Miss S remains dissatisfied, this case has now been referred to me to look at.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im not upholding this complaint. I appreciate this will be disappointing for 
Miss S and Ill explain the reason for my decision.
Whilst I appreciate Miss Ss upset here and the inconvenience caused, a bank is entitled to 
close an account with a customer just as a customer may close an account with a bank. 
However, when doing so, it must comply with the terms and conditions of the account.
I checked the account terms and conditions which Miss S agreed to, and these said:
We can close your account by giving you at least two months notice.
They also referenced customer PIN responsibilities.
Although I understand the disappointment and impact of Monzos decision, Im satisfied it 
was a decision they were entitled to take, and theyve done so within their terms and 
conditions. I appreciate Miss S is frustrated at the lack of a detailed explanation, but banks 
are entitled to make risk-based assessments and commercial decisions and dont have to 
explain their reasons for closing an account. 
So, having looked closely at the file, I cant say Monzo have done anything wrong by not 
giving Miss S this information. 
So having considered all the above, Im not upholding this complaint.
My final decision
My final decision is that Im not upholding this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss S to accept 
or reject my decision before 18 January 2024.
 
Paul Douglas
Ombudsman