DRN-2914627
The complaint
Miss D complains that Santander UK Plc cancelled the debit card on her main current 
account in error and she was unable to make any purchases or withdraw cash. 
What happened
On 3 June 2021, Miss D called Santander to ensure an account she intended transferring to 
another bank didnt have a debit card associated with it. Santander told her this account had 
a card associated but they would cancel it immediately. When Miss D tried to pay for goods 
using the debit card on her main account, she found that Santander had cancelled this card 
in error. 
Santander sent Miss D a new card and she activated it on 12 June 2021.
Miss D complained to Santander on 3 June and they apologised for the error. They 
explained to Miss D she could visit a local branch to take out cash, or she could transfer 
funds to a trusted friend or family member who could draw out cash for her. Santander said 
that someone would contact her the next day to discuss the complaint. The next day 
Santander wrote to Miss D and upheld her complaint. They said theyd paid £50.00 into her 
main account for the inconvenience caused. Because Miss D didnt receive a call from 
Santander, she called them again and explained she thought the £50.00 theyd offered 
wasnt enough to recognize the inconvenience she had been caused.
During the second complaint call, made before Miss D received the letter Santander had 
already sent, Santander agreed to pay Miss D a further £50.00 to reflect the impact the 
cancellation had on her. Santander told Miss D that theyd tried to call her the day after shed 
initially complained, but that they were unable to make contact. They noted her nearest 
branch was about five miles away and she didnt have any local family and friends who may 
be able to help. They felt a payment of £50.00 didnt fully reflect the inconvenience she 
suffered and agreed to pay her a further £50.00. On 5 June, Santander wrote to Miss D to 
confirm the complaint was closed and the additional payment of £50.00 had been credited to 
her account.
Miss D didnt believe the payment of £100.00 in total was a fair and reasonable remedy to 
reflect the inconvenience she suffered, so she brought her complaint to our service. One of 
our investigators looked into things and thought that a payment of £100.00 was a fair and 
reasonable amount to reflect Miss D was unable to use her card for just over a week. Miss D 
didnt agree with our investigator and asked that an ombudsman decides her complaint.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive listened to the telephone calls Miss D had with Santander between 3 and 12 June 2021. 
And Ive reviewed the written responses Santander provided to Miss Ds complaints. 
Santander have accepted they made an error when they cancelled the wrong card for Miss 
D. So, Ive considered whether the steps taken by Santander to recognise the inconvenience 
they caused Miss D were fair and reasonable in the circumstances.
In the first complaint call Santander said someone would call Miss D back the next day to 
discuss her complaint. Santander apologised for the error and discussed ways in which she 
may be able to access funds from her account. Although Santander say they tried to call 
Miss D the next day, I cant be sure this happened. However, Santander did send out a 
response to Miss Ds complaint the next day. This letter contained an apology and confirmed 
the complaint had been upheld. Santander said a payment of £50.00 had been made to Miss 
Ds account to reflect the inconvenience to her. 
In the second call the following day, Miss D explained the impact of the card being 
cancelled. Santander read out the 4 June letter theyd sent, which hadnt yet been posted. I 
would expect a business to ask questions about Miss Ds circumstances and why she 
thought the initial payment of £50.00 was insufficient. I think Santander did this and, based 
on the information provided by Miss D, increased their offer by a further £50.00. However, 
Santander thought Miss D had accepted this and closed the complaint, but Miss D thought 
the complaint was still open and someone else would call her back.
Im satisfied there was a misunderstanding on this call. Having listened to the call I can 
understand why Santander thought the complaint had been closed. And I appreciate that 
Miss D felt that someone else from Santander would call her back, but I didnt hear 
Santander say they would be calling Miss D back. Santander sent their final response to the 
complaint on 5 June, which Miss D didnt receive until several days later. In this response, 
Santander confirmed theyd made a further payment of £50.00 and closed the complaint.
Ive seen that Miss D uses her Santander account regularly. Several direct debits and 
regular card payments are made from the account. So, I understand that not having a debit 
card available for any length of time would cause Miss D some inconvenience. In this case 
the card was unavailable for over a week and restricted Miss Ds access to her account, 
although her regular direct debits were being paid. I would expect Santander to provide an 
alternative option for Miss D to access cash if she required it. In this case they explained she 
could go to any Santander branch with photo identification. Miss D thought this was 
impractical for her.
So, taking into account Miss D was able to use mobile banking to pay any bills that became 
due, and that her direct debits were being paid, Im satisfied that the payment of £100.00 
Santander paid her for the inconvenience is fair and reasonable. It reflects that access to the 
account was limited for a reasonably short period and I wont be asking Santander to do 
anything else.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss D to accept 
or reject my decision before 6 August 2021.
 
Paul Lawton
Ombudsman