DRN-4419752
The complaint
Mr G has complained about his motor insurance broker One Sure Insurance Limited 
because it took money from his credit card account and then delayed paying it back.
What happened
Mr G arranged cover via One Sure. Its role was to administer the policy. The premium 
agreed for cover for Mr G was subject to his no claims bonus details. One Sure tried to get 
confirmation of the bonus from Mr Gs previous insurer, but was unable to do so. One Sure 
subsequently took an additional premium from Mr G. When Mr G provided detail of his no 
claims bonus to One Sure, it agreed to refund the additional premium. It took three phone 
calls and a complaint for it to return most of the £84.00 which had been taken, £1.50 
remained outstanding. 
Mr G brought a complaint to the Financial Ombudsman Service. He felt it was unfair that 
One Sure had taken money without his agreement and/or without telling him. Also that it had 
taken so much effort to get the money returned. He noted that in respect of part of the 
money One Sure had said it would return this to him, only to retract that when he said he 
was going to complain. He felt that was unfair.  
Our Investigator confirmed with One Sure that it would repay the outstanding £1.50. He felt 
that One Sure had tried to let Mr G know that it hadnt been able to get the detail regarding 
the bonus  meaning an additional premium would be taken. He noted it had then taken 
some effort for Mr G to have his money repaid  but he didnt think that amounted to the 
level of inconvenience fairly requiring monetary compensation. So he wasnt minded to 
recommend One Sure pay anything more to Mr G.
Mr G said he disagreed with the outcome. He felt One Sure had acted poorly and that the 
Financial Ombudsman Service should be reprimanding it.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I understand Mr G is frustrated about what has happened with One Sure. But in considering 
his complaint I must bear in mind One Sures role. One Sure absolutely had a duty to him. 
Im satisfied though that One Sure had tried to obtain the bonus detail and that when it 
hadnt been able to it did attempt to contact Mr G. I can see that it wrote to him by email and 
post. I know Mr G was unaware of the attempted contact  but I cant reasonably have 
expected One Sure to do anything more than that.
I can see that because One Sure wasnt able to forward the bonus details to the underwriting 
insurer, the underwriting insurer revised the premium. One Sure took that additional 
premium from Mr G  but it didnt keep it. The underwriter charged the extra premium, and 
when the cover was adjusted following receipt of the bonus details it was the underwriter that 
refunded sums to One Sure. I can see that when Mr G raised concerns with One Sure about 
the sums being refunded, One Sure acted to pay additional sums to him.
I know Mr G is upset that one such sum was offered and then retracted, temporarily at least. 
I can see why Mr G saw this as One Sure trying to persuade him to not complain. I think 
One Sure could have explained things better to Mr G at that time  but it seems it was 
already looking to refund that sum in question as an informal resolution to the situation which 
it was already viewing as a complaint. I can see why, from One Sures point of view, that it 
couldnt provide an informal resolution if Mr G wasnt agreeable to it resolving the complaint. 
An additional premium of £84.00 was taken from Mr G. Hes acknowledged receiving sums 
of £24.32, £42.88 and £15.30 from One Sure, totalling £82.50. One Sure has agreed to 
refund the remaining £1.50. Im satisfied thats fair and reasonable. I appreciate that Mr G 
has had to expend some effort to gain the total refund  but this service doesnt award 
compensation for any and all upset suffered. Rather we accept that some inconvenience is 
to be expected when dealing with matters such as this. Nor is it our role, even where clear 
failures occur, to reprimand or punish respondents. Im satisfied that Mr G, receiving the full 
additional premium back, fairly and reasonably concludes matters.
My final decision
Im satisfied Mr G should receive a further £1.50 in full refund of the additional premium 
charged of £84.00. I require One Sure Insurance Limited to pay Mr G £1,50.  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision before 22 December 2023.
 
Fiona Robinson
Ombudsman