DRN-1568134
 
The complaint
Mr and Mrs S say Santander UK Plc (trading as Abbey National at the time) mis-sold them a 
payment protection insurance (PPI) policy. Ill just refer to the business as Santander in this 
decision to keep things simple.
 
What happened
 Mr and Mrs S took out a mortgage with Santander in 1990. Around two years later, in 1992, 
they took out a PPI policy to protect their mortgage payments.
The policy was in Mr Ss name. It cost £33 per month at the start. It would have paid a 
monthly benefit of £550 for up to 36 months per successful claim for accident or sickness, 
and for up to 12 months per successful claim for unemployment.
Mr and Mrs S have told us that they visited the branch where theyd taken out the mortgage 
to ask about the possibility of switching to a different mortgage product. They say, in 
summary, that they didnt end up changing to a different type of mortgage. But they say the 
member of staff they spoke to at the branch suggested that they take out PPI, and was very 
insistent about it.
Our adjudicator didnt uphold the complaint. Mr and Mrs S disagreed with the adjudicators 
opinion, so the complaints been passed to me.
 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Weve set out our general approach to 
complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
Mr and Mrs Ss case.
Where the evidence is incomplete or inconclusive I need to decide what I thinks most likely 
to have happened, based on the information I have.
Ive decided not to uphold the complaint. Ill explain why.
Santander hasnt been able to provide copies of any of the paperwork that Mr and 
Mrs S signed when they took out the mortgage or the PPI. I dont think thats 
surprising or unreasonable, given how long ago this was. Mr and Mrs S have 
provided various documents that refer to the PPI policy, and Ive considered those.
 Based on what we know about the way these policies were sold at the time, Mr and 
Mrs S would have had to complete an application form and direct debit instruction for 
the PPI. From what theyve told us and the documents provided, it looks as if Mr and 
Mrs S had had the mortgage for nearly two years by the time they took out the PPI. 
So I think theyd have realised they didnt need to have the PPI as a condition of the 
mortgage. And I think they decided to take it knowing that they had a choice.
 
Mr and Mrs S say Santander advised them to take out the PPI. Santander no longer 
has any record of how the policy was sold. But for the purposes of this decision, Ive 
assumed that advice was given. This is to Mr and Mrs Ss advantage, as it means 
that Santander had a responsibility to check that the policy was right for them. But I 
dont think the policy was unsuitable, based on what Ive seen of Mr and Mrs Ss 
circumstances at the time.
 
Mr and Mrs S have told us that Mr S would have been entitled to between six and 12 
months full statutory sick pay from his employer at the time. But if hed made a 
successful claim on the policy for accident or sickness, it would have paid out the 
monthly benefit for up to three years. Thats significantly longer than Mr S has told us 
hed have been entitled to sick pay for. And it would have paid out for up to a year if 
hed made a successful unemployment claim on the policy. Whats more, the policy 
would have paid out in addition to any payments Mr S received from his employer. 
So Mr and Mrs S could have used those to meet other day-to-day living costs.
 
I acknowledge that Mr and Mrs S have told us that they had significant savings, 
Personal Equity Plans and shares when they took out the PPI. They say these were 
readily accessible. But Ive borne in mind that theyd chosen to keep hold of their 
savings and shares at the time, rather than using them to reduce their mortgage. And 
having the PPI would have allowed them to continue to protect their savings and 
shares if Mr S had been off sick or lost his job. So taking everything into account, I 
think the PPI could have been useful for Mr and Mrs S.
 
Its possible the information Santander gave Mr and Mrs S about the PPI wasnt as 
clear as it should have been. But Ive explained that I think they took out the PPI, 
knowing that they had a choice. Based on what Ive seen of his circumstances at the 
time, Mr S was eligible for the policy. And he doesnt appear to have been affected 
by any of the main things it didnt cover (for example provisions about unusual 
working arrangements or existing medical conditions).
 
The monthly cost of the PPI was shown in the schedule which was sent to Mr and 
Mrs S soon after they took the policy out. So I think theyd have known how much 
theyd need to pay for it. And since they were paying for it monthly, they could have 
cancelled it at any time without further cost if their circumstances changed, or if they 
decided they no longer wanted the cover.
 
Taking everything into account, Im not convinced that Mr and Mrs S would have 
made a different decision about taking the PPI out even if theyd been given better 
information about the policy. 
 Ive taken account of all Mr and Mrs Ss comments, including what theyve said about 
Santanders adviser having been very pushy and having used scare tactics. I accept that 
its likely that Santander recommended the policy to Mr and Mrs S, and pointed out the 
benefits of the cover to them. But pressure is another matter, and I cant fairly conclude that 
Mr and Mrs S were unfairly pressured into taking out the PPI, based purely on their 
recollection of a conversation that took place so many years ago. As Ive explained, Im 
satisfied that Mr and Mrs S would have known that they had a choice about taking out the 
policy. And I think its likely that they decided to take it because they wanted the benefit of 
the cover it offered.
I note that Mrs S has commented that the policy should have been in joint names. She says 
that she and Mr S noticed that the schedule only mentioned Mr S, and raised this with 
Santander at the time. But Santander assured them that the policy was, in fact, in joint 
names, because both their names were included within the document. And they say that 
Santander told them that when it sent out any letters it only used the name of the first-named 
person on the policy. While that may be the case, the schedule that Mr and Mrs S were sent 
when they took out the policy clearly shows Mr S as the first-insured borrower, it makes no 
mention at all of Mrs S. Theres a space for the name of a second insured borrower, but its 
been left blank. 
While I dont doubt that Mr and Mrs S have given us their honest recollection, Ive borne in 
mind that its around 28 years since they took out the PPI, and memories can fade. On 
balance, and based on the available evidence, I think its unlikely that Santander told 
them that Mrs S was covered under the policy. And I think its more likely than not that the 
policy was in Mr Ss sole name because thats what Mr and Mrs S indicated they wanted 
when they applied for the policy.
Mr and Mrs S have also commented that the monthly benefit payable under the PPI was 
significantly more than their monthly mortgage payments. It looks from their 1993 mortgage 
statement as if their mortgage payments were originally higher, but decreased significantly 
after an overpayment was refunded. I dont know why that was. But Im satisfied that the 
benefit would have been set at £550 because thats what Mr and Mrs S had indicated they 
wanted on their PPI application. The benefit was a fixed amount. If Mr S had made a 
successful claim on the policy, it would have paid the full monthly benefit even if Mr and Mrs 
Ss monthly mortgage payment was significantly less than the level of monthly benefit. Ive 
commented above that Mr and Mrs S could have cancelled the policy at any time if they 
decided they no longer wanted it. And similarly, they could have arranged to reduce the 
monthly benefit if it was more than they needed. That would have had the effect of reducing 
the monthly premium too.
I'm sorry to disappoint Mr and Mrs S. I know they've put a lot of time and effort into pursuing 
their complaint. But having carefully considered everything they've said, and the limited 
evidence available, I dont find that the policy was mis-sold.
 
My final decision
My decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs S and Mr S to 
accept or reject my decision before 28 May 2020.
Juliet Collins
Ombudsman