DRN-3643549
The complaint
Mr W complains that Octopus Investments Limited (Octopus) provided misleading 
information about some investments and failed to meet the investment principles they had 
set.
What happened
Mr W complains about three EIS tranches: OEIS18 investment of £100,000 in February 
2015, OEIS H investment of  £34,592.68 in April 2015 and OEIS19 investment of 
£217,315.63 in October 2015. The first tranche was funded by a capital subscription 
whereas the later two tranches were funded by proceeds of earlier EIS investments with 
Octopus. It is common ground that Mr Ws independent financial adviser (IFA) 
recommended these investments.
It is not disputed that each of these EISs performed poorly with Mr W becoming aware of 
large falls in the portfolio value in January 2020. Mr W complains that Octopus failed to 
provided clear, fair and not misleading information about these EISs, in particular, it was 
misleading to emphasise an objective of capital preservation and predictability of revenue 
income streams. Mr W also complains that Octopus failed to invest in line with the mandate 
and exposed his capital to volatility when investment continued after long-term contracts had 
been removed. Further, Octopus could not reasonably rely on risk-warnings, to take them 
outside the parameters of an investment targeting capital preservation as the objective.  
Mr W raises a series of other concerns including the failure to disclose risks concerning 
borrowing and the impact of high-performance fees when the products were 
underperforming. Mr W seeks compensation for the losses he has sustained and £12,500 for 
the time he has spent dealing with the complaint and to compensate for the distress this 
matter has caused him.
Octopus accept that the EISs underperformed but maintain that risk warnings were clearly 
set out in the product brochures and other documents. Mr W ought reasonably to have been 
aware that EISs are high risk hence the eligibility for significant tax relief. Octopus denied 
any mismanagement and say that poor performance was due to a number of factors outside 
their control, such as changes to legislation which reduced or removed some key revenue 
streams and falls in energy prices below industry expert forecasts. These changes took 
place post-investment. As Octopus provided a discretionary managed investment service, it 
was for them to select and manage investments which they believed met the objectives, 
without reference to the investors. Octopus said they looked to target capital preservation, 
whilst achieving EIS qualification for tax relief, but ultimately this wasnt guaranteed and the 
products were higher risk.
Our investigator considered the complaint. She considered the Information Memorandums 
(IMs) and related documents for the EISs to ascertain the investment objectives and criteria. 
Our investigator concluded that the funds were invested in companies in line with the energy 
sectors set out in the respective brochures. Further, she thought that whilst the investment 
strategy of capital preservation was made clear, the higher risks of investing in each EIS 
were also clear from the risk warnings within the respective brochures. Sector specific risks 
were also set out. Our investigator was persuaded that Octopus had relied on pricing 
forecasts from industry-leading experts and it was reasonable for Octopus to have 
considered that the costs and revenue were reasonably predictable at the time information 
was presented in the IMs.
Our investigator acknowledged Mr Ws concern that he thought Octopus were trying to apply 
risk warnings to investments made outside the defined mandate. But she highlighted that 
Octopus had not guaranteed performance and they had presented a series of warnings 
within the brochures, which were given sufficient prominence. The fact that legislation 
changes, prices, construction and connection issues arose in combination was exceptional 
but these matters had been highlighted as possible risks in the IMs. The changes in 
legislation and markets were also matters outside Octopus control.
Our investigator also explained that as Octopus had full discretionary management once the 
funds were invested and the selection of investments was in line with the mandate, further 
once the capital had been deployed it had to remain invested for at least three years for the 
tax benefits to flow. So, Octopus did not need to seek authority from Mr W before making 
investment decisions and the capital investment was illiquid.
Our investigator identified that the IMs did address the possibility of investee companies 
borrowing funds and it was for Octopus as the discretionary manager to decide whether or 
not to borrow, which was a legitimate commercial decision they were entitled to take.
Overall, it was unfortunate that a combination of possible risks highlighted in the IMs came to 
realisation, which led to the failure of some of the investee companies. But our investigator 
was not persuaded that Octopus had done anything wrong.
Mr W disagreed with the view. Mr W relied upon his original submissions and maintained 
that Octopus knew about the removal of capacity market payments (CM) before deploying 
funds. They should not have invested where the revenues were unpredictable. The 
investment selection by Octopus had to be made with the aim of capital preservation in 
mind. He maintained that Octopus deliberately invested in companies that did not meet the 
objectives in the brochures.
As the parties do not agree, the matter has come to me for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im satisfied that each party has now had fair opportunity to provide the information upon 
which they seek to rely. I have made my decision on the balance of probabilities, in other 
words, by weighing up what I think is more likely than not to have happened. 
As Mr W received advice from an IFA, I will not be considering whether the recommendation 
to invest in these products was suitable for Mr W; responsibility for any such advice (which 
includes consideration of risk) lies with the IFA not Octopus. Octopus were responsible for 
providing information to Mr W so that he could make an informed decision about whether to 
invest in the EISs and it was for them to invest in line with the mandate. 
It is clear that Mr W is extremely disappointed with the performance of these EISs and I 
appreciate that he feels very strongly about this complaint. I would like to reassure Mr W that 
I have read all the information provided and I have listened to the recordings. Ive focused 
this decision on what I consider to be the key factors in reaching a fair and reasonable outcome. No discourtesy is intended to Mr W, if I do not refer to every point raised. The crux 
of this complaint is whether Octopus provided clear, fair and not misleading information 
about the EISs and whether the funds were invested in line with the mandate. The focus of 
this decision is at the time the information was presented to Mr W and at the time the funds 
were invested. It is not fair and reasonable to make an assessment with the benefit of 
hindsight. 
Investment objective
It is common ground that the objective for each EIS was to target capital preservation 
through investment in the energy sector and to provide multiple tax reliefs, in other words at 
the end of the period of investment, Octopus goal was to have provided investors with the 
benefit of tax relief (including 30% income tax relief and capital gains tax deferral) and to 
return the capital sum invested. Mr W makes no complaint about the tax benefits and I note 
he did successfully claim income tax relief in each EIS. So, the objective of tax efficiency 
was met.
It is important to highlight that there is a distinction between an investment objective or 
strategy and the inherent risks with a particular investment. So, for example, an investment 
might target growth but be lower risk. The issue for me to determine is whether clear, fair 
and misleading information was provided about the products. I have considered the 
information provided by Octopus in the IMs and Details of underlying investments 
documents from 2014, January and June 2015.
Risks
EISs are complex, illiquid, specialised and speculative investments, where there is a real risk 
of losing the original, capital investment. In the introduction to the 2014 brochure, Octopus 
highlighted that it was important for the investor to read and understand the risk with the 
product and at the beginning of the risk section, stated that investment would be in unquoted 
companies which have a higher level of risk than investing in shares of companies listed on 
the main list of the London Stock Exchange.
In the introduction to the January and June 2015 brochures the distinction between 
investment objective and risk was set out:
January we want to make sure youre aware of the risks involved with investing in smaller 
companies. An EIS isnt for everyone and should be viewed as a high-risk investment  even 
though we target capital preservation, your capital is placed at risk. 
June we want to make sure youre aware of the key risks involved with investing in smaller 
companies. An EIS should be viewed as a high-risk investment, and as such, isnt for 
everyone. Even though we target capital preservation, your capital is placed at risk. 
In each risk section in each IM, Octopus explained that capital was at risk and investment 
return was not guaranteed. So, whilst Octopus explained that the aim for each of the three 
tranches was to invest so as to maintain the capital sum, Im satisfied that they made it clear 
this outcome was not guaranteed and Mr W accepts this. 
Octopus directed investors to the risk warning section page numbers that were clearly 
highlighted in each IM. When considering the information objectively, Im persuaded that the 
risks were clearly set out and that Mr W knew or ought to have known from the outset that 
the risks with these investments was higher to achieve the objectives of capital preservation 
and tax relief.In each brochure the risk section again highlighted the higher risk profile of the products, that 
there was no guarantee the objective would be met and past performance was not a reliable 
guide to future performance, further that the investment was illiquid with the earliest exit 
point would likely be four years. 
In all three IMs risks specific to the energy sector were also set out. Octopus highlighted that 
revenue streams were dependent on the legislation on which they were built and upon the 
market prices set by the National Grid. Any changes to legislation or generating performance 
would affect the returns. Octopus also highlighted that there could be increased risk due to 
the limited diversification within the EIS, as investment would likely be in one or a small 
number of companies within one sector only. The risk section further highlighted conflicts of 
interest, amongst other things, that the companies Octopus EIS invested in may also receive 
funding from other sources managed by Octopus Investments, that there may be joint 
ventures and performance fees might be paid from companies in which Octopus EIS invests.
In my view Octopus provided clear, fair and not misleading information about the risks 
addressing the fact that they were high risk, there was a risk that legislation could change or 
that energy prices could fluctuate, the IMs explained that investee companies were 
borrowing and in my view this would not be unusual for new and developing companies. It 
was for Mr Ws IFA to assess whether the level of risk was suitable for Mr Ws needs. To be 
clear, the fact that a combination of the highlighted risks materialised was extremely 
unfortunate, but it does not follow that the information provided about risks was misleading.
Predictability and investing in line with the mandate
Mr W says he placed great reliance on the predictability of the revenue streams. Its fair to 
say that Octopus spoke about relatively predictable revenue and gave information about the 
anticipated revenue streams for the sectors they intended to invest in but that had to be 
balanced against the clear risk warnings set out above. Ive also seen Octopus sought 
industry expert advice about likely returns from the resources and considered these 
forecasts before sharing information with potential investors. Theres nothing to show that it 
was unreasonable to rely on this information at the time it was presented to Octopus. I dont 
consider that it was misleading as at 2014 and 2015 to refer to relatively predictable revenue 
streams at that time. Octopus had warned that returns could change if legislation changed or 
generating performance changed. 
Octopus have been clear that the price and legislation changes took place after information 
was provided to Mr W and after the point of investment in 2015. Its clear from the timeline 
below that the loss of long-term capacity markets payment contracts (CM) took place after 
the decision to invest was made.
Octopus say they undertook appropriate due diligence and when proposals were outlined  in 
March 2016 that EIS sites should not be allowed to participate in the CM, they halted worked 
on new reserve power construction projects. By May 2016 the relevant government 
department confirmed that EIS invested sites would be able to access the CM but would 
have to pay back the benefit received from the EIS investment, the income tax benefit. 
Projections were adjusted to factor this in and as the projects remained financially viable 
work continued. When further announcements in October 2016 said that only 1-year CM 
contracts could be secured, without the need to repay the tax benefit, Octopus undertook 
further assessments and again consulted with industry forecasting experts before concluding 
that access to the 1 year contracts could still provide significant levels of CM revenue to 
meet the objective of capital preservation.
I appreciate it is Mr Ws view that Octopus should not have continued to invest once the 15 
year contracts were withdrawn and he feels the wrong decision was made, but as Octopus was the discretionary manager it was for them to make legitimate commercial decisions on 
behalf of investors on the basis of the information available at the time. And its fair to say 
that long-term contracts were never guaranteed. Overall, I think its more likely than not that 
the objective of capital preservation was still being pursued by Octopus and the funds 
continued to be invested in the energy sector areas set out in the IMs. 
Mr W doesnt dispute that the investee companies were within the energy sector, a sector 
highlighted as the proposed industry for investment. The Details of underlying investments 
brochure for the EIS17 investment (from 2014) highlighted that there would be investment in 
a range of EIS-qualifying renewable energy opportunities, in particular anaerobic digestion 
power plants. The January and June 2015 Details of underlying investments documents 
explained that investment would continue in energy with a focus mainly on companies 
providing reserve power to the National Grid or that generate renewable energy in other 
countries. 
As to concerns about international solar power, I havent seen anything to show that it was 
unreasonable for Octopus to rely upon industry expert forecasts at the time of providing 
information about the investment. Octopus warned that international solar investments were 
dependent on energy prices in the countries in which they operated. That energy prices 
dropped after investment was therefore a risk highlighted within the IMs and was a matter 
outside Octopus control.
Its relevant that the investments continued to meet the requirements for EIS qualification 
and the tax reliefs also remained available. So, on balance, Im not persuaded that Octopus 
failed to invest in companies in line with the above mandates and objectives. That multiple 
risks materialised causing performance to drop does not automatically mean that Octopus 
failed to invest in line with the mandate.
Failure to communicate or re-invest
Mr W also complains that Octopus failed to communicate significant changes, failed to seek 
authority to follow an alternative mandate and did not offer a return of capital of deployed. 
But as Octopus was the discretionary manager, it was for them to decide how and where to 
invest the funds, which Ive addressed above. 
Moreover, it was explained in the IMs that EISs are illiquid and funds would be tied into the 
investee companies for at least three years to secure the benefit of tax relief, but it would 
likely be at least four years before investors could exit. I consider it is more likely than not 
that Mr W was aware that once funds were invested he would not have access to his capital, 
especially as he had experience in investing in EISs.
It is unfortunate that other changes also later came into play, which Octopus have explained 
to Mr W, for example, falling energy prices, further legislation changes that removed TRIAD 
benefits in November 2018 and changes to STOR in 2020 and reduction in demand for 
reserve power. But as Ive said, these risks were highlighted and I think Octopus have been 
reasonable in explaining that the collective impact caused underperformance. 
Borrowing
Mr W maintains that gearing was a risk factor, not explained to investors. In my view, the IM 
for each product explained that investee companies might borrow from sources that Octopus 
had a financial interest in. Further, both January and June 2015 IMs stated that the investee 
companies may receive additional equity investment from a source separate to Octopus 
EIS. They may also borrow money from other sources that Octopus may manage or have a financial interest in. So, I dont agree that the possibility of investee companies borrowing 
wasnt highlighted.
Performance fees
Mr W has also touched on the high level of performance fees. But Im satisfied that Octopus 
gave adequate information about performance fees. The risk sections explained that 
performance fees may be payable from investee companies. Ive also noted that as losses 
were sustained, Octopus did not apply the account management charge. So, on balance, I 
dont think I can fairly say that Octopus have done anything wrong here.
Conflicts of interest
Mr W has raised concern about conflicts of interest. But in the risk section for each EIS, 
conflicts of interest were addressed and Octopus went on to present a two-page section on 
potential conflicts of interest. On balance, Im persuaded that Octopus did provide clear 
information about conflicts of interest, which included the potential impact of fees. 
Conclusion
I have looked carefully at everything that has been said and I understand why Mr W feels so 
strongly about what has happened to his investments. But I cant fairly say, on the basis of 
the information provided, that Octopus failed to provide sufficiently clear, fair and not 
misleading information to Mr W before he decided to invest or that they failed to invest in line 
with the mandate given. I realise this will be a very disappointing decision for Mr W, but I 
wont be upholding his complaint.
My final decision
For the reasons given, my final decision is that I am not upholding the complaint against 
Octopus Investments Limited.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 16 September 2022.
 
Sarah Tozzi
Ombudsman