DRN-4224759
The complaint
Ms M complains Nationwide Building Society lost two of her cheques.
What happened
Ms M tried to pay two cheques in at a Nationwide branch. Nationwide accidently credited 
Ms Ms cheques to another account.
Ms M realised the cheques hadnt been paid to her account and she complained. Ms M said 
the cheques were wages and her employer was now refusing to pay her again.
Nationwide responded to say it accepted it made a mistake, paying the cheques into the 
wrong account. Nationwide also said it shouldnt have told Ms M to go back to the issuer of 
the cheques, and apologised for this poor service.
Nationwide said thered been further credits in the following months, so it assumed Ms M 
had got the cheques repaid to her. Nationwide paid Ms M £150 to compensate her for the 
distress and inconvenience the loss of the cheques had caused.
Ms M brought her complaint to this service and investigator looked into things. The 
investigator didnt think Ms Ms complaint should be upheld.
The investigator accepted Nationwide hadnt credited Ms Ms account with the cheques she 
paid in, but said Nationwide had since returned the cheques to the person who wrote them. 
The investigator agreed with Ms M the later cheques were other months wages.
The investigator contacted the banks the cheques were drawn on, and both banks said the 
accounts were still open and were personal accounts, not business accounts. One of the 
banks said Ms M had access to the account the cheque was drawn on.
The investigator thought Ms M should be pursuing the cheque issuer for the money and 
didnt think Nationwide had to pay her the value of the cheques.
The investigator thought Nationwides payment of £150 was enough to compensate Ms M 
for its error in paying the cheques to the wrong account.
Ms M disagreed and said Nationwide never returned the cheques to her, and had been 
negligent by not paying them to her account. Ms M said her employer was no longer trading 
so she couldnt recover the money.
Ms M didnt think the accounts being personal ones made a difference and she didnt have 
access to any of the accounts.
Ms M said she couldnt pursue her employer as she didnt know how to, and has no options 
open to her to recover the money from her employers, so Nationwide should pay her the 
money. Ms M asked for an ombudsman to decide things.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Theres no dispute Nationwide failed to credit the cheques to Ms Ms account. I need to 
decide if its fair for Nationwide to pay Ms M the value of the cheques she tried to pay in.
Nationwide has shown it returned the money to the accounts the cheques were drawn on. 
Nationwide didnt return the physical cheques, but credited payments for the value of each 
cheque to the individual accounts.
Im satisfied the cheque payments have been refunded to the accounts the cheques were 
drawn on.
Ms M says the cheques were wages from her employer. Ms M says her employer is no 
longer trading.
The investigator asked Ms M for a P45 tax certificate, to show her employment had ended. 
Ms M couldnt provide a P45, but sent in a letter from her employer to say it wouldnt be 
paying Ms M the cheques again.
The investigator also looked up Ms Ms previous employer, and its very unclear whether its 
still trading or not. I dont think theres enough to say Ms Ms employer isnt in a position to 
reissue the cheques or pay her missing wages another way.
And the banks the cheques were drawn have both said the accounts were in personal 
names, not the name of the business Ms M was employed by. Ms M says this doesnt make 
a difference, but I think it does.
Had the cheques come from a business account, and the banks in question could show the 
business was no longer trading, or the accounts were closed, Id be more inclined to say 
Ms M has no option to recover the money.
But I cant tell if the cheques were wages from Ms Ms employer or personal payments. The 
fact the cheques came from personal accounts means I think its more likely these were 
personal payments. So, I think its up to Ms M to try and recover these payments.
Im not going to make a finding on whether Ms M has access to one of the accounts or not. 
All I can say for certain is one of the banks has said someone with the same name as Ms M 
has access to the personal account one of the cheques was drawn on.
I dont think Nationwide needs to pay Ms M the value of the cheques, because I think Ms M 
should be able to pursue the person who issued the cheques for the money shes owed. 
Ms M may want to take some legal advice as to how she could do this.
The loss of the cheques meant Ms M was very worried about where her money had gone. 
Ms M also had to speak to the person who issued the cheque and ask them to repay her the 
money. This would have been inconvenient for Ms M.
But, considering the complaint as a whole, I think the £150 Nationwide has already paid 
Ms M is enough to compensate her for the distress and inconvenience she experienced.My final decision
My final decision is I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms M to accept or 
reject my decision before 24 August 2023.
 
Chris Russ
Ombudsman