DRN-2931678
The complaint
Mr K complained because the amount he received from Scottish Widows Limited for his
pension was less than hed previously been told.
What happened
Scottish Widows has a two-stage process if consumers call to claim their pension:
following the initial call it sends the consumer a pension summary letter
the claim is processed when the consumer calls back once theyve received the letter.
Mr K called Scottish Widows on 6 March 2020 (a Friday) to discuss drawing down his entire 
pension as a lump sum. He wanted to proceed as soon as possible because of the effect the 
Covid-19 pandemic was having on the stock market. Scottish Widows wrote to Mr K the 
same day. The letter outlined various options and said the value of Mr Ks pension on 
5 March was £42,996.63.
Mr K called Scottish Widows on 9 March as he hadnt received the letter. He spoke to 
various people throughout the day who all promised to email him a copy of the letter. Mr K 
received an email from Scottish Widows in the early evening, and he then called to complete 
the claim process. During the call Scottish Widows advisor confirmed:
the value of Mr Ks pension was £41,686.72
Mr K would receive just over £29,000 (as 75% of the pension would be taxed)
the payment would be processed the following day.
Towards the end of the conversation Mr K asked if £41,686.72 would be the gross figure 
used for the settlement calculations. The advisor confirmed it would be.
Scottish Widows wrote to Mr K on 9 March to confirm the outcome of the conversation ie that 
Mr K would receive just over £29,000 based on the pension value of £41,686.72.
Scottish Widows wrote to Mr K confirming the completion of the drawdown on 10 March. It 
said he would receive £27,535.50, which was calculated as follows:
value of pension on 10 March £38,967.85
less 25% tax free lump sum £  9,741.96
taxable lump sum £29,225.89
less tax £11,432.35
£17,793.54
plus tax free lump sum £  9,741.96
£27,535.50
I understand the payment was made to Mr K on 11 March.
Mr K complained to Scottish Widows about the amount he received. He referred to delays in 
him receiving the initial letter and to the confirmation that the payment would be calculated 
using the gross figure of £41,686.72.
Scottish Widows didnt feel there was any delay in Mr K receiving the initial letter and it said 
it sent the emails to the email addresses Mr K had provided. Given how long it would 
normally take to receive the letter by post Scottish Widows felt he received it (via email) 
earlier that he otherwise would have. In respect of the lower figure, Scottish Widows said the 
plan remained open until Mr Ks options were completed and it therefore remained 
susceptible to stock market movements. It nevertheless accepted that during the final phone 
call Mr K had been given incorrect information in respect of the figure that would be used  it 
said the figure quoted was the value of the policy on 6 March; however the claim date used 
to process the claim was 10 March.
Scottish Widows apologised for what had happened and offered Mr K a total of £400 
compensation (£50 was offered initially and a further £350 was offered when it re-looked at 
the complaint). It said it wouldnt pay for the loss in the policy value as Mr K received the 
amount he was entitled to based on when his claim was completed.
Mr K complained to us. He essentially repeated the complaint hed made to Scottish 
Widows; however, he also referred to the fact that had he not appealed its first response he 
wouldnt have received further compensation.
What I provisionally decided  and why
I issued a provisional decision which explained why I felt the complaint should be upheld. 
The relevant points in my provisional decision are repeated below, and they form part of this 
final decision.
Pension settlement
The issue is essentially that Mr Ks settlement payment was based on the value of his 
pension being just under £38,967.95 when hed been told it would be based on the value 
being £41,686.72.
In complaints like this I normally ask myself two questions:
1. did the business do something wrong/treat the consumer unfairly?
2. did that lead to the consumer suffering (eg a financial loss, distress, inconvenience) 
unnecessarily?
Ill only generally uphold a complaint if the answer to both questions is yes.
I felt the outcome of the complaint turned on the events of 9 March.
There was a discrepancy between what Mr K and Scottish Widows had told us in respect 
of how many times and when Mr K called on 9 March. However, I didnt think it was 
necessary for me to dwell on this because it wasnt in dispute that Mr K called Scottish 
Widows to chase the letter, or that he called at least three more times as he hadnt 
received the previously promised emails.
Scottish Widows had provided a screenshot from its computer system showing that it 
sent an email to Mr K at 5.12pm on 9 March. Mr K said  and Scottish Widows hadnt disputed it  that this email was sent to the email address he provided during the first 
call. So it effectively took Scottish Widows over six hours to send the email.
In some circumstances I might have considered this reasonable. It might for example 
have been that Scottish Widows advisor had been taking calls all day and was only able 
to do the administration following the calls at the end of the day. However, Mr K told us  
and Scottish Widows again hadnt disputed it  that the first person he spoke to said the 
email would be sent in around 10 minutes. Also, Scottish Widows knew the matter was 
urgent and that Mr K wanted to complete the transaction as soon as possible. So I 
thought in taking six hours to send the email Scottish Widows treated Mr K unfairly.
I thought the problem was compounded by the lack of action taken by the advisors Mr K 
spoke to later in the day. When responding to Mr Ks complaint Scottish Widows said it 
sent the emails to the email addresses hed provided. However, I asked Scottish Widows 
to provide evidence to show this and all it provided, in my view, was evidence in respect 
of the email Mr K received  which was the one the first advisor said would be sent in 10  
minutes. It explained that sending an email wasnt a standard process so a specialist 
team had to send them; but what Scottish Widows provided didnt show me that the 
specialist team sent them. I therefore concluded, on balance, that the subsequent emails 
werent sent.
In any event, whether the emails were sent or not, by the time of the second (and 
definitely third) call of the day Scottish Widows not only knew how urgent the matter was 
but also that Mr K hadnt received the previous emails. So in order to have treated him 
fairly I thought it needed to have done more than simply pass it over to the specialist 
team again. I didnt find Scottish Widows argument that Mr K receiving the email late on 
9 March meant he received the letter before he would have received it via the post 
persuasive. Not only did this ignore the fact that first class post ought reasonably to have 
been received on 7 or 9 March, I thought Scottish Widows promises to send it by email 
over-rode any expectation of when the post should be received.
There was also the final call of the day when Mr K was provided with the settlement 
information. Scottish Widows had already accepted that its advisor confirmed the wrong 
figure to Mr K  it told me the advisor should have said something like The value Ive 
given you is correct as of the last available price and is not guaranteed; the figure well 
use for the claim will be the value as at close of business on your claim date and as its 
now after 5.00 your claim date will be tomorrow.
As Scottish Widows doing something wrong or treating Mr K unfairly was only part of the 
equation, I went on to consider how this affected Mr K.
In respect of the delayed emails, if Mr K had received the first one in about 10 minutes 
as promised, or if the subsequent emails had been promptly sent when Mr K called back, 
I thought it was most likely that he would have called Scottish Widows reasonably quickly 
upon receipt to complete the drawdown. And had he done that the drawdown would 
have been completed on 9 March, using the value of Mr Ks pension on that date. In 
effect, this was the earliest possible day the drawdown could have been completed 
because even if the letter had been received through the post 9 March was the next 
working day following the initial call.
In respect of the final telephone call, I didnt think there were grounds to hold Scottish 
Widows to the figure it quoted.Mr K felt Scottish Widows entered into a legally binding contract that obliged it to pay him 
the settlement amount based on the value of the pension agreed on the phone. It wasnt 
for me to decide whether or not a legally valid contract was formed. However, it didnt 
strike me that there was a sufficient offer and acceptance in order to form a contract. In 
any event, whilst I have to take relevant law into account when deciding a complaint Im 
able to look beyond it to whats fair and reasonable in all the circumstances.
Mr K pointed to Scottish Widows letter confirming the call where it said based on the 
policy value of £41,686.72 it would pay him a lump sum of just over £29,000. He 
focussed on it saying Scottish Widows would pay him rather than "might pay him 
subject to a final valuation. In my view, the critical part of the sentence was based on 
the policy value being £42,686.72. This in my view implied that if the policy value was 
something else the amount paid to Mr K would also be different.
Crucially, when looking at how Scottish Widows wrongdoings affected Mr K, I needed to 
look at what he would have done differently. I felt if hed been given the correct 
information (ie something in line with what Ive mentioned above), it was most likely that 
he still would have proceeded with the drawdown.
Mr K told us that if hed been given correct information he could have been in a position 
to assess whether he wanted to proceed but he was denied that opportunity. That was 
true. But I decide complaints based on what I think the most likely situation would have 
been  not what they might have or could have been. Mr K was aware that the value of 
his pension was dropping day by day, so had the correct information been given his 
choices would have been to draw down there and then or to delay a decision and risk it 
losing further value. I didnt think it was possible to tell for sure what Mr K would have 
done. But given how quickly he wanted to complete the transaction I thought he most 
likely would have made the same decision ie to draw down the entire pension.
Complaint handling
Part of Mr Ks complaint concerned how Scottish Widows handled his complaint  in 
essence, he didnt think it properly considered the complaint/issues raised initially which 
led to him responding to the initial £50 offer and that offer being increased.
I was satisfied Scottish Widows has already done enough to resolve this issue. 
Irrespective of any deficiency in the original investigation it did re-investigate the 
complaint, it provided Mr K with an in-depth response and it offered further compensation 
for how it had handled things.
I set out what I thought Scottish Widows needed to do to put things right. In summary, I said 
it needed to recalculate the drawdown payment that would have been made to Mr K had it 
been processed on 9 March (using the value of his pension on that day  which Scottish 
Widows had told me was £39,388.81) and compare that to the amount it actually paid to him 
on 11 March.
Responses to my provisional decision
Scottish Widows confirmed its agreement with my provisional decision.
Mr K wasnt aware that £39,388.81 was a figure hed discussed with Scottish Widows  he 
said it was the £41,686.72 figure that was discussed, and he felt this figure should be used 
to calculate compensation. He said Scottish Widows had wriggled out of its responsibilities 
by being imprecise with its systems  thereby being able to use a value that suits it without being able to point to the wording in the contract that this is the value that must be used on 
this occasion..
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The value of Mr Ks pension on each day was:
5 March £42,996.63
6 March £41,686.72
9 March £39,388.81
10 March £38,967.85
Mr K made various comments in his submission about Scottish Widows simply providing the 
values without any background information on how they were calculated or how and why 
they might change. He said, for example, that Scottish Widows had carte-blanche to change 
the value without the consumer having any way to challenge it.
I note what Mr K has said but, unlike the courts, I dont have the power to compel the parties 
to provide information under oath. So in deciding a complaint Im reliant on the integrity of 
both parties to tell me the truth and to provide correct/accurate information. Financial 
businesses also have regulatory obligations they must adhere to. The value is generated by 
Scottish Widows systems and I dont have access to those systems. But Ive considered the 
information provided against the wider circumstances and if I had reason to doubt it I would 
say so. But here, we know the fund value of the policy was falling and, in my opinion, the 
value on 9 March is consistent with that (but is more than the figure on 10 March).
Mr Ks observation that £39,388.81 never came up in his discussions with Scottish Widows 
is correct. I want to make it clear though that this isnt the figure Scottish Widows said must 
be used on this occasion  I decided that the value of Mr Ks pension on 9 March is the 
figure that should be used for the compensation calculation; and the value on that day was 
£39,388.81.
As I mentioned in my provisional decision, in order to decide what appropriate compensation 
should be I need to look at what would have happened had there not been any wrongdoing 
 or, in other words, had Scottish Widows treated Mr K fairly.
In my view, if Mr K had received Scottish Widows initial letter through the post on 7 or 9 
March, he most likely would have contacted Scottish Widows reasonably quickly on 9 March 
to complete the drawdown. Similarly, had Scottish Widows immediately emailed the letter to 
Mr K after the initial call he made on 9 March  or following the subsequent calls he made 
that day  he again most likely would have contacted Scottish Widows reasonably quickly on 
9 March to complete the drawdown. And had that happened, the drawdown process would 
have been completed on 9 March before 5.00; meaning the value of Mr Ks pension on 9 
March would have been used to calculate the pension settlement.
I dont think £41,686.72 should be used as the basis for compensation calculations. Firstly, 
this figure would never have been used as the earliest Mr K could have received Scottish 
Widows initial letter was on 7 March (a Saturday)  meaning that he wouldnt have been 
able to contact Scottish Widows to complete the drawdown until 9 March. Secondly, as 
outlined in my provisional decision, I dont think there are grounds to hold Scottish Widows to 
the incorrect figure it quoted during the call on 9 March.Summary
For the reasons given above (including those from my provisional decision), I conclude that:
Scottish Widows treated Mr K unfairly because it delayed sending him the initial letter, 
and
this led to his drawdown being completed one day later than it otherwise would have.
Putting things right
Had things gone smoothly its most likely in my opinion that Mr K would have continued with 
the drawdown and that the claim date would have been 9 March 2020  meaning the 
calculations for his drawdown payment would have been based on his pension being valued 
at £39,388.81.
In order to put things right, Scottish Widows should calculate the net payment that would 
have been made to Mr K had the drawdown been processed on 9 March. If this payment is 
higher than the amount Scottish Widows paid to Mr K on 11 March, Scottish Widows should 
pay Mr K the difference. It should also add interest to the payment at a rate of 8% simple per 
annum, calculated from 11 March 2020 until the date of payment.
My final decision
I uphold this complaint. I require Scottish Widows Limited to settle the matter as outlined 
under the Putting things right heading above.
 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr K to accept or 
reject my decision before 25 August 2021.
 
Paul Daniel
Ombudsman