DRN-4098169
The complaint
Mr G complains Aviva Life & Pensions UK Limited (Aviva) failed to comply with a court order 
to pay the full maturity of policies he held with them to him and then breached GDPR by 
sending his documents to his old address. He asks like Aviva to pay the remaining share of 
the policies, interest on the monies held and compensation for the GDPR breach, costs, and 
distress.
What happened
Mr G and his ex-wife held two joint endowment policies (the policies) with Aviva. They were 
divorced on 11 November 2004. As part of the divorce proceedings, a court order was made 
on 25 February 2005 (subsequently amended on 7 May 2013). In this order, it was noted 
that the policies were to be assigned to Mr G. 
The policies matured in 2013. Mr G provided the consent order, but Aviva said this was 
insufficient to pay the full amount of the matured policies to Mr G as his ex-wife hadnt 
removed her interest from them.
Mr G complained in December 2014 and half the value of the matured policies was paid on 
18 December 2014, but Aviva reiterated its position that until his ex-wife removed her 
interest, it could not pay the full value to him.
Mr G instructed a solicitor and completed various legal affidavits to attest to the fact the 
policies should be assigned in full to him. He complained again and Aviva issued a second 
final response in March 2022, to the same effect as the earlier one in December 2014.
Dissatisfied, Mr G brought his complaint to this service.
An investigator looked into matters for Mr G.  She first addressed the issue of Aviva sending 
Mr Gs documents to his old address. Having reviewed the file, she couldnt find anything to 
suggest he had previously complained about this and so she explained he would need to 
raise this as a complaint with Aviva first before this service could look into things for him.
She then considered all the information regarding the Consent Order and pointed out that 
Aviva was not party to the court order. In other words, because Mr Gs ex-wife hadnt 
removed her interest from the policies (albeit that there was a court order to that effect), 
Aviva was unable to pay her share to Mr G until her interest was removed. In her view, Aviva 
hadnt done anything wrong and so didnt ask it to do anything further.
Mr G disagreed. He feels there are inconsistencies in the responses he has received and so 
he asked for an ombudsman review.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I have reached the same conclusion as our investigator. Ill explain why.
Firstly, I sympathise with Mr Gs frustration. After all he has a court order that directs the ex-
Mrs G to assign the endowment polices to him, and this has been the case since 2005.
Unfortunately, the ex-Mrs G has failed to comply with the court order. The policies held with 
Aviva remained in joint names and were never assigned to Mr Gs sole name. This has been 
the case since the financial arrangement of the divorce but only come to light, it would seem, 
when the policies actually matured.
As our investigator has pointed out, the Consent Order directs the ex-Mrs G to assign these 
policies to Mr G, but it does not make Aviva (or the preceding original company) party to 
these directions. Aviva is not in a position to give legal advice to Mr G. So, when his ex-wife 
failed to assign the policies to him as required by the court order in 2005, it was not Avivas 
responsibility to tell him what action to take  that was for his legal advisers to do. 
From what I can see, Aviva has been consistent is advising Mr G since 2014, that they will 
need a payment release form from his ex-wife in order to pay the remaining 50% maturity 
value to him. I appreciate this is a difficult situation, especially since Mr G is not aware of his 
ex-wifes whereabouts other than she no longer lives in the UK. But it isnt Avivas 
responsibility to give him legal advice on any action he could take to remedy the situation.
Put simply, Aviva did nothing wrong in requiring the entire policy to be assigned to Mr G 
before it agreed to pay out the maturity proceeds to just him. While the court order from 2005 
did say that the policies were supposed to be assigned to him - it hadnt been. So, Aviva 
couldnt act as though the judges instructions had been followed when they hadnt.
I havent seen anything in the information provided to suggest Mr G has raised the issue of 
documents being sent incorrectly to his old address. Mr G will need to raise this with Aviva 
first before this service can consider this part of his complaint.
I know Mr G will be disappointed but Im not able to uphold his complaint.
My final decision
For the reasons I have given I dont uphold this complaint and I make no award.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision before 23 May 2023.
 
Wendy Steele
Ombudsman