DRN-3585369
The complaint
Mr S complains that BCR Legal Group Limited (BCR) provided a structural building 
warranty with his new home with a different insurer than the one listed on the documents 
provided. And that the insurer the warranty was with later collapsed, so he no longer has 
warranty cover.
What happened
Mr S bought a new home that came with a ten-year building warranty. This was provided by 
BCRs appointed representative, who I will refer to as C. The insurance certificate said the 
policy was with an insurer Ill refer to as Insurer A. Its commencement date was in 2015.
In 2021 Mr S noticed problems with the brickwork of the property, as there appeared to be 
gaps in the mortar that were allowing ants to enter the property and the damp proof course. 
Mr S contacted Insurer A to try and make a claim, however was told that it didnt have a 
policy for his property. He therefore tried to contact C and subsequently made a complaint to 
BCR. However BCR didnt respond so he brought the matter to this service to investigate. 
Our investigator looked into the issues and contacted BCR for its response. It said that while 
the documentation provided by C had said the warranty was with Insurer A, it had actually 
been placed with a different insurer - insurer B - who had gone insolvent in 2018. So there 
was currently no warranty in place. It said it should have contacted Mr S in 2018 to let him 
know so he would be able to arrange a new warranty. It said he would be able to claim back 
some of the premiums paid to Insurer B through the Financial Services Compensation 
Scheme (FSCS). However due to the error it said itd offer £250 compensation to make up 
for the fact it didnt contact Mr S when Insurer B when insolvent. 
It also said it would consider Mr S claim in line with the warranty that would have been in 
place if Insurer B hadnt gone insolvent. And it passed the details to one of its loss adjusters. 
The loss adjuster concluded that the brickwork would likely just require repointing and the 
damage was probably due to wear and tear, so would fall outside of warranty cover. And 
even if it was a defect, it would be unlikely to meet the minimum claim amount. 
Our investigator considered this response and thought it was a fair resolution to the 
complaint. However Mr S didnt agree for the following reasons: 
He said that C had breached a number of regulations set out by the Financial 
Conduct Authority (FCA) and had failed to explain how the mistake was made in the 
first place. 
Had BCR told him of Insurer Bs collapse in 2018 he could have secured warranty 
cover before he had identified a defect. And now he has it will be harder.
He had tried to contact the FSCS but theyd directed him to go to a different 
organisation based abroad. And there was a charge to contact the other organisation 
which he thought BCR should pay. 
He didnt agree with BCRs loss adjusters assessment of the issue with the 
brickwork and said a friend of his who is a builder had said the damage is likely due 
to poor quality mortar and will need a much bigger fix than suggested. He didnt think 
it was enough for BCR to make that conclusion without seeing the damage. 
Mr S asked for the complaint to be reviewed by an ombudsman. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
When considering a complaint, its my role to decide whether the business thats being 
complained about has got something wrong. And where I find it has, decide what it should 
do to put its customer back in the position they would have been in if it hadnt.  
Its important to note that as C were acting as an appointed representative of BCR, BCR is 
responsible for Cs actions. So if I find C got something wrong, it is BCR that would be 
responsible for putting things right. Which is why this complaint is against BCR.
Here, Mr C was given wrong information about the insurer of his warranty. And this meant he 
wasnt informed when the insurer went insolvent. It's not disputed that C got something 
wrong here. It provided an insurance certificate with the wrong insurer on. So I just need to 
decide what impact this has had on Mr S.
When Mr S bought the property, it had a ten-year warranty as sold. While this was with a 
different insurer than Mr S had thought, at this stage this had no impact on Mr S. So I dont 
think there is any impact to consider between 2014 and 2018. 
When Insurer B went insolvent in 2018, if C hadnt made the error on the documentation, it 
would have contacted Mr S and informed him of the situation. And this didnt happen, 
because of its error. If it had, Mr S would likely have arranged a new warranty at this stage. 
But until 2021 Mr S didnt have the need to claim on the warranty, so while C didnt do what 
it should have, there was no impact on Mr S during this time either.  
In 2021 Mr S had reason to make a claim on the warranty and he attempted to contact the 
insurer. Due to Cs error, this wasnt straight forward and he was passed between a number 
of different companies before finding out what had gone wrong. This would have been 
inconvenient for Mr S but also distressing to eventually find out he didnt have a warranty in 
place. 
Further, as Mr S now has a reason to claim, I agree that if C hadnt made the mistake then 
he would likely have a warranty in place and be able to raise the claim with the insurer. The 
fact that he didnt would have made the matter more distressing for Mr S, as he found out he 
didnt have the protection of a warranty when he needed it. 
I agree BCR should compensate Mr S for this distress and inconvenience. Its offered £250 
and I think this is a fair amount to apologise for the distress and inconvenience of finding out 
he didnt have a warranty. And its in line with what I would have awarded had it not offered 
it. 
However, had Mr S had a warranty in place, he would also of had the benefit of cover if a 
successful claim arose. BCR has assessed the claim based on the information Mr S has 
provided and doesnt think it would meet the requirements of the warranty that was originally 
in place. I think its made a fair assessment based on all the evidence that is currently 
available, as it has given this to an expert who has made an assessment based on the 
original warranty terms. And as it has concluded there wouldnt be a valid claim under the policy, then I cant say there would be any further impact or that BCR should take further 
action. As the fact Mr S didnt have a warranty would make no difference if the damage 
didnt meet the requirements for a successful claim. As either way, there would be no 
warranty cover.  
Should Mr S provide further information or an expert report that determines the cause of the 
problem, then Id expect BCR to consider this further and reconsider its position if necessary. 
When a claim is made, the onus is on the policyholder to prove there is a claim in the first 
instance, so it will be for Mr S to show this if he thinks BCRs decision is wrong. However on 
the available evidence, I think BCR has made a fair decision and I therefore wont ask it to 
take any action in relation to the damage to Mr S brickwork. 
Ive also considered Mr S point regarding the refund from the FSCS and the fee to use the 
other organisation. BCR has said it thinks the FSCS should be able to provide the refund 
and has offered Mr S assistance in obtaining this. Its confirmed it has contacted the FSCS 
on his behalf and I think this is fair. 
Mr S has said that he wants an explanation for how the error was made by C and he feels it 
has breached a number of regulations set out by the FCA. While I understand why he would 
like the mistake to be explained, I dont consider this important in determining my outcome. I 
have to decide the impact the error has had and in doing so, why it was made isnt relevant. 
Further, our role is to put things right after an error, but we dont seek to punish the business 
for its mistake. If Mr S thinks C has breached FCA regulations then this is something he may 
wish to raise with the FCA directly.
So after considering everything, I agree Cs error has caused Mr S some distress and 
inconvenience. And I think BCRs offer of £250 compensation is enough to put things right. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given I uphold Mr S complaint and require BCR Legal Group Limited to 
pay Mr S £250 compensation, if it hasnt done so already. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 2 September 2022.
 
Sophie Goodyear
Ombudsman