DRN-2335205
The complaint
Mr M complains that Barclays Bank UK PLC trading as Barclaycard unfairly blocked a 
payment he was trying to make.
What happened
Mr M says he was trying to buy a telephone for just over £1,000 but his card was declined on 
three occasions. He says he was unable to take advantage of a special offer on the 
telephone. Mr M says he couldnt speak to Barclaycard about this as each call took over an 
hour to get through and some calls were ended. He says Barclaycard has offered him £200 
compensation but that doesnt take account of the cost of the telephone which increased 
significantly.
Barclaycard says its entitled to block a payment where it has fraud concerns which is what 
took place here. It says the block was removed within about two hours and Mr M hasnt 
provided any evidence that he bought the telephone or that its cost increased. In any event it 
says it will not pay for any loss but has offered £200 compensation for the poor service Mr M 
experienced.
Mr M brought his complaint to us and also complains about a declined payment later the 
same day to an insurance company. Our investigator didnt uphold the complaint. The 
investigator thought Barclaycard was entitled to decline a transaction where it had fraud 
concerns. The investigator thought the block was removed within about two hours and the 
later payment using a different card was declined due to an incorrect password. The 
investigator thought the compensation offer was fair and reasonable for the service issues.
Mr M doesnt accept that view and says he lost out on the special offer on the telephone and 
also says he didnt use an incorrect password. He also says that he was unable to speak to 
Barclaycard for about a week and questions why a transaction should be declined on three 
occasions.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I have come to the overall view that I do not uphold the main part of this 
complaint. I appreciate that Mr M will be disappointed by my decision.
I have looked at the account terms and conditions which I think Mr M would have agreed to 
when the account was first opened. Those terms and conditions make clear that Barclaycard 
can block a transaction where it has security concerns. I find that is what took place here 
that Barclaycards fraud and security systems blocked Mr Ms payment. I appreciate Mr Ms 
frustration in those circumstances, and I accept that when genuine transactions are blocked 
that legitimate customers are caused inconvenience. But I dont think Barclaycard made a 
mistake or acted unfairly by blocking Mr Ms transaction and I am sure Mr M appreciates that 
fraud is a major problem for banks and building societies.
I have looked carefully at Barclaycards records and can see the transaction on 23 June 
2020 was declined on two occasions and the block removed some two hours after being 
applied. I appreciate Mr M says there were three attempts, but I think on balance that 
Barclaycards records are unlikely to be wrong and are system generated. Mr M hasnt 
explained why he couldnt buy the telephone when the block was removed or why the offer 
was withdrawn on that same day. But in any event, I cant fairly hold Barclaycard responsible 
for Mr M missing out on the offer, as for the reasons I have explained, I find its entitled to 
block a transaction. And I think it removed the block shortly afterwards.
I appreciate Mr M says he was unable to complete a purchase for insurance that day. 
Having looked at Barclaycards records I think on balance that was due to Mr M using an 
incorrect password and can see that this was a different account card to the one that was 
used for the earlier attempted transactions. So, I cant fairly hold Barclaycard responsible for 
that declined payment and cant see that Mr M suffered any real impact as a result in any 
event.
Barclaycard accepts it could have handled Mr Ms complaint more appropriately and accepts 
there were service issues. I can see it has offered Mr M £200 compensation for that part of 
the complaint which I think is fair and reasonable. I appreciate Mr Ms views on that amount 
and so I will leave it to him to decide if he has changed his mind about accepting it as 
Barclaycard has said it is still available.
Overall, Im satisfied Barclaycard is entitled to block transactions in these circumstances and 
hasnt made a mistake and can see that Mr M was using his account card within a few days 
of 23 June 2020.
My final decision
My final decision is that is dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 7 January 2021.
 
David Singh
Ombudsman