DRN-3571532
The complaint
Mr W complained about the advice he received from Wesleyan Assurance Society
(Wesleyan) to take out two free-standing additional voluntary contribution (FSAVC) plans. 
He says if hed been given adequate information during the sale about his options, he would
have bought added years in his employers occupational pension scheme (OPS).
Mr W is being assisted with his complaint by a claims management company (CMC). And 
both Wesleyan and the CMC have actuaries working with them to resolve this matter.
What happened
In May 1993, Mr W was advised by Wesleyan to start contributing to an FSAVC plan.
At the time, Mr W was a member of his employers OPS. The FSAVC plan commenced with 
him making a monthly contribution of £94.95 (gross). These ceased in November 1995 and 
re-started in June 1997 until October 2002. Another plan was taken out in June 1997, with 
gross level monthly contributions of £105.05. The last contribution was paid in November 
2002.
 
In 2019, Mr W complained to Wesleyan about the sale of the FSAVC plans. In summary, he 
complained that they were not suitable for his needs and he shouldve been advised to 
purchase added years through his employers OPS instead.
Wesleyan reviewed the complaint. In its final response it explained that, having considered
the sales paperwork and the information Mr W had provided in his FSAVC questionnaire, it 
wasnt satisfied that hed been given adequate information during the sale. So it was 
upholding the complaint. And it said that it would be forwarding Mr Ws file to its actuaries for 
a loss assessment to be completed on an added years basis.
A further letter was issued in 2020 after the loss assessment had been completed. The letter
confirmed the following:
Mr W had a break in NHS service for longer than a year, so Wesleyan had assumed 
that a first added years contract wouldve been terminated (August 1993 to October 
1995) and a second contract would have started in August 1997. 
Over the first period of liability (February 1993 to October 1995), the total 
contributions paid to the FSAVC plan represented 5.12% of pensionable pay. The 
maximum allowed under the scheme was 40 years pensionable service, so Mr W 
had headroom of 5 years 175 days, which he couldve bought at 3.94% of 
pensionable salary. However, contributions ceased in October 1995 rather than the 
full term of 29 years, this wouldve been reduced the added years purchased to 157 
days.
Over the second period of liability (August 1997 to November 2002), the overall 
contributions paid to both plans were the equivalent of 5.24% of pensionable pay. 
This wouldve purchased 6 years 62 days. However, as contributions were only paid 
to the two plans until October and November 2002 respectively, rather than the full 
25 year contract term for added years, this would have further reduced the added 
years to 1 year 116 days. So the total added years purchased would have been 1 
year 273 days.
The plan values in January 2020 were £65,015.04 and £43,031.48 respectively. Both 
plans benefitted from a valuable Guaranteed Annuity Option. At age 60, there was a 
Guaranteed Annuity Rate (GAR) of £7.016 per £100 fund value payable monthly in 
advance guaranteed for 5 years and with no escalation. To use the funds to 
purchase an equivalent annuity based on the FCA calculation methodology (to be 
consistent with the valuation of the lost scheme benefits) would require a total 
amount now of £170,008.54. Therefore, the fund value on which the calculations are 
based is this higher figure. The GAR adjustment only applies to 75% of the fund, the 
balance being the maximum 25% which may be taken as tax free cash.
The combined value of the FSAVC plans was £170,008.54  this was reduced to 
£160,178.44 to remove the value of the contributions paid outside of the liability 
period and to recognise the maximum available headroom for added years.
Wesleyans letter explained that the combined adjusted value of the FSAVC plans was 
higher than the value of the prospective lost added years (£102,443.24) that Mr W would 
have bought in the OPS by a margin of £57,735.20. As a result, no compensation was due 
as its calculations showed that Mr W hadnt incurred a financial loss.
Mr W didnt agree with the methodology Wesleyan had used in its loss assessment, so he 
referred the complaint to our service for review.
In summary, Mr W said hes concerned about Wesleyans use of the GAR in the loss 
assessment. He doesnt think its fair to apply the GAR to a notional fund value and believes 
this goes against the loss calculation rules as set out in the FSAVC Mis-Selling Review 
Guidance.
Ombudsmans provisional thoughts on the complaint
This complaint has been upheld on the basis that Mr W would have bought added years if 
the FSAVC plans hadnt been mis-sold. During the relevant period, Mr W had some part time 
service and he also had a two year break in service. This would have meant the added years 
contract would have stopped and a new contract would have started when he re-joined 
service. Mr W didnt go on to buy added years in the NHS Pension Scheme and, as far as 
Im aware, he is yet to take the benefits of his FSAVC plans.
The FSAVCs both have a GAR attached and Wesleyan has included the value the GAR 
adds to Mr Ws plans in its calculation, which has determined he has made a gain of over 
£57,000 as a result of taking out the FSAVC plans.
The main point that is in dispute in this complaint is that Wesleyan has included the value of 
the GAR in its calculation. The GARs on Mr Ws FSAVC plans allow him to take his benefits 
in a similar format to those provided by the added years arrangement insomuch as it can 
provide a guaranteed income. And Mr W can choose for the annuity to increase in line with 
RPI and to provide a 50% spouses pension. Because of this, Im satisfied the value of the 
GARs can be taken into account when a complaint is upheld on an added years basis.
I have previously addressed the arguments raised by [Mr Ws representative] regarding the 
inclusion of the GAR and Ive explained my reasons for believing that it is not unreasonable 
for it to be included.In the interest of concluding this matter sooner, I dont intend to repeat that reasoning here. 
But I can of course provide this, should it be necessary.
However, the GAR Wesleyan has based its calculation on is a single life, level annuity thats
guaranteed for 5 years. It has used this form of annuity because consumers that opt to take 
a guaranteed income generally take this option. But I think a fairer comparison would be to 
base the value on a GAR that more closely matches the lost benefits, so an annuity 
providing a 50% spouses pension, increasing in line with RPI and guaranteed for 5 years. 
Its not clear at present what difference this will make to a loss calculation because the GAR 
is determined on the same actuarial basis as the one Wesleyan has already used in its 
calculations. But I think Wesleyan should rerun the calculation on this basis in order to 
determine what difference this makes. And if Mr W has taken his benefits since the 
complaint has been with this service, this will also need to be factored into the calculation.
In term of the number of added years Wesleyan has based its calculation on. For the first 
added years contract, it has calculated that Mr W paid the equivalent of 5.12% of his 
pensionable pay to his FSAVC plans. But at this time 3.94% would have secured 5 years 
175 days (the maximum level of service). As these contributions were only paid between 
1993 and 1995, when Mr W took a break in service, the contract would have ended and the 
number of added years would have reduced to 157 days.
If a second added years contract had started when Mr W re-joined service, his
contributions would have been equivalent to 5.24% of pay. But because these contributions
were only paid until 2002, the number of added years would have again been reduced, to 1 
year 116 days, to reflect this. So, overall, Wesleyan has based its calculation on a total 
number of added years of 1 year and 273 days. I dont think the approach Wesleyan has 
taken here is inappropriate in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr W paid more to his FSAVC than he would have needed to pay towards the added years 
arrangement. But if hed been a member of the added years arrangement, he would have 
been expecting to receive the maximum service. Therefore, I think its unlikely that he would 
have also been permitted to make contributions to the in-house AVC. And so, I dont think 
Wesleyan needs to take any further action with regards to these excess contributions.
Wesleyans final submissions
Wesleyan has said that it agrees with my findings. Its happy to recalculate, with the value of 
the GAR benefit attaching to the FSAVC Plan based on an annuity rate on an equivalent 
basis to the added years arrangement. But it expects this approach to significantly increase 
the value of the GAR benefit and hence the plan value used within the loss assessment.
Mr Ws final submissions 
Mr Ws representative has said that it is in agreement with the main conclusion, with the 
exception of the following points. 
These historical Medical Sickness Society policies, that Wesleyan is using in its loss 
assessments, were with profit policies up to approximately 1998. The pre-1998 
schemes did not specify the charges associated with the policies. Bulletin No. 4 
published after the FSAVC Review Guidance was issued, was intended to be specific 
to highlight how such policies should be dealt with when charges were not detailed in 
the policy documents. Wesleyan however uses 1.5% in its loss calculations which 
undercalculates the loss. It has also questioned why on a previous case Ive said that the GAR shouldnt be 
included yet, Im saying its not unfair for Wesleyan to include it in this case. 
With regards to the advice requirement, it is common practice for firms to advise 
clients to take advice when looking at their pension options or when nearing 
retirement. It would be a more balanced approach in terms of treating customers 
fairly, if Wesleyan gave the client a choice based on informed information, whereby it 
performs a loss calculation without the use of the prospective potential value of the 
GA, and lets the consumer decide whether they want to accept the compensation 
and forego their guaranteed annuity options, always after first seeking professional 
advice.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Charges on FSAVC plans
Mr Ws representative remains of the view that the 1.5% annual management charge, or 
reduction in yield, that Wesleyan uses in it charges only calculation for the type of FSAVC 
plan that Mr W has, is unfair.  It thinks that this is not in line with the FSAVC review 
guidance, in particular Bulletin No 4, which Ive set out below.
Model Guidance, Section 6 - Loss assessment) This section of the guidance states, 
among other things, that:
Firms should establish the charges that the investor would have incurred in the in-
house AVC arrangement and those incurred on the FSAVC (Paragraph 6.17, 
emphasis added) As noted in paragraph 6.17.7 the FSAVC charges borne by the 
investor will normally be apparent.
Where details of charges are available firms should use them. However, there may 
be exceptions to this  for example in respect of certain with profits policies. Where 
details of charges are not available, firms may reasonably use Reduction in Yield 
(RIY) information calculated for product disclosure purposes as a proxy for the 
average charges. This RIY information is likely to be available within:
 essential product information (Key Features), for sales from 1 January 1995; and
 product particulars and With Profits Guides, for sales from 1 March 1990.
Firms should use product specific RIY information where this information is readily 
available, or where the firm could reasonably be expected to obtain it. ()
Firms may reasonably use a default assumption, but only where they lack details of 
the charges or RIY information ()
Where commission has been taken and annual management charge or RIY 
information is not available, it is reasonable for firms to assume that the charges 
borne by the investor for the purposes of loss assessment are 2.9% a year. This is 
based on the RIY for an FSAVC policy with contributions of £100 per month over a 
ten year term as reported in the Watson Wyatt AVC survey published in May 1999, 
see Consultation Paper 27 for details. Firms may use an alternative assumption if 
there is demonstrable evidence that the 2.9% a year assumption is inappropriate.Wesleyan has confirmed that its actuaries have recently completed a piece work where they 
looked at the RIY for Medical Sickness Society Fund FSAVC plans with a range of entry 
dates, where the plans are shortly coming up to retirement. Its actuaries have found that the 
maximum RIY was 1.2% and the average was 1%. So, being prudent, Wesleyan considers 
1.5% reasonable at this point in time.
Ive thought carefully about what Wesleyan has said and whether its in line with the above 
guidance.  
The guidance states that if the RIY is unknown, or the firm lacks details of the RIY or this 
information is not available, then the default assumptions should be used. But thats not the 
case here. Wesleyan does know what the RIY is, or, it knows the range that its within. The 
guidance also allows a firm to make an alternative assumption if there is demonstratable 
evidence that the 2.9% a year assumption is inappropriate. So overall, while I accept that the 
default assumption would work in favour of the consumer, Im not persuaded that Wesleyan 
is being unreasonable by using 1.5%, when its actuaries have determined that the RIY for 
plans, such as Mr Ws is actually between 1% and 1.2%. 
Inclusion of GAR value
On a previous case I acknowledged that, since the introduction of the pension freedoms 
legislation, there has been a reduction in the number of consumers that opt to take a 
guaranteed income at retirement. That complaint had been upheld on the basis that the 
consumer would have joined the in-house AVC scheme if they hadnt been mis-sold the 
FSAVC. So I said that I didnt think it was fair to include the value of the GAR when 
determining whether a loss has been suffered. This was because, if the consumer had been 
in the in-house AVC, their options at retirement wouldnt havent been limited to securing a 
guaranteed income. They would have had more flexibility in how they took their benefits. 
And crucially, when making a comparison between the FSAVC and the in-house AVC, its 
either based on the fund values of each arrangement, or the difference between the 
charges. And so I didnt think it fair for the value of the GAR to be included. Thats not to say 
that the GAR on these plans isnt valuable, it is. Thats why I also said that Wesleyan can 
take any payment it makes now for higher charges into account, should the consumer go on 
to use the GAR on their plan. 
In the case of Mr W, both parties have agreed that he would have bought added years in his 
employers OPS had the FSAVC plan not been mis-sold. The added years arrangement 
would only have provided a guaranteed income, there would not have been any flexibility in 
the way the benefits could be taken. And so, I dont think its unreasonable for Wesleyan to 
base the value of Mr Ws plan on the guaranteed income it can provide. The comparison 
here is being made with the value of the guaranteed income that the added years 
arrangement would have provided and so Im satisfied that this is a fair way to make the 
comparison. 
The advice requirement for safeguarded benefits
I agree with what Mr Ws representative has said about it being common practice for firm to 
recommend a plan holder takes advice when looking at their pension options or when 
nearing retirement. But the rules around taking advice when the plan has safeguarded 
benefits valued at over £30,000, are set out under Section 48 of the Pension Schemes Act 
2015. These regulations require pension scheme members who have subsisting rights in 
respect of safeguarded benefits worth more than £30,000 under the scheme to take 
appropriate independent advice from an FCA authorised adviser before:converting safeguarded benefits into flexible benefits 
using a transfer payment in respect of safeguarded benefits to acquire flexible 
benefits under another scheme
being paid an uncrystallised funds pension lump sum (UFPLS) in respect of their 
safeguarded benefits
If a consumer was to take this advice before taking their benefits, in order to obtain a larger 
compensation payment, I dont necessarily think this would remove the requirement at the 
point the benefits are taken, when the consumer may well have already waived their rights to 
those benefits. And think this has potential to cause problems in the future if a firm has to 
provide advice on a benefit that the consumer has already waived their right to.  But in any 
event, even if there wasnt an advice requirement, I still wouldnt think it was fair to allow 
Mr W to waive his right to the GAR and for the value not to be included in the loss 
calculation. 
As Ive said above, Mr W complained to Wesleyan that he would have bought added years. 
The comparison of the added years arrangement is based on the value of the benefits it can 
provide. So Im satisfied that the value of the FSAVC plan should also be based on the value 
of the equivalent benefits that it can provide. I dont think this means that Mr W is being 
treated unfairly, I think this is the fairest way of comparing the different arrangements.  
I appreciate that Wesleyan believes its likely the value of providing the GAR will increase 
significantly, due mainly to the increasing in line with RPI option being included. But Im 
conscious that it has only run this calculation on one other case so far. And so I think it 
should still rerun the calculation on Mr Ws case, in order to see if it does make a difference 
overall to his loss.  
For the reasons explained, I see no reason to depart from my provisional findings. Ive set 
about below what I think Wesleyan needs to do. 
Putting things right
As at the date of my final decision, Wesleyan should rerun the calculation to bring it up to 
date using the most recent financial assumptions. The value of the GAR should be based an 
annuity that provides a 50% spouses pension and increases in line with RPI.
My final decision
For the reasons explained above, I partially uphold this complaint. I require Wesleyan
Assurance Society to complete calculations as set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 July 2022.
 
Lorna Goulding
Ombudsman