DRN-3130898
The complaint
This complaint is about the service provided to Mr and Mrs H by mortgage brokers 
Lift-Financial Ltd during a re-mortgage of Mr Hs property. Mr and Mrs H are unhappy that 
Lift involved Mrs H in the transaction unnecessarily. They say the delay this caused, along 
with other shortcomings on Lifts part, resulted in Mr H borrowing more than he needed to, 
causing him long term financial loss. The complaint has been brought by Mr and Mrs H 
together, but all of our dealings have been with Mr H.
What happened
By way of a provisional decision issued on 7 October 2021, I set out, with reasons, the 
extent of our remit to consider this complaint. The following is an extract from that provisional 
decision.
The broad circumstances of this complaint are known to Mr and Mrs H and Lift. Im 
also aware that the investigator issued a detailed response to the complaint, a copy 
of which has been sent to all parties, and so I dont need to repeat all the details 
here. 
Our decisions are published, and its important that I dont include any information 
that might result in Mr and Mrs H being identified. Instead Ill give a brief summary in 
my own words (and rounding any figures) and then focus on giving the reasons for 
my decision. If I dont mention something, it wont be because Ive ignored it. Itll be 
because I didnt think it was material to the outcome of the complaint. 
Mr H already had a mortgage on his property, with a lender Ill call S. His interest 
rate product with S was due to finish at the end of August 2019 so he asked Lift to 
find him a new deal. Lift arranged a new mortgage with a lender Ill call B; the 
application was made in the joint names of by Mr and Mrs H and the initial offer 
from B issued in joint names. This was on 20 July 2019. 
A few days earlier, Mr H had emailed Lift to say a joint application would require a 
transfer of equity to add Mrs H to the property title, and shed incur a Stamp Duty 
Land Tax bill. Lift responded on 22 July 2019 and arranged a new application to B 
in Mr Hs sole name. B issued a revised offer to Mr H on 31 July 2019.
As I understand it, the aim had been for the new mortgage with B to repay the 
existing mortgage with S on 1 September 2019. But this date fell over a weekend, 
and the transaction completed on 4 September 2019. At short notice, the new 
mortgage had to be increased by a little under £1,400 to ensure there was enough 
money to repay S. 
A few days after that, Mr H complained to Lift; I summarise the main thrust of the 
complaint as follows:
he had been wrongly advised by Lift to apply for the mortgage jointly;
the mortgage with B was higher than it needed to be, and will cost him more 
over 25 years; 
the mortgage with B didnt complete on time;
he was now out of pocket waiting for reimbursement from S; and
it took several emails to get a response from S.
Lift rejected the complaint and Mr H referred it to us. We then asked Mrs H to join 
him in the complaint, and she did so. Our investigator wasnt persuaded Lift was at 
fault. Mr H asked for the complaint to be reviewed by an ombudsman.
What Ive provisionally decided  and why
Although Ive read and considered the whole file, Ill keep my comments to what I 
think is relevant. If I dont comment on any specific point its not because Ive failed to 
consider it but because I dont think I need to comment on it in order to reach what I 
think is the right outcome in the wider context. My remit is to take an overview and 
decide whats fair in the round.
We have no regulatory function; thats the role of the Financial Conduct Authority; nor 
are we a consumer protection body. Were an alternative dispute resolution body; an 
informal alternative to the courts for financial businesses and their customer to 
resolve their differences. 
Were impartial, and we dont take either sides instructions on how we investigate a 
complaint. We conduct our investigations and reach our conclusions without 
interference from anyone else. That means I dont have to address every individual 
question or issue thats been raised if I dont think it affects the outcome.
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive come to broadly the same conclusions as the investigator; 
however, there are some contextual issues that I need to clarify, as they have a 
bearing on the reasoning for my conclusions. I set out my provisional findings below 
so that both parties can comment before I finalise my decision.
Mr H has accused Lift of lying, and our investigator of taking Lifts word over his. The 
reality is a little more nuanced than that. If the available evidence is incomplete 
and/or contradictory (or simply disputed) we reach our findings on what we consider 
is most likely to have happened, on the balance of probabilities. Thats broadly the 
same test that the courts use in civil cases.
Its for us to assess the reliability of evidence and deciding how much weight should 
be attached to it. When doing that, we dont just consider individual pieces of 
evidence in isolation. We consider everything together to form a broader opinion on 
the whole picture. 
There are five key elements to Mr and Mrs Hs complaint, the main one being that the 
mortgage was initially applied for in joint names. Ill deal with the other points first, 
and then return to the joint application after Ive done that.
Its not unusual for a re-mortgage to proceed initially on the basis of an estimate of 
how much will be needed to repay the existing debt. The final settlement amount of 
the existing mortgage can differ from what was estimated at the outset, so its not 
inherently wrong that Mr Hs new mortgage had to be increased at the last moment. Its down to the final figure owing to S being higher than anticipated; and thats not in 
Lifts control.
The most common reason for that happening is a delay in completion, which of 
course is the next bullet point in Mr and Mrs Hs complaint. In an email dated 17 June 
2021, Mr H told us there was a delay in completion due to a late redemption 
statement. Im happy to take him at face value on that, but it doesnt help his and Mrs 
Hs case. Thats because a delayed redemption statement has nothing to do with 
anything Lift did or failed to do. 
Lifts role was to source the new mortgage with B; beyond that, Lift had no 
responsibility for arranging or in any way facilitating the closure of the old mortgage. 
That was in the hands of the existing lender S, and Mr Hs conveyancer.
Mr H said when the complaint started, that he was out of pocket waiting to be 
reimbursed by S for the extra money he paid when settling the mortgage later than 
planned. I dont know whether and how that has since been resolved, but I dont 
need to in order to decide the complaint against Lift. If no money had been 
reimbursed to Mr H from S, then it suggests the short notice increase in the mortgage 
was necessary all along. Meanwhile, if he has received money back from S, then he 
could use that to part-redeem the new mortgage, in order to mitigate the long-tern 
cost of having had to borrow it.
That brings me to what I identified as the real crux of the complaint; that the 
application to B was in initially made in joint names with Mrs H. Theres a straight 
conflict of testimony here: Mr H says Lift advised him to add Mrs H to the application, 
where Lift says Mr H told it the house was jointly owned, which would have 
necessitated a joint application. Ive given this a very great deal of thought, and 
having considered everything that both parties have said and provided, I have some 
disappointing new for Mr H.
In another email to our investigator, also dated 17 June 2021, Mr H identified an 
email he had received from Lift early in the application process. That email enclosed 
various documents for Mr H to deal with, one of which was a fact-find. Mr H said, 
regarding the documents:
I believe I populated the forms [person number one] attached in this email and then 
[person number two] became involved thereafter.
The fact-find is a critical part of the point-of-sale documentation in arranging a 
mortgage; the information it gathers forms the basis of the advice a broker gives a 
client. Here, Mr H has told us he filled in the fact-find with the information Lift then 
relied on when advising on the new mortgage. Its a thirteen-page document, and on 
page three is a section headed Contact. Ive reproduced below the information 
provided in that section. It is exactly as it was recorded, except that the address of 
the mortgaged property is redacted for reasons of privacy.
Client One Client Two
Address
Please ensure this matches
the property address REDACTED Sameshowing
at the Land Registry
Post Code
Date moved in 30/08/2014 31/07/2015
Own/Rent/Parental House Own Own
On Electoral Register yes yes
If I accept what Mr H says on face value (i.e. that he believes he filled in the 
fact-find), then the balance of probabilities is that he told Lift that the mortgaged 
property was owned by him and Mrs H. That being so, it would have been quite 
reasonable, indeed necessary, that Lift recommend the application to B be made 
jointly. 
Once Mr H corrected Lifts understanding by clarifying that he alone owned the 
mortgaged property, it was also reasonable and necessary that a new application be 
made to B, so that an offer be issued to Mr H alone. I think Lift could have replied 
more promptly to Mr Hs email of 17 July 2019, but the delay wasnt sufficient to have 
caused any of the delays Mr H has complained about. 17 July 2019 was a 
Wednesday and Lift replied on 22 July 2019: i.e. the following Monday.
The parties were given until 21 October 2021 to make any further comments; both have 
done so. Lift accepted my provisional decision without further comment. Mr H expressed his 
further dissatisfaction with how weve dealt with the complaint and communicated with him. 
As for the underlying complaint against Lift, Mr H reiterated that he has only ever been the 
sole owner of the mortgaged property, reasserted his view that Lift has lied throughout, and 
had told him the application needed to be in joint names before he completed the fact-find. 
Mr H told us he has posted an on-line review of his and Mrs Hs experiences of using Lift.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
If Mr H wishes to continue with his complaint about the service weve provided, weve 
already provided him with details of how he can escalate that to our Independent Assessor. 
Thats entirely separate from my consideration of the underlying complaint against Lift. On 
that, Ive considered afresh everything that both parties have said and provided. Having 
done so, I wont be departing from my provisional conclusions. Ill explain why.
I cant simply agree with Mr H that Lift lied simply because he says so. On-line reviews can 
be posted, and responded to, without any corroboration; thats the nature of the internet. But 
when Im deciding a complaint brought to this service, I have to consider the extent to which 
both parties can support what theyre saying. 
When faced with two accounts of events, each of equal evidentiary value, but in direct 
contradiction with each other, I have to consider if either version of events is corroborated in 
any way. Here, there was only one piece of additional evidence to support either version of 
events; the fact-find on which Mr H had recorded the house as being owned by him and 
Mrs H. Thats why I set out my provisional decision as I did. 
Mr H responded by saying that he did that after Lift had told him to apply in joint names. If I 
take him at face value on that, then the fact-find ceases corroborating Lifts case. That takes 
us back to having two contradictory versions of events, each of equal evidentiary value, but with no separate corroboration either way. In other words, its one partys word against the 
other. 
I have  to decide,  from the evidence  before  me, what  is more  likely  to have  happened,  on 
the balance  of probabilities.  When considering any complaint like this, as Mr and Mrs H are 
the ones bringing the complaint against Lift, for me to uphold the complaint means 
Mr and Mrs Hs version of events needs to be more likely than Lifts version; not just as 
likely. Here the conclusion Ive come to is that I cant say Mr and Mrs Hs version is anything 
more than just as likely as Lifts. Thats not enough for me to find in their favour, however 
strongly Mr H believes I should.
Mr and Mrs H dont have to accept my conclusions, and if they dont, then neither they nor 
Lift will be bound by my final decision. Subject to any time limits or other restrictions a court 
might impose, Mr and Mrs Hs right to take legal action against Lift over the subject matter of 
this complaint wont have been prejudiced by our consideration of it.
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint. My final decision concludes this services consideration of this 
complaint, which means Ill not be engaging in any further consideration or discussion of the 
merits of it.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr and Mrs H to 
accept or reject my decision before 25 November 2021. 
Jeff Parrington
Ombudsman