DRN-4082825
The complaint
Mr and Mrs H complain about Domestic and General Insurance PLC (D&G) who renewed a 
policy without their knowledge, under their gadget insurance policy. 
What happened
In November 2022, Mr and Mrs H contacted D&G as they discovered that there was a policy 
in existence with D&G, that they were unaware of.  They found that the policy was in Mr Hs 
name but the payments, via direct debit, were being taken from Mrs Hs account. They said 
that they had never opened the account and wouldnt have opened the account in Mr Hs 
name only. 
They also said that they had had several D&G accounts over the years, and all had been in 
Mrs Hs name. So, they werent aware of the existence of this account. They said that 
premiums had been taken from 2011 for items that they no longer had and were obsolete. 
They requested a refund of all the premiums paid from 2011. 
They said that they didnt receive any renewal notices about the policy and that in 2012, they 
had moved and organised redirection of their mail for three years. And nothing was received 
from D&G regarding this policy. 
D&G carried out investigations and in its final response, it said that the policy would 
automatically renew, until it had been told otherwise. And renewal documents would have 
been sent to the last known address. It said that they hadnt been made aware that Mr and 
Mrs H had moved addresses. And as no error had been made by D&G, it would not issue a 
refund. 
Mr and Mrs H were given their referral rights and referred a complaint to our service. One of 
our investigators considered the complaint. She considered initially a jurisdiction point and 
found that she was able to deal with Mr and Mrs Hs complaint from 2018 onwards, as 
primarily this is when the policy became one of insurance.  
She then considered the merits of the complaint and thought that Mr and Mrs Hs complaint 
shouldnt be upheld. She concluded that the passage of time meant that it wasnt possible 
for her to find the D&G had done anything wrong. She said that it was likely that the policy 
had been knowingly taken out. As D&G werent aware of the new address, she couldnt 
blame D&G for the renewal notices not reaching Mr and Mrs H. So, she couldnt recommend 
that D&G refund any premiums. 
D&G accepted the view, Mr and Mrs H did not. They said that D&G were fully aware of their 
address. If they had been aware of the direct debits, they wouldve cancelled them sooner. 
They had multiple accounts with D&G. Mr H didnt open an account in his sole name. 
Moreover, Mrs H didnt open an account in Mr Hs name. So, they asked for a decision from 
an ombudsman.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I wont uphold this complaint, for much the same reasons as our 
investigator, which I understand is likely to be a disappointment to Mr and Mrs H. But I hope 
my findings go some way in explaining why Ive reached this decision. 
I note that the issue of jurisdiction was considered by our investigator and as both parties 
accepted that our service had jurisdiction from 2018 onwards, I wont be re-visiting this point. 
I will however, base my findings on what I consider to be the main issues of this complaint. 
Namely that D&G were fully aware of Mr and Mrs Hs new address, that Mr and Mrs H were 
not aware of the direct debits going out, Mr H didnt open an account in his sole name and 
that D&G had failed to provide Mr and Mrs H with any renewal notices. 
Mr and Mrs H were categoric in their comments that at no point did either of them open an 
account with D&G in Mr Hs sole name. I asked D&G about this and in particular to provide 
any evidence regarding the sale of the policy. Given the passage of time, there wasnt a lot 
of evidence available, which I think is reasonable. 
But, from what Ive read, the sale took place over the phone and involved D&G sales team. 
Aside from this neither party had any policy specific documents. But D&G said that the 
products that had been insured were two portable media players. 
I note that Mrs H said that she had insured two portable media players, which she 
subsequently cancelled over 10 years ago. On the other hand, Mr H said that at no time 
were the media players ever insured. 
Given that there is an absence of documentary evidence that I could assess, Im considering 
this point on the balance of probabilities, in what I think is likely to have happened. As Mrs H 
said that they owned the media players and that they were in their possession around that 
time, I think that it was more likely than not that Mr and Mrs H knowingly took out the 
insurance for the products. 
But at this stage, there isnt enough evidence to say why or how the account was solely in 
Mr Hs name and why the money was being taken from Mrs Hs bank account. 
Also, D&G has provided me with sample documents, that wouldve been given to Mr and 
Mrs H around the time. Having reviewed those documents, they showed that there were 
several details that were included such as the policy holders name, account number and 
sort code from where the premiums would be deducted. Further, the sample documents 
outlined how the policy would be renewed. In that for the first 12 months premiums would be 
taken. Then the following four years no premiums would be taken. Until the policy renewed 
automatically after the five years and premiums would be taken again. 
Mr and Mrs H confirmed that they had moved in 2012 and had redirected their mail for 
around three years after the move, which would have been until 2015. The policy premiums 
didnt re-start until 2016 so, the policy wouldve automatically renewed from then. 
Given that D&G said that it wasnt aware that Mr and Mrs H had moved, the renewal notices 
wouldve been sent to the last known address. I understand that Mr and Mrs H took steps 
regarding their post and that they say that they didnt receive any of the notices. But as D&G 
werent aware of their new address, I cant agree that it did anything wrong here. Mr and Mrs H said that D&G ought to have known that they had moved, as they updated 
information about this on their other accounts with D&G. But D&G explained that the system 
wouldnt have linked accounts. It said: unfortunately, our system doesnt automatically link 
customer profiles in that manner so in order to update Mr Hs account, the customer would 
have had to specify there was another plan or another account to change over.
And as the account was in Mr Hs name, albeit the premiums were being paid from Mrs Hs 
account, I cant reasonably find that D&G were told of the new address. Nor can I find that it 
was aware of the new address.  
As to the direct debits, Mrs H found that the premiums were being taken from her account in 
2022. Yet hasnt provided enough reasons why the direct debit hadnt been located much 
earlier. I do think that it is the customers responsibility to check that all payments leaving 
their accounts were approved by them. And if they were not, to query this, which was done 
albeit some years later. So, I cant blame D&G for taking the payments as on balance, it was 
authorised to do.
Whilst I understand how disappointed Mr and Mrs H will be, I dont think that D&G did 
anything wrong here. Im satisfied that it wasnt aware of their new address and had the 
renewal notices reached Mr and Mrs H or had they checked the payments leaving Mrs Hs 
account sooner, then arguably they may have cancelled the policy earlier. But, on balance I 
dont think D&G were at fault and I cant fairly ask it to refund any of the premiums paid.  
My final decision
For the reasons given, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs H and Mr H to 
accept or reject my decision before 22 June 2023.
 
Ayisha Savage
Ombudsman