DRN-1750680
The complaint
Mr and Mrs Ns complaint is about their mortgage account with Bank of Scotland plc (trading 
as Halifax). They are unhappy that they had to pay an early repayment charge (ERC) when 
they sold their property and repaid their mortgage even though it was only a short time 
before their fixed rate period ended.
What happened
Mr and Mrs N had a mortgage account with Halifax. Theyd switched to a four-year fixed rate 
in October 2015 which ended on 31 October 2019, after which the mortgage reverted to 
Halifaxs Homeowner Variable Rate. The product switch offer stated at Clause 10 that if the 
mortgage was repaid before that date (either in full or in part), an ERC would be payable on 
a decreasing scale, being 4% of the amount repaid up to 31 October 2016, 3% up to 
31 October 2018 and 2% up to 31 October 2019.
In September 2019 Mr and Mrs N made a complaint to Halifax. They were selling their 
property and were unhappy that they would have to pay the ERC of approximately £1,800 if 
they completed before 31 October 2019. Mr and Mrs N said that, but for delays by Halifax 
when it had set up the new fixed rate in 2015, theyd have been switched to that product 
sooner and so wouldnt now be liable for the ERC because the fixed rate would already  
have come to an end. Mr and Mrs N also said that an ERC of £1,800 was disproportionate, 
as they were so close to the end of the fixed rate period.
Halifax didnt uphold the complaint. The bank reminded Mr and Mrs N that theyd already 
been paid compensation for the delay in setting up the fixed rate product in 2015 after theyd 
complained about it at the time. Halifax clarified that the end date of the fixed rate period was 
31 October 2019 and that this would have been the case even if Mr and Mrs N had 
completed their product switch in July 2015, as theyd wanted to.
Halifax confirmed that the full 2% of the ERC would be payable and that an exact figure for 
this would be given when Mr and Mrs N asked for a redemption statement.
Mr and Mrs N completed their sale on 24 September 2019 and paid an ERC of £1,845.11.
Mr and Mrs N complained to the Financial Ombudsman Service that theyd been charged 
the full 2% ERC. Their opinion is that Halifax had been deprived of just under one months 
mortgage payment (£232, as it was an interest-only mortgage) and they were happy to pay 
that amount. But they say a charge of £1,845.11 isnt reasonable or proportionate and goes 
against what they believed to be the spirit of the agreement.
An investigator looked at the complaint but didnt think it should be upheld. He was satisfied 
that the expiry date of the fixed rate was 31 October 2019 and that this would have been the 
case even if the product switch had completed sooner than it did in 2015. He was also 
satisfied that the account terms and conditions clearly explained the circumstances in which 
an ERC would apply and how this would be calculated. 
The investigator noted that Mr and Mrs N had been under pressure from their purchaser to 
complete, but ultimately it was up to Mr and Mrs N to decide the completion date. In the 
circumstances, he didnt think Halifax had acted unfairly in charging the ERC. 
Mr and Mrs N disagreed, saying that the amount charged was disproportionate given that 
there were only a few days left on the fixed-rate period at the date of completion. Mr N also 
said that a staff member at Halifax had told him he need only pay the final months interest in 
order to avoid the ERC. The investigator wasnt able to find any evidence of this.
Mr and Mrs N asked for an ombudsman to review the complaint.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive reached the same conclusion as the investigator, for largely the same 
reasons.
First, Im satisfied that the fixed rate period on the mortgage product ended on 31 October 
2019 and that this would have been the case even if the mortgage had completed in July, as 
Mr and Mrs N had originally wanted. Given this, the contract terms state that if the mortgage 
was repaid before 31 October 2019, 2% of the amount repaid would be due as an ERC.
That leaves the fairness of the ERC charged when this mortgage came to an end. In very 
simple terms, when a lender offers a fixed rate, both the lender and borrower are tied in to 
the fixed rate for the whole fixed term. Halifax has to raise the funds it lends out on the 
money markets. It has to pay for those funds  generally over the period it borrows them. It 
relies on income from borrowers repaying the mortgages to cover the costs of the funds it 
has lent. It budgets for that income based on the length and level of fixed rates. 
So when borrowers repay early, the lender wont receive the income it was anticipating, and 
needs to service its own borrowing. It can insure against that in various ways, but theres a 
cost either to having the borrowing end early  or to protect against those costs. As a result, 
fixed rate mortgages  not just with Halifax, but across the industry  include a clause in the 
mortgage agreement which allows the borrower to exit the mortgage early  but only in 
return for paying an ERC. The purpose of the ERC is to compensate the lender for the early 
end of the fixed rate period. I dont agree with Mr and Mrs N that its a penalty  which has a 
strict meaning in law (a charge levied for breaching a contract). Repaying a mortgage early 
isnt a breach of the contract, its something specifically allowed for, as long as the borrower 
pays the charge for doing so. 
The rules of mortgage regulation (the Mortgages and Home Finance: Conduct of Business 
Sourcebook) include provisions about ERCs. In summary, they say that an ERC must be 
able to be expressed as a cash value, and must be a reasonable pre-estimate of the costs 
resulting from early termination of the mortgage. Subject to that, theres no restriction on how 
a lender calculates its ERC. And, crucially, a lender is allowed to estimate the risk and costs 
of early termination across a group of mortgages; it doesnt have to do so on an individual 
basis. 
So Halifax can calculate its ERCs based on a reasonable pre-estimate of the costs of early 
termination of a group of mortgages  not on the actual cost, or estimated cost, of Mr and Mrs N ending their individual mortgage early. In practice, it cant be known at the time the 
mortgage is taken out whether an individual borrower will or will not end their fixed rate early, 
and if so when. So a lender cant estimate in advance the exact costs of ending the 
particular mortgage early. But the lender can estimate how many borrowers, on average, will 
do so  and apply those costs across a group of mortgages. 
The price of the mortgage, both the interest rate and the ERC, are set at a level that allows 
the lender to recover its costs and operate its business. The details about how Halifax funds 
its mortgages, how its business is organised, and what its various costs are, including the 
cost to Halifax when borrowers repay a mortgage early, is information which is commercially 
sensitive and confidential but I will summarise the position.
In summary theres a cost to Halifax in raising the funds it lends, and in carrying out the 
activities around lending, including protecting itself against market movements while the 
funds are lent. Those costs are recovered from the lending. Halifax allocates that cost across 
its mortgages factoring in an estimate of how many will end before their fixed rates expire. It 
then uses that estimate to set the ERC which is built in to every mortgage  in the 
expectation that if the predicted number of mortgages end early, overall the ERCs generated 
will cover the costs to Halifax of early termination. 
The ERC Mr and Mrs N paid isnt designed to reflect any individual losses Halifax incurred 
because they repaid their specific mortgage early. Mr N may well be right that those losses 
are less than the ERC theyve paid. But thats not relevant to whether the ERC was set fairly 
 because, as the rules allow, its set to generate an estimated share of the overall losses 
across the group of mortgages, not the actual individual losses on that one. Thats 
something specifically allowed for in the regulators rules, so I dont think its an unfair 
approach. 
Halifax chose to recover the costs through use of a stepped rate ERC (that is, one which 
reduces over time). Halifax calculated its ERC in line with the relevant rules. And, as it was 
clearly set out in the product switch offer  both the method of calculating it, and a cash 
figure  I think it was fair that Halifax charged it when the mortgage was repaid. It follows 
that I dont think it would be fair to ask Halifax to refund some or all of the ERC Mr and Mrs N 
paid.
Mr N has told us that a staff member he spoke to in 2019 told him he could avoid the ERC 
by paying only the last months interest. Hes been unable to provide us with any specific 
details. Ive thought about this, and Ive also looked at Halifaxs notes from when Mr N raised 
his complaint. These notes are contemporaneous  that is, they were made at the time of 
the complaint. Given this, Im satisfied I can rely on them as an accurate record of what was 
discussed in September and October 2019.
Clearly, if Mr N had been told this, it would be a material factor that I would need to take into 
account. But Ive been through Halifaxs complaint notes and there is no record in any of the 
calls of Mr N saying that hed been told by a Halifax staff member that he only needed to pay 
the final months interest of £232 in order to avoid the ERC. Id have expected Mr N to have 
mentioned this to Halifax at the time. Nor is there any mention of it in the complaint form sent 
to us on 29 October 2019. In the circumstances, as this wasnt raised with us until February 
2020, and as Mr N has been unable to provide details of who he spoke to or when, Im 
unable to attach any weight to Mr Ns claim.
I appreciate it must have been disappointing for Mr and Mrs N to pay the full 2% ERC when 
it was so close to the end of the fixed-rate period. It would have been possible to avoid 
paying the ERC by delaying completion of the sale, and I note Mr and Mrs Ns reasons for 
not wanting to do this. But their decision wasnt something Halifax is responsible for, and so I cant see any basis on which it would be fair or reasonable to expect Halifax to reimburse 
any part of the ERC where it was contractually payable and where I have found it was fairly 
charged.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr N and Mrs N to 
accept or reject my decision before 22 December 2020.
 
Jan O'Leary
Ombudsman