DRN-2825715
The complaint
Mr W complains that ReAssure Limited (ReAssure) told him an incorrect transfer value and 
he ended up receiving less than this figure. Mr W says this has caused him a financial loss.
What happened
Mr W wished to transfer his funds from ReAssure to another provider. Hes told us he had 
been researching the quickest way to do this and checking the market conditions to get the 
best value. Mr W submitted an Origo request to transfer his funds on 8 July 2020. He then 
spoke to ReAssure to confirm the value and was told that it was transfer value was 
£106,965.06.
However, the next day it was confirmed the value was actually the transfer value was 
£105,651.64.
Mr W called ReAssure and it explained what must have happened. It calculates the value 
after close of business each day. The value Mr W had been given on 8 July 2020 was the 
value at the close of business the day before. And as Mr Ws forms had been submitted on 8 
July it was the value at the end of that day that he would receive.
ReAssure accepted it had led Mr W to believe that the higher figure was the confirmed 
transfer value and so offered Mr W compensation for raising his expectation. It also asked if 
Mr W wanted to undo the transfer and return the funds, but Mr W said he didnt wish to do 
so.
Our investigator looked into things but felt ReAssures offer was fair in the circumstances. 
And that Mr W hadnt suffered a financial loss.
Mr W said in response that he was never made aware that the value given to him on the 8th 
wasnt the final value. Had he been aware of this hes said he couldve made an assessment 
of how the market was performing and whether to delay the transfer.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I think it would be helpful to first set out remit when putting things right where an error has 
occurred. Where an error has occurred we look to put a customer back into the position they 
wouldve been in, as close as possible, as if the error hadnt occurred. It isnt always possible 
to be certain what wouldve happened but for an error. In these circumstances we work on 
the balance of probabilities, or what we think wouldve happened.
Mr W says hes lost out financially and thinks that his loss is £1,300 ,the difference between 
the two days figures. But as our investigator explained, Mr W was never entitled to the 
higher figure, he hasnt lost that figure as this was based on the day before. The only way Mr 
W wouldve received this figure is if hed submitted his transfer request a day earlier. So Mr 
W has received the value he was entitled to on the day he submitted the transfer request. 
Whilst he wasnt told the figure quoted could change, this is a loss of expectation and not a 
financial loss. And ReAssure have made Mr W an offer for his loss of expectation of £200 
compensation.
The only other thing I can consider is if ReAssures error changed Mr Ws position. In that he 
wouldve done something differently if hed known the figure on 8 July 2020 wasnt his 
guaranteed final value.
Mr W says he was watching the markets very closely to maximise his transfer value. And 
had ReAssure told him the value was based on the end of play the day before, he couldve 
made a decision based on the market performance on that particular day to delay the 
transfer.
I note ReAssure presented the potential option to undo the transfer for Mr W. I understand 
that this was nearly a month later. Returning the funds was really the only solution ReAssure 
could provide. As its not possible to say with any sort of accuracy what day Mr W wouldve 
chosen to take his benefits. There are too many variables/unknowns in play to make any 
other offer.
Based on what Mr W has told us about his interest in this transfer and his market knowledge; 
I think its likely he wouldve kept himself up to date with the values involved. Or at the very 
least the values of his new plan. Mr W also wouldve known the investments he held with 
ReAssure and I think its likely he wouldve had an idea how this compared with his current 
investment. But Mr W chose not to pursue this potential avenue, as he said he was happy 
for the funds to remain where they were. I think this was likely based on knowledge of the 
market or at very least knowledge of the position of his investment with the new provider.
I appreciate Mr W might not have had this information to hand when the call took place but 
the potential for this offer was referred to in writing as well. And still Mr W chose not to 
pursue this avenue any further.
Even if Mr W had not researched the figures (which seems unlikely given what hes told us 
about his market knowledge and his unhappiness with the transfer) I think some inference 
can be drawn from the simple fact Mr W didnt want to undo the transfer. Taking the risk the 
transfer value could be lower than what hed actually received (and losing any potential 
growth hed received in the new investment). I also think its telling that Mr W himself has 
stopped short of saying he wouldve delayed the transfer  instead saying he may have 
done.
Its very difficult to say what Mr W wouldve done with any certainty and how precise his 
reading of the markets wouldve been. But the funds continued to decrease after the 8th, 
falling to £104,939.48 on 10 July 2020. So had Mr W chose to delay it is quite possible he 
would now be worse off in any event. And whilst I do appreciate Mr W was clearly paying 
close attention to this transfer and trying to maximise the value, the drop equates to 1.2% of 
the fund value. Had the drop been much larger, potentially theres a case to say Mr W 
wouldnt have transferred but this still relies on unknowns. As ReAssure wouldnt have been 
able to tell him the value on the day he chose to transfer. Mr W was always going to be at 
the mercy of a days fluctuation.
In conclusion, Mr W has received what he was entitled to on the day he submitted his 
transfer request. Its not possible to say with any certainty what Mr W wouldve done had he 
known that the value he was quoted couldnt be guaranteed. ReAssure offered the only 
potential solution to put Mr W back into as close a position as possible  to undo the transfer 
 but Mr W didnt want to pursue this avenue. Mr Ws loss isnt financial, unless through change of position (which the evidence suggests didnt occur and cant be established) but 
there was a loss of expectation. As Mr W expected to receive the higher figure due to 
ReAssure not being clear. ReAssure has offered £200 for this loss and I think thats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances.
I appreciate that Mr W will likely be disappointed with my decision but I can see no grounds 
to make any further award.
My final decision
ReAssure Limited should pay Mr W £200 compensation for the loss of expectation it caused 
him  if it hasnt already paid this. I make no further award.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 26 July 2021.
 
Simon Hollingshead
Ombudsman