DRN-1650943
The complaint
Miss O complains she was incorrectly advised by Bank of Scotland plc, that the income 
protection policy it recommended to her, would pay out if she was made redundant. 
What happened
Miss O took out an income protection policy, with a provider which I will refer to as S, on the 
advice of Bank of Scotland, together with other products in 2013. 
In 2016, Bank of Scotland said it conducted a review of the sales process with some of its 
customers, and Miss O was selected for this review. Bank of Scotland spoke with Miss O 
over the phone and asked her what she understood about the income protection cover she 
had in place. 
Bank of Scotland said it thought Miss O seemed unclear on some of the features of her 
income protection policy. And itd identified some possible mistakes in its sales process. So 
following its review, it sent Miss O full details of her policy with S. And gave her the option 
to cancel it and receive a full refund, or to continue with it. And Miss O chose to continue.
Miss O was later made redundant from her job, and attempted to make a claim against her 
income protection policy with S. This was declined as her policy didnt provide any cover for 
redundancy. So Miss O complained to Bank of Scotland about the advice itd given her. 
Bank of Scotland responded to Miss Os complaint. It said It had reviewed her income 
protection policy with her in 2016, and established she had misunderstood the cover. It said 
because of this, it offered Miss O the option to cancel the policy and receive a refund of the 
premiums shed paid. However it said she had chosen to continue with her policy at the time, 
so it didnt uphold her complaint. 
Unhappy with Bank of Scotlands response, Miss O brought her complaint to this service. An 
investigator here looked into the complaint. She said shed considered the information 
available from the time of the review in 2016, and had found no evidence that Miss O was 
told her policy would cover her for redundancy. She said Miss O had been given the policy 
information and the option to cancel and receive a full refund of her policy premiums, but had 
chosen to continue with the policy. So she said she didnt think there was anything further 
Bank of Scotland needed to do. 
Miss O responded to the investigators view and said she disagreed. She said she had 
listened to the call recording Bank of Scotland had located. She said during this call she said 
she thought her policy covered redundancy, and wasnt told this understanding was 
incorrect. She said she still believed she would be covered in the event of being made 
redundant. 
Bank of Scotland didnt make any comments on the investigators view. 
Miss O asked for the case to be referred to an ombudsman, so the case has been passed to 
me to make a decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im in agreement with the investigator that this complaint shouldnt be 
upheld. And for broadly the same reasons. Ill explain why. 
In 2016, Bank of Scotland completed a review of the 2013 sale of Miss Os income 
protection policy. During a call which Bank of Scotland has provided, Miss O advised the 
person she spoke to that she thought the policy would cover her if she lost her job, such as if 
she were made redundant. Miss O has said she wasnt told that her understanding was 
incorrect during this call, and wasnt told that her policy didnt provide cover in the event of 
her being made redundant. 
Ive listened to the call and agree Miss O wasnt told her policy didnt provide cover in the 
event of redundancy. However, Im satisfied, based on the content of the call, that this was 
a fact-finding conversation where Miss O was asked various questions about her 
understanding of her cover. At the end of the call Miss O was told that her answers would be 
reviewed, and she would be sent a letter. 
Bank of Scotlands records show there were two further calls with Miss O at that time, 
however it has been unable to locate any other recordings. Its provided a copy of its notes 
about the review conducted with Miss O, and a copy of the letter it sent her explaining the 
outcome, which I have reviewed. 
In the letter Bank of Scotland sent Miss O following the review, it said it thought its original 
advice was inappropriate in Miss Os circumstances. It enclosed the key features document 
for her policy and said she should read this. It offered Miss O the option to cancel her policy 
and receive a refund of all of the premiums, or to continue with it. And it gave a helpline 
number which it said Miss O could call if she had any questions. 
Im satisfied Bank of Scotlands letter was clear about Miss Os options. And it directed her to 
read the key facts document it sent with its letter. This document states on the first page, 
that the policy aims To pay you a monthly income benefit after a set period (deferred 
period) if, during the policy as a result of sickness or accident, you meet the definition of 
incapacity that applies to you at that time.. And there was no mention in the letter or key 
facts document, of the policy providing cover in the event of redundancy. 
Bank of Scotland has provided a copy of a declaration Miss O signed and returned, 
confirming she wanted to continue with her policy in 2016. 
Im satisfied that after identifying Miss Os policy may have originally been mis-sold, Bank of 
Scotland gave her adequate information about the policy for her to make a decision about 
whether she wanted to cancel it and receive a refund of the premiums, or continue with it. 
Miss O has said she chose to continue with the policy in 2016 as she still thought it provided 
cover for redundancy. However, this isnt something I can reasonably hold Bank of Scotland 
accountable for. I say this because it provided Miss O with the information about her policy 
again, and I think this was clear that it provided cover if she was unable to work due to 
sickness or accident. And in giving Miss O the option to cancel her policy and receive a 
refund of all of her premiums in 2016, I think Bank of Scotland did enough to put things right. So I wont be asking it to do anything more.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given, its my final decision that I do not uphold this complaint. And 
I make no award against Bank of Scotland plc. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss O to accept 
or reject my decision before 2 December 2020.
 
Gemma Warner
Ombudsman