DRN-4149075
The complaint
Mr T complains about Liverpool Victoria Insurance Company Limited, trading as LVs 
handling of a claim under his motor insurance policy. Hes unhappy that LV assigned 70% 
liability to him after he was in an accident, involving another driver.
What happened
In mid-2022, Mr T was in an accident involving another vehicle. LV decided to settle the 
claim on a 70/30 liability split basis, in favour of the other driver. 
Mr T complained to LV about its decision. He disputed being at all responsible for the 
accident.  He said the witness who made a statement didnt see the entire incident. Mr Ts 
account of what happened was different.
LV maintained its position. It said it had gained a second opinion from its panel solicitors who 
agreed with its decision.
Mr T remained unhappy and asked our service to consider his complaint. Our investigator 
didnt think Mr Ts complaint should be upheld. He thought LVs decision to split liability was 
fair and reasonable.
Mr T disagreed with our investigators outcome. He said the investigator had given undue 
weight to the word of a single eyewitness who clearly didnt see the whole incident, despite 
studies which show such accounts are often unreliable. 
Mr T commented that the other driver wasnt complying with the Highway Code and was 
acting without due care and attention. He referred to some case law which he believed to be 
relevant to the circumstances. He said he was at a loss to understand why LV was adamant 
that he was 70% responsible for the accident, despite waiving the excess and assuring him it 
would not affect his no claims discount. So, the complaint has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided not to uphold Mr Ts complaint. Ill explain why.
Its not my role, or the role of this service, to decide who was responsible for the accident.  
What Ive needed to decide is whether or not LV has acted fairly and reasonably and in line 
with the policys terms and conditions.
The policys terms and conditions say LV is entitled to have total control to conduct, defend 
and settle any claim...
Similar provisions are found in most motor insurance policies, so I dont find this unusual. It 
means LV is entitled to decide whether to defend a claim or settle it. 
Mr T is adamant that the other driver was entirely at fault for the accident. He believes the 
other driver was performing a U-turn from a parked position. He says the other vehicle was 
parked at the kerb and indicating right. As Mr T began to pass the vehicle, with the front of 
his car almost level with the other vehicles offside rear corner, the other driver started to pull 
quickly away from the kerb. Mr T says he attempted to swerve around him to avoid a 
collision. However, the other driver continued to turn quickly, driving into the front wing and 
passenger door of Mr Ts car. 
The third partys version of events is that the collision happened when they were turning right 
into a friends driveway and Mr T overtook them.
An independent witness to the incident supported the third partys version of events. In their 
statement, they said Mr T began to drive around the third partys vehicle at the same time 
that the third party started manoeuvring into the driveway. They felt the position of the third 
party vehicle led to confusion. LV has noted phoning the witness for further clarification. The 
witness said the third party had moved to the left and slowed down prior to the accident and 
was certainly not parked. 
I appreciate Mr T strongly believes that the other driver was moving from a parked position 
and attempting to perform a U-turn. However, I havent seen any independent evidence to 
support this. LVs solicitors commented that they felt it was unlikely a third party would have 
been attempting a U-turn based on the location of the incident as there does not appear to 
be enough space to do so. The solicitors opinion was that a settlement on a 70/30 basis 
appeared to be reasonable and appropriate.
Mr T has made several comments about the other driver not complying with the Highway 
Code and failing to drive with due care and attention. However, LV has apportioned some of 
the blame for the accident to the other driver. So, it appears to have acknowledged that the 
other driver was likely to be partly responsible for the accident.
I appreciate my answer will be disappointing for Mr T. But Im satisfied LV has acted fairly 
and reasonably, in line with the terms of the policy. So, I dont require it to do anything 
further.
 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I dont uphold Mr Ts complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr T to accept or 
reject my decision before 21 July 2023.
 
Anne Muscroft
Ombudsman