DRN-2031659
The complaint
Mr S with the support of a representative, Miss B, complains that Tesco Personal Finance 
PLC (TPF) were irresponsible in lending to him. He also complains that TPF hadnt acted 
fairly when he informed them of his financial difficulties.
What happened
On 23 June 2013 Mr S applied online for a £9,000 fixed sum loan. The loan application was 
accepted, and the account opened on 2 July 2013. The purpose of the loan hasnt been 
specified. On 8 May 2014 Mr S informed TPF that hed been made redundant and was no 
longer in employment; and in June 2014 the loan account went into arrears.
Over the next five years Mr S was on an agreed reduced repayment plan with TPF. On 6 
August 2019 Mr S complained to TPF that theyd supplied him with the loan irresponsibly. Mr 
S says that TPF hadnt followed the Financial Conduct Authoritys (FCA) guidance on 
lending and felt the loan was both unaffordable and unsustainable.
He believed it should have been clear to them, specifically from the bank statement that he 
provided as part of his application, that it wasnt affordable.
 
Initially TPF felt that the complaint was made too late and was out of the timescales set by 
the FCA. However, my ombudsman colleague found the complaint to be within the time 
limits. The ombudsman concluded that the complaint was referred within three years from 
when Mr S ought reasonably to have known he was able to complain about the specific 
issue.
TPF believed they carried out the appropriate checks and that theyd lent the money to Mr S 
responsibly. An investigator here concluded that TPF had done nothing wrong and so didnt 
ask TPF to do anything more.
 
Mr S has asked that an ombudsman review his complaint for a final decision, so the matter 
has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In considering whats fair and reasonable, Ive thought afresh about all the evidence and 
information provided and the relevant law and regulations, regulators rules, guidance and 
standards, codes of practice and (where appropriate) what I consider having been good 
industry practice at the relevant time. 
In April 2020, my ombudsman colleague issued a decision relating to the time limits for Mr S 
complaint. I dont propose to restate the arguments here; merely to say that I share my 
colleagues opinion that the complaint falls within our jurisdiction.
Mr S complaint revolves around whether TPF followed the correct lending criteria and 
whether they made the right decision to lend to him. So, Ive thought carefully about this as 
well as whether TPF acted fairly when he told them he was experiencing financial difficulties.
Firstly, Ill address the regulations in place at the time these loans were provided. 
Mr S took out his loan in 2013. This was before the FCA took on regulation of consumer 
credit activity in April 2014. At the material time, the lending was subject to the Office of Fair 
Trading (OFT) regime. 
Regulations and guidance of the OFT included its Irresponsible Lending Guidance (ILG). 
So, I consider the ILG to be a relevant factor in reaching a fair and reasonable outcome in 
Mr S case. 
The guidance sets out some general principles of fair business practice which TPF would 
have been expected to follow. These include having to:
make a reasonable assessment of whether a borrower can afford to meet 
repayments in a sustainable manner
monitor the borrower's repayment record during the course of the agreement, 
offering assistance where borrowers appear to be experiencing difficulty; and
treat borrowers fairly and with forbearance if they experience difficulties.
The OFT regarded sustainable as meaning credit that can be repaid by the borrower:
without undue difficulty  in particular without incurring or increasing problem 
indebtedness
over the life of the credit agreement or, in the case of open-end agreements, within a 
reasonable period of time
out of income and/or available savings, without having to realise security or assets.
With this in mind, it seems to me there are two key issues for me to consider in relation to 
TPFs original lending decision:
1. did TPF undertake a reasonable assessment of Mr Ss ability to afford to repay the 
loan?
2. in assessing Mr Ss ability to afford the repayments, what did TPF do to satisfy itself 
he could sustain those payments?
affordability assessment and decision to lend
TPF have provided a timeline of events from their records. Ive seen nothing to challenges or 
contradict this timeline, so Ive considered it as what was most likely to have happened at 
the time. 
When Mr S applied for the loan he did so through an online application on 23 June 2013. 
Theres no specific OFT list of checks a lender needed to carry out before deciding to offer 
credit. So Ive thought carefully about the steps TPF took in deciding whether to lend to Mr 
S, to enable me to decide whether that assessment was reasonable.
The application was referred to TPFs underwriting team for further checks. TPF requested 
that Mr S provide a months bank statement which he did. I acknowledge that TPF have said 
this was not a requirement but was carried out in any case to get a better understanding of 
how Mr S was handing his money over the space of a month.  In his complaint Mr S explained that TPF should have picked up from the bank statement 
alone that he was in financial difficulties at the time as it showed he was mainly in his 
overdraft. Having viewed the statement provided, I agree that the majority of the month Mr S 
account was spent in the overdraft. 
I dont think that would be enough in itself to say TPF should have refused to lend. But it 
could be a sign of possible financial difficulty, so ought to have prompted TPF to dig deeper 
to establish Mr Ss financial position and properly assess his ability to meet and maintain the 
repayments.
In addition to reviewing a bank statement, TPF carried out a credit search which showed 
£4,607 revolving debt, for example credit or store cards; and £5,118 of non-revolving debt, 
like fixed instalment credit. The credit search also showed Mr S was renting at £395 per 
month. TPF calculated that Mr S had a monthly income of £2,220, which is supported by his 
account statements. And a surplus of £1,482 after taking away those main outgoings. The 
statements provided by Mr S bank support TPFs findings. I could see that from February to 
May the average income to the account was £2,262. I could also see the £395 rental 
payments TPF referred to. 
Based on what TPF considered to be net free income I cant say that the loan wasnt 
affordable for Mr S. TPF have also said that no further borrowing was detected when they 
carried out their bureau check. So, I think its reasonable that they gave consideration to 
what theyd found. I acknowledge that Mr S wasnt able to retrieve a copy of his credit report 
from 2013, however as Mr S hasnt challenged their records in relation to this element, nor 
have I seen anything to contradict what TPF has said, I think its more likely than not that 
TPFs records are a fair reflection of the situation. 
In addition, on 23 June 2013 prior to the above checks being carried out, TPF sent Mr S the 
agreement in principle documents. The documents have clear headings titled, is this loan 
right for me, and, can I afford this loan. In these sections it talks about how the loan is 
structured and advised the borrower to think about their existing outgoings in relation to the 
new loan repayments. On the 29 June 2013 the documents were signed and returned to 
TPF. I think this is relevant because, as the documents were signed and returned, it 
suggests Mr S reviewed the information contained. The information provided a further 
opportunity for him to consider his financial situation and whether he felt it was appropriate to 
apply for the loan. 
TPF has said that while reviewing the application they amended some information on the 
application to match Mr S bank statements. Its not certain exactly what information they 
were referring to, although its likely to have been in relation to Mr S bank account details or 
in relation to the activity on the account. I say that because the information held on a bank 
statement is typically, a consumers name, address, account information and some degree 
of transaction details. Mr S representative, Miss B, has pointed this out to us as she 
believes it contravenes the FCAs consumer credit source book (CONC) 5.2A rules in 
relation to unfair business practices. Ive thought about this carefully. 
At the time of Mr S application, the OFT was the regulator, so the CONC rules Miss B 
referred to wouldnt have applied. Having said that, Id still expect TPF to have used the 
correct information when considering the application. Although its not been made clear what 
information from the bank statements were used, theres no reason to think that the 
information on the bank statement was anything other than factual, accurate and a true 
reflection of the conduct of an account. So, in the circumstances, and on balance I think 
TPFs actions were appropriate and reasonable. To arrive at a fair lending decision, TPF followed their lending criteria which was to review 
and consider Mr S online application, his credit bureau file and a bank statement. None of 
those considerations highlighted to TPF any reason not to provide Mr S with the loan. And 
Although TPF may have looked further into some of Mr S existing lending, for example the 
revolving credit, Im not convinced this would have given them reason not to lend to him, 
because according to the credit bureau information, he was maintaining the repayments on 
all his debt. So alongside what was expected of them from the OFT Im satisfied that their 
assessment of Mr S affordability was reasonable.
sustainability 
Based on my findings above I havent seen any other reason why TPF shouldnt have 
provided Mr S with the loan. 
Personal loans can be declined if the purpose doesnt fall within what the lender considers 
as acceptable or appropriate. For example, many lenders wont lend for purposes of 
gambling, investing or if its intended as a deposit for mortgage. Neither TPF nor Mr S has 
provided any information on the purpose of the loan. However, its clear from the bank 
statements that a considerable proportion of the loan was used to pay off the overdraft and a 
Mastercard. So its likely the loan was taken out, at least in part to repay existing debts. And 
I dont see that this would have been a reason not to lend.
Ive already established that TPF did enough to demonstrate the lending was affordable for 
Mr S. However Ive also concluded that TPF was given no reason to question Mr S ability to 
repay the loan over the term. On balance its fair to conclude there was reasonable leeway 
to cater for a slight increase in outgoings or dip in income should the eventuality arise. 
Considering Ive already established a significant part of the loan was to repay existing 
debts, I cant see that TPF had reason to be concerned about Mr S employment stability, 
even if later events took a different turn.
The loan statements provided, show that it wasnt until the 4 June 2014 that the account 
went into arrears, due to a reversed monthly payment. Mr S said that he told TPF in May 
2014 that hed been made redundant. This is clearly reflected in the significant change in 
repayments being made to the loan. Mr Ss bank statements also support this as it shows 
that from April 2014 his income into that account reduced considerably. From the evidence 
Ive seen Im persuaded that the loan became unaffordable and unsustainable as a result of 
Mr S redundancy, rather than because of any shortcoming in the original lending decision. 
Im satisfied that TPF had considered the sustainability of Mr S ability to repay the loan 
when hed applied and had no reason to believe that his employment would change in the 
coming year. 
financial difficulties
At the time Mr S informed TPF of his financial difficulties, the regulation of consumer credit 
came under the FCA.  The Consumer Credit Sourcebook (CONC), which can be found 
within the FCA Handbook, says a firm must treat customers in default or in arrears difficulties 
with forbearance and due consideration; and should allow the customer reasonable time and 
opportunity to repay the debt. 
CONC suggests ways in which a firm should support its customers:
considering suspending, reducing, waiving or cancelling any further interest or 
chargesallowing deferment of payment of arrears
accepting token payments for a reasonable period of time in order to allow 
a customer to recover from an unexpected income shock,
Mr S complained that when he told TPF about his financial difficulties they didnt conduct an 
income and expenditure review until February 2016. Following a Data Subject Access 
Request (DSAR) by Mr S, he couldnt find any other documented income and expenditure 
reviews that were carried out by TPF, so believed they hadnt completed any more, which he 
wasnt happy about.
Contained within the information they sent to us, TPF explained that Mr S contacted them on 
8 May 2014 to say that hed been made redundant; and after agreeing to a reduced monthly 
payment of £97 they completed an income and expenditure with him during the same call. 
TPF referred Mr S to the Citizens Advice Bureau (CAB) and said to call back after hed 
spoken to CAB.
TPF also say on 30 May 2014 Mr S called back offering to pay £50 per month. This was 
likely to have been a temporary payment arrangement on the condition that a full income 
and expenditure statement would need to be completed to confirm a longer-term 
arrangement. TPF say another two income and expenditure reviews were carried out in April 
2015 and in January 2016, all with the intention of offering Mr S a revised and reduced 
payment plan.
Mr S concern about the income and expenditure reviews was that he hadnt seen any 
documented reviews after his DSAR. I cant conclude however that they didnt take place. 
Theyre only likely to keep that information for a finite period, so, from TPFs version of 
events, whilst it may not have formed part of the DSAR Im satisfied based on the 
consistency and specifics of what theyve said that its more likely than not that the income 
and expenditure reviews had been carried out.  And Im persuaded that TPF had given due 
care in supporting Mr S with reduced payments.
I acknowledge that Mr S has said that it wasnt until meeting his current partner that he 
realised he was able to complain about certain aspects of a firms activity, like how they 
assess someones affordability. I can see from the complaint he feels very strongly that TPF 
should have done more at the time, by not lending to him and supporting him more when he 
made it clear he was in financial difficulties. However, having considered everything, on 
balance I can see that TPF acted fairly and reasonably in the circumstances. 
My final decision
I recognise that financial difficulties can affect people in different ways, and I hope Mr S has 
been afforded the support and advice to help him through this difficult time. 
However, for the reasons explained above, my final decision is that I do not uphold this 
complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 20 April 2021.
 
Benjamin John
Ombudsman