DRN-2330134
The complaint
Mr W complains that Santander UK Plc rejected his claim under section 75.
What happened
In December 2019 Mr W booked a holiday and paid using his Santander credit card.
When he arrived at the hotel, Mr W was unhappy with the room. He says he booked a room 
which was advertised as having its own sun terrace but found that because of the situation 
of the room, the sun didnt shine on the sun terrace for any part of the day.
Mr W complained to the hotel and asked to move rooms, which happened after two days at 
the hotel.
Mr W contacted Santander to make a section 75 claim. He said the hotel room wasnt as 
expected and this had impacted on his holiday.
Santander rejected the claim. It said Mr W had been provided with the type of room hed 
booked and paid for, so there hadnt been a breach of contract by the supplier of the holiday.
Mr W remained unhappy and brought his complaint to this service.
Our investigator didnt think there was evidence to show that there had been a breach of 
contract or a misrepresentation and said she didnt think Santander had acted unfairly in 
declining the section 75 claim.
Mr W didnt agree. He said hed booked a room with a sun terrace on the basis that the 
description would be fulfilled. He said if the advertisement had made it clear that the room 
wouldnt receive sun during certain months of the year, he wouldnt have booked it.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I appreciate that Mr W didnt have the holiday experience he was hoping for and I 
understand why he wants a part refund. However, that said, I dont think Santander rejected 
the section 75 claim unfairly. Ill explain why.
The relevant law says that goods need to be of satisfactory quality and as described. If this 
isnt the case, then a breach of contract can be said to have occurred. A misrepresentation is 
an untrue statement of fact which induces a consumer to enter into an agreement. For a 
claim under section 75 to be successful, there has to be either a breach of contract or a 
misrepresentation by the supplier. 
In relation to the description of the hotel room, I agree with Mr W that it was described as 
having a sun terrace. Theres no dispute that Mr W received a room with a sun terrace. Mr 
Ws unhappiness stems from the fact that the sun terrace didnt attract any sun during the 
day because it faced north.
Because Mr W received the type of room he booked and paid for, Im unable to say that 
theres been a breach of contract. Whilst I understand that Mr W expected the sun to shine 
on the terrace, I havent seen anything to suggest that sun was guaranteed, or that the 
terrace would face in a particular direction.
In addition, Ive not seen anything to suggest that a statement was made to the effect that 
the sum would shine on the terrace. So, Im unable to say that theres been a 
misrepresentation.
Ive taken into account what Mr W has said about his expectation of sun on the sun terrace. 
And whilst I agree that a reasonable person might expect to have sun on a sun terrace for 
some of the time, this can never be guaranteed and depends on several factors, including 
the weather and the time of year. I havent seen any evidence to suggest that the terrace 
wouldnt have been sunny at some point in the year.
I understand how frustrating it mustve been for Mr W not to have sun on the terrace for the 
first two days of his holiday. But Im unable to say based on the evidence Ive seen that 
theres been a breach of contract or a misrepresentation. In the circumstances, I dont think 
Santander acted unfairly in rejecting the section 75 claim.
 
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold the complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 6 April 2021.
 
Emma Davy
Ombudsman