DRN-2974712
The complaint
Mr M complains that Amtrust Europe Limited (Amtrust) unfairly declined a claim under his 
mobile and gadget insurance policy.
What happened
Mr M made a claim under his mobile phone and gadget insurance policy in March 2021, 
when he lost his MacBook Pro laptop whilst working out at the park.
Amtrust declined the claim, saying that when interviewed, Mr M had told Amtrust hed left the 
bag containing the laptop next to a wall while he worked out around one metre away from it. 
Amtrust said that as Mr M had accepted that he wasnt focused on his bag at all times, it had 
been knowingly left unattended and therefore the claim didnt meet the criteria outlined in the 
policy.
Mr M disagreed and referred his complaint to this service. Our investigator considered the 
issues, initially agreeing with Amtrust. However, upon further investigation he recommended 
that the complaint should be upheld. He said the terms of the policy were not robust enough 
to warrant Amtrust declining the claim on the basis that Mr M hadnt taken reasonable 
precautions. 
Because Amtrust didnt agree with our investigators final view, the complaint has come to 
me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with our investigators final assessment and Im upholding the 
complaint. Ill explain why.
The policy covers loss or theft of a Gadget which is defined as the gadget identified on the 
Schedule of Insurance. In the policy terms, Loss is defined as meaning that the gadget has 
been accidentally left by the insured in a location and the insured is permanently deprived of 
its use.
I can see the policy lists exclusions to the cover. These include an exclusion which says 
Amtrust wont pay where reasonable precautions havent been taken to prevent the loss. 
Some examples are given of reasonable precautions, including: if left unattended in a 
vehicle or premises, you are to ensure that the gadget is out of sight and that all locks and 
security devices are actioned.
A further exclusion highlights that Amtrust wont pay out for a claim where you knowingly 
leave your gadget somewhere where you cant see it, but others can and it is at risk of being 
lost.
Taking into account the above exclusions, and Mr Ms testimony regarding how the loss 
occurred, I dont think Amtrust has declined the claim fairly.
I say this because Mr M has said, throughout the claim and throughout his interactions with 
this service, that he was working out at the park, with his rucksack close by him (around one 
metre away). The rucksack contained his laptop and was locked with a padlock. The gadget 
itself was out of sight at all times. 
Unfortunately, Mr M forgot to take his bag when he finished his workout and left the park. 
When he returned, the bag was gone.
Turning now to the policy terms, I think what happened meets the definition of Loss 
because the laptop was left accidentally in a location and Mr M has been permanently 
deprived of its use. So Mr M has been able to show that a valid claim has arisen. Its for 
Amtrust to show that an exclusion applies. So Ive considered carefully the exclusions 
Amtrust has relied on in declining the claim.
The first exclusion Amtrust has relied on is the exclusion relating to reasonable precautions 
 and in declining the claim it has highlighted the example of a gadget left unattended. It has 
said Mr M left his bag unattended while he was working out, and that anyone present could 
see the bag, so it wasnt out of sight.
Where a policy contains a reasonable precautions clause, the policyholder must not act 
recklessly where he appreciates that a risk exists which may cause a loss. Amtrust therefore 
needs to show that Mr M was reckless  or in other words  that he recognised a risk existed 
but still deliberately courted it. To have done so, Mr M wouldve had to have taken no steps 
at all to minimise the risk of the bag getting lost or stolen, or taken steps that he knows 
wouldve been inadequate to properly avert the risk. This is the test of recklessness as set 
out in a leading legal case regarding reasonable care provisions in insurance policies (Sofi v 
Prudential).
Ive considered, therefore, whether Mr M acted recklessly here. His testimony is consistent in 
that while he was exercising, the bag was about a metre away from him and although he 
could see it, he wasnt looking at it for the duration of the time he was training. I dont 
consider that this means Mr M left the bag unattended. He did, of course, leave the bag 
unattended when he forgot to take it with him after his workout. But this would happen in 
many loss claims, including the types Amtrust would accept. 
The example Amtrust has provided of a loss claim that would be accepted doesnt specify 
that the owner would need to be looking at the luggage at all times during their journey  nor 
do I think this would be a reasonable expectation, as I consider it likely that most passengers 
would take their eyes off their luggage from time to time. Amtrust has said that in that 
example the luggage would be next to the customer and in their line of sight at all times. But 
I dont think this is correct. If a customer placed their luggage on the luggage rack of a train, 
unless this area was directly in front of their seat, which is unlikely, the luggage would not be 
in their line of sight at all times, any more than Mr Ms bag was within his line of sight. In both 
scenarios, the customers gadget is well hidden from view and the bags containing the item 
would not be watched continually.
Ive also considered whether Mr M deliberately courted the risk of the laptop being lost or 
stolen. And I dont think he did. Mr M kept the gadget inside a rucksack and says he didnt 
open the rucksack at all whilst he was at the park. So it wouldnt have been obvious to those 
around him that there was a laptop in the bag. He also says there was a padlock on the bag 
and that he kept the bag close to him  it wasnt left in a different area to where he was 
training. So I think this shows Mr M took reasonable steps to try to minimise the loss or theft 
of the gadget.The second exclusion Amtrust has relied on says the gadget cant be left somewhere where 
the insured cannot see it, but others can. It gives the example of a laptop being left in a 
restaurant or pub while the policyholder goes to the toilet or bar, but doesnt take their 
gadget with them. I dont think its fair for Amtrust to rely on this exclusion either. Mr M didnt 
deliberately choose to leave his bag at the park, unlike the example in the policy. He 
accidentally left it at the park and, in any event, the gadget itself was not on display, nor was 
it in a laptop bag, which wouldve made it obvious to passers-by that a laptop was inside.
So, for the reasons Ive explained, I dont think Amtrusts decision to decline the claim is fair 
or reasonable and it should pay the claim.
Putting things right
Amtrust should accept Mr Ms claim and add 8% simple interest per year on the amount due 
to Mr M, from the date the claim was made until the date payment is made.
My final decision
I uphold this complaint and require Amtrust Europe Limited to put things right as Ive set out 
above.  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 11 October 2021.
 
Ifrah Malik
Ombudsman