DRN-3028951
complaint
This complaint is about a credit card payment protection insurance (PPI) policy taken in 
2001. Mrs P says Bank of Scotland plc, trading as Halifax, (Halifax) mis-sold her the PPI.
background
The background and circumstances leading up to this complaint, which include much of 
Mrs Ps circumstances at the time of the sale, as well as the PPI policy benefits, limitations 
and exclusions of cover, arent disputed. So I havent repeated all of this information here.
Our adjudicator did not uphold the complaint. Mrs Ps representatives disagreed with the 
adjudicators opinion  they didnt raise any new or additional points but repeated complaint 
points and arguments theyd previously made. As the complaint couldnt be resolved 
informally, it has been passed to me for a decision.
my findings
Although I have only included a summary of the complaint, I have read and considered all 
the evidence and arguments available to me from the outset, in order to decide what is, in 
my opinion, fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of this complaint. 
When considering what is fair and reasonable, I am required to take into account relevant: 
law and regulations; regulators rules, guidance and standards; codes of practice; and, 
where appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry practice at the time. 
Weve set out our general approach to PPI mis-sale complaints on our website and 
published some example final decisions that set out in detail how these relevant 
considerations may apply to PPI sales like Mrs Ps. I havent set out that detailed information 
here, but Ive taken into account all relevant considerations in deciding Mrs Ps complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided not to uphold this complaint and Ive summarised my reasons 
for this conclusion below:
 
Mrs P says PPI was just included with her card. But her card application form had a PPI 
section with boxes to tick to say either yes or no to the cover. On Mrs Ps form, which 
she signed to take the card, the yes box was ticked  and I think she wouldve known 
the no box shouldve been ticked instead if she didnt want the cover. Also, nothing on 
the form said the PPI had to be taken. With all this in mind, I think it more likely Halifax 
made it clear Mrs P didnt have to take the PPI and she chose to take it.
Halifax recommended the PPI to Mrs P so had to check it was right for her. And the 
evidence about Mrs Ps circumstances at the time shows it wasnt unsuitable for her. For 
example, she was eligible for it and what shes told us about her savings and work cover 
makes me think she still had a need for cover. It also looks like the cover was affordable.
There were no extra restrictions on cover for mental health or back problems, but Mrs P 
couldnt claim for work absences if due to any health issue she already knew of at the 
policy start or had received medical advice or treatment for in the 12 months before. So 
she couldnt have claimed for time off work if due to the health issues shes told us she 
already had. But, from what shes told us, these last kept her off work following an injury 
she had  which was around five years before the sale. With this and all shes told us 
about this in mind, Im not persuaded Halifax ought to have considered work absences 
due to Mrs Ps pre-existing health issues were so likely that their exclusion made the 
cover no longer worth recommending to her, given what she could still claim for. Also, 
nothing about her occupation or employment wouldve made it hard for her to claim.
The application form called the PPI Credit Card Repayments Cover. Its possible the 
information Halifax gave Mrs P about the PPI wasnt as clear as it shouldve been. But 
Ive found she chose to take it, and I dont think she wouldve taken it without at least a 
broad understanding of what was covered, so it looks to me like she wanted this type of 
cover. The cover wasnt unsuitable for her, as I concluded above, and it seems like the 
benefit couldve been useful for Mrs P if something went wrong. Also I dont think she 
wouldve bought the PPI without at least some idea of the cost. With this, the actual cost, 
her other means and the policy benefit in mind  and having thought carefully about all 
Mrs P has said about this - on balance Im not persuaded her decision to take the cover 
wouldve changed if Halifax given her better information about the policy cost. Overall, I 
dont think Mrs P wouldve declined the cover had Halifax done anything more.
Overall, I consider that Mrs P wouldve still taken the PPI. Given her circumstances at the 
time, I think it couldve provided a useful benefit at a difficult time if she couldnt work in the 
circumstances it covered. I also think it was sufficiently close to what its likely she thought 
she was getting. And in those circumstances, I think that she wouldve taken it in any event.
Mrs Ps representative has raised a number of what I consider to be general complaint 
points, which it says apply to all PPI complaints. These general points include: a claim that 
the Financial Ombudsman Service is not correctly applying the regulators rules and 
guidance for handling PPI complaints; these policies represented poor value because of the 
number of significant exclusions and limitations of cover coupled with the low claims ratio; 
and the duty of utmost good faith meant Halifax should have disclosed the poor value and 
explained the significance of the limitations and exclusions and the impact it had on the 
chances of making a claim.
Mrs Ps representative has not said how these points apply to the specific facts and 
circumstances of Mrs Ps individual complaint  just that they apply to all PPI complaints.
I have thought about these things and how they might apply in Mrs Ps particular case. But 
these points dont persuade me to alter my conclusions about what is fair and reasonable in 
all the circumstances of the complaint. For the reasons Ive set out above, I dont uphold this 
complaint. This means Halifax doesnt have to do anything to put things right.
Im grateful to Mrs P for her courtesy and assistance during our consideration of this matter.
my final decision
Overall, having considered all the evidence and arguments to decide what is, in my opinion, 
fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of this complaint and for the reasons I have set 
out above, I dont uphold Mrs Ps complaint  so I make no award.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, I am required to ask Mrs P to accept 
or reject my decision before 6 December 2021. 
Richard Sheridan
Ombudsman