DRN-3884687
The complaint
Mr F complains about Starr International (Europe) Limited (Starr) resolution to a claim he 
made under his gadget insurance policy. 
What happened
Mr Fs phone was stolen, he reported the theft to police who gave him a crime reference 
number. Following the theft, he made a claim with Starr. The claim was accepted, and Mr F 
paid the excess of £199. 
Starr offered him a refurbished phone as settlement of the claim, but Mr F wanted a new 
phone, as he said that he had full cover on his policy, and this meant that he should receive 
a new phone. So, he complained to Starr. 
In its final response, it said that the policy terms and conditions stated that a replacement 
phone could be a refurbished phone. It also said that it was waiting to hear from Mr F about 
whether he wanted to accept this resolution. It gave Mr F his referral rights. 
Mr F referred a complaint to our service. One of our investigators considered the complaint 
and didnt think it should be upheld. She said that Starr had been fair as it had applied the 
policy terms and conditions by offering a refurbished phone, as a new phone wasnt 
guaranteed under the policy. During the investigation of the complaint, Starr offered a cash 
settlement to Mr F. Our investigator thought it had been fair to offer a cash alternative, up to 
the value of Mr Fs stolen phone. So, there was nothing further she could reasonably ask it 
to do to resolve the complaint. 
Starr accepted the view, Mr F did not. He felt that Starr were misleading customers by 
offering a refurbished phone as this seemed to be the only option. He wanted an 
ombudsman to further review the policy and the way Starr handled his claim. So, he asked 
for an ombudsman decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I wont uphold this complaint, for much the same reasons as our 
investigator. I understand that this might be a disappointment to Mr F, but I hope my findings 
go some way in explaining why Ive reached this decision. 
Ive taken into consideration all the comments made by both parties, as well as the policy 
terms and conditions. In this complaint, I think that the main issue is what Starrs obligations 
were under the policy and whether it implemented those obligations to Mr Fs claim on a fair 
and reasonable basis. 
Mr Fs phone was stolen, and he reported the theft to police. Having reviewed the policy 
terms and conditions, I note that as well as reporting the theft to the police, policyholders are 
responsible for obtaining a police report that gives details about the theft, as well as the IMEI 
number of the phone. 
From the evidence, Starr waivered the requirement for Mr F to obtain a police report and 
proceeded with the claim on the basis of Mr Fs crime reference number that he had been 
given. I think that as this was an obligation under the policy, it was fair for Starr to have 
waivered the need to obtain the report, given that Mr F was finding it difficult to obtain one. 
Another obligation for Starr, once a claim had been accepted, was to replace the phone. The 
policy terms and conditions I think are clear. The term states: we may replace your insured 
item with a new or reconditioned item of the same or similar specification. This means that 
Starr are permitted under the policy, to replace the phone with a reconditioned device. 
I understand that Mr F wanted a brand-new device. But Starr explained that his model phone 
was out of stock at the time and offered the alternative replacement device. Having reviewed 
the policy terms and conditions, I cant agree that Starr was unreasonable in offering Mr F a 
refurbished phone.
Starr also offered Mr F a cash alternative to the value of his stolen handset. Although this is 
an option under the policy, I think Starr offered it in order to resolve the complaint and 
instead of the refurbished phone, which I think is a fair and reasonable outcome. 
I understand that Mr F is seeking compensation for the trouble and upset caused. But as I 
think the resolution offered by Starr is fair and reasonable, I wont be recommending that it 
pay compensation. 
Taking everything into account, whilst I understand how disappointed Mr F will be, Im 
satisfied that Starr were fair in the offer it made to settle the claim. By either replacing Mr Fs 
phone with a refurbished device or paying him a cash equivalent to the value of his stolen 
phone.  Accordingly, I cant reasonably ask Starr to do anything more to resolve this 
complaint. 
My final decision
For the reasons given, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr F to accept or 
reject my decision before 25 May 2023.
 
Ayisha Savage
Ombudsman