DRN-3240325
The complaint
Miss M complains that Royal & Sun Alliance Insurance Plc (RSA) havent settled her claim 
fairly on her buildings insurance policy and caused delays over many months. She wants the 
settlement to be increased and compensation for the inconvenience.
What happened
Miss Ms bathroom was damaged when the ceiling cladding and some wall tiles became 
loose and fell damaging the bath, basin and floor tiles. She contacted RSA, who sent an 
agent (Ill call B) to assess the claim. B said vibrations from heavy building work across the 
road may have caused the damage and repairs would cost £3,496. RSA accepted the claim 
and offered this sum less the policy excess of £350 to Miss M on 15 March 2021. 
Miss M said she wanted to obtain her own estimates and a few weeks later sent one to RSA 
for £4,890. This wasnt itemised, so B asked for a detailed breakdown of costs. It sent Miss 
M a scope of works and said only the repairs set out in this should be included. 
Miss M sent an itemised estimate of £5,770 from another builder on 29 April 2021. RSA 
asked B to call her about this. It said the estimate was expensive and still included items like 
spotlights and an extractor fan which werent part of the existing bathroom which RSA 
wouldnt pay for. However, it did agree to increase the settlement offer to £4,065 less the 
excess. B suggested Miss M either obtain another estimate or use RSAs contractor instead. 
B says Miss M said she didnt want to use RSA and would obtain another estimate.
Miss M called RSA on 11 May 2021 with a further estimate for £6,057 and complained that 
the claim was taking too long. RSA again suggested the use of its own contractor, but Miss 
M didnt want to use it. 
RSA queried why these estimates were higher than the first. Miss M said the first contractor 
now wanted to reprice the job. RSA asked B to contact the builder who had provided the 
second estimate of £5,770. B raised queries about the scope of works and requested a 
discount with the builder on 19 May 2021. The builder asked for the queries to be sent by 
email.  
Various calls and emails followed with Miss M advising her builder hadnt received the email. 
She said her bathroom was dangerous and asked for her complaint to be escalated on 26 
May 2021. 
RSA accepted Miss Ms complaint in part and sent her its final decision on 9 June 2021. It 
said the settlement was fair as this was what RSA could have repaired the damage for as it 
was able to secure discounts from its own suppliers. It said the insurance only covered the 
damage, not betterments, like spotlights, included in Miss Ms estimates.
RSA agreed there had been shortcomings in its service and apologised. It offered £150 in 
compensation for this. It said that a response was still awaited from Miss Ms builder and it 
wasnt responsible for these further delays.
Miss M queried the references to betterment and said the amount offered wasnt enough to 
do the repairs needed. She said she didnt want to use RSA to do the work as she was 
unhappy with the way B had treated her and no longer trusted RSAs contractors. RSA said 
the plasterboard ceiling (above the cladding) didnt need replacement, only the cladding re-
fitting. Miss M said the cladding was damaged and had been disposed of and B knew this. 
She said that a skip rather than the hippo bag included in the scope of works would be 
needed. And the scope didnt provide for the re-tanking of the bath. B then realised it had 
incorrectly addressed the email to Miss Ms builder and this was re-sent on 17 June 2021.
RSA emailed Miss M on 9 July 2021 apologising for B not responding sooner. It agreed a 
skip was required and increased the settlement offer to £4,197.61, less the excess. It said if 
evidence of pre-existing tanking around the bath was provided before stripping out it would 
increase the settlement. It again said that its own contractors could carry out the repairs as 
an alternative. 
Miss M replied the same day referring again to the ceiling cladding. She sent photographs 
showing damage to the cladding left on the ceiling. She also said the bathroom had no light 
and was dangerous due to the chipped bathroom sink. RSA replied on 30 July 2021 saying 
B was confident it could be refixed.  Miss M replied the same day with more photographs. 
Ten days later RSA replied asking for a professional opinion that the cladding couldnt be re-
fixed. 
Miss M referred her complaint to our service and our investigator looked into it but didnt 
uphold it.
Our investigator said there had been delays and that the £150 RSA had offered in 
compensation was fair. And that the policy allowed RSA to use its own contractors to 
undertake repair work or to pay a cash sum instead. But only up to the amount it would cost 
for its own contractors to do the work. Our investigator said the policy only required RSA to 
make good the damage that had been caused rather than to make improvements to the 
property. And, said RSAs cash offer was fair and had been increased to take account of the 
need for a skip and would be increased to cover tanking the bath if required. 
Miss M disagreed saying that RSAs scope didnt include replacing her toilet which matched 
the bath and that there had been no mention of RSA contractors doing the work until she 
queried why it was trying to undercutting the cheapest contractor. She says she has been 
left for nine months without light in the bathroom and her daughter had cut herself on the 
damaged glass basin.
As Miss M doesnt agree it has come to me to decide. 
My provisional decision
I issued my provisional decision on 16 December 2021. In my provisional decision, I 
explained the reasons why I was planning to uphold the complaint. I said:
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide (provisionally) whats fair 
and reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Having done so, Im planning to 
uphold the complaint. Ill explain why.
There is always going to be some inconvenience and upset when someones home is 
damaged, and an insurance claim needs to be made. RSA wasnt responsible for the 
damage to Miss Ms property, but so far, I thought it should have done better in progressing 
her claim and helping getting things sorted out. I thought RSA should revisit its settlement offer as set out below. I thought Miss M had been inconvenienced because of avoidable 
delays leaving her with a bathroom without a light for many months as a result. 
The Repairs
Insurance policies dont cover every eventuality and usually only provide for the repair of 
damage caused by an insured incident rather than for improvements to be made to the 
property. This is clearly set out in the policy documents. So, I didnt think RSA is being 
unreasonable in saying it wouldnt pay for additional works, like replacing the plasterboard 
ceiling unnecessarily and fitting spotlights that werent there previously. And, it wouldnt be 
fair for me to tell them to.
The policy also clearly states that if RSA offers to pay a claim in cash:
but can offer repair or replacement through a preferred supplier  then payment will 
not be more than the amount they would have paid their preferred supplier.
It isnt unreasonable for RSA to say it would only pay what it could have the work undertaken 
for itself so I didnt think it was acting unfairly in doing this provided that it had made the 
option of using its own contractors available. But RSA didnt initially offer this or provide Miss 
M with the scope of work to help her source her own estimates.
Miss M has made additional points about tanking around her bath and the ceiling cladding. 
RSA agreed that, if on stripping out the existing bath, it was tanked, this would be covered, 
provided evidence of this was provided. I thought that was fair. 
The ceiling cladding
Questions over the cladding has caused unnecessary delays and I thought both B and RSA 
were too slow to respond to Miss Ms queries here. The condition of the cladding is disputed. 
RSA says it hadnt authorised its disposal with B saying it wasnt damaged and could be 
refixed. However, in Bs voice recording of the initial appraisal of the bathroom it only 
mentions that the cladding has fallen and doesnt say it was undamaged and could be 
refixed. 
Miss M photographs of the remaining cladding show splitting along the edge where the 
panels join together. In its comments to B, RSA agrees it looks damaged. But after a further 
delay RSA tells Miss M that B is confident it could be refixed. I thought the photographs 
show the type of damage Id expect if laminate cladding was forcibly pulled apart through 
falling from a ceiling rather than being carefully unclicked. 
On the evidence Id seen so far it wasnt clear that the laminate could have been refixed 
without showing the damage. So, to settle the claim fairly I thought the scope of work should 
include replacing the cladding. 
Replacing the toilet
Miss  M says  her existing  bath and toilet  are a matching  set and her own estimates  
include  replacing  the toilet.  B has excluded  this from the scope  of works,  allowing  for 
refitting  of the existing  toilet  because  it is undamaged.  Bs notes  describe  Miss  Ms 
second  estimate  as basically  for a bathroom  upgrade  including  new sanitary  ware.  
The policy  has the following  clause  about  matching  items:  
Matching  sets,  suites  and carpetsAn individual item thats part of a matching set of items or suite of furniture, 
sanitary ware or other bathroom fittings is classed as a single item. Your insurer 
will pay you for individual damaged items but not for undamaged companion 
pieces.
With the policy saying the undamaged toilet isnt covered it wouldnt be reasonable for me to 
tell RSA to replace it. However, if the toilet cant be matched, then Miss M has suffered a 
loss of match in her bathroom, which isnt fair either. Our well-established approach here is 
that its fair for some compensation to be paid to reflect this loss of match. 
The policyholder can then either use the compensation towards replacing the undamaged 
item or make do with the loss of match as they prefer. I thought reasonable compensation 
here would be 50% of the cost of replacing the toilet with one matching the new fittings and 
this sum should be added to the settlement. 
Delays 
RSA acknowledged there were delays in processing the claim in its final decision. It has 
already offered her £150 in compensation for the inconvenience and apologised. 
I thought avoidable delays continued after Miss M made her complaint despite her raising 
concerns about the safety of the bathroom for her children. Not providing the scope of works 
served to confuse matters as Miss M didnt know what to ask her own contractors to 
estimate. Combined with the failure to advise Miss M that RSA contractors could do the work 
this caused unnecessary delay and inconvenience over many weeks. 
RSAs file indicates after Miss M complained on 11 May 2021, B stopped working on the 
claim properly until RSA told it to keep progressing it on 11 June 2021 and again on 30 June 
2021. Had it, the error on the email address to Miss Ms builder might have been picked up 
sooner and acted upon before 17 June 2021. This was more than a month after RSA asked 
B to contact the builder, with Miss M contacting RSA several times to advise that her builder 
hadnt received the email from B.
There were other delays with Miss M having to chase both RSA and B for updates. On 9 
July 2021 RSA again apologised for the delays in B responding to Miss M. She replied the 
same day with queries on the cladding, providing photographs showing damage to it and 
raising concerns about the safety of the bathroom. 
It was another three weeks before RSA replied to repeat that B still said the cladding could 
be refixed. Miss M provided further photographic evidence. But it was a further ten days 
before RSA asked her to provide a professional opinion that the cladding couldnt be refixed. 
I thought these delays were excessive and a more proactive approach was needed given the 
condition of Miss Ms bathroom. 
The file also suggests that once Miss M had referred her complaint to our service in August 
2021, B again stopped progressing the claim pending further instructions from RSA. 
I note that RSA did suggest the use of its own contractors or that it could make the cash 
settlement without impacting Miss Ms complaint. But I understand Miss Ms reluctance to do 
this whilst there were outstanding issues to be clarified on the settlement. RSA has already 
offered multiple apologies for these additional delays and I thought further compensation 
should be paid for the inconvenience suffered. Miss M says her builders estimates are no longer valid due to material costs rising. RSA 
says its own contractor can still be used if required. I know Miss M has reservations about 
using RSAs contractor. But this might be the best and perhaps the quickest option if, as it 
says, RSA can secure significant discounts on materials and labour costs in view of its size. 
The policy says that all work carried out by RSA contractors is guaranteed for twelve 
months. Miss M should be free to discuss any additional works not within the scope with the 
contractor if she wishes. Should Miss M not be satisfied with the contractors work, she could 
make a complaint to RSA, with the right to refer that complaint to our service if necessary. If 
Miss M wants to use RSAs contractor, she can contact it about this immediately. If Miss M 
doesnt wish to use RSA to complete the work, I thought it fair that the cash settlement be 
reviewed to reflect any increase in material and labour prices given the avoidable delays. 
Putting things right
I thought to resolve matters at this stage RSA should include replacing the ceiling cladding in 
the scope of works and provide compensation for loss of match of 50% of the cost of 
replacing the toilet. It should review its cash settlement offer to reflect current costs as 
necessary. And, taking everything into account that has happened I thought RSA should 
increase the compensation offered to Miss M for the inconvenience caused by her needing 
to chase progress and by the many delays by £200 to £350 in total. 
I asked both parties to send me any more information or evidence they wanted me to look at 
by 14 January 2021.
Response to provisional decision
Miss M said she agreed with my provisional decision. She made some points about the 
lighting in the ceiling. She said that square glass spotlights had been fitted and had been 
damaged when the cladding ceiling collapsed. She said the surveyor was aware of this. 
RSA said it accepted my provisional decision and had no further comments.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided to uphold the complaint.
Ive considered Miss Ms comments about the lighting and looked again at the available 
evidence. A photograph showing the ceiling that was taken by B shows two electrical cables 
coming through the plasterboard, which then join at a push fit connection. This appears to be 
the type of wiring used to daisy chain multiple light fittings, like spotlights. Bs initial report 
makes no mention of light fittings and the most recent scope of works provided by B in 
December 2021 doesnt either, just saying the laminate cladding should be refitted.  
Clearly, there would have been some lighting fitted in or on the ceiling. Based on the 
evidence available I think its more likely than not this was some type of spotlight 
arrangement as Miss M says it was. It seems reasonable that it could be damaged when the 
cladding fell. Even if it wasnt obviously damaged, it would still need to be refitted and 
checked by an electrician, which isnt provided for in the scope of works either. Im 
persuaded by what Miss M says here and think lighting of this type and the appropriate 
installation of it should also be included in the claim.Putting things right
To put things right RSA should include the replacement of the ceiling cladding complete with 
appropriate light fittings within the scope of works. It should provide compensation for loss of 
match of 50% of the cost of replacing the toilet. It should review its cash settlement offer to 
reflect current costs as necessary. I think Miss M has been inconvenienced by delays in 
progressing the claim and RSA should pay her a further £200 to £350 in total.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above and in my provisional decision my final decision is that I 
uphold this complaint against Royal & Sun Alliance Insurance Plc. 
I direct Royal & Sun Alliance Insurance Plc to increase the claim amount to include 
replacement of the ceiling cladding and appropriate light fittings. It should provide 
compensation for loss of match of 50% of the cost of replacing the toilet. It should review the 
cash settlement amount to reflect current prices if Miss M prefers this option over the use of 
RSAs contractor. And it should pay Miss M a further £200 in compensation to give £350 in 
total for her trouble and upset. 
Royal & Sun Alliance Plc must pay the compensation within 28 days of the date on which we 
tell it Miss M accepts my final decision. If it pays later than this, it must also pay interest on 
the compensation from the date of my final decision to the date of payment at 8% a year 
simple.
If Royal & Sun Alliance Plc considers that its required by HM Revenue & Customs to deduct 
income tax from that interest, it should tell how much its taken off. It should also give a 
certificate showing this if Miss M asks for one, so she can reclaim the tax from HM Revenue 
& Customs if appropriate.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss M to accept 
or reject my decision before 15 February 2022.
 
Nigel Bracken
Ombudsman