DRN-4166881
The complaint
Mr M has complained that HSBC UK Bank Plc are holding him liable for debts which he says 
were the result of ID theft.
What happened
This complaint surrounds an HSBC overdraft and credit card which were taken out over the 
internet in Mr Ms name in early 2022. Both accounts quickly ran up large balances through 
cash withdrawals and purchases.
A series of accounts with other businesses were also opened at about the same time and 
used in a similar way. Those other companies looked into things and confirmed that those 
accounts were fraudulent.
Mr M explained that shortly before this incident, hed lost his phone, which was not protected 
and which contained a lot of his personal information. His post went to an external mailbox. 
He suggested that someone stole his identity.
HSBC had concerns of their own that the accounts were the result of ID theft. But they say 
that Mr M came to branch with ID and confirmed they were his accounts, so theyre holding 
him liable for them. Mr M says he came into branch, but told the branch staff these were not 
his accounts.
Our investigator looked into things independently and upheld the complaint. They found that 
there was substantial evidence strongly indicating that Mr M was the victim of ID theft, and 
no hard evidence of exactly what was said in branch. They also noted that Mr M had 
difficulty communicating. So they thought it was more likely than not that there was a 
misunderstanding, and that Mr M did not confirm that these accounts were his.
HSBC didnt agree, so the complaints been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Broadly speaking, the onus is on HSBC to show that they are entitled to hold Mr M liable for 
these debts.
There is very substantial evidence that Mr M did not take out these accounts. For example:
The phone number provided does not match Mr Ms genuine one and HSBC were 
unable to connect to it
The email address provided does not match Mr Ms genuine one and was set up less 
than a day before the application
The details provided on the application matched up to data on the national fraud 
database
Another business registered on the database that Mr M was the victim of fraud
The IP address used matched up with other unrelated applications
The employer details were incorrect
The address history was incorrect
There is a clear point of compromise for how the ID theft may have taken place
The way the accounts were used, such as being rapidly drained, is consistent with 
how Id expect them to be used by a fraudster
The only credit paid into the current account, aside from refunds, was the £5 
provided at open, from a third party who does not seem to bear a relation to Mr M
Multiple suspected fraudsters called to access the account and were picked up by 
HSBCs alert system
A number of other accounts were opened with other businesses at about the same 
time, using shared details, and were operated in a similar way. Those other accounts 
have been confirmed as being fraudulent. 
On the other hand, there is not much to support the possibility that Mr M did take out these 
accounts. HSBC are mainly relying on their assertion that Mr M confirmed they were his in 
branch. But there is no hard evidence of what was said in branch, such as a recording. Mr M 
has had difficulties in communicating and in understanding whats gone on. And the branch 
notes were not detailed. It is plausible that there was a misunderstanding or that the notes of 
the conversation were mis-recorded. And given all the evidence that these accounts were 
fraudulent, as well as the balance of probabilities I cannot reasonably conclude that things 
definitely happened as HSBC say they did. I think its much more likely that these accounts 
were taken out without Mr Ms consent, and that there was some kind of miscommunication 
in branch.
Taking into account everything thats been said and provided, Im not persuaded that Mr M 
took out these accounts. And I dont think HSBC have sufficiently evidenced that he did  
indeed, the bulk of the evidence points to the accounts being fraudulent. So I dont think 
HSBC can hold Mr M liable for them.
Ive also considered whether HSBC should pay Mr M compensation for the trouble and upset 
he was caused. But like our investigator, I can understand why HSBC declined his claim at 
first, given what they thought had been said in branch. And it was the fraudster who caused 
the bulk of Mr Ms distress, rather than HSBC. So I dont make a further award for that.
Putting things right
I direct HSBC UK Bank Plc to:
Take these accounts out of Mr Ms name and disassociate him from them;
Cease pursuing Mr M for the disputed accounts  which includes instructing any 
agents to cease as well; and-
Remove any record of these accounts from Mr Ms credit file.My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I uphold Mr Ms complaint, and direct HSBC UK Bank Plc to 
put things right by doing what Ive said above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 5 July 2023.
 
Adam Charles
Ombudsman