DRN-2320398
The complaint
Mr H is unhappy that Nationwide Building Society, trading as The Mortgage Works (TMW) 
declined his buy-to-let remortgage applications.
The background to this complaint is well known to both parties so I wont repeat it again 
here. Instead Ill focus on giving the reasons for my decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Although Ive read and considered the whole file Ill keep my comments to what I think is 
relevant. If I dont comment on any specific point its not because Ive not considered it but 
because I dont think I need to comment on it in order to reach the right outcome.
I appreciate Mr H feels TMW treated him unfairly. But it isnt my role to tell lenders whether - 
and how much - to lend to particular consumers. Lenders are able to use their commercial 
judgement to decide how much, if anything, to lend. My role is to ensure such judgement is 
applied fairly and reasonably; it isnt to substitute my judgement for the banks.
The information Mr H found on TMW's intermediaries website is basic lending policy 
information and is completely correct. But underwriting a mortgage isnt as simple as that. If 
it was simply a case of following a list of criteria from a website that is available for anyone to 
view then underwriters wouldnt be needed, a computer could make the decision. 
TMW takes a more holistic approach to its underwriting, in that an underwriting team look at 
each application on its own merits. Just because an application meets  or doesnt meet  
each individual piece of basic criteria thats listed on the website isnt the end of it. Instead 
the overall risk profile of the application is considered. This means some applications that 
would otherwise be rejected are accepted. But equally some that may be accepted are 
rejected, and unfortunately for Mr H that was the case here.
Ive reviewed all the underwriting notes and having done so Im satisfied TMW was entitled 
to come to the decision it did, and I understand why it did so. Having considered everything, 
Im satisfied Mr Hs applications were fairly represented and considered and went through 
numerous appeals with senior underwriters. The underwriting notes are commercially 
sensitive so were unable to disclose them to Mr H, but Ive fully reviewed them and Im 
satisfied the decisions to reject Mr Hs applications were reached fairly. It follows that Im 
satisfied TMW didnt act unreasonably in being unwilling to take Mr H's applications forward.
If Mr H wants to apply again to TMW in the future then it will consider each fresh application 
on its own merit, but it cant give any guarantee to Mr H that if he takes any particular course 
of action that any future application will definitely be accepted. 
My final decision
I don't uphold this complaint. Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im 
required to ask Mr H to accept or reject my decision before 9 March 2021. 
Julia Meadows
Ombudsman