DRN-3790123
The complaint
Ms C complains that Barclays Bank UK PLC, trading as Barclaycard, lent to her irresponsibly 
and provided credit that was unaffordable for her.
What happened
In 2004 Ms C took out a credit card with Barclaycard. Given the time which has passed it 
isnt clear what her opening account limit was but by 2007 it was £280. It was increased on a 
number of occasions over the years until in 2017 it was £13,540. 
Ms Cs complaint is detailed and lengthy. In summary, she says that Barclaycard shouldnt 
have increased her credit limit repeatedly between 2013 and 2016. She says that she got 
into financial difficulty and this affected her mental health and her ability to buy a home or 
access other credit.
Ms C asked that Barclaycard put her back in the position she would have been in 2013 if 
Barclaycard hadnt continued to increase her credit limit. Her credit limit was £2,040 at that 
time. 
Barclaycard didnt agree to this service looking at the whole of the lending relationship. This 
was because Ms Cs complain in relation to the opening of the account and some of the 
credit limit increases was made out of time under the rules this service has to apply.
Another ombudsman made a decision on this and concluded that this service could only 
consider the complaint in relation to the credit limit increases from September 2015 onwards. 
The only credit limit increase that this applied to was one in September 2016 when Ms Cs 
limit was increased from £9,540 to £13,540.
The investigator who reviewed the complaint didnt think that Barclaycard had lent to Ms C 
irresponsibly in relation to this increase. Ms C disagreed, so the complaint has been passed 
to me to make a decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about unaffordable and irresponsible 
lending - including the key relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice - on our 
website and Ive taken that into account when considered Ms C s complaint.
Having done so, Ive come to the same conclusion as our investigator. I will explain why I 
have reached this decision.
Barclaycard needed to take reasonable steps to ensure it didnt lend irresponsibly. In 
practice this means that it should have carried out proportionate checks to make sure Ms C 
could afford to repay what she was being lent in a sustainable manner. These checks could 
take into account a number of different things, such as how much was being lent, the 
repayment amounts, Ms C s borrowing history and her income and expenditure. 
Barclaycard has provided the results of the checks it did when it increased Ms Cs credit 
limit.  
I can see from this that Ms C had taken out an unsecured loan about eight months before. I 
understand this loan was with Barclays, but it also showed up on the external credit check 
data. At the same time Ms C reduced her external credit balance on another card by nearly 
£5,000. It seems that she used some of the loan to consolidate other debt. Ms C says that 
she also took out another credit card around the same time with a credit limit of around 
£5,000. I think these factors should have caused Barclaycard to look more carefully at 
whether Ms C could afford the extra credit it planned to offer. 
Having concluded that Barclaycard didnt do sufficient checks I then have to consider what 
Barclaycard likely would have found if it had done additional checks on Ms Cs income and 
expenditure. To do this I need to understand Ms Cs financial circumstances at the time.
 
Ms C declined to provide her bank statements to assist with my understanding, which is 
entirely her right. Barclaycard was able to provide copies of Ms Cs current account 
statements with Barclays Bank, which was part of the same group. Its not clear if this was 
Ms Cs only bank account, but it is the account to which Ms Cs salary was paid and seems 
to have been the source for payment of most usual essential expenditure, such as 
accommodation, utilities and the loan repayment. 
Looking at the three months prior to the credit limit increase I can see that Ms C appears to 
have had a disposable income of around £700 a month. I think this would have been 
sufficient to consider that the additional £4,000 credit limit would be affordable for Ms C. If 
Ms C used the entire additional credit and paid off at least 5% of this additional credit each 
month (the rate at which Ms C would have been paying off more than just interest and 
charges on the borrowing) this would equate to £200 a month.  Without any other 
information to suggest to the contrary, I think that even if Barclays had looked at Ms Cs 
income and expenditure it wouldnt have made a different decision about the additional 
borrowing.
Ms C has said that her salary was higher than normal at the time of the credit limit increase 
because she was temporarily seconded to a higher paying role. She says that her salary 
reduced significantly when she returned to her substantive post. She says Barclaycard 
should have checked directly with her about her financial position.
I dont think this was necessary or proportionate. I think Barclaycard would have been 
entitled to rely on the information about Ms Cs income and expenditure from Ms Cs bank 
statements in conjunction with the information it had from other checks. If Ms C had known 
that her circumstances would change significantly in the near future it was up to her to inform 
Barclaycard before accepting the credit limit increase. 
So, while I know this will be disappointing for Ms C, I dont think Ms C lost out as a result of 
anything Barclaycard did wrong. 
As I dont think Ms C lost out as a result of anything Barclaycard did wrong in relation to its 
lending decisions I do not think Barclaycard needs to compensate Ms C . My final decision
I have not upheld Ms Cs complaint, so it follows that Barclays Bank UK PLC, trading as 
Barclaycard, doesnt need to do anything further.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms C to accept or 
reject my decision before 21 December 2022.
 
Sally Allbeury
Ombudsman