DRN-4206340
The complaint
Mr M says Interactive Investor Services Limited (II) changed how it took its fees from him 
without instruction and without informing him. He says certain of the fees are explicitly 
related to his Self-invested Personal Pension (SIPP), and yet these are being deducted from 
his Individual Savings Account (ISA).
Mr M says the practical effect of IIs changes mean he is now bearing all the costs relating to 
his SIPP, but these should be shared with his wife, which wouldve been the case had fees 
continued to be taken from his pension. He says he has no income and limited capital, his 
SIPP funds are not accessible, so his ISA account effectively represents the only cash 
available to him.
What happened
Mr M opened his II SIPP in September 2019. At the time, he opted to pay for all charges 
directly from his pension account. I understand that in January 2022 a pension sharing order 
was made, meaning he would need to split this retirement provision with his ex-wife.
In March 2022, Mr M called II to enquire about opening an ISA. During this call, he explained 
he already had a SIPP and asked if there would be any additional charges. The call handler 
looked at his account and noted that as he was already paying its Super-Investor tariff and 
fees for his SIPP arrangement, there would be no extra charge. He proceeded to open an 
ISA.
On 19 April 2022 Mr M called II to query why the charges for his SIPP and ISA were being 
taken from his ISA account instead of his SIPP, as had been the case up until this point. II 
explained that if a customer had both a SIPP and an ISA, where there was no direct debit 
set-up and no trading account, then fees would be taken from the ISA account. It said this 
was the way its system worked and it couldnt be changed.
Mr M complained about what had happened. In its final response to him of 21 April 2022, II 
didnt uphold his complaint. It said if he didnt want fees to be paid from the cash held in his 
ISA he would need to open a trading account and add cash for the fees to be taken from 
there or arrange a direct debit to pay the fees.
Mr M wasnt satisfied with the position II had taken. He brought his complaint to this Service 
setting out his concerns in the following terms:
[I] opened SIPP with II in October 2019. As part of the sign-up process I was asked whether 
I wanted to pay fees via direct debit or directly from my SIPP account. I elected the later, and 
fees were paid from my SIPP account from opening.
In March 2020 I was considering opening an ISA and called II to understand what the 
incremental fees would be. I was told there would be no additional monthly fees, just the 
trading charges. I opened an ISA account with II on 1/4/22. On 10/5/22 the monthly fees 
were taken from my ISA account, rather than my SIPP account, as previously. I challenged 
this because:
i. I had elected for fees to be taken from my SIPP account when I originally opened my 
account.
ii. I was not told that this would happen when I enquired about the ISA account.
iii. £10 per month of the fees are explicitly SIPP fees.
iv. My SIPP is subject to a pension sharing order following divorce, and it is only fair that the 
costs of the pension are deducted from the pension account prior to pension sharing.
v. I have no income and limited capital; The funds in my ISA account represent cash that is 
accessible to me, whereas the SIPP account is not accessible.
IIs response to my claim cites an excerpt from their Terms & Conditions which is 
conditional on having a Trading Account - I do not hold a trading account with them so the 
clause clearly does not apply. There is no provision in the SIPP terms of services which 
allows II to deduct SIPP charges from my ISA account. The SIPP Terms refer to the "Rates 
and Charges" document, but there is no such document available on their website....
An Investigator considered Mr Ms case. She didnt uphold his case. She didnt think II had 
provided him with factually inaccurate information and that it was adhering to its terms and 
conditions. Mr M disagreed.
As both parties couldnt agree with the Investigators view, Mr Ms complaint was passed to 
me to review afresh. I issued my provisional decision in April 2023 upholding his case but 
not to the extent he wanted.
Mr M rejected my decision. In broad terms, he thought I hadnt considered all the evidence 
hed provided; he didnt think Id inspected IIs workflow and charging structures properly; nor 
did he consider the compensation Id suggested was adequate given the impact the 
problems he encountered had on him. Ive considered his arguments in arriving at my final 
decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Where theres conflicting information about the events complained about and gaps in what 
we know, my role is to weigh the evidence we do have and to decide, on the balance of 
probabilities, whats most likely to have happened.
Ive not provided a detailed response to all the points raised in this case. Thats deliberate; 
ours is an informal service for resolving disputes between financial businesses and their 
customers. While Ive taken into account all submissions, Ive concentrated my findings on 
what I think is relevant and at the heart of this complaint.
Im upholding Mr Ms complaint, but not to the extent hed like. Ill explain why.
The first thing Ive considered is the extensive regulation around transactions like those 
performed by II for Mr M. The FCA Handbook contains eleven Principles for businesses, 
which it says are fundamental obligations firms must adhere to (PRIN 1.1.2 G in the FCA 
Handbook). These include:
- Principle 2, which requires a firm to conduct its business with due skill, care and 
diligence.
- Principle 6, which requires a firm to pay due regard to the interests of its customers.- Principle 7, which requires a firm to pay due regard to the information needs of its 
clients, and communicate information to them in a way which is clear, fair and not 
misleading.
So, the Principles are relevant and form part of the regulatory framework that existed at the 
relevant time. They must always be adhered to by regulated firms. As such, I need to have 
regard to them in deciding Mr Ms complaint.
It isnt the role of this Service to interfere with how a business designs its products and 
processes, the fees it charges or how it wants to run its operations. These are properly 
commercial considerations. And no doubt each business will want to be competitive in terms 
of the offer it makes to a customer. Of course, in doing these things firms do need to ensure 
adherence to the relevant regulations.
Mr M provided a copy of the terms and conditions for his SIPP. At 12.1 (Payment of Fees) 
these say:
You agree to pay fees relating to the provision of the Scheme which are detailed in the 
Rates and Charges on our website www.ii.co.uk, which also confirms details of how fees are 
collected You authorise us to deduct SIPP fees and any other amounts due from your 
account(s) in the manner set out in the Rates and Charges.
He also supplied a copy of the associated Rates and Charges document. He was concerned 
this Service hadnt considered this, or that it had somehow been corrupted in the process of 
being uploaded to our system. I can assure him that Ive read the document and that Ive no 
reason to doubt its veracity.
In responding to my provisional decision Mr M also said:
I maintain that the Rates and Charges document referenced in the SIPP Terms and 
Conditions is the submitted document ii-Rates-and-Charges-01September2022.pdf and that 
this document contains no basis for the charging practices II have implemented.
If the Ombudsman has a contrary view he needs to explain why a document with an explicit 
link to the SIPP Terms & Conditions should be ignored in favour of a web page not 
referenced in the contract.
II has referred to information on its public website about its fees and how they operate. By 
navigating to the help area, then selecting fees and charges and then how to pay your 
monthly fee, an explanation is provided.
In summary, this indicates setting-up a direct debit as the easiest way to pay monthly fees. If 
a customer doesnt want to set-up a direct debit, IIs system for recovery of fees then tries to 
recover cash from other accounts the client holds. The scenarios listed are:
(i) Hold a trading account with a linked ISA and /or SIPP account.
(ii) Hold a trading account only.
(iii) Hold an ISA only.
(iv) Hold a SIPP only.
Prior to April 2022 Mr M didnt have a trading account or an ISA. As he chose not to set-up a 
direct debit, his fees were deducted from available cash in his SIPP, as provided for under 
scenario (iv).However, when Mr M set up his ISA, IIs system worked through its steps in accordance with 
scenario (i). There was no direct debit instruction and no cash in a trading account (indeed 
he didnt have one to take funds from), so it then looked for cash in his ISA and took the fees 
from there.
Mr Ms arguments arent without merit. I appreciate when he opened his SIPP his 
expectation was fees would be taken from his available cash. He wasnt made aware things 
would change when he opened up his ISA account. I also agree that the Rates and 
Charges document hes provided doesnt show the mechanism(s) by which II would recover 
monies due.
But the fact is the services Mr M wanted from II changed. And it has decided to treat 
customers in his situation, with multiple accounts, in a different way in terms of the 
mechanics of recovering charges, to those who hold just a SIPP.
Having reviewed the information on IIs website I dont find this as clear at it might be. I say 
this because as I established in my provisional decision, it doesnt cater for the situation Mr 
M was in, that is he didnt have a trading account. So had he looked at the information 
provided about how charges would work following the establishment of his ISA, on the face 
of it his situation wasnt catered for.
Ive listened to the conversation Mr M had with IIs call handler. He asked about fees if he 
were to open an ISA. After looking at his service plan, II informed him there were no extra 
fees. At no point during the call did either party discuss how the charges would be taken 
should he open the new account.
Taking all these matters in the round, I can see a reasonable argument from both parties 
here. From IIs perspective Mr M didnt ask about how the fees would be taken. He didnt 
mention his specific circumstances, in particular around the pension sharing order. And at no 
point was it holding itself out as providing advice.
But if we think about Mr Ms position, he was being told there would be no new charges as a 
result of opening up an ISA. And so what wouldve given him cause to think the approach to 
payment of fees would change? And Ive already covered what is a weakness in the online 
information that II says was available to him about this.
I think that IIs call handler should at least have alerted Mr M to the fact that fees and 
charges are taken according to the combination of whatever accounts are held by a 
customer. It could also have referred him to check on their website for more information. 
However, had he done so, its likely further clarification wouldve been required for the 
reasons Ive established. 
Mr M has told us about the real effect on him of the change in how II collected its fees when 
he opened up an ISA. Because he will be subject to a pension sharing order I can 
understand why he considered any fees and charges that related to his SIPP should be 
borne by both him and his ex-wife. But taking fees from his ISA, he was in effect bearing all 
the costs and that wasnt appropriate for his situation. Hes also told us the ISA was his only 
available source of cash, so I can see he wanted to manage that position carefully.
II has made clear to Mr M that it wont change its system of how it takes fees from accounts, 
and as he has now got an ISA and a SIPP, it will take his fees from cash in his ISA in the 
absence of a direct debit instruction or cash in a trading account.
Part of Mr Ms initial frustration was being told II couldnt take fees from his SIPP. 
Presumably this is how it has designed it system. As Mr M used to pay fees from his SIPP its clear this was possible. But where additional accounts are added it has decided on a 
process flow that then excludes that possibility. That is its commercial decision to make, and 
so it wouldnt be proper for me to direct it to do otherwise.
Mr M will need to decide what steps to take next to regularise the position for his pension 
arrangements. For example setting up a direct debit, putting funds into a trading account or 
reverting to his position pre April 2022. 
Mr M has also informed this Service his pension sharing order hasnt yet been given effect. 
Although splitting his SIPP costs will no longer be an issue once that is in place, I appreciate 
his concern relates to costs incurred beforehand. He may want to explore arrangements with 
his former wife to agree a fair approach.
Putting things right
Mr M says the £100 award I made for trouble and upset was too low. He went on to describe 
certain fees and charges (some of which have been outstanding for 9 months) and the 
impact of withdrawing money from his ISA. 
Id observe that Mr M has a responsibility for mitigating any financial losses arising from his 
current situation. While his complaint has been ongoing for several months, he has known 
about the fees and charges that needed to be met. The dispute has been about the 
appropriate mechanism for making payments. He knew about and shouldve managed any 
financial exposure effectively. To be clear, Im not making any award for financial detriment.
Rather, Ive concluded II failed to communicate its approach to charging in a clear and fair 
way. Given Mr Ms circumstances, this has complicated his pension arrangements. Its also 
put more pressure on his available ISA cash than he was planning for.
When Im considering a complaint like Mr Ms I think about whether its fair to award 
compensation for distress and inconvenience. This isnt intended to fine or punish a 
business  which is the job of the regulator. But when somethings gone wrong, recognition 
of the emotional and practical impact can make a real difference.
Were all inconvenienced at times in our day-to-day lives  and in our dealings with other 
people, businesses and organisations. When thinking about compensation, I need to decide 
that the impact of a firms actions was greater than just a minor inconvenience or upset. Its 
clear to me that this was the case here.
I remain of the view that Interactive Investor Services Limited should pay Mr M £100 for the 
trouble and upset it has caused him.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive set out, Im upholding Mr Ms complaint but not to the extent hed like. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 20 July 2023. 
Kevin Williamson
Ombudsman