DRN-1699087
 
The complaint
Mr W complains that Elevate Credit International Limited (trading as Sunny) irresponsibly 
gave him loans which he couldnt afford to pay back. 
What happened
Mr W took out 16 instalment loans with Sunny between October 2015 and February 2017. 
He was unable to fully repay what he had borrowed and there is an outstanding balance that 
has been transferred to a third part debt collector.
He says he was borrowing to repay existing loans and his credit file shows his use of short 
term loans. Mr W says he cant now repay the loans and there is a balance outstanding.
Our adjudicator considered the complaint and thought that it wasnt wrong for Sunny to have 
given Mr W loans 1 to 5. But at the point of loan 6 Mr Ws borrowing pattern was a cause for 
concern and Sunny shouldve seen that he was persistently relying on these loans and 
further lending wasnt sustainable.
Sunny didnt agree with the adjudicators opinion and in particular said that it didnt think Mr 
W was persistently relying on the credit. It pointed out that Mr W was required to use only a 
small amount of his income towards the loans and his borrowing pattern did not show 
increasing borrowing. The business did offer to refund all interest and charges incurred from 
loan 13 onwards and write off the outstanding balance. 
Mr W didnt accept that offer so the complaint has been passed to me to decide.   
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about short-term lending - including all of 
the relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice - on our website.
Sunny needed to take reasonable steps to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In practice 
this means that it should have carried out proportionate checks to make sure Mr W could 
repay the loans in a sustainable manner. These checks could take into account a number of 
different things, such as how much was being lent, the repayment amounts and the 
consumers income and expenditure.
With this in mind, in the early stages of a lending relationship, I think less thorough checks 
might be reasonable and proportionate. But certain factors might point to the fact that Sunny 
should fairly and reasonably have done more to establish that any lending was sustainable 
for the consumer. These factors include:the lower a customers income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make any 
loan repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income)
the higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income);
the greater the number and frequency of loans, and the longer the period of time 
during which a customer has been given loans (reflecting the risk that repeated 
refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, 
unsustainable)
 
There may even come a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly 
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable.
I think its important for me to start by saying that Sunny was required to establish whether 
Mr W could sustainably repay his loans  not just whether the loan payments were 
affordable on a strict pounds and pence calculation.
Of course the loan payments being affordable on this basis might be an indication a 
consumer could sustainably make their repayments. But it doesnt automatically follow this is 
the case. This is because the Consumer Credit Sourcebook defines sustainable as being 
without undue difficulties and in particular the customer should be able to make repayments 
on time, while meeting other reasonable commitments; as well as without having to 
borrow to meet the repayments.
So it follows that a lender should realise, or it ought fairly and reasonably to realise, that a 
consumer wont be able to make their repayments sustainably if theyre unlikely to be able to 
make their repayments without borrowing further.
Ive carefully considered all of the arguments, evidence and information provided in this 
context and what this all means for Mr Ws complaint. 
Sunny has told us about the checks it did before lending to Mr W. It asked Mr W for details of 
his income and normal expenditure. And Sunny carried out checks on Mr Ws credit file.
I agree with the adjudicator that it wasnt wrong for Sunny to give Mr W loans 1 to 5 on the 
basis of the information he gave about his income and outgoings. It was early in the lending 
relationship and so I think the checks were enough for Sunny to agree to lend. As Mr W 
hasnt raised any objection to the adjudicators recommendation in relation to loans one to 
five, I dont think that I need to say more about them.
Ive looked at the overall pattern of Mr Ws lending with Sunny to see if there was a point at 
which Sunny should reasonably have seen that further lending was unsustainable or 
otherwise harmful. And so Sunny shouldve realised that it wasnt reasonable to lend more 
money to Mr W.
Given the particular circumstances of Mr Ws case, I agree with the conclusions of the 
adjudicator and I think that this point was reached by loan 6. I say this because:
When Mr W took out loan 6, hed been borrowing almost continually and wasnt 
making any inroads into the amount that he owed. 
Mr W asked for loan 6 just over a week after her had taken out loan 5 which was 
taken out the same day that loans 2 and 3 were repaid. This pattern would suggest 
he needed to borrow again to fill the hole in his finances. I think this pattern of lending 
shouldve alerted Sunny to the likelihood that Mr W was having problems responsibly 
managing his money 
I think that Mr W lost out because Sunny continued to provide borrowing from loan 6 
onwards. This is because:
These loans had the effect of unfairly prolonging Mr Ws indebtedness by allowing 
him to take expensive credit intended for short term use over an extended period of 
time.
The number of loans, combined with the total length of time Mr W had been 
borrowing from Sunny was likely to have had negative implications on his ability to 
access mainstream credit. This kept Mr W in the market for these high-cost loans.
 
So Im upholding Mr Ws complaint about loans 6 to 16.
Putting things right - what Sunny needs to do
If Sunny has sold the outstanding debts it should buy these back if it is able to do so before 
taking the steps below. If Sunny isnt able to buy the debts back then it should liaise with the 
new debt owner to achieve the results outlined below. 
A. Add together the total of the repayments made by Mr W towards interest, fees and 
charges on all upheld loans without an outstanding balance, not including anything it 
has already refunded.
B. Calculate 8% simple interest* on the individual payments made by Mr W which 
were considered as part of "A", calculated from the date Mr W originally made the 
payments, to the date the complaint is settled.
C. Remove all interest, fees and charges from the balance on any upheld outstanding 
loans, and treat any repayments made by Mr W as though they had been repayments 
of the principal. If this results in Mr W having made overpayments then these should 
be refunded with 8% simple interest* calculated on the overpayments, from the date 
the overpayments would have arisen, to the date the complaint is settled. Sunny 
should then refund the amounts calculated in "A" and "B" and move to step "E".
D. If there is still an outstanding balance then the amounts calculated in "A" and "B" 
should be used to repay any balance remaining on outstanding loans. If this results in 
a surplus then the surplus should be paid to Mr W. However if there is still an 
outstanding balance then Sunny should try to agree an affordable repayment plan with 
Mr W. Sunny shouldnt pursue outstanding balances made up of principal it has 
already written off.
E. The number of loans taken from loan 6 onwards means any information recorded 
about them is adverse. So all entries about loans 6 to 16 should be removed from Mr 
Ws credit file. Sunny do not have to remove any of loans 6 to 16 from Mr Ws credit 
file until these have been repaid but it should still remove any adverse information 
recorded about these loans.
 
*HM Revenue & Customs requires Sunny to take off tax from this interest. Sunny must 
give Mr W a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if he asks for one.
 My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold Mr Ws complaint in part and direct Elevate 
Credit International Limited (trading as Sunny) to put things right as detailed above.  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 21 May 2020.
Emma Boothroyd
Ombudsman