DRN-3782599
The complaint
Mr R complains that Revolut Ltd wont refund payments which he didnt make or otherwise 
authorise.
Mr R is being represented by a family member, Mr F, in his complaint.
What happened
The detailed background to this complaint is well known to both parties, so I wont repeat it 
again here. Instead, Ill provide an overview and focus on giving my reasons for my decision.
On 24 January 2022, Mr Rs wife received a phone call from an individual who claimed to 
work for an online retailer who they had been experiencing issues with. The caller said they 
were going to arrange a refund and that this would need to be paid into a Revolut account. 
Mr R was told to download a remote access software as well as the Revolut app, and then 
follow steps as instructed. A Revolut account was set up in Mr Rs name and funds were 
paid into it from his account with another bank. Four faster payments totalling £2,596 were 
then made from his Revolut account. 
Mr R says the caller opened the Revolut account and then carried out the transactions 
without his knowledge or consent. Hes already been refunded some of the money from his 
other bank. The loss hes therefore holding Revolut liable for is £990. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the conclusions reached by the investigator for these reasons:
The Payment Services Regulation 2017 (PSRs), which apply to transactions like the 
ones made from Mr Rs account, set out when a customer should be held liable for 
transactions which happen on their account and when they shouldnt. 
The starting position is that a customer is liable for transactions theyve authorised. 
The PSRs explain that authorisation depends on whether the payment transactions 
were authenticated correctly and whether the customer consented to them.
In this instance, the disputed transactions were made through Revoluts app on 
Mr Rs mobile phone. From the information Ive seen, Mr R was using an iPhone at 
the time. Revoluts system logs show that the app was accessed from an iPhone 
using the iOS operating system. In other words, the phone wasnt jailbroken as it 
was using the manufacturers operating system. Ive done my own research into the 
remote access software Mr R says he downloaded, and the suppliers have confirmed 
that the software is limited in terms of its functionality on devices using the iOS 
operating system  it would have allowed a third party to see the information 
displayed on Mr Rs screen, but it wouldnt have allowed them to take control of his 
device. 
Given what Ive noted above, as well as Mr Rs recollection that the caller made him 
take different steps, I dont think its plausible that someone other than Mr R could 
have set up the Revolut account and the associated security credentials. As these 
credentials were then used to make the transactions, Im satisfied that the 
transactions were properly authenticated. 
Thinking about consent next, in the context of PSRs this isnt the same as informed 
consent. If the customer uses the agreed form and procedure for making a payment 
order, then theyve given consent. Revoluts terms and conditions set out the form 
and procedure for making payments to another account  the recipients sort code 
and account number (or the IBAN for international payments) is needed. The terms 
state that Revolut may need to ask for other information as well. Given that Mr R 
would have needed to complete the agreed steps (i.e., entering the account details 
and the amount) on the Revolut app on his phone, under the PSRs hed be 
considered to have consented to the transactions. 
As Im satisfied that the transactions were authenticated correctly and that Mr R 
consented to them, theyre considered authorised. I accept its likely that he was 
tricked into doing so, but thats not a consideration under the PSRs in whether the 
payments were authorised. And that means that the starting position is that Mr R is 
liable for the payments. 
The Lending Standards Boards Contingent Reimbursement Model (CRM) code, 
which requires signatories to reimburse customers who are victims of scams in all but 
a limited number of circumstances, doesnt apply to Mr Rs case. This is because 
Revolut isnt signed up to the CRM code. Notwithstanding, Ive gone on to consider 
Revoluts responsibility to protect Mr R from the possibility of financial harm from 
fraud, as there are circumstances where it might be appropriate for an electronic 
money institution like Revolut to take additional steps or make additional checks 
before processing a payment. An example of this would be if a payment instruction is 
sufficiently unusual or uncharacteristic for the usual use of the account. 
In this case, Mr R didnt have an account with Revolut before the scam. He set it up 
as instructed and so there was no transaction history to compare the payments with. 
Given this, and the relatively low value of the individual amounts involved, I dont 
consider Revolut acted unfairly or unreasonably in allowing the payments to be 
made. Revolut did provide a warning at the time of the initial payment (it says this 
was because it was a new payee), but it seems that Mr R went ahead with it anyway. 
Having considered the individual circumstances of this case, I think that Revoluts 
warning was a proportionate intervention to the payment. 
Ive then considered whether Revolut could have done more to recover Mr Rs funds 
after it became aware of the scam. Payment service providers are expected to take 
reasonable steps to contact the beneficiary bank when theyre notified of a scam. 
Looking at the in-app chat transcript, Mr R first contacted Revolut at 1:13pm, but it 
wasnt until 3:30pm that it was established hed been scammed. I cant see that the 
beneficiary bank was contacted about a recall request until the following morning. 
I asked our investigator to find out the reason for this delay from Revolut, but it has 
yet to respond. I asked our investigator to contact the beneficiary bank to check whether an earlier 
contact from Revolut would have made any difference to the recovery of funds. The 
information weve received shows that the funds had already left the receiving 
account by the time Mr R reported the scam to Revolut. I dont find that surprising as 
its common for fraudsters to move money from the receiving account as soon as it 
has been received to prevent it from being recalled. In the circumstances, even if 
Revolut had acted sooner, recovery would still have been unsuccessful. 
In summary, I recognise that this will come as a considerable disappointment to Mr R. But in 
the circumstances, Im not persuaded that Revolut can fairly or reasonably be held liable for 
his loss. 
My final decision
For the reasons given, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision before 21 March 2023.
 
Gagandeep Singh
Ombudsman