DRN-2074470
The complaint
Mr R is complaining about Santander UK Plcs handling of a payment he made from his 
Santander current account.
What happened
Mr R called Santander one morning to arrange a payment. He was transferring funds from 
his Santander current account to another account in his name  at a different bank. 
Santander called Mr R back to complete the payment process, and they told him that most 
similar payments go through immediately but that it can sometimes take until the end of the 
next working day. They also said that the security team might be in touch to ask some more 
questions. 
Mr R could see the funds had gone out of his Santander account  but when he looked at 
the online statement for the destination account the next morning, the money hadnt arrived. 
He called the receiving bank to ask what had happened and they said they hadnt received 
the money. Mr R became concerned that the money had been lost. 
Later that day the receiving bank called Mr R back to tell him the money had arrived. Mr R 
looked at his Santander statement online and could see the money had come back into his 
account and then gone out again, on the same day. He was confused as to what had 
happened and complained to Santander. 
Mr R was upset that the payment hadnt gone through immediately  he said hed made 
hundreds of similar payments before, including over the phone, and theyd all gone through 
straight away. He was unhappy that he hadnt been told about the delays to the payment, 
and said this had caused him stress, as well as lost interest at the receiving bank.
Santander explained to Mr R that they have a duty to their customers and to the bank itself 
to protect their funds. They said theyd been carrying out necessary checks on the payment 
which had taken longer than sometimes. They confirmed that the funds had never been lost 
nor the payment stopped. And they said their terms and conditions allow for payments to 
arrive in a receiving account by the end of the next working day after a payment is made. So, 
they said they hadnt done anything wrong. 
Mr R was unhappy that Santander were relying to terms and conditions which he didnt think 
were reasonable. He didnt feel that Santander had properly explained what had caused the 
delay or why the funds had been put back into his account and then taken out again. So he 
brought his complaint to our service.
Our investigator looked at Mr Rs complaint and said she didnt think Santander had done 
anything wrong. She said Santander had made it clear to Mr R that the payment might take 
until the end of the next working day, and she told Mr R that the money had been put back in 
Mr Rs account so that he didnt lose out on interest as a result of the time the payment was 
taking. Mr R wasnt happy with this and asked for an ombudsman to review his complaint  
so its come to me. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive decided not to uphold Mr Rs complaint  Ill explain why. 
I appreciate Santander didnt meet Mr Rs expectations when he made this payment. He 
expected that the payment would go through straight away  and it took over 24 hours. I can 
understand why Mr R had the expectations he did  hed made a lot of other payments and 
theyd all gone through very quickly. On top of this, the terms and conditions say that these 
types of payments normally go through immediately  which is also what Santanders 
representative told Mr R on the phone. 
But, the representative also told Mr R that the payment might take until the end of the next 
working day to go through. And Mr R acknowledged this. So, Im satisfied Mr R knew it was 
possible that it might take longer than usual for the payment to go through. The 
representative also told Mr R that Santanders security team might be in touch  so I think it 
was clear that they were carrying out some additional checks on the payment. I dont think 
Santander needed to do anything further to tell Mr R that the payment might take longer than 
usual.
Mr Rs complained primarily because Santander didnt meet his expectations and this 
caused him some stress and inconvenience. But I dont think Mr Rs expectations were 
reasonable  he was clearly told that the payment might not go through until the end of the 
next working day. So I cant say Santander should have done anything different.
My final decision
As Ive explained above, Im not upholding Mr Rs complaint about Santander UK Plc. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision before 30 September 2020.
 
Clare King
Ombudsman