DRN-4240547
The complaint
Mrs O complains Bank of Scotland plc trading as Halifax took a payment for her credit card.
What happened
Mrs O holds a credit card with Halifax and had spent money on it whilst abroad. Mrs O 
returned home and paid £1,200 to her credit card, to cover her spending.
Halifax then took a payment of £196.94 by direct debit, putting her card in credit.
Mrs O called Halifax to find out why this had happened, was passed between departments 
and wasnt given an explanation. Halifax later explained there was an active direct debit set 
up, but Mrs O didnt think one was set up.
Mrs O asked for the direct debit mandate, but Halifax couldnt provide it. Mrs O complained 
to Halifax about what had happened.
Halifax responded to say the direct debit had been in place since 2019. Halifax said the 
direct debit wouldnt be taken if Mrs O paid towards her card more than two working days 
before the direct debit was due.
Halifax said an indemnity had been processed and the £196.94 returned to Mrs O. Halifax 
accepted Mrs O had some poor service and offered £50 to compensate for this.
Unhappy with this answer Mrs O brought her complaint to this service. An investigator 
looked into things and didnt think Mrs Os complaint should be upheld.
The investigator said Mrs O normally pays in enough time to mean the direct debit isnt taken 
but hadnt done so this time around. The investigator thought Mrs O hadnt paid more than 
two working days before, so Halifax acted fairly when it collected the direct debit.
The investigator said it was reasonable Halifax didnt have the direct debit, it was likely 
agreed by phone. But the investigator was satisfied an active direct debit was in place.
And the investigator thought Mrs O should have been aware of the direct debit, its 
mentioned on Mrs Os statements.
The investigator didnt think there was an error with the payments, it was a case of the timing 
of Mrs Os payment to Halifax. The investigator thought Halifax was fair in refunding the 
direct debit amount and offering £50 for any poor service.
Mrs O disagreed. Mrs O said Halifax wasnt protecting her money, shed paid her card early 
and still had money taken from her. Mrs O felt Halifax doesnt have robust systems in place.
Mrs O wondered why Halifax hadnt taken the minimum payment due and what would have 
happened had she not banked with Halifax as well as holding its credit card.
Mrs O asked for an ombudsman to decide things.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im satisfied Mrs O had an active direct debit in place. Ive seen Halifaxs system notes and 
they show a direct debit was set up in 2019. The notes also say a letter was sent to Mrs O at 
the time, although Id not expect Mrs O to necessarily remember this.
But Mrs Os credit card statements also clearly say a direct debit will collect any payments 
due. For July 2022, Mrs Os statements say a payment of £196.94 will be taken by direct 
debit on the day the payments due.
And Mrs Os paid her credit card by direct debit previously. In February 2022 Mrs O paid 
£1.17 by direct debit to clear to her credit card balance in full.
I think Mrs O should have been aware a direct debit was in place.
And I dont think Halifax needs to have a signed mandate in place to collect a direct debit. As 
the investigator says, most direct debits are set on the phone or online, so no mandate 
exists. But this doesnt mean Halifax cant collect the payment.
Mrs O asked why Halifax didnt take the minimum payment. This is because Mrs Os direct 
debit is set to take the full payment due. This happened in February 2022, although the 
£1.17 was both the minimum and full payment, because it was such a small amount.
But the July direct debit is clearly the full payment. The statement says the minimum 
payment is £5, but £196.94 will be collected, the full balance. Im satisfied a full payment 
direct debit was in place and this is what Halifax collected.
The payment in dispute was due on 11 July 2022, a Monday. Mrs O paid £1,200 on 9 July 
2022, a Friday. Halifaxs terms and conditions say:
.we may reduce your Direct Debit to reflect additional payments made during the month. 
We will do this until two clear working days before your next Direct Debit payment is due to 
be taken.
By paying on the Friday, Mrs O didnt leave two clear working days before the direct debit 
was due. Because of this Halifax couldnt adjust the direct debit to reflect the additional 
payment Mrs O made.
I dont think Halifax has made a mistake here. A full payment direct debit was in place, and 
this is what Halifax took. Mrs O paid too late to change the amount Halifax was collecting, so 
the full statement balance from the previous month was collected.
Mrs O raised an indemnity for the direct debit payment and Halifax returned this amount to 
her. Mrs O has asked what would have happened had she not banked with Halifax.
I dont think this would have made a difference. Halifax agreed an indemnity claim for the 
payment and would have returned the payment to whatever bank it came from.And collecting the payment would have been the same. Regardless of who Mrs O banks 
with the terms of the credit card are clear, she has to pay two clear working days before the 
direct debit is due for Halifax to amend the amount its taking.
Mrs O feels Halifax hasnt protected her money, but I dont agree with this. I think Mrs O 
agreed to a direct debit to be set up some time ago, and Halifax collected a payment in line 
with that agreement.
Im not sure what systems Mrs O feels should be more robust, but I dont think theres 
anything wrong in what Halifax did. It collected a payment as instructed and then returned it 
when Mrs O asked for it to be returned.
When Mrs O called Halifax, I can see it passed her to other departments before she got an 
explanation of what happened. I can also see Mrs O asked for a complaint to be set up, but 
this call appears to have been cut off.
No complaint was logged during the call, and Mrs O had to call again to log her complaint. I 
think Halifax could have handled things better here, I think Mrs O could have been given a 
clear explanation much sooner and a complaint should have been logged sooner
Overall, I think Halifaxs offer of £50 is a fair one, to compensate Mrs O for some additional 
calls she had to make.
But I dont think Halifax needs to do anything else to resolve Mrs Os complaint.
My final decision
My final decision is I uphold Mrs Os complaint and Bank of Scotland plc trading as Halifax 
should pay her £50 to compensate for the poor service it gave during her phone calls.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs O to accept or 
reject my decision before 11 September 2023.
 
Chris Russ
Ombudsman