DRN-4025636
The complaint
Mr C complains that Revolut Ltd wont refund the money he lost when he fell victim to a 
scam.
What happened
In early 2022, Mr C was searching for job opportunities online. He received a 
response from someone claiming to be from a well-known company, M, offering a job 
relating to e-commerce promotion. 
Mr C was told he had to complete a number of orders on Ms platform. And that he 
had to convert funds to cryptocurrency, which he did using a company Ill refer to as 
S, to load funds to Ms platform to recharge  as needed to complete further tasks 
and earn more commission. But when he kept being asked to recharge in order to 
withdraw from the platform, he realised it was a scam.
Mr C sent the funds, via S, from his Revolut account. So he informed it of the scam. It 
looked into raising chargeback claims for the card payments he reported, but didnt 
think they would succeed. 
Via a professional representative, Mr C complained to Revolut. He said it should 
refund him in line with the Contingent Reimbursement Model (CRM) code. And it had 
failed to identify the payments were out of character. Revolut didnt agree to refund 
him. So he referred the complaint to our service. 
Our investigator didnt uphold the complaint. They didnt think the payments reported 
appeared out of character. Nor did they think there were grounds for successful 
chargeback claims. They also explained the CRM code wasnt relevant to the 
complaint.
In response, Mr C said the payments were unusual. Whereas the investigator had 
pointed out there were prior, undisputed payments to S, he said those were also part 
of the scam. 
The investigator looked into the additional payments. He found the first one had 
initially been declined. But Revolut had processed it after Mr C had confirmed he 
requested the payment. They considered that reasonable. 
They found a further payment was blocked as the merchant wasnt supported by 
Revoluts systems. And another was blocked due to there being insufficient funds in 
Mr Cs account. This didnt change their outcome. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the conclusions reached by the investigator for these reasons:
Mr C fell victim to an authorised scam. In line with the Payment Services Regulations 
2017, account providers are expected to execute authorised payment instructions 
without undue delay. So the starting position is that Mr C is liable for these payments. 
As the investigator explained, the CRM code  under which victims of authorised 
push payment scams can sometimes seek redress  doesnt apply here. Thats 
because Revolut isnt a signatory of the voluntary code. Also, the disputed payments 
were made by card. As thats a form of pull payment, its not covered by the code. 
There are still situations where I would expect Revoluttaking into account relevant 
rules, codes and best practiceto have identified a fraud risk, and to have performed 
further checks before processing a payment. 
Revolut did put a block on what we have now been told was the first payment to the 
scam. But it has explained it didnt identify any concerns about the payment being 
part of an authorised scam. It just wanted to confirm it was Mr C requesting the 
payment.
Given the level of the payment, at £115, I consider that a reasonable and 
proportionate response to the risk identified. The merchant being paid directly was 
legitimate. And the payment size was broadly in line with Mr Cs usual spending. So, 
once it had checked Mr C had authorised the request, I consider it reasonable that 
Revolut followed his instructions without completing further checks. 
Revolut didnt identify further fraud concerns. I dont consider that a failing on its part. 
The payments didnt look so unusual, within Mr Cs account activity, to have 
prompted concern. Having checked Mr C was making the first payment, the following 
payments to that merchant wouldnt have seemed so unexpected. And the size of 
most of the payments was well within his usual spending. 
While the final two payments were the highest, at over £1,000, Mr C had made a 
payment for a similar amount in the months leading up to the scam. In that context, 
given the recipient  and thinking about what level of intervention it is proportionate to 
expect from payment institutions  I consider it reasonable that Revolut followed 
Mr Cs instructions without looking into the circumstances of the payments further. I 
therefore dont think it is at fault for failing to uncover the scam at the time. 
I note that, in Mr Cs original complaint letter from his professional representative, it 
said he suffered from financial difficulties  and Revolut should have known about 
this vulnerability as he was a long-standing customer. This is something I have seen 
the representative say in other cases, without providing further details about the 
alleged vulnerability. Nor has it been raised further following the view, so its unclear 
if it is still alleged Revolut made a failing in this respect.  
For completeness, I cant see Revolut ought to have known anything about Mr Cs 
circumstances which made its actions  in processing his authorised payment 
instructions  unfair, in line with the points Ive considered above. He opened the 
account only a few months before the scam. So I question the accuracy, and 
relevance, of this statement about him being a long standing-customer. Mr C used a legitimate cryptocurrency exchange platform, S, to purchase funds to 
load to the job platform. While Revolut considered whether he could recoup any 
funds through the chargeback scheme  which looks to settle payment disputes, 
subject to rules set by the card-scheme provider  Im persuaded claims under this 
scheme wouldnt have succeeded. Thats because the scheme could only consider a 
dispute about the merchant paid direct. And here, Mr Cs dispute isnt about S; its 
about the recipient who he sent the funds on to from there. 
I appreciate this will be disappointing for Mr C, who has lost out to a cruel scam. But having 
carefully considered all the circumstances, Im not persuaded it is fair to hold Revolut liable 
for his loss, or otherwise compensate him in relation to this complaint. Thats because Im 
not persuaded Revolut made errors which caused, or contributed to, his loss. 
My final decision
For the reasons given above, my final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 11 October 2023.
 
Rachel Loughlin
Ombudsman