DRN-3730705
The complaint
Mr B complains that UCB Home Loans Corporation Ltd caused delays with a planning 
application. He asks for compensation.
What happened
Mr B applied for planning permission to build houses on part of his land. He says it took six 
years to get planning permission and he had to pay the council more than £100,000. Mr B 
says he wanted to sell his property with the benefit of planning permission and, because of 
boundary changes, had to do this before the end of March 2022.
Mr B contacted UCB at the end of January 2022. The council required a section 106 
agreement (broadly, an agreement that a developer makes a contribution to local amenities 
to offset the effect of the development). As the land to be developed was included within 
UCBs charge the council wanted UCB to sign the section 106 agreement as well as Mr B. 
Mr B sent documents by email at the beginning of February 2022 and his solicitor wrote to 
UCB with the draft agreement on 11 February 2022.
UCB says it wrote back to the solicitor on 1 March 2022 asking for information, which it says 
it didnt receive. Mr B said his solicitor didnt receive the letter from UCB. 
UCB didnt uphold Mr Bs complaint about how it dealt with his request to sign the section 
106 agreement, but said its investigation into Mr Bs complaint had taken too long and it 
would send a cheque for £75 for this.
Our investigator said while UCB wasnt responsible for all of the delays, it was responsible 
for some of them. He said it should pay £200 compensation, which UCB agreed to do.
Mr B didnt agree, saying:
UCB could have released part of his land from its security. He said it shilly-shallied 
around for months, and nearly cost him the sale of the land.
Due to UCBs delays he had to take alternative action which cost him about £19,000.
He still hadnt received the £75 cheque from UCB.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr B sent emails to UCB at the end of January and beginning of February 2022. He provided 
documents related to the planning consents and section 106 agreement, saying UCBs 
signature was needed to finalise the planning permission. Mr B said hed appreciate a fast 
response as he had a client waiting to buy the property. Mr Bs solicitor sent a letter with the 
draft section 106 agreement to UCB on 11 February 2022. 
UCB provided notes of its calls with Mr B. In late January 2022 it told Mr B it wouldnt 
consent to building on the land. In early February 2022 Mr B called to say he was trying to 
get planning consent for six houses before selling the property. UCB gave him an email 
address to send documents for review. It confirmed a couple of days later it had received 
Mr Bs email and he should wait for a response from the relevant team. Mr B called and 
emailed during February 2022 and was told to wait for a response. 
UCB sent a letter to Mr Bs solicitor on 1 March 2022 which said: there was no plan attached 
to the draft agreement the solicitor had provided and it needed a colour plan to be provided; 
it required amendments to the clause related to its obligations; and as the property was to be 
sold with planning consent before development commenced the mortgage would have to be 
redeemed. It said once it received a response the matter would be referred to its legal 
department and valuer. Mr B says the letter wasnt received. UCB sent another letter direct 
to Mr B with the same information on 22 April 2022. Mr B says this letter wasnt received 
until May 2022.
Mr Bs solicitors asked for a redemption statement as at 18 March 2022. Mr B says this 
wasnt provided. UCB says it sent the redemption statement to the solicitor.
Mr B was concerned about losing the planning permissions. He says hed have been unable 
to sell the property after the end of March 2022 due to boundary changes. And he says he 
had a buyer for the property. I appreciate Mr B wanted to move matters forward quickly.
However, I think it was reasonable for UCB to review the documents before deciding 
whether to sign the section 106 agreement. This would affect its security and UCB would 
have obligations under the agreement if it took possession of the security property. I think its 
reasonable for UCB to request a complete agreement with a colour plan attached, even if 
Mr B had previously sent a plan by email. And I think it was entitled to request changes to 
the clause related to its obligations.
While it was unfortunate Mr Bs solicitor didnt receive UCBs letter dated 1 March 2022, I 
cant fairly say that UCB was responsible for the letter going astray. Similarly, I dont think I 
can fairly say UCB was responsible if the solicitor didnt receive the redemption statement.
Mr B has received planning permission. He says UCB should pay the costs he incurred due 
to UCB failing to answer his calls or communicate with him, despite knowing the time 
constraints he was working under.
I would only find it reasonable to require UCB to compensate Mr B for his costs if these were 
incurred due to an error by UCB. I dont think thats this case here. 
I dont think UCB caused significant delays. Mr B first contacted UCB in relation to the 
section 106 agreement at the end of January 2022. UCB wrote to Mr Bs solicitor on 1 March 
2022. It did communicate with Mr B during this time, albeit to tell him hed have to wait for a 
response. UCBs notes show the matter was escalated internally in mid-February 2022, after 
Mr B chased for a response. Any delay caused by not escalating the matter sooner would 
have been short, and the matter was escalated only a few days after Mr Bs solicitor had 
written to UCB. Our investigator said UCB could have chased Mr B or his solicitor for the 
information. This would have been good customer service and might have helped move 
matters forward. But I dont think, on balance, this would have changed the outcome.
UCB required a change to the clause in the section 106 agreement related to its obligations. 
Its process involves a review by the legal team and valuer. Its not clear if this would have 
been completed within the short timeframe Mr B described, even without any avoidable 
delays. Its not clear from the available evidence if the changes required by UCB would have been accepted by the council, or agreed within the available time.
I understand why Mr B took an alternative route. From what hes said, hed spent 
considerable time and money applying for planning permissions. He made a decision to take 
alternative action despite the cost to ensure this was achieved. But I dont think this was 
necessary because of errors by UCB. This was due to the time constraints Mr B was working 
within. 
Mr B says he had to pay the councils legal and monitoring fees and well as contributions to 
local facilities required by the section 106 agreement and his own legal fees. I dont think 
these costs are due to any error by UCB. These are the costs Mr B incurred to obtain the 
planning consents he wanted. I dont think its fair and reasonable to require UCB to 
compensate Mr B for the costs he incurred so that he could sell his property with the benefit 
of planning consents.
UCB agreed with our investigators recommendation that it pay £200 for a delay in February 
2022 and some poor service. I appreciate that Mr B feels strongly about this. But for the 
inconvenience and upset caused, I think this is fair and reasonable. 
UCB offered £75 to Mr B for delays investigating his complaint. As this relates to complaint 
handling (which isnt a regulated activity and not, therefore, something I can look into) I leave 
it to Mr B to decide whether to accept the offer. Mr B should contact UCB if he hasnt 
received the £75 cheque.
My final decision
My decision is that UCB Home Loans Corporation Ltd should pay £200 to Mr B, if it hasnt 
yet done so.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 November 2022.
 
Ruth Stevenson
Ombudsman