DRN-4041070
The complaint
Miss G complains about unarranged overdraft fees applied to her account with TSB Bank plc 
(TSB) and says that TSB acted irresponsibly by allowing her a £50 overdraft. She would 
like a refund of all charges since 2016. 
What happened
Miss G held an account with TSB. In September 2018 Miss G got in touch with TSB 
regarding the charges applied to her account. Miss G made it aware of her personal 
circumstances - that she was vulnerable and suffering from financial difficulties. TSB 
refunded unarranged overdraft charges for August, September and October 2018 as well as 
applying the control service to her account which would assist her from going into 
unarranged overdraft in the future.
In January 2019 following a branch application Miss G was approved for a £50 overdraft. 
Miss G complained to TSB regarding the overdraft charges applied to her account. TSB said 
all charges for the unarranged overdraft were applied correctly in line with the terms and 
conditions of the account and that there were no obvious signs of financial difficulty on her 
account. It says that it was debit card payments which caused her account to go into an 
unarranged position. But once Miss G got in touch TSB refunded fees as well applying the 
control service to her account.
TSB says when Miss G applied for her arranged overdraft there was nothing in the 
information provided or her account history which suggested she wouldnt be able to repay 
the £50 overdraft within a reasonable period of time and that Miss G hardly used the 
overdraft.  
Miss G was dis-satisfied with this and brought her complaint to this service. One of our 
adjudicators looked into Miss Gs concerns and reached the conclusion TSB hadnt done 
anything wrong or treated Miss G unfairly and so didnt recommend the complaint be upheld.
Miss G disagreed and so the complaint was passed to an ombudsman for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having considered everything provided, Ive decided not to uphold Miss Gs complaint. Ill 
explain why in a little more detail. 
Ive seen that Miss G has in some of her correspondence has referred to the proportionality 
of the charges applied to her account when she went into unarranged overdraft and that she 
shouldnt have been allowed to become overdrawn as it wasnt affordable. But before I go 
any further, I want to be clear in saying that I havent considered whether the various 
amounts TSB charged over the years were fair and reasonable, or proportionate in 
comparison to the costs of the service provided. 
Ultimately, how much a bank charges for services is a commercial decision. And it isnt 
something for me to get involved with. That said, while Im not looking at TSBs various 
charging structures or processes per se, it wont have acted fairly and reasonably towards 
Miss G if it applied any interest, fees and charges to Miss Gs account in circumstances 
where it was aware, or it ought fairly and reasonably to have been aware Miss G was 
experiencing financial difficulty.
So Ive considered whether there were instances where TSB didnt treat Miss G fairly and 
reasonably. I dont think that TSB did treat Miss G unfairly or unreasonably here though. I 
say this because having looked at Miss Gs statements I havent seen enough to suggest 
that TSB ought to have realised she might have been experiencing financial difficulty prior to 
Miss G getting in touch with it in September 2018. 
Having looked at Miss Gs statements I can see that at times her account did go into 
unarranged overdraft, but I can also see that up Miss G was always able to bring her 
account back into credit. I accept that around June 2018 Miss G spent more time in 
unarranged overdraft when she made a number of vending machine transactions over a two 
month period and TSB charged her for this. But as soon as Miss G got in touch with TSB 
and made it aware of her financial difficulties TSB refunded the majority of charges and put 
the control service in place to avoid this happening going forward. This is in-line with what Id 
expect, so I dont think TSB did anything wrong here.
I understand Miss G may not have wanted TSB to have authorised the transactions and 
allowed her account to go into unarranged overdraft  but TSB is entitled to do this under the 
terms and conditions of the account. And Im sure Miss G appreciates holding a bank 
account comes with responsibilities  one of which is ensuring the account holds sufficient 
funds for items that the account holder wishes to pay for from the account.
Miss G is also complains that TSB acted irresponsibly by allowing her a £50 overdraft in 
January 2019.
TSB needed to make sure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In practice, what this means is 
TSB needed to carry out proportionate checks to be able to understand whether Miss G 
would be able to repay what she was being lent before providing any credit to her. Our 
website sets out what we typically think about when deciding whether a lenders checks 
were proportionate. 
Generally, we think its reasonable for a lenders checks to be less thorough  in terms of 
how much information it gathers and what it does to verify it  in the early stages of a lending 
relationship. But we might think it needed to do more if, for example, a borrowers income 
was low or the amount lent was high. And the longer the lending relationship goes on, the 
greater the risk of it becoming unsustainable and the borrower experiencing financial 
difficulty. 
Ive kept all of this in mind when thinking about whether TSB did what it needed to before 
agreeing to Miss Gs overdraft. Miss G was given what was an open-ended credit facility. So 
overall this means the checks TSB carried out had to provide enough for it to be able to 
understand whether Miss G would be able to repay her overdraft within a reasonable period 
of time. TSB says based on the information Miss G provided at the time of her application 
and her account history it was satisfied that the £50 overdraft limit was affordable for her. I accept that Miss Gs financial position may well have been worse than the information she 
disclosed to TSB at the time. And it is possible that further checks might have told TSB this. 
But TSB was reasonably entitled to rely on the credit check it carried out. Given the relatively 
low amount of the overdraft granted and that Miss G had regular credits coming into her 
account and had managed her account well leading up to the application, I think TSBs 
checks went far enough. Indeed, Miss Gs statements show that the following the overdraft 
being approved Miss G hardly used it.
So overall and having considered everything I dont think TSB treated Miss G unfairly or 
unreasonably which means that Im not upholding this complaint.
 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, Im not upholding Miss Gs complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss G to accept 
or reject my decision before 31 May 2023.
 
Caroline Davies
Ombudsman