DRN-3304706
The complaint
Ms H has complained that Pinnacle Insurance Plc unreasonably refused to pay her pet
claim.
Ms H is represented by Mr A but for ease of reference I shall just refer to Ms H throughout.
What happened
Ms H bought a time limited pet policy for her dog on 10 October 2012 through a branded
name which is now underwritten by Pinnacle which provides cover of £4,000 for any
condition limited to a year. Once that year is up, there is no further cover provided for that
condition. So, in effect every condition her dog may suffer from has cover for merely 12
months.
In August 2021, Ms H made a claim for vet fees of £917.62 for investigations into her dogs
coughing issue. Pinnacle said that Ms Hs dog was first treated for heart issues on 12
November 2015. Since these investigations included cardiac investigations, therefore, the
time limit in which she could still claim for anything to do her dogs heart was up by 12
November 2016. Consequently, her claim was declined.
Pinnacle wouldnt change its stance when Ms H appealed saying it wasnt clear that heart 
issues were causing her dogs illness, so she brought her complaint to us. The investigator 
was of the view Pinnacle hadnt done anything wrong given the vet history. Ms H disagreed 
so her complaint was passed to me to decide.
I issued a provisional decision on 5 April and I said the following:
First however, I want to deal with Ms Hs contention that Pinnacle or indeed the 
previous underwriter, since Pinnacle only took over the underwriting in October 2020, 
should have advised her about the limited cover of this policy, and that a lifetime 
policy would have been better. Pet policies are sold on an unadvised basis, so that 
means those selling it are merely under a duty to explain the cover available but 
there is singularly no duty to advise any consumer about what might be best for 
them. Here Ms Hs policy clearly details its a time limited policy and conditions are 
only paid for 12 months up to the benefit limit which in Ms Hs case is £4,000. This is 
because it says the following on page 1 of the policy booklet:
Gold and Silver are Time Limited policies which provide cover for up to 12 
months from the start of the treatment up the limit specified in your certificate 
of insurance. Once this limit is reached or the 12 months are up, you will no 
longer to be able to claim for that condition.
Platinum, Cat Care and Cat Care Plus are Lifetime policies which provide 
cover up to the limit specified in your certificate of insurance. This limit is 
renewed each year.
Ms Hs certificate of insurance clearly shows she chose gold cover back in 2012. It 
also clearly details on the certificate of insurance that its Time Limited, and Ms H 
would have received a new insurance certificate at each renewal detailing the same, 
year after year since 2012. And obviously Pinnacle who only took over the 
underwriting in 2020, would have nothing to do with the sale of this policy at all.
However, there is no regulatory requirement within the Financial Conduct Authority 
(as Ms H has quoted the incorrect regulation for pet policies in her submissions to us) 
that any provider of pet insurance has any duty to advise consumers or policyholders 
about whether the product they have or are choosing is right for them. Thats a 
decision only the consumer or policyholder can make for themselves on the basis of 
the information given about the policy by the entity selling it. Its very clear to me that 
cover Ms H chose for her was very clearly time limited and that this benefit 
restriction was properly and clearly explained. If Ms H remains concerned about this 
aspect, she needs to take it up with the entity that sold her the policy, which for the 
avoidance of any doubt, was not Pinnacle.
Secondly, turning to the definition of treatment, it is defined in this policy and 
therefore its that definition which prevails in law and not any other definition which 
Ms H has detailed. That means treatment does include investigation costs as the 
investigator explained in his view. This is because the policy defines it as the 
following:
... any examination, consultation, advice, tests, X-rays, medication, surgery, 
nursing and care provided by a vet, veterinary practice or member of an 
approved professional organisation following your vets instruction.
Since a pet policy covers vet costs and vet costs include investigations, having such 
a definition is reasonable. And according to the claims history available to Pinnacle 
Ms H did make a claim in 2015 concerning cardiac investigations then, which was 
paid.
Turning now to rest of Ms Hs complaint, concerning the declinature of her claim, in 
February 2022, Ms H told us her vet had changed the medication for her dog to 
cerenia and that her dog was now only being treated for a potential trachea collapse. 
Cerenia is not a heart related medication at all, its is an antiemetic used to treat 
vomiting and motion sickness in dogs and cats. It also may act as a mild pain control 
medication.
The vet history details that on 27 January 2022 the dog was on vetmedin (a cardiac
medication) at a maintenance dose. But Ms Hs dog started coughing badly again. 
The vet thought it was due to a trachea collapse which was also discussed last 
August. The vet felt they needed x-rays plus a heart scan. The vet also prescribed 
meropitant another antiemetic. By 23 February 2020, the dog was doing very well on 
cerenia, and Ms H wanted to wean him off the other medications. The vet also 
wanted to do x-rays to check for the trachea collapse and to see if he was a good 
candidate for a trachea stent. As Pinnacle are aware Ms H asked for pre-approval for 
the x-rays and blood tests which Pinnacle refused.
The x-ray results on 23 March 2022 showed the trachea was slightly narrowed. The 
results were still inconclusive, and the vet felt cardiac issues might still be involved. 
So, some cardiac blood tests were undertaken. These blood tests show that with this 
dogs results, clinically significant heart disease is unlikely at this time.The evidence is very clear in my view, we now have a dog not on any cardiac meds, 
with significantly reduced coughing, and blood tests showing no heart disease given 
all the ongoing investigations and treatment since August 2021. This dog it appears 
has always presented with a heart murmur. Again, this is not uncommon. And 
coughing can always be caused by cardiac issues too. So, it was responsible of the 
vet to consider cardiac issues in the investigations. However now the evidence does 
show categorically this dogs heart has not been involved in causing the symptoms 
which the claim concerned, namely coughing, since his blood tests dont show he 
has any cardiac disease at this time.
Therefore, I consider Ms Hs claim ought now to be reconsidered with a view to 
paying it with interest as its clearly a valid claim on the basis of this evidence. 
Obviously, vet evidence like this, is never as clear cut as certain policy benefit 
limitations clauses can require, but thats not the fault of Ms H as she had no hand in 
writing the policy terms and conditions. And any further claims Ms H can make for 
treatment costs since this claim and for these coughing issues ought to be 
reconsidered likewise.
Ms H persistently told Pinnacle there were possibly other issues than merely cardiac 
ones in the investigations. The vet evidence also clearly backed this up. Pinnacle 
resolutely refused to consider this was relevant. I dont consider that was reasonable 
because investigations of this nature can involve different body parts as now shown 
in this case and therefore, I consider the benefit of any doubt ought to be in the 
policyholders favour rather than Pinnacles. Pinnacle is also aware of our considered 
stance on when treatment for a condition might start too, which has some bearing 
on this case also. So, I dont find it appropriate where there might be several causes 
of an issue that an insurer will simply jump on the one which is excluded and fail to 
consider anything else.
This has caused Ms H some considerable distress and upset unsurprisingly given the 
fact she also has an aging dog too who she obviously cares about deeply and wants 
to ensure he is doing well. This can be seen throughout the vet history. We asked Ms 
H about this. Much of her response above concerned the fact that this isnt a lifetime 
policy and she was never advised that would have been more suitable. As I 
explained above that has nothing to do with Pinnacle, so I wont be taking that into 
account.
However, Ms H was completely correct that there was possibly more than one cause 
for her dogs issue and at her own cost and extensive effort and the effort of her vet 
has now proved this. She also persistently tried to explain this to Pinnacle which fell 
on deaf ears. Ms H explained she had to take out a payment plan to pay the vet fees 
accrued and still has to pay the ongoing vet fees, which has caused her financial 
hardship more so in the current climate. Plus, the entire matter in complaining to 
Pinnacle and having to bring her complaint to us has also taken up some 
considerable time, with significant emotional distress. So, I consider Pinnacle should 
pay Ms H £350 compensation. This is in line with previous awards I have
made in other similar cases.
Pinnacle asked for an extension to consider my provisional decision which was granted to 
close of business on 29 April. However, it then failed to respond within the time limit of the 
extension given.
Ms H agreed with the outcome of my provisional decision. She subsequently informed that 
Pinnacle had paid part of the latest claim made by Ms H on 19 April 2022. The full sum 
claimed was £548.60. It deducted £151.16 being the costs of the blood test which showed 
there was no heart condition being suffered by her dog presently. And it deducted the excess of £65 and then paid the remaining £332.44 to Ms H.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so again, I remain of the view that this complaint should be held. This is 
because Pinnacle has provided no further statements as regards my provisional decision so 
there is nothing further for me to consider. 
The payment of Ms Hs claim is somewhat peculiar given the fact the provisional decision 
was issued. I take the view that because Pinnacle was so set that all the issues concerning 
this dogs symptoms were cardiac based when it now turns out given these test results that 
they werent, that it would be fair and reasonable for Pinnacle to pay for this blood test which 
clears the dispute up in showing there is no heart disease going on too.
 
I appreciate these are cardiac tests which are excluded given the previous cardiac claim 
made in 2015. But it is the actual evidence to show that Pinnacles stance on this matter was 
unfair and wrong and therefore I consider it fair Pinnacle also pays for this, given only the 
very particular circumstances of this complaint. More so since the amount isnt excessive at 
£151.16.
My final decision
So, for these reasons, its my final decision that I uphold this complaint.
I now require Pinnacle Insurance Plc to do the following:
Reconsider Ms Hs claim under the remaining terms and conditions of the policy with 
a firm view in paying it. Including the claim for the blood tests currently excluded in 
the latest payment, as detailed above. Add interest of 8% simple per year from the 
date Ms H presented her claim to the date it refunds her. If income tax is to be 
deducted from the interest, appropriate documentation should be provided to Ms H 
for HMRC purposes.
Consider any further claims that Ms H has for this condition under the remaining 
terms and conditions of her policy again with a firm view in paying them up to the 
benefit limit. 
Pay Ms H £350 compensation for the distress and upset caused.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms H to accept or 
reject my decision before 31 May 2022.
 
Rona Doyle
Ombudsman