DRN-1549765
complaint
Miss M says MBNA Limited mis-sold her a payment protection insurance (PPI) policy.
Miss M applied for a credit card in September 1998 and was sold the PPI a few weeks later.
Our adjudicator didnt think the complaint should be upheld. Miss M disagreed, so the 
complaint was passed to me  an ombudsman - to look into afresh.
my findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account here.
Having done so, Ive decided not to uphold Miss Ms complaint. Ill explain why.
When selling the PPI to Miss M, MBNA shouldve made it clear the policy was optional. It 
also shouldve got Miss Ms agreement to take it out. Miss M says she wasnt told the PPI 
was optional. It seems Miss M applied for her credit card by postal application. Looking at 
the form she completed she didnt take the PPI at this stage. It was however, added to her 
account a few days later when Miss M activated her credit card. MBNA no longer has a copy 
of the telephone call during which Miss M was sold the PPI. This is unfortunate, but not 
surprising given how long ago the sale took place. And businesses arent required to keep 
records indefinitely. 
In the absence of a call recording I have to consider Miss Ms comments alongside the 
evidence provided by MBNA and consider this in light of what we know in general about how 
PPI was sold at the time. 
MBNA has provided a copy of the script its representatives were required to follow when 
selling PPI. Ive looked carefully at the guidelines. And they show that the adviser shouldve 
made it clear to Miss M that the PPI was optional, and it shouldve got Miss Ms consent 
before adding the cover. 
We cannot know for certain what she was told during the call, but I think there would have 
been a general expectation that the adviser would follow the guidelines set out. I have also 
carefully considered Miss Ms comments, but they to do not persuade me that on this 
occasion the adviser deviated from the script. 
So on balance, I think its more likely that MBNA offered Miss M a choice to buy PPI and that 
she chose to take it. 
I dont think MBNA recommended the PPI to Miss M so it didnt have to check if it was
right for her. But it did have to make sure Miss M got the information she needed to decide if 
it was right for her.
Its possible the information MBNA gave Miss M about the PPI wasnt as clear as it
shouldve been. And I can see Miss M says the cancellation terms werent made clear to her. 
But based on what Ive seen of her circumstances at the time it doesnt look like she was 
affected by any of the exclusions to or limits on the PPI cover. Miss M has referred to some 
health conditions she had. But it seems she developed these after she took out this PPI 
policy. So its likely she wouldve been covered if she needed time off sick in relation to these 
conditions and they wouldnt have been excluded.
Miss M says she had some sick pay and savings. But the PPI wouldve allowed Miss M to 
use these other means to cover general expenses. And as the other means Miss M had 
werent significant I think she wouldve found the cover useful if she was unwell or lost her 
job. Miss Ms also referred to family helping out if she needed it. I dont doubt that it would 
have been the intention of Miss Ms family to help. But circumstances can change and 
theres no guarantee that assistance would have been available to her as and when she 
needed it.
From what I can see it looks like the PPI was affordable for Miss M. So overall, I dont think 
better information about the PPI would have put her off taking out the cover.
Ive thought about everything Miss M has said, including her comments about another MBNA 
account and policy. However, every case is looked at on an individual basis and the 
outcome of another complaint wouldnt necessarily influence this case and our review of it. 
I understand Miss M feels strongly about her case so my decision will come as a 
disappointment. But I hope my decision clearly sets out my reasons for not upholding her 
complaint.
final decision
For the reasons Ive given, I dont uphold this complaint against MBNA Limited.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss M to accept 
or reject my decision before 18 September 2020.
 
Chandni Green
Ombudsman