DRN-2614166
The complaint
Mr M complains about the transfer of his ISA from Shawbrook Bank Limited, referred to as 
Shawbrook or the transferor, to a third-party business referred to as the transferee. 
Mr M says hes suffered financially as a result of the delays hes experienced.  
What happened
On 12 June 2019, Mr M says he posted his ISA transfer application form to the transferee 
making clear that he wished to transfer (out) £20,000 to a new platform. His instructions 
were received on 13 June 2019. I note he also notified the Shawbrook at the same time.  
On 14 June 2019, Shawbrook confirmed receipt of his request. However, on 18 June 2019, it 
emailed him to say that his application form was incomplete as he didnt specify the amount 
he wished to transfer. It noted the error on 17 June 2019  within two working days of 
receiving the request from the transferee. In summary, it said:
We have received your transfer out request to (the transferee), however you did
not state how much you would like to transfer.
Please re request this transfer out with Santander and state the amount
that you would like to transfer out. emphasis added. 
I note Mr M responded the same day to say that he had included the amount he wished to 
transfer in his application to the transferee, so it was either an error by the transferee or 
Shawbrook, as the transferor. He was also concerned that he was losing interest at a (poor) 
rate of 1.24%. 
Im mindful the transferor suggests that the transferee didnt include the amount in its 
application to it. 
I note the transferee confirmed that Mr M completed the form correctly, but the transferor 
says the transferee omitted to mention the amount to be transferred in the electronic transfer 
request. 
I note that eventually the monies left the transferor on 24 June 2019, and transfer was 
completed on 25 June 2020  within 10/11 working days of Mr Ms application on 12 June 
2019. But Mr M believes it shouldve been completed by 18 June 2019 and is unhappy that 
hes left without any redress or apology and the businesses are blaming each other. 
In its Final Response Letter (FRL) dated 13 August 2019, Shawbrook didnt uphold the 
complaint. In summary, it said:
The request from (the transferee) was first received on Friday 14 June 2019 and 
was accepted the same day. It was then rejected on Tuesday 17 June 2019 which 
was only two working days from the request being received. We then contacted you 
at our earliest opportunity which was 18 June 2019, to let you know about the issue. 
Overall the day the transfer was received to the date we contacted you was a period 
of three working days.
It hadnt made any errors completing Mr Ms instructions to transfer.  
It completed the transfer within the specified time limit. 
One of our investigators considered the complaint but didnt think it should be upheld. In 
summary, she said:
The transfer didnt go as smoothly as Mr M wouldve liked. 
But even if there had been a mistake, it doesnt automatically mean that he was due 
compensation.
Industry guidelines suggest that the Cash ISA should be completed within 15 working 
days, which is whats happened here. Theres no dispute about the timeline. 
The evidence suggests that the request was completed within seven working days  
from the date Shawbrook received the request  on 19 June 2019  so she cant 
agree that Mr Ms been financially disadvantaged. 
Shawbrook has clarified that where it identifies a discrepancy, the first port of call is 
to contact the customer to clarify the position, which its entitled to do  in the 
exercise of its reasonable commercial judgement  as a financial business. 
So, it wasnt unreasonable to contact Mr M in the circumstances and it did so within a 
reasonable amount of time. 
In light of what Shawbrook said in its FRL, perhaps it wouldve been reasonable for 
the two businesses to liaise with one another, in order to clarify matters. 
But theres nothing to say that the business behaved unreasonably, or in an 
inappropriate amount of time. 
Mr M disagreed with the investigators view and asked for an ombudsmans decision. In 
short, he said:
Hes disappointed that the complaint wasnt upheld, even though the investigator 
suggested that the businesses shouldve directly liaised with each other. 
Shawbrook wouldve had access to his application and not just the electronic 
submission from the transferee, so it shouldve been able to initiate the transfer, and 
process it, without his intervention. 
If Shawbrook hadnt contacted him, he wouldnt have been aware of the issue, so 
why did it? 
Because it changed its internal process, it suggests that it shouldnt have happened, 
and yet it hasnt offered him an apology or compensation. 
If he hadnt contacted both parties, the transfer wouldve fallen outside the time limit. 
As no agreement has been reached the matter has been passed to me for review. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the investigators conclusions for much the same reasons. Im 
not going to uphold this complaint. 
On the face of the evidence, and on balance, despite what Mr M says, Im unable to safely 
say that Shawbrook has behaved unreasonably.
 But before I explain why this is the case, I think its important for me to recognise Mr Ms 
strength of feeling about this matter. Hes provided submissions to support the complaint, 
which Ive read and considered carefully. However, I hope he wont take the fact my findings 
focus on what I consider to be the central issues, and not in as much detail, as a 
discourtesy.
The purpose of my decision isnt to address every single point raised, its not what Im required 
to do in order to reach a decision in this case. I appreciate this can be frustrating, but it doesnt 
mean Im not considering the pertinent points. 
My role is to consider the evidence presented by Mr M and Shawbrook, and reach what I 
think is an independent, fair and reasonable decision based on the facts of the case, rather 
than take any sides. 
In deciding whats fair and reasonable, I must consider the relevant law, regulation and best 
industry practice, but perhaps unlike a court or tribunal Im not bound by this. Its for me to 
decide, based on the information Ive been given, whats more likely than not to have happened. 
On the face of the evidence, and on balance, despite what Mr M says, overall, Im satisfied 
that Shawbrook behaved reasonably in successfully completing the application to transfer 
his ISA to the transferee. 
I note that it did so within a total of seven/eight working days of receiving his correct 
application  on the 19 June 2019  which is within its internal processes and procedure, 
and HMRC guidance.   
I note the transferee originally confirmed that the original transfer request was submitted 
online, but the Shawbrook says it didnt state that it was for a partial amount of £20,000. The 
transferee now accepts that it omitted to put the partial amount in its request to the 
transferor, although doesnt accept this was done online 
I think the transferees initial request  whether or not made online  is whats likely to have 
prompted Shawbrook to subsequently contact Mr M on 18 June 2019  having earlier 
accepted his instructions on 14 June 2019. 
I note Shawbrook rejected the request on 17 June 2019 because it didnt contain a figure  
most probably to give Mr M another opportunity to resubmit the request in order to clarify 
what amount he wanted to transfer. 
Despite Mr Ms separate instructions to Shawbrook, I dont agree with him that this ought to 
have enabled it (as transferor) to continue with the transfer process. There was clearly a 
discrepancy about the amount to be transferred, so in the circumstances I dont think it was 
wrong not to have proceeded without consulting Mr M. 
In the circumstances, I also dont think it was wrong to contact Mr M as the first port of call, it 
had no way of knowing if hed changed his mind or wanted a different amount transferred. I 
note it contacted him literally within two/three working days  with a weekend in the middle  
in order to clarify the position. In the circumstances I dont think it couldve reasonably done 
more. 
Im mindful Mr M is unhappy about being contacted by Shawbrook after providing it with 
correct information at the beginning. But I still think it did what it was entitled to do at the 
time, in the exercise of its reasonable commercial judgement, in line with its internal process.  I note that given Mr Ms reaction, and on reflection, Shawbrook has changed that aspect of 
their process so probably wont be contacting customers first in this situation in future. But 
this doesnt mean that it has did anything wrong at time, or that Mr M is entitled to any 
compensation from it. 
I note the transferee accepts that the new request  which was paper based  showed the 
correct amount to be transferred, and consequently the transfer was attempted again on 19 
June 2019 and successfully completed on 25 June 2019 within seven/eight days of receiving 
the correct information. 
In any case, I cant say that the parties wouldnt have (eventually) liaised with one another 
about clarifying the amount. I appreciate Mr Ms actions helped to keep the process moving 
and Santander now accepts that it didnt provide a figure in its initial request with 
Shawbrook.  
Whether or not a different business was able to complete a similar transaction sooner, Im 
unable to safely say that the transfer  but for the transferees error  wouldve completed by 
18 June 2019, roughly within four/five working days (with a weekend in the middle) of the 
transferee receiving Mr Ms application to transfer. 
I appreciate Mr M will be very unhappy Ive reached the same conclusion as the investigator. 
But on the face of the evidence, and on balance, Im unable to say that Shawbrook has 
behaved unreasonably. 
I realise my decision isnt what Mr M wants to hear. Whilst I appreciate his frustration, Im
unable to uphold this complaint and give him what he wants.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 24 March 2021.
 
Dara Islam
Ombudsman