DRN-3196599
The complaint
Mrs B complains that she was mis-sold a conditional sale agreement for a vehicle 
with Vauxhall Finance plc.
This complaint has been brought on behalf of Mrs B by a relative but for ease of 
reference I will refer only to Mrs B as its her name on the agreement.
What happened
In August 2020 Mrs B attended a dealership with her son. She says that her son had 
wanted to update his vehicle which he used for work but, due to his own credit rating, they 
were both aware it was unlikely hed be approved for a credit agreement to acquire a 
vehicle. A suitable vehicle was identified, and Mrs B says she agreed to assist her son in 
acquiring it for his sole use.
Mrs B says in her complaint that the salesperson was aware of the situation and that 
when a conditional sale agreement was arranged, she thought she was acting as a 
guarantor for her son. The agreement was for 60 months with repayments of around £255 
per month and included in the credit agreement was the cost of an extended warranty. 
The payments were made by way of direct debit from Mrs Bs bank account.
Unfortunately, the vehicle developed faults and a complaint was made to Vauxhall 
Finance about its quality by Mrs B. Vauxhall Finance arranged for the vehicle to be 
independently inspected and, as a result of that inspection, didnt uphold the complaint. 
In Vauxhall Finances final response, it also said that the vehicle should be registered in 
Mrs Bs name and she should be the main driver and the main insured person. It warned 
Mrs B that if this was not the case then she may be in breach of the agreements terms 
and conditions.
Mrs B queried the comments made about her potentially being in breach of contract and 
she asked for a copy of the conditional sale agreement. Mrs B says when she received 
the agreement that it was the first time she had seen it. She says the conditional sale 
agreement's terms and conditions hadnt been explained to her.
Mrs B complained to Vauxhall Finance that she had been mis-sold the agreement. 
Vauxhall Finance didnt uphold her complaint. It said there wasnt evidence about what 
had been said at the dealership but looking at the documentation that had been provided 
to Mrs B at the point of sale it was clear this was all in Mrs Bs sole name. Vauxhall 
Finance said that Mrs B would have had time to read the documents and by signing them 
she had agreed to abide by its terms and conditions.
Mrs B was unhappy at Vauxhall Finances response and complained to this service. Our 
investigator didnt recommend that her complaint should be upheld. He said looking at 
the conditional sale agreement and other pre-sale documents only Mrs Bs name 
appeared and if she was unclear about any of the terms and conditions then she would 
have had an opportunity to raise it prior to signing.
Our investigator said that although he thought the supplying dealer could have 
explained things better there was also a responsibility on the consumer to check that 
an agreement was suitable for them. He said there wasnt enough information to say 
the agreement had been mis-sold to Mrs B.
Mrs B disagreed with our investigators view. She said she hadnt signed the conditional 
sale agreement (this had been electronically signed) but that the salesperson had done 
so. She also says the salesperson had also prepared all the other documentation and just 
asked her to hand sign those. Mrs B said she wouldnt have agreed to take out the 
conditional sale agreement if she had known that by her son being the sole user of the 
vehicle she would have been in breach of its terms and conditions. She also says that she 
was mis-led into taking out the warranty which wasnt suitable as the vehicle was being 
used for business and not private use.
As Mrs B didnt agree with our investigator the complaint was passed to me. I issued a 
provisional decision along the following lines.
Id seen copies of the conditional sale agreement, the other documentation provided at 
the point of sale and emails between Mrs B and Vauxhall Finance when shed raised 
her complaint about the agreement having been mis-sold to her.
Id seen that Mrs B said in her complaint that her intention was to act as guarantor for 
her son in order that he could obtain credit and acquire the vehicle. It wasnt disputed 
that the payments under the agreement were made by direct debit from Mrs Bs bank 
account. She said her son was to reimburse these amounts.
However, looking at an email sent by Mrs B to Vauxhall Finance in April 2021 while it was 
investigating her mis-selling complaint shes said, I signed the finance agreement. Mrs B 
had also explained that she had in the past purchased cars for her sons from the same 
dealership and that she had taken out this agreement as a failsafe method of payment 
rather than me acting as a guarantor though she went to say that it was never mentioned 
that using this practice , I would be expected to be the main driver and the main insured 
person.
I had found the contents of this email to be contradictory to Mrs Bs later complaint that 
shed  thought she was only acting as the guarantor for her son, that she hadnt signed the 
conditional sale agreement and that she wasnt aware the conditional sale agreement was 
in her name.
Id seen that the email address provided on the conditional sale agreement was that of 
Mrs Bs son. That meant that a copy of the agreement would have been sent to him rather 
than Mrs B. However, other details on the form were Mrs Bs such as her bank account 
details for the direct debit form which I thought it was reasonable to say only she would 
have provided. The dealership had reported that when it dealt with Mrs B she was in the 
company of her son so, looking at the agreement, I thought it was reasonable to say that 
when it was being completed both Mrs B and her son were present and that Mrs B knew it 
was her sons email address that would be used when a copy of the agreement was sent 
out. I thought it was reasonable to say Mrs B agreed to and was happy about that 
arrangement.
Id seen that the signature on the conditional sale agreement and the direct debit form 
were electronic. Mrs B said that the agreement was actually signed by the salesperson. 
However, Vauxhall Finance said that in order for the electronic signature to be added a 
verification code was sent to the consumers phone and that this code had been sent to 
Mrs Bs phone. I thought this shows it was likely Mrs B was aware and involved in the signing of the agreement. I also thought this confirms what Mrs B had said in her April 
2021 email to Vauxhall Finance that she had signed the conditional sale agreement, knew 
she was taking out the agreement in her name and wasnt acting as a guarantor for her 
son.
Mrs B said that had she been told by the salesperson that her son couldnt be the main 
user of the vehicle when it was her who had taken out the credit agreement then she 
wouldnt have agreed to the conditional sale agreement. She said the salesperson was 
aware of who would be using the vehicle and why her son couldnt arrange his own 
finance. She also said the salesperson had included the purchase of the extended 
warranty into the credit agreement knowing this wasnt suitable because the vehicle was 
going to be used for business.
Looking at the paperwork that was hand-signed by Mrs B Id seen there was a Demand 
and Needs document. In this document there were a series of short statements which 
could be answered either yes or no by circling which one applied. Id seen that the 
statement You do not intend on using the vehicle for hire/reward, as a taxi or for racing 
had the answer yes circled. I understood that this answer wasnt correct because the 
van was going to be used for couriering. However, while I appreciated that it wasnt clear 
whether Mrs B had circled the yes/no responses to the statements, or whether the 
salesperson had, it was Mrs B who had signed it. As it was only one page in length and, I 
thought, clearly set out, then it would have taken a very short time to read before signing. 
And I thought ot was reasonable to have expected Mrs B to have done so before signing 
it. I also thought if Mrs B had considered any of the answers shown to be incorrect, then 
she would have had an opportunity of raising this with the salesperson at the time. I 
hadnt seen that Mrs B had suggested she was under pressure to sign the documents.
While I appreciated it appeared that the agreement may not have been suitable for Mrs B 
and her son, I didnt know what they had said to the salesperson or what had been said to 
them. And I didnt think Mrs B had been consistent in her recall of events. I thought it was 
more likely than not that Mrs B had been given the opportunity to look through the 
paperwork to see if the agreement was suitable for her before signing it. I hadnt seen any 
evidence that would suggest it was the salespersons recommendation that Mrs B took out 
this conditional sale agreement. Mrs B had been aware of the issue with her sons credit 
and had wanted to help him acquire a vehicle which was why she had gone to the 
dealership with him. I thought it was fair to say Mrs B had an obligation to check this 
agreement would be suitable for what she wanted.
Looking at the evidence, I didnt think there was enough to say that the salesperson had 
misled Mrs B that the conditional sale was suitable for her and I wasnt intending to uphold 
her complaint.
Mrs B had also queried why she had been found suitable for the finance. I didnt 
consider that point because it was a new issue and if Mrs B wishes to complain that the 
agreement was unaffordable for her then she would need to raise that complaint with 
Vauxhall Finance first to allow it to investigate.
Mrs B said she was mis-sold the warranty because the vehicle was being used for 
business. However, as set out above, Mrs B had signed to say the vehicle was not going 
to be used for hire and reward (which includes couriering). As I thought Mrs B could have 
queried that answer if shed disagreed with it before signing, I couldnt reasonably say that 
the warranty was mis-sold.
Vauxhall Finance hasnt asked me to look at any parts of my provisional decision again but 
Mrs B has disagreed with it. She says that the salesperson knew that her son couldnt obtain 
credit and had duped her into taking out this agreement in order to sell the vehicle. Mrs B also says that I have taken parts from the April 2021 email shed sent to Vauxhall 
Finance out of context and have misinterpreted what was said. She says she didnt sign the 
agreement or provide her bank details as the dealership already had those.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I have carefully reviewed the conclusions I reached in my provisional decision and although I 
appreciate this will be of disappointment to Mrs B I havent changed my mind.
Where evidence is missing or contradictory then I must decide what I think happened on the 
balance of probabilities. That means whether something is more likely than not to have 
happened.
Looking firstly at the April 2021 email which Mrs B says I have misunderstood. Mrs B says 
that when she wrote I signed the finance agreement she wasnt referring to this agreement 
but to earlier agreements she had taken out. But Im afraid I dont accept Mrs Bs explanation 
on this point. Mrs B wrote As on previous occasions, having purchased a number of 
vehicles from the same outlet on HP for my sons, I signed the finance agreement. Having 
re-read this email several times I do still think Mrs B is referring to this conditional sale 
agreement when she wrote that as she is referring to an agreement in the singular. I also still 
think that this email showed she was aware she wasnt acting as a guarantor for her son.
However, I appreciate Mrs B disagrees with the view I have taken about that email and so I 
have looked again at the rest of my provisional decision. I think I can fairly say that it wasnt 
solely based upon the contents of that email. If I put the email evidence aside, I still think its 
more likely than not that Mrs B was aware that a conditional sale agreement was being 
prepared in her name. As set out above, I think she knew that her sons email address would 
be used for a copy of the agreement to be sent to and was agreeable with that. I also think 
its more likely than not she had provided her bank details. It isnt disputed that Mrs B knew 
that the monthly payments for this agreement would be taken from her account.
Mrs B says in her response to my provisional decision that she felt under pressure to sign 
the various documentation that shed hand signed and didnt have any part to play in 
electronically signing the conditional sale agreement itself. Im unsure why Mrs B felt any 
pressure as she says she knew the salesperson and was comfortable with them. She was 
also with her son. In these circumstances I still think its reasonable to say she would have 
been able to take the time to read through the documentation to make sure she was aware 
of the terms and conditions she was agreeing to. 
In regard to the signing of the conditional sale agreement itself, Vauxhall Finance says that a 
verification code was sent to Mrs Bs phone and this code has to be used to add the 
signature. I think this means its more likely than Mrs B was involved in that process and that 
it was therefore reasonable to have expected to have read the agreements terms and 
conditions to make sure it was suitable for her.
Mrs B says she was duped by the salesperson who she trusted having used them in the past 
to buy vehicles. But I dont know what was said and I havent seen any evidence that the 
salesperson gave particular advice or said to ignore the terms and conditions set out in the 
agreement. I think Mrs B wanted to help her son obtain a vehicle and knew he wouldnt be 
able to secure the finance to do so for himself.Looking at the evidence Im still satisfied Mrs B would have had an opportunity to look 
through all the paperwork before signing, including the conditional sale agreement. I dont 
have enough information for me to say that the agreement was mis-sold. Im not upholding 
Mrs Bs complaint.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above Im not upholding Mrs Bs complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs B to accept or 
reject my decision before 4 January 2022.
 
Jocelyn Griffith
Ombudsman