DRN-3231653
The complaint
Mr H complained that Salary Finance Limited (SF) refused to consider his loan application, 
despite his earnings exceeding their minimum criteria.
Mr H is assisted in bringing his complaint by a third party. For simplicity, Ive referred to all 
comments and information as being provided by Mr H.
What happened
In or around June 2021, Mr H applied for a loan through SF. He said he was invited to make 
an application through a third-party website whod suggested his application had a 95% 
chance of success.
Mr S said that when applying for the loan, the eligibility criteria stated he:
must be over 18 years of age; and
must have been employed by his employer for at least six months; and
must be a current UK resident; and
must have an income exceeding £6,000 per year.
Mr H said he met all of these requirements, so attempted to complete an application online. 
But his main income was prepopulated in the application based upon his employers records. 
This showed his basic income was less than £6,000, so SF didnt allow his application to 
proceed any further.
Mr H didnt think this was right. His annual earnings over the preceding three years had 
averaged around £12,000. So, he contacted SF by email to tell them this. But despite SF 
resetting his application, he couldnt change the income figure populated by his employers 
records. 
When Mr H spoke to his employers payroll department, they said they couldnt alter the 
figure reported from his employee file. They said this was his core income. Any other 
earnings had been generated by overtime payments. SF said they could only consider Mr 
Hs main income when assessing his eligibility for a loan. 
Mr H obtained copies of his P60s from his employers payroll department confirming that 
hed consistently earned around £12,000 each year for the last three years. But SF said they 
werent able to accept these when assessing his eligibility. So, Mr H decided to complain to 
SF.
SF responded to Mr Hs complaint by email. They confirmed they werent able to use P60 
information to assess his eligibility. And while the third-party website had suggested he had 
a 95% chance of success based upon his earnings, his application through SFs website 
identified that his basic income didnt meet their eligibility criteria. SF said that Mr Hs income 
was confirmed by his employer and was not something they could override. 
Mr H wasnt happy with SFs response, so he decided to refer his complaint to this service. 
Having considered all the information and evidence, our investigator didnt think SF had 
made a mistake, so didnt need to take any further action. 
Mr H didnt agree with our investigators findings. He said:
SF made an error because it never indicated that the income needed to be 
contracted hours only; and
there was nothing to suggest that overtime wasnt eligible; and
his application was prompted by an offer; and
his employers payroll department had deemed that the P60s were evidence of three-
year consistent income; and
the original credit offer was a misleading promotion.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Its reasonable for SF to set the criteria they use when deciding whether theyre willing and 
able to lend to a consumer. The criteria and ultimate decision are part of SFs commercial 
process and policy and it isnt appropriate for this service to influence these. Its not our role 
to ask SF to alter its procedures or processes. This falls firmly within the remit of the 
regulator  in this case, the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA). 
But it is our role to examine and decide whether SF has been fair and reasonable in the 
manner in which those policies and procedures are applied in the individual circumstances of 
Mr Hs experience with them. When considering his complaint, Ive also considered any 
relevant rules and regulations set down by the FCA in their handbook  where they apply.
SF have provided a brief explanation of why they chose not to progress Mr Hs loan 
application. They offer loans that are repaid through salary deduction with certain employers. 
Their income eligibility criteria are based upon an individuals annual contracted income. Mr 
Hs contracted income details were provided to SF by Mr Hs employer. And as overtime 
earnings arent included in Mr Hs contracted income, it meant it didnt meet SFs eligibility 
criteria. SFs policy appears sensible and reasonable as their initial eligibility criteria is based 
on guaranteed income. While I accept that Mr H has regularly and consistently earned 
overtime, this was not guaranteed by his employer. I also cant reasonably hold SF 
responsible for information provided to them by Mr Hs employer. They wouldnt have had 
any control over that.
Although I can appreciate Mr Hs disappointment, I cant say that hes been treated unfairly 
or unreasonably here. Businesses are entitled to set their own criteria as to the amount and 
circumstances under which theyre prepared to lend.
Mr H said his application was prompted by a third-party website suggesting he had a high 
chance of success. That may have been based upon income information provided by either 
Mr H or the credit reference agencies (if available). But unless this specified the makeup of 
Mr Hs earnings, it wouldnt be able to consider SFs eligibility criteria. I cant reasonably hold 
SF responsible for assessments and offers made by another party.
Mr H suggested his employers payroll department told him his P60s provided sufficient 
evidence of his earnings. But as his employer was not the lender here, and so didnt set the 
eligibility criteria, I cant reasonably hold SF responsible for what Mr H may have been told 
by them.
I appreciate that Mr H has found his experiencing distressing and upsetting. Having 
considered all the facts and information, I cant fairly say that SF have done anything wrong 
here. I realise Mr H may disagree, but I shant be asking SF to do anything more.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold Mr Hs complaint.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 12 July 2022.
 
Dave Morgan
Ombudsman