DRN-3471201
The complaint
Mr Cs representative, a claims management company (CMC), complains on his behalf that 
he was given unsuitable investment advice by Bank of Scotland plc trading as Halifax.
What happened
In 2007 Mr C and the late Mrs C received advice from Halifax to invest in a personal 
investment plan. Unfortunately, in 2006 Mrs Cs father passed away leaving Mr and Mrs C 
with inheritance of £70,000. Originally Mr and Mrs C agreed to invest £16,000 into a 
personal investment plan with the intention of keeping the plan for five years.
At the time the advice was given, Mr C and Mrs C were 53 and 49 years old. They had a 
joint income of £1,776 per month, and £3,000 saved for emergencies. They had £41,080 
outstanding on their mortgage and three children who were financially independent. Their 
savings totalled £43,657. 
Mr Cs CMC says they should have never received advice to invest as at the time Mrs C had 
been diagnosed with terminal cancer and sadly, she was aware she only had months to live. 
And as the advisor at Halifax was aware of this it was inconceivable to recommend a 
medium to long term investment for someone who was terminally ill. The CMC has also said 
the advice didnt match their attitude to risk and investment experience.
Halifax didnt agree and felt the advice it offered was suitable.  As Mr C remained unhappy 
the complaint was referred to our service. Our investigator looked into the complaint but 
didnt recommend it be upheld. Again, Mr C and the CMC didnt agree so the case was 
referred to me to consider.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the investigators findings for broadly the same reasons. I will 
explain why. Firstly, I would like to say I am sorry for Mr Cs loss I appreciate I this will be a 
difficult set of circumstances for him to discuss.
Mr Cs CMC has raised two points for me to consider; Mr Cs circumstances at the time he 
invested and his attitude to risk. 
At the time the advice was given, Mr and Mrs C had a joint income of £1,776 per month The 
fact find suggests they needed £1,000 for essential spending which left them with a 
disposable income of £676 and they had £3,000 saved for emergencies.  They had £41,080 
outstanding on their mortgage and children who were financially independent. Their savings 
totalled £43,657. As such, I am satisfied Mr and Mrs C had the ability to meet monthly 
commitments, had a disposable income, cash for emergencies and there was no immediate 
need or access required for the whole of the inheritance they had received. Therefore, I dont 
think it was unreasonable to have considered future planning for their family, including Mr C.
It's clear to me that when Mr and Mrs C received the advice to invest it was a very difficult 
time. And while I empathise with this I dont agree that it was inappropriate for investment 
advice to be provided. I say this because while Mrs C was terminally ill, it doesnt negate the 
need to consider Mr Cs future planning. Often in circumstances such as these, its not 
uncommon for customers who are terminally ill to consider the future planning of immediate 
family members. And, this is consistent with the fact find completed on 6 June 2007, which 
says that the advisor recommended using the inheritance to pay off their existing mortgage, 
but Mrs C wanted to invest the money for the benefit of her family.
I have also considered the financial report which was sent to Mr and Mrs C [after the advice 
was given] It says their existing liabilities were considered but Mr and Mrs C didnt want to 
repay their mortgage as they had protection in place to repay the debt in the event of death. 
The financial report went on to say their objective was capital growth (which was a different 
approach to their previous investment experience) but this was largely due to the fact the 
money they were investing was a proportion of their inheritance. And they wanted the 
potential to achieve higher returns than they were receiving at the time from other savings. 
As such, I am persuaded that it was Mrs Cs intention to ensure provisions were in place for 
Mr Cs future with the objective of capital growth. And while I appreciate Mrs Cs 
circumstances at the time, it cant be ignored that the policy was set up in joint names with 
the intention of Mr C benefitting from it. 
I also note that the financial report confirmed that Mr C had said  that he continues to meet 
the monthly outgoings and in the event of Mrs Cs death the investment was affordable for 
the recommended term (five years). Having considered their financial position at the time (as 
outlined above), including disposable income, savings and emergency planning funds, I 
dont think that it was unreasonable to proceed with the advice.
Taking all that into account, I think it was reasonable to recommend an investment to 
achieve capital growth over the medium to long term, despite Mrs Cs circumstances at the 
time of the advice. I say this because given what  their overall financial circumstances were 
and their objectives for the proportion of money they wished to invest, I am persuaded Mr 
and Mrs Cs intention was to plan for Mr Cs future. Again, as I mentioned previously, this 
isnt unusual given the circumstances at the time.
Mr Cs representative has said they were advised to take too much risk and the attitude to 
risk did not match their previous experience. So, I have considered the suitability report 
which outlines Mr and  Mrs C s attitude to risk and investment objectives. In the report it 
states that they had previously only invested in deposit-based investments, but were now 
prepared to take more risk than in the past because their objective was future growth. The 
report also outlines that investments can fluctuate up and down in value, and that the 
investment should be held for five years or more and that they wanted potential access to 
the funds.
Mr and Mrs Cs attitude to risk was categorised as medium, the report went on to explain this 
was due to Mr and Mrs C wanting to spread their money across a wide range of stock 
market type investments with the potential for long-term growth. Given Mr and Mrs Cs 
objectives, I think this fairly reflects the risk they were willing to take.
I also considered the makeup of the fund. It showed:
40% UK FTSE All Share Index Tracking
30% Pelican
15% High Income 
15% Gilt and Fixed Interest I could see the fund provided investment into a diverse range of assets classes including 
shares and bonds. I agree there was some exposure to risk but for example the equities 
were a range of UK main market companies not AIM stocks. And while there was some 
exposure to risk, this allowed for the opportunity of a higher level of growth, which is what 
they were looking for.  As such, I am satisfied they were willing to take the level of risk this 
fund presented and they fully understood what was recommended.
The report goes on to say:
I will not ask you to make a decision as to whether or not you wish to proceed with my
recommendations until you have had an opportunity to reflect upon them. I would like to
ensure that you have had the chance to consider my advice carefully so that you can make a
balanced and informed decision.
While I accept that Mr and Mrs Cs previous investment experience was limited, they on 
several occasions emphasised the need for future growth and that they wanted a higher 
return than what they had received from deposit accounts. As such they accepted that scope 
for growth came with an element of risk, and one which they were comfortable with taking to 
achieve their objective. The report outlines this clearly to Mr and Mrs C and allows them time 
to reflect and ensure they are comfortable with the advice, as well as outline other options 
for the inheritance Mrs C had received.
Alongside this, I have also seen Mr Cs comments to Halifax about his reasons for wanting to 
close the plan, he explained after checking out other investments he feels he can get better 
returns.  Which emphasises Mr Cs familiarity and experience and his overall understanding 
of investments.
For the reasons I have explained above, I am satisfied Halifax has acted fairly. As such I 
wont be asking it to do anything further.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 11 August 2022.
 
Jade Rowe
Ombudsman