DRN-3741177
The complaint
Mr C complains about the length of time it took Scottish Widows Limited (SW) to respond to 
enquiries he made about his pension. He says the delays has caused a drop in his pension 
fund value. 
What happened
Mr C sent an email to SW on 25 January 2022. In this email he said he wanted to 
understand his options for a drawdown product for his pension. He asked for details of the 
charges and how to initiate the process, whether he could transfer another pension in and 
what his options were for how the drawdown was invested. Mr C says he wished to take 
25% of the fund as tax free cash (TFC) and leave the rest invested in the drawdown plan. 
SW replied to Mr C on 2 February 2022 providing a retirement options pack. Mr C responded 
on 9 February 2022 as he didnt feel his questions had been answered. SW responded on 9 
and 11 February 2022, but Mr C had difficulty opening the secure emails and replied to SW 
to explain he couldnt access the attachments. Mr C called SW on 1 March 2022 as he 
hadnt had a response and raised a complaint. At this time, SW attempted to answer his 
questions on the phone. SW responded further to Mr C on the same day with a guide for 
accessing secure emails. At this time, SW also posted Mr C the documents hed been 
unable to open via email. 
SW responded to Mr Cs complaint on 3 March 2022. It agreed that it had taken longer than 
it would like for him to get through on the phone. But SW didnt agree that it was responsible 
for Mr C not being able to access the secure emails. SW did agree that it hadnt answered 
Mr Cs specific questions. It explained Mr C should call to have questions about the 
drawdown process and charges answered. And SW also said that it had confirmed in an 
email dated 9 February that his pension scheme didnt accept transfers in. 
Mr C didnt accept this and SW reviewed things again. It offered Mr C £150 for the distress 
and inconvenience the matter had caused. It also agreed it had delayed matters by three 
weeks. So it offered to backdate the pension value by three weeks if Mr C did transfer his 
pension and if the difference in value had caused him a loss, it would pay this as 
compensation. Mr C also told SW on 26 March 2022 that he had arranged to transfer his 
pension to another provider. SW sent the funds to the new pension provider on 6 April 2022. 
On 11 April, Mr C contacted SW again. He said his pension fund had fallen by over £2,000 
from when he first contacted SW to when it was transferred. However, when SW calculated 
the transfer value three weeks previous, it said it had only caused a loss of £130.67.
Mr C didnt accept this and referred his complaint to us. One of our Investigators looked into 
things. He thought that the resolution offered by SW was fair and didnt ask it to take any 
further actions.
Mr C didnt agree. He said that the delays had meant hed lost out on the transfer value of 
his pension and was now unable to take the TFC hed wanted to. He asked for the complaint 
to be considered by an ombudsman. So its been passed to me to review and make a final 
decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The crux of Mr Cs complaint is about the delays in SW responding to his queries. He says 
this delay meant his fund dropped in value. Mr C says this is because he couldnt make a 
decision about what to do with either his SW pension or his other pension until he knew 
whether SW would accept the transfer in of his other pension. Mr C thinks SW should offer 
him a transfer of the fund value somewhere between 6 and 9 February 2022 which is shortly 
after he first contacted it. 
Mr C first contacted SW on 25 January 2022 by email. It responded providing a retirement 
options pack on 2 February 2022. I dont find this an unreasonable response time. However, 
this didnt answer all of Mr Cs questions, so he got back in touch with SW again on 
9 February to ask the questions again. He had to chase SW for a response to this on 
1 March 2022. I do agree that SW shouldve got in touch with Mr C sooner than this. At this 
time, SW tried to answer Mr Cs questions on the phone, and also sent out the information 
hed requested. 
From what Mr C has told us, it seems his priority was to amalgamate his two pensions into a 
drawdown facility. He said he asked both SW and the other provider the same question. 
Mr C says the other provider told him immediately that he wouldnt be able to transfer his 
other SW pension to it. So it seems Mr C was waiting on confirmation from SW before he 
could take action. 
Ive been provided with a copy of an email from SW to Mr C on 9 February where it 
confirmed it could not accept transfers into his pension scheme. So by this point I think Mr C 
had been provided with sufficient information for him to be able to decide whether he wished 
to transfer his pension or not. But he didnt start the process of transferring his pension until 
26 March 2022.
Whilst I accept that Mr Cs complaint was ongoing with SW during this time, I see no reason 
why Mr C couldnt have started the process to transfer both of his pensions at this stage. I 
agree that SW shouldve answered Mr Cs specific questions sooner. But it had provided Mr 
C with the information he needed to make a decision by this point. 
The transfer process timeframe is largely dependent on the actions of the new provider. The 
funds were released to his new provider by SW within a reasonable time period on 6 April 
2022, so I dont think SW caused delays in this regard.  
As Ive set out above, there were some delays in SW responding to Mr C. But I dont think 
that it was longer than three weeks between Mr C first making his enquiry and him receiving 
enough information to make a decision about transferring his pension. So I think SWs offer 
to backdate the transfer value by three weeks is fair and reasonable in the circumstances. 
I understand that Mr C had difficulty accessing SWs secured email system and this has 
potentially contributed to delays. However, SW does have a responsibility to send 
documents in a secure manner. And how to do so is generally a decision for a business to 
make. SW has confirmed there were no issues with its secure system during this time. So 
I think its more likely it was the device Mr C was trying to access the documents on that was 
the issue here. And thats not something I can hold SW responsible for. I do appreciate that it was frustrating for Mr C not to have his questions immediately 
answered and having to chase SW for an answer. But I think the £150 SW has offered to 
recognise this, as well as the offer to pay him £130.67 (representing the drop in transfer 
value during the three week delay), is fair in the circumstances. So Im not going to ask it to 
pay anything further.  
My final decision
Scottish Widows Limiteds has offered to pay Mr C £130.67 for the drop in transfer value and 
£150 for the distress and inconvenience this matter has caused is fair and reasonable in the 
circumstances. So it should pay it to settle the complaint if it hasnt done so already. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 February 2023.
 
Rob Deadman
Ombudsman