DRN-3799664
The complaint
Mr C and Mrs T have complained about their home insurer AXA Insurance UK Plc regarding 
a remaining settlement for outstanding work resulting from a water leak claim in 2016.
What happened
Following the 2016 leak and claim, matters did not progress as Mr C and Mrs T would have 
hoped. They had cause to complain on several occasions to AXA and this service. 
In January 2022 AXA was expecting Mr C and Mrs T to repay to it £1,555.58 it had paid to 
them for replacing some flooring in their home. AXA was then going to replace that flooring 
for them and fix a door. However, Mr C and Mrs T werent prepared to pay the money back 
to AXA unless it gave them certain details about the work. AXA, in mid-February 2022, in an 
effort to resolve matters, told Mr C and Mrs T that it would do the work and then ask for the 
money to be returned. Mr C and Mrs T asked if they could submit their own quote for work 
for AXA to consider, and that was agreed.
The quote Mr C and Mrs T sent to AXA was for £2,675 and only included flooring 
replacement. But some of the work was to areas of flooring which AXA didnt feel it was 
liable for  and which the sum of £1,555.58 had not been paid in respect of. AXA told Mr C 
and Mrs T that it could still send its door specialist out if needed. It also explained to Mr C 
and Mrs T what portion of their quote it felt it was liable for, which was less than the 
£1,555.58 it had already paid. 
Mr C clarified to AXA that the door had not been fixed  he thought the flooring contractor 
would have done that as part of their work and he hadnt seen the quote it had provided 
(which showed that work wouldnt be done). AXA reviewed the costs and work. It said that 
from Mr C and Mrs Ts quote for flooring, it was reasonably liable for £1,281. And it felt the 
difference between that and the sum of £1,555.58, which had already been paid to them, 
would cover the cost of the outstanding repair to the door. So it said it wasnt prepared to do 
any more work at their home or pay them anything further. AXA acknowledged though that it 
had caused Mr C and Mrs T some upset during 2022 whilst arrangements for this final work 
were being made. It said it would pay them £500 compensation.
Mr C and Mrs T werent happy with AXA. They complained. They told us that they felt £500 
was unfair given everything theyd been through with AXA.  They said AXA should pay for 
the work theyd had done as any money AXA had given to them before had been spent on 
other things.
Our Investigator confirmed that we could only look at the claim activity, and any upset 
caused to Mr C and Mrs T between 4 January 2022 and 22 March 2022. In that respect he 
felt the £500 compensation paid by AXA was fair and reasonable. He also felt its limit of 
liability for the outstanding work had been met. 
Mr C and Mrs T said that £500 was not enough  it did not even cover their costs for making 
the complaint. They said there was still thousands of pounds of work to be done. Their 
complaint was passed for an Ombudsmans consideration.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, and with regret for the upset I know this will cause Mr C and Mrs T, Im 
satisfied that AXA has no further liability to them for this specific work, or any upset they 
were caused in this period. Ive explained my views below.
I appreciate that Mr C and Mrs T have been through a lot in the years since the leak. And 
I know things have been incredibly difficult for them at times. I also accept that because of 
that history everything that happened in the first few months of 2022, the period during which 
I can consider what AXA did, will have been felt more acutely by them. At this time they were 
already worn out from what they perceived as a long drawn out claim for which, from their 
point of view, theyd had to fight about at every turn. And in January 2022 they reasonably 
felt this aspect of outstanding work was nearly resolved. However, instead of that resolving 
simply, it was again an issue that Mr C and Mrs T felt they had to go into debate with AXA 
about, and it was some months before they finally had replacement flooring, although the 
problem with their door remained unresolved. I do think though that AXA, in paying £500 
compensation in May 2022, has taken all of that into account. 
I say that because, without the events of 2022 being set in the context of the history of the 
claim, I wouldnt have expected AXA to pay that much compensation. AXA seems to accept 
that it caused a few weeks of delay in deciding whether or not to progress the work without 
the funds being returned by Mr C and Mrs T. And there was clearly then some discussions 
needed between the parties to progress to the point where, instead, Mr C and Mrs T would 
do the work. But that level of inconvenience, by itself, without the context of the history of the 
claim, isnt something Id award £500 for. I do think AXAs payment of £500 compensation, in 
the circumstances of this complaint, which is inextricably linked to and influenced by the way 
the claims history had left Mr C and Mrs T feeling in the early part of 2022, is fair and 
reasonable. 
I know that Mr C and Mrs T, having replaced their flooring, feel left out of pocket. And Im 
mindful that the door is still to be repaired. Although I understand from Mr C and Mrs T that 
theyve been able to forestall any more damage occurring at least. But I do think that AXA 
has covered the cost of the repair it is liable for  both in respect of flooring and the door.
AXA, for flooring, had paid Mr C and Mrs T £1,555.58. I know they say theyve spent that on 
other things. But that doesnt mean AXA must pay them this again. They were paid that sum 
for replacing flooring, and as long as they were able to do that work, for that money, then 
AXA, regarding the flooring, has no more liability to them.
Mr C and Mrs T had a quote for flooring totalling £2,675. That was much more than the sum 
AXA had paid them. But AXA reviewed that and found that it included installation of 
underfloor heating, laminate flooring in the lounge which hadnt been part of the claim, and 
laying laminate in rooms where it had paid for vinyl flooring (where vinyl had been in place at 
the point of the claim). So it reviewed the quote, making certain deductions, the underfloor 
heating for example, for which it felt it had no liability for. It did not adjust the values left for 
laminate in rooms it was liable for, even though, strictly speaking, the cost of vinyl would 
likely have been less. It felt that, of the £2,675, its liability, taking account of those 
deductions, was £1,281. It explained all of this, including the relevant values to Mr C 
and Mrs T. They didnt object to that. And, having reviewed the quotes and values myself, 
I think AXA assessed this fairly and reasonably. As I said, it could have argued over the 
difference in cost between laminate and vinyl. But it did not. As Mr C and Mrs T have already had the benefit of more than £1,281 from AXA, I cant fairly and reasonably say it has any 
remaining lability to them for replacing flooring at their home.
I know the door is still a worry for Mr C and Mrs T. But they havent shown AXA what it will 
cost them to fix this. And as AXA already gave £1,555.58, only £1,281 of which theyve had 
to spend on replacing the flooring AXA was liable for, that still leaves £274.58 which could 
be spent on the door. I realise that Mr C and Mrs T will say  but this has already been spent 
on something else. But I couldnt reasonably require AXA to fix their door, or pay them 
something more for it to be fixed, when they have had the benefit of the sum of £274.58. 
It may well be that Mr C and Mrs T feel that they had to spend that sum to sort out other 
things that they were unhappy with that AXA had done. But as of January 2022 they and 
AXA were focussing on resolving the issue of the flooring and the door, with £1,555.58 
having been paid to them for the flooring, with them then spending just £1,281 of that sum 
(not necessarily that money) on that work. Which left them with a balance from that sum 
(again I realise that this is not necessarily a balance of money in their pocket) of £274.58. 
I cant fairly ignore that. And only if I had evidence showing that the repair of the door would 
cost more than that could I reasonably make AXA pay anything more. Even then it would 
only be the difference between the balance of £274.58 and what the cost for repair was. But 
I simply dont have anything which makes me think that to fix the door will cost Mr C and 
Mrs T more than £274.58. As such, and with regret for the disappointment I know this will 
cause Mr C and Mrs T, Im satisfied that AXA has no outstanding liability to them for fixing 
the door.
My final decision
In respect of this complaint, I dont require AXA Insurance UK Plc to do anything more.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C and Mrs T to 
accept or reject my decision before 1 March 2023.
 
Fiona Robinson
Ombudsman