DRN-1902458
The complaint
Mr M has complained that Valour Finance Limited (trading as Savvy) gave him unaffordable 
loans. 
What happened
Mr M took two instalment loans from Savvy between May 2019 and August 2019. A 
summary of his borrowing, based on the information provided to us from the lender can be 
found below:
Loan Date Taken Date RepaidNo of Monthly 
InstalmentsAmount 
BorrowedMonthly 
Repayment
1 20/05/2019 25/07/2019 24 £2,100.00 £158.16
2 15/08/2019 19/02/2020 15 £1,500.00 £200.00
One of our adjudicators looked at Mr Ms complaint. She thought the checks Savvy 
completed for Mr Ms first loan went far enough so she didnt think it was wrong to provide it. 
Whilst she thought that Savvy should have completed more comprehensive checks for loan 
two, she didnt see any information that suggested Mr M wouldnt be able to sustain the loan 
repayments. So, the adjudicator didnt uphold Mr Ms complaint about his loans.
It appears that Savvy agreed with our adjudicators opinion. Mr M disagreed and asked for 
an ombudsmans decision.
 
As no agreement could be reached the complaint has been passed to me for a final 
decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive also taken into account the law, any
relevant regulatory rules and good industry practice at the time the facility was provided. 
Savvy needed to take reasonable steps to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In practice 
this means that it should have carried out proportionate checks to make sure Mr M could 
repay the loans in a sustainable manner. These checks could take into account a number of 
different things, such as how much was being lent, the repayment amounts, and the 
consumers income and expenditure. With this in mind, in the early stages of a lending
relationship, I think less thorough checks might be reasonable and proportionate.
But certain factors might point to the fact that Savvy should fairly and reasonably have done 
more to establish that any lending was sustainable for the consumer. These factors include:
the lower a consumers income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make
any loan repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income);
the higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income);
the greater the number and frequency of loans, and the longer the period of time
during which a customer has been given loans (reflecting the risk that repeated
refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming,
unsustainable).
There may even come a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable.
Ive carefully considered all of the arguments, evidence and information provided in this
context and what this all means for Mr Ms complaint. And I dont think Savvy were wrong to 
approve Mr Ms loan. Id like to explain why.
When Mr M initially applied for his loans online, he was told to ring Savvy to complete his 
loan applications. Savvy has provided a copy of the underwriting calls at the time of each 
loan application - which Ive listened to. 
Loan 1
The advisor explained that they would have to ask him a series of questions about his 
circumstances before seeing if he was accepted for a loan. This was based on information 
he had provided to Savvy online. 
Mr M told Savvy he was employed, earning £3,300 a month which was paid on a monthly 
basis. In addition to this, he had a pension which gave him an additional income of £500 a 
month. 
The advisor asked Mr M about his monthly expenditure. Mr M confirmed he had no 
dependants and was a homeowner paying £460 for his mortgage. He also confirmed he was 
paying £400 for his household bills, £100 for food/housekeeping, £100 for the upkeep of his 
car, £100 for entertainment/trips and £200 for ongoing debt repayments.
The advisor asked Mr M if he held any loans from a list of five other short-term lenders. Mr M 
confirmed he had no loans with these businesses. The advisor asked Mr M if he had any 
other expenditure. Mr M confirmed he didnt. 
During the call, Savvy completed a credit check. The results of the credit check showed that 
Mr M had a mortgage with a repayment of £451 a month, seven credit cards, two unsecured 
loans and two mail order accounts. Savvy approved Mr Ms loan based on all the information 
it gathered and advised Mr M it didnt need to see any further documentation before he 
received the funds in his account.
Our adjudicator thought that Savvys checks were proportionate for Mr Ms first loan. But I do 
think there is an argument to say that Savvy didnt do enough to check the loan repayments 
were affordable for Mr M. Even though the loan looked more than affordable, the loan term 
was 24 months, so Savvy needed to be sure that Mr M would be able to not only afford the 
repayments over this period but sustain them. 
So, I think Savvy needed to be verifying the information that Mr M was providing, and it 
couldve done this a number of ways. In order to understand what Mr Ms circumstances were like at the time of his loan 
application, Ive considered the information showing on a copy of his credit file he provided, 
along with other information we have received about his short-term loans. But having done 
this, I dont think any additional checks Savvy may have carried out wouldve likely shown 
the lending was unaffordable or unstainable. So, the level of checks doesnt make a 
difference to the outcome here, and I dont think Savvy was wrong to approve Mr Ms first 
loan.
Loan 2
Mr M applied for his second loan around three months after taking out his first loan, and 
around two weeks after repaying loan 1.
During the underwriting call with Savvy, Mr M provided broadly similar information about his 
circumstances compared to that of his first loan. It appears his employment, income and 
expenditure hadnt significantly changed in the previous three months. 
Savvy completed a credit check. The results of this check were similar to Mr Ms first loan. It 
seems he hadnt taken out any new accounts during the period he held his previous loan.
Savvy also asked about Mr Ms borrowing with five other lenders and Mr M confirmed he 
didnt have any outstanding loans with the five lenders Savvy queried. 
But, I still think Savvy should have completed additional checks to understand if Mr M was 
able to meet and sustain his repayments. This was now his second loan with Savvy and the 
loan was being requested within two weeks of repaying his first loan.  Whilst Mr M repaid 
loan 1 earlier than the contractual term of 24 months, he was now committing to be indebted 
for a further 15 months. And although he borrowed a smaller amount, the contractual 
repayments he was committed to making had actually increased. 
Ive considered Mr Ms circumstances at the time he applied for loan 2. Whilst I can see he 
held another short-term loan at the time, he repaid this loan on the same day he received his 
Savvy loan. 
So even thought I think Savvy shouldve made further enquires with Mr M, based on the 
information he has provided, I dont think Savvy wouldve likely seen that either loan was 
unaffordable for him. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained above, Im not upholding Mr Ms complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 16 December 2020.
 
Robert Walker
Ombudsman