DRN-3236967
The complaint
Mr K has complained about Allianz Insurance Plc which is the property insurer for the 
building in which he owns a 2 bedroom flat which he lets out. It declined his claim for loss of 
rent after his flat sustained water damage from a leaking soil pipe and new tenants couldnt 
move in. He feels the situation was compounded by delays in the claim process.
What happened
Mr Ks tenants had to leave in March 2020 due to the pandemic. When he went to the 
property in June 2020 he found damp and mould in several rooms. He made a claim to the 
management company which holds the insurance for the property as a whole. It was the end 
of July when the management company notified a claim to the insurance broker. The broker 
began considering the claim but in mid-August decided a loss adjuster was required. The 
loss adjuster visited the property in mid-September 2020.  
By this point Allianz had been informed of the claim and the adjuster reported to it. Allianz 
initially declined the claim outright  it was felt that the property was suffering from various 
long-term damp issues. The loss adjuster then told Allianz that some of the damage in the 
lounge might likely have been caused by a leaking soil stack. So he recommended the claim 
be accepted on a limited basis, with payment being made to reinstate the related damage. 
This left Mr K liable for reinstating the master bedroom, en-suite, main bathroom and the 
hall.
It was late October before this offer was put to Mr K. He said with the property not having 
been reinstated he had lost the tenants hed had lined up to move in in August 2020, so he 
wanted to be paid for lost rent. Allianz said the property hadnt been uninhabitable and 
thered been no undue delays. Mr K disagreed and complained to us. 
Our investigator said we could only look at what had happened after the claim had been 
notified to Allianz. In that respect he felt Allianz had handled the claim in a reasonably timely 
manner. Regarding the rent, he felt the property hadnt been uninhabitable. 
Mr K was unhappy with this outcome, he explained again why he felt the property had been 
uninhabitable. And he said hed complain to the broker about its actions before the claim 
was passed to Allianz. Mr Ks complaint was passed to me to consider. 
I felt the complaint should be upheld in respect of delays, but I wasnt minded to make 
Allianz reimburse Mr K any lost rent. So I issued a provisional decision to share my findings 
with both parties. My findings were:
uninhabitable
I know Mr K was concerned about the safety of the tenants  living in a property which was 
undergoing work, and having to live with workmen around their personal items. He feels that 
letting the property whilst work was going on would have put him in breach of the tenancy 
agreement as the tenants wouldnt have access to or use of the living space. I can 
understand that concern. But having workmen in a property doesnt mean the property is 
uninhabitable. And Allianz wasnt offering loss of rent cover for when it wasnt possible to let 
the property in line with the tenancy agreement  it was offering cover for when insured 
damage made the property uninhabitable.
In insurance terms, the definition of uninhabitable usually reflects the absence and complete 
unavailability of basic necessities. Such as those required for bathing and cooking. The 
insured damage  which necessitated plaster removal, drying and reinstatement work in the 
lounge, didnt prevent the propertys bathing and cooking facilities being used. At best the 
insured work might have made cooking in the kitchen, attached to the living room 
inconvenient, and maybe undesirable but it wasnt impossible. Nor do I think work at the far 
end of the lounge from where the kitchen is situated, prevented access to the kitchen. I say 
that even bearing in mind the size of the lounge. The presence of workers tools and drying 
equipment in use would have made this property, in respect of the repairs for the insured 
damage, noisy and uncomfortable to live in, but not uninhabitable. 
Damp and mould, when excessive, can make living in a property unsafe. But I havent seen 
any moisture readings or any expert opinion about how wet the property was. And I bear in 
mind that Allianz didnt accept liability for all of the moisture damage  only for the damage in 
the lounge. So even if I was persuaded that the moisture level in the flat as a whole was 
dangerously high, such as to be considered unsafe, I couldnt reasonably conclude that level 
of moisture was due to the insured damage Allianz was liable for under the policy. 
Mr K argued that the electrical supply in the property had to be disconnected for work to be 
done and that would have meant the whole property was disconnected  the power supply to 
the bedrooms, bathrooms and kitchen couldnt have been isolated from the lounge and 
maintained. But I dont see that the insured work included necessary repairs to the electricity 
installation. And the repair estimate Allianz settled the claim against showed no electrical 
work at all was done  not even reconnecting sockets. So if the electrical supply in the 
property was damaged and/or did have to be disconnected entirely for a prolonged period, 
Im not persuaded that was because of the insured damage in the lounge.
I have taken into account an email from Mr Ks contractor. The contractor said the property 
was uninhabitable during the lounge works. But, as well as the insured work Allianz paid for, 
the contractor was completing work in the lounge that wasnt subject of the claim Allianz had 
accepted  namely repairing/reinstating the tanking. And, importantly, the contractor is not 
an insurance expert. So, in respect of whether the insured works made the property 
uninhabitable in insurance terms, I dont find his opinion persuasive. 
So Im not persuaded the property was uninhabitable. It follows that I dont think Allianz had 
any liability under the policy to provide Mr K cover for loss of rent. Its decline was, in my 
view, fair and reasonable.
delays
The broker for the policy initially began progressing the claim. But claim handling is an 
activity insurers carry out. So when a broker handles the claim this is usually done by virtue 
of an arrangement the insurer has with the broker, whereby the insurer delegates its claim 
handling function to the broker. So if the broker doesnt handle the claim well, that error is 
seen as having been an error of the insurer. Having seen the later correspondence between 
the broker, Allianz and the loss adjuster, I think that here it is most likely that the broker was 
initially handling the claim on behalf of Allianz. And I think the broker caused delays.
The broker knew in late July that this claim was likely complex  with more than one cause 
of damage, with one of the causes not being covered by the policy. I think it should have 
appointed a loss adjuster then  but the loss adjuster wasnt appointed until mid-August. The adjuster then didnt arrange an appointment to view the damage until September. So Im 
satisfied there was a month of delay at this point. 
After Allianz received the loss adjusters report, I think the claim was progressed in a 
reasonably timely manner until around mid-October, when a further delay of around a week 
occurred. Allianz communicated its offer of settlement to the loss adjuster, who had to put 
that to the broker and the broker then delayed actioning the offer. 
So I think the claim was delayed by around five weeks. And if those delays had been 
avoided, Mr K would have been aware of Allianzs settlement offer before the end of 
September. And Ill take that delay into account when awarding compensation.
impact of the delay on the tenancy
Regardless of the policy wording for loss of rent, if I felt that the delays caused by the 
business most likely caused Mr K to lose rent he would otherwise have benefited from, then 
I might make Allianz reimburse his loss. But for me to do that I have to be persuaded that but 
for the delays, Mr K would have received rent. In the circumstances here, Im not persuaded 
thats most likely.
Mr K says he had an arrangement with the new tenants to not pay rent so they could find 
temporary accommodation elsewhere until the flat was ready  but because it wasnt ready 
by October, as he had hoped it would be, they found permanent lodgings instead. The 
difficulty for Mr K is that the repairs werent on hold until Allianz decided its liability for the 
loss. Rather they progressed before, during and after Allianz involvement. I see from the 
repair invoices that drying began in early August, with the damaged plasterwork in the 
lounge having been removed before the loss adjusters visit in September. The property was 
then found to be dry on 2 October. So if the tenants found permanent residence elsewhere 
because the flat wasnt ready by October, Im not persuaded that was due to any delay of 
Allianz. And I say that even without factoring in the fact that work was needed in the main 
bedroom, bathrooms and hallway which Allianz wasnt responsible for. 
So having carefully reviewed the delays in this claim, and the details Mr K has shared with 
this service about the tenancy, Im not persuaded that Allianz delay prevented him from 
achieving rental income which he would otherwise have received. As such I cant reasonably 
make Allianz compensate him for lost rent.
compensation for delay
But I accept that Mr K had a reasonable expectation that his claim would progress smoothly 
and without delay. As I explained above, I think the claim could and should have progressed 
more quickly  that in particular in August 2020 there were avoidable delays. I accept that 
this was likely frustrating for Mr K and that he would have been chasing the propertys 
management company for updates. I can understand hed have been caused an amount of 
worry; wondering how the tenancy might be affected by the works and the claim, but also 
worry from uncertainty about what the claim outcome would be. If the delays had been 
avoided then much of Mr Ks worry and frustration would have been too  because he 
wouldnt have had to chase for so long, and hed have known what the claim outcome was 
earlier. I think that to make up for all that upset Allianz should pay Mr K £250 compensation. Allianz said it accepted the provisional decision. Mr K said he disagreed with it.
Mr K said the only real issue was that Allianz had accepted the claim  as such loss of rent 
became payable under the policy. He said it was unclear how I could accept the condition of 
the flat as he had explained it, and then conclude it was liveable. He said the tanking work in 
the lounge necessitated drying equipment being on constantly and sometimes disconnection 
of the electrical sockets, as well as the electricity supply to the flat as a whole. 
 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I understand that Mr K is disappointed by my findings. But given the nature of the insurance 
product, it would be illogical for me not to take into account the fact that Allianz did not 
accept liability for all of the damage claimed for. And that the damage it did accept liability for 
didnt, in my view, make the property uninhabitable. Further, it seems to me that, having 
considered the policy as a whole, the loss of rent cover only flows from Allianz liability for 
repairing the property due to damage. So, it would seem unreasonable to me to require 
Allianz to cover lost rent, when that loss wasnt caused by damage it had accepted liability 
for resolving under the policy. 
Mr K says I accepted what he had said about the conditions in the property making it 
uninhabitable. But that is not correct. I looked at each issue Mr K had raised and, for 
example, I said I did not think the situation in the lounge, or its proximity to the kitchen, made 
it impossible to access or use the kitchen. Only if the kitchen couldnt be used  not just that 
doing so was a bit awkward or unappealing  might the property be uninhabitable. 
Likewise, in my provisional decision, I did consider what Mr K had said about the electrical 
sockets and supply. I explained that, on the repair estimate Allianz had paid the claim 
against, there was no detail given of electrical work. I see Mr K has now clarified that work 
on the sockets and the disruption to the supply as a whole occurred as part of the work for 
reinstating the tanking. But tanking wasnt part of the claim Allianz had accepted, and wasnt 
detailed on the estimate it had accepted and paid against. So whilst I dont doubt what Mr K 
says  that the flat was sometimes without electricity due to work to reinstate the tanking  
this wasnt something Allianz had accepted liability for under the policy.  
Whilst Ive considered Mr Ks response to my provisional decision, it hasnt changed my 
mind about what I said. As such, Ive no need to change my provisional findings and they 
now form part of the findings of this, my final decision.
Putting things right
I require Allianz to pay Mr K £250 compensation for the distress and inconvenience its claim 
handling delays caused.
My final decision
I uphold this complaint and require Allianz Insurance Plc to provide the redress set out 
above at putting thing right. Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr K to accept or 
reject my decision before 7 February 2022.
 
Fiona Robinson
Ombudsman