DRN-3112069
The complaint
Mrs B complains that Loans 2 Go Limited made an irresponsible lending decision when 
agreeing to provide her a loan.
What happened
In May 2019 Mrs B took a personal loan with Loans 2 Go for £500. The borrowing was to be 
repaid over a period of 18 months with monthly payments of £114.28 giving a total amount 
repayable of £2057.04.
In February 2020 Mrs B complained to Loans 2 Go. She said that she believed the loan 
should not have been given to her as insufficient checks were carried out to determine 
whether the loan was affordable. She felt had this happened, it would have been clear the 
loan was unaffordable and Loans 2 Go had lent to her irresponsibly. She also complained 
about the interest rate of the loan.
Loans 2 Go sent its final response to Mrs B on 21 March 2020. It explained why it felt the 
checks it carried out were proportionate to determine whether the loan was affordable and it 
didnt agree it had been irresponsible with its lending decision. It said how it had taken both 
information provided by Mrs B during the application and information from online verification 
tools to be as accurate as possible with the income expenditure checks. It also allowed a 
further buffer of 10% on top of this and felt it demonstrated the loan was affordable and left 
Mrs B some disposable income.
Our investigator looked at Mrs Bs complaint and said that he believed Loans 2 Go needed 
to do something to put things right with this complaint. He felt the amount of disposable 
income Mrs B would have been left with each month gave her little room for manoeuvre if 
her income or outgoings changed and further consideration should have been given to Mrs 
Bs wider financial circumstances.  
Mrs Bs credit file obtained at the time of the lending suggested shed had some recent 
financial difficulty  some of which could be considered significant. Six months before the 
loan was taken out shed defaulted on a mail order account and there was a current arrear 
on a public utility account. The credit file also showed three separate payday loans taken out 
in the nine months leading up to the Loans 2 Go loan being taken out. Mrs B also had two 
running credit accounts opened recently which were close to their limits and her credit card 
limit was also close to the maximum. There was also an outstanding county court judgement 
from December 2016 with a balance of £1870. 
Overall he thought the checks carried out by Loans 2 Go demonstrated that Mrs B wouldnt 
have been likely to make repayments sustainably over the full term of the loan agreement. 
He said Mrs B had lost out as her level of indebtedness had increased because of the 
lending decision, adding to the financial difficulty Mrs B was already experiencing and the 
borrowing proved to be unsustainable and harmful as a result.
He recommended that all interest and charges paid on the account be refunded. If the loan 
was still in place the balance should be reduced by the value of this and if any balance 
remained after this, Mrs B should be paid the surplus with 8% interest added. If a balance on 
the loan remained, it shouldnt be subject to any historic or future interest and or charges. It 
should also remove any adverse information recorded on Mrs Bs credit file as a result of the 
interest and charges. 
Loans 2 Go disagreed. It maintained that Mrs B would have been left with a disposable 
income after her new loan repayment and this was sufficient to deem the loan affordable. 
And it felt the credit report results were overall very positive. It accepted there was some 
adverse information but this is expected given the type of lending it provides. It appreciates 
not everyone has a perfect credit score, but it felt Mrs B demonstrated stability and that the 
monthly payments were affordable and it didnt think it had made an irresponsible lending 
decision.
Because Loans 2 Go disagreed, the complaint has been passed to me for final decision.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive decided to uphold this complaint for much the same reasons as our investigator and will 
explain why.
Our approach to unaffordable/irresponsible lending can be found on our website and Ive 
followed this approach when considering Mrs Bs complaint.
The rules and regulations relevant at the time Loans 2 Go provided Mrs B with the loan are 
set by the FCA in the Consumer Credit Sourcebook (CONC) rules. These required Loans 2 
Go to carry out an assessment of credit worthiness with reasonable and proportionate 
checks to determine whether she could afford to repay the loan in a sustainable way. These 
checks needed to be borrower focused, so giving consideration to whether making the 
repayments in a sustainable way could result in difficulties to Mrs B. 
There is no set list of checks defined as reasonable and proportionate and as these checks 
need to be borrower focused, it follows that this could be different from one person to the 
next.
Loans 2 Go feels the checks it carried out were reasonable and proportionate and that from 
these, it was clear the loan was affordable to Mrs B. So they believed shed be able to meet 
the repayments without it being likely to cause difficulties or harm. I agree the checks carried 
out were reasonable and proportionate to the size of the loan and term of the borrowing. But 
I dont agree they demonstrated Mrs B was likely to be able to repay the loan in a 
sustainable way. Nor do I think a fair description of Mrs Bs credit report from the application 
would be very positive. 
In the proceeding months ahead of the application with Loans 2 Go, it was apparent Mrs B 
wasnt able to meet her regular outgoings without difficulty or intervention. She had taken out 
three payday loans in nine months and had outstanding balances on all of them with very 
little repaid on each since theyd been taken out. The most recent of these applications was 
made just two months before the application with Loans 2 Go. And her other accounts were 
close to their credit limits.  The credit report also showed accounts where repayments had been missed with a default 
applied within the last six months to a mail order account and a county court judgement 
(CCJ) issued within the last three years.  She also had a recent arrear with her public utility 
provider. 
The reliance on payday lenders and adverse information on the credit file didnt demonstrate 
that Mrs B was in a very positive position with her finances. And I think the use of payday 
loans demonstrated, that despite the details provided and verified by Loans 2 Go and its 
verification checks, it was unlikely that Mrs B had the level of disposable income it said she 
had each month. And with the number of outstanding payday loans with little repayments 
made together with the CCJ  outstanding, I think it was clear that it was unlikely that Mrs B 
would be able to repay the loan in a sustainable way. I think this should have been clear 
from the checks carried out and Loans 2 Go made an irresponsible lending decision when it 
provided Mrs B with the loan. Because of this I think Loans 2 Go need to do something to 
put things right.
Ive not given any consideration to the interest rate  I know Mrs B complained about this as 
part of her complaint but the redress Im directing Loans 2 Go to make will mean this point 
becomes redundant.
Putting things right
Mrs B cannot be put back in the position she would have been in had the loan not been 
taken out as shes had the benefit of the funds. But I think its fair Loans 2 Go do the 
following to put things right for her now:
1. Refund all interest and charges Mrs B has paid to date.
2. If the borrowing is still in place, Loans 2 Go should reduce the outstanding capital 
balance by the amount calculated in step 1 above.
3. If after step 2 an outstanding capital balance remains, Loans 2 Go should ensure that 
Mrs B isnt subject to any historic or future interest and or charges. But if after step 2 
there is a positive balance remaining, the amount in question should be given back to 
Mrs B with 8% simple interest* added to the surplus.
4. Remove any adverse information recorded on Mrs Bs credit file as a result of the 
interest and charges. 
*Loans 2 Go may be required to deduct tax from this payment at the standard rate. If it does 
it should provide Mrs B, upon request, a statement to show the tax deducted.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained above, I uphold Mrs Bs complaint against Loans 2 Go 
Limited and direct it to take the steps required above to put things right.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs B to accept or 
reject my decision before 21 April 2022.
 
Thomas Brissenden
Ombudsman