DRN-2518297
The complaint
Mr M and Mrs M are unhappy that Royal & Sun Alliance Insurance Plc (RSA) declined a 
claim for storm damage under their home insurance policy.
What happened
During a storm, Mr M and Mrs Ms wall in their back garden collapsed. So, they contacted 
RSA to make an insurance claim. RSA investigated the claim and then declined it because, 
although it accepted there had been a storm, it said that the wall had collapsed due to the 
deterioration of the wall over a period of time.
When Mr M and Mrs M complained to RSA, it maintained its decision to decline the claim. 
So, Mr M and Mrs M complaint to this service. Our investigator upheld the complaint. He 
said that he thought that the wall looked in reasonable condition and that it could have 
withstood the storm, but that as it had been hit by a neighbours fence during the storm that 
this had caused it to collapse.
As RSA did not agree, the complaint has been referred to me.
 
I issued my provisional decision on 14 December 2020. In my provisional decision, I 
explained the reasons why I was planning not to uphold the complaint. I said:
When we look at a storm claim complaint, there are three main issues we consider:
1.    do we agree that storm conditions occurred on or around the date the damage is said to 
have happened?
2.    is the damage claimed for consistent with damage a storm typically causes?
3.    were the storm conditions the main cause of the damage?
Were only likely to uphold a complaint where the answer to all three questions is yes.
So, looking at the first question, it isnt in dispute that there were storm conditions around the 
time of the claim. This included wind speeds reaching 69 mph.
For the second question, I think that there are instances where strong winds can cause walls 
to blow down and for other items to strike a wall due to the force of the wind. But, I think it is 
questionable whether the type of damage in this case is typical of a storm where a wall is 
well constructed and maintained.
So, I will now consider the third question of whether the storm conditions were the main 
cause of the damage.  A surveyor inspected the wall as part of assessing the claim. He 
found that there was significant dilapidation to the wall, including that the wall itself had a 
pronounced lean, the pillars were also leaning and that in some parts the brickwork was 
almost non-existent and had mortar deterioration. He said that a fence wouldnt have 
knocked down the wall if it had been in good condition. Ive also looked at the surveyors 
photos, which showed the issues highlighted by the surveyor and that there were a range of 
issues with the structure of the wall. 
Ive read the policy booklet and this said that it didnt provide cover for:
Any loss, damage, liability, cost or expense of any kind directly or indirectly caused by or 
resulting from:
 wear and tear, fading, corrosion, rusting, damp, decay, frost, fungus, mould, condensation 
or deterioration, or anything that happens gradually over a period of time
Ive also looked at two builders quotes, provided by Mr M and Mrs M, to repair the wall. Both 
referred to storm damage to the wall, but didnt provide any further details to support their 
assessment. So, I dont think that these showed that the storm was the main cause of the 
damage.
So, Im currently of the view that it was reasonable that RSA relied on the surveyors findings 
and that this showed that there were already existing issues with the wall. On that basis, I 
currently think that it was reasonable for RSA to turn down the claim, as the damage wasnt 
covered under the terms and conditions of the policy. It appears that the storm highlighted 
already existing issues with the wall, rather than being the main cause of the damage. So, I 
dont currently intend to uphold this complaint or to require RSA to do anything further.
I asked both parties to send me any more information or evidence they wanted me to look at 
by 13 January 2021.
RSA agreed with the decision.
Mr M and Mrs M sent a range of comments, including:
They took great pride in their garden and it was regularly maintained. They said the wall 
was well constructed and well maintained.
They said that they thought the damage was consistent with that typically caused by a 
storm and they commented on the damage or injuries that could have been caused if the 
fence panel hadnt hit the wall first.
If it hadnt been for the storm, the section of the wall hit by the fence panel would still 
have been standing.
Two builders and Mr M and Mrs M had inspected the wall and were in agreement that 
the storm was the main cause of the damage. Our investigator had also agreed with this.
They questioned why the view of the surveyor should be relied on over the judgment of 
others, including professional builders. 
They questioned the surveyors professional qualifications.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, although Im aware this will disappoint Mr M and Mrs M, Ive decided to 
maintain my provisional decision not to uphold this complaint.
Ive read all of the points raised by Mr M and Mrs M and considered them, even if I dont 
comment on them here. Ive looked again at the surveyors findings and Im still of the view 
that it was reasonable for RSA to decide that there were existing issues with the wall. 
Im aware that Mr M and Mrs M have questioned the surveyors qualifications to make that 
assessment, as well as his findings. Where an insurer instructs a surveyor, I would expect 
that person to have relevant experience and knowledge to assess the claim. Although Im aware that Mr M and Mrs M dont think the surveyor was suitably qualified, I havent seen 
anything to suggest that this was the case. I would also normally expect a surveyor to visit 
the property, carry out an inspection, take photos, if appropriate, and provide comments on 
the damage, as well as explaining the reasons for their opinion. All of that happened in this 
case. So, I dont think there was anything unusual about the way the survey was carried out.
Mr M and Mrs M have also questioned why the surveyors view should be relied on more 
than their own builders assessments and their own views on what happened. Ive looked 
again at the builders quotes. These dont give any particular assessment of the damage or 
its causes other than one saying to take down the remainder of storm damaged wall and 
the other take wall down after storm damage. These are very brief descriptions. Im also 
aware that it doesnt seem to be in doubt that the damage happened during a storm. The 
issue is whether the storm was the main cause of the damage or whether it highlighted an 
already existing issue. The builders quotes dont help with that. The quotes also dont help 
to show that they were suitably qualified to make such an assessment, even if they had gone 
into further detail. So, I think that the builders quotes are relevant but brief and it is difficult to 
put as much weight on them compared to the surveyors report. Mr M and Mrs Ms views 
are, of course, also relevant and I have considered them. But they dont persuade me that it 
was unreasonable for RSA to rely on its surveyors findings.
I also dont think it is in doubt that the fence hitting the wall contributed to its collapse. 
However, based on the surveyors assessment RSA concluded that the wall would have 
withstood being hit by the fence if there werent issues with the wall already. I think it was 
reasonable for RSA to decline the claim on that basis.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above and in my provisional decision, my final decision is that this 
complaint is not upheld.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs M and Mr M to 
accept or reject my decision before 15 February 2021.
 
Louise O'Sullivan
Ombudsman