The complaint
This complaint is about a credit card payment protection insurance (PPI) policy taken out in 
1996. Mrs M says Lloyds Bank PLC mis-sold her the PPI. 
What happened
Mrs M said she was sure she applied for the credit card on a postal application form, but she 
didnt know she was applying for PPI. She says she didnt have any contact with any 
member of staff and she says the policy was mis-sold.
Our adjudicator thought the complaint should not be upheld. Mrs M disagreed with our 
adjudicators view and asked for the matter to be looked at again.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding Mrs Ms case.
Ive decided the policy wasnt mis-sold because:
I think Lloyds Bank made it clear on the application form which Mrs M completed that
she didnt have to take out the PPI and she chose to take it out  although I can
understand why she may not remember this.
Lloyds Bank said it was an advised sale so it had to check that the PPI was right for
her. Mrs M said the policy sale was non-advised, but I will assume it was an advised
sale as this creates a higher test to satisfy that the policy was right for Mrs M. Based
on what Ive seen of Mrs Ms circumstances at the time, I think the policy was
suitable for her. I say this because she was eligible to buy the PPI, she wasnt
affected by any of the main exclusions to or limits on the PPI cover, it was affordable
and she seems to have had a need for the cover.
Its possible the information Lloyds Bank gave Mrs M about the PPI wasnt as clear
as it should have been. But she chose to take it out - so it looks like she wanted this
type of cover. And it seems like it would have been useful for her if something went
wrong. It also looks like it was affordable. So I dont think better information about the
PPI would have put her off from taking out the cover.
Which means Lloyds Bank doesnt have to pay back all of the cost of the PPI to Mrs
M.
But Lloyds Bank has paid back some of the cost of the PPI to Mrs M because: 
DRN-1298958Lloyds Bank got a high level of commission and profit share (more than 50% of the
PPI premium) - so it should have told Mrs M about that. Because Lloyds Bank didnt
tell Mrs M, that was unfair.
To put that right, Lloyds Bank has paid back the amount of commission and profit
share that was above 50% of the PPI premium - and I think that is fair in this case.
Ive thought about everything Mrs M has said - including what she said about it being a 
hidden cost. But I noted the PPI payments were shown on her credit card statement, so 
these points dont change my decision. 
My final decision
The PPI policy wasnt mis-sold  so Lloyds Bank PLC does not have to pay back all of 
the cost of the PPI to Mrs M. 
But Lloyds Bank PLC does have to pay back to Mrs M any commission and profit share it 
got that was more than 50% of the PPI premium. I understand it has already done this, 
so I dont award any further compensation. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs M to accept or 
reject my decision before 23 July 2020.
Amrit Mangra
Ombudsman