DRN-3140732
The complaint
Mr Cs complaint is about the performance of a mortgage endowment policy he held with 
Scottish Widows Limited as it didnt reach its target value. He is also unhappy that the 
premium for June 2020 wasnt collected when it should have been.
What happened
In 1996 Mr C took out a mortgage endowment policy to protect and act as the repayment 
vehicle for his mortgage. The policy had a target value of £20,000 and a term of 25 years. 
The policy was unit linked and invested in a managed fund.
In February 2001 Scottish Widows started sending Mr C information about the expected 
performance of this endowment policy. He was told there was a high risk that his policy 
would fail to reach its target value at maturity. Further reviews were sent in 2004, 2005, and 
then annually until February 2014, each of which confirmed that there was a high risk that 
the policy wouldnt reach its target value. Due to an administrative error on the part of 
Scottish Widows, it was not until 2020 that a further review letter was sent to Mr C.
In 2006 Mr C complained about the sale of the policy  that the policy wasnt suitable for him 
because of the risks associated with it i.e. the potential for a shortfall.
In June 2020 Scottish Widows failed to collect the monthly premium for the policy. It was an 
administrative error on Scottish Widows part. A letter was sent to Mr C, which he received in 
September 2020, telling him about the missed premium. Mr C was told how he could make 
the missed premium. 
Mr C called Scottish Widows in September 2020 to pay the missed premium. He was told 
that the mistake with the premium had been Scottish Widows and was also told about the 
projected shortfall on the policy. He complained about both issues, saying that this was the 
first he knew of a potential shortfall. 
Scottish Widows responded and upheld the part of the complaint about the premium 
mistake. It acknowledged that it was its mistake that meant the premium wasnt collected 
and that it should have told him about the problem earlier. It paid Mr C £100 for the upset 
and inconvenience this had caused him. However, it didnt uphold the complaint about the 
performance of the policy. It said that Mr C had been told regularly the policy was at a high 
risk of a shortfall from 2001 and he had acknowledged this in 2001 by asking for a premium 
increase illustration to cover the shortfall. Mr C had also asked for information from his 
lender about changing part of the mortgage to a repayment basis. So Scottish Widows was 
satisfied that Mr C had been aware for many years the at the policy wasnt performing as 
well as had been expected at the time it was sold.
Mr C didnt accept Scottish Widows response and asked us to look into the complaint. 
Mr Cs policy matured in May 2021 with a shortfall of slightly over £15,500. 
One of our investigators considered the complaint, but he didnt recommend that it be 
upheld. He wasnt persuaded that there was any evidence Scottish Widows had done 
anything wrong in relation to its management of the fund the policy was invested in and so 
Mr Cs complaint about the performance of the policy didnt succeed. In relation to the 
premium collection, he acknowledged that this would have added to the upset and worry 
Mr C felt due to the expected shortfall, but he was satisfied that the £100 was sufficient to 
compensate him.
Mr C didnt accept the investigators view. This was due to the stress that Scottish Widows 
mistakes had caused him. He said that he couldnt accept that he was faced with dealing 
with a shortfall of almost £6,000 through no fault of his own. He asked that the complaint be 
escalated to an ombudsman.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I will firstly deal with the issue of the missed policy premium. Scottish Widows has confirmed 
that this was an error on its part and also that it should have told Mr C about the error earlier 
than it did. As such, all I need to consider is whether the offer Scottish Widows made to 
compensate Mr C was enough. Mr C is clearly upset, but most of that appears to be linked to 
the then projected and now actual shortfall on the policy. The failure by Scottish Widows to 
collect the premium wouldnt have helped in the circumstances, but I dont think it was a 
significant factor in the upset Mr C experienced. As such, I am satisfied that £100 
compensation was an appropriate amount in the circumstances. 
Next I will consider Mr Cs concerns about the performance of his policy. Mr Cs policy was a 
unit-linked endowment policy, which means there were no guarantees about its 
performance. The premiums were set assuming a certain rate of growth would be achieved 
throughout the term. If the fund didnt perform as expected that would have a direct effect on 
the value of the policy. 
Unfortunately for Mr C the returns for such policies have been much lower than they were 
expected to be when he took out the policy in 1996. I appreciate why Mr C has raised his 
concerns and it is very unfortunate that the growth of the fund invested in has been so much 
lower compared to when the policy was taken out. However, this isnt in itself evidence of 
mismanagement or Scottish Widows acting incorrectly.
Mr C and Scottish Widows entered into a contract. Mr C agreed to pay a monthly premium 
and Scottish Widows agreed to provide life cover during the term. It also agreed to provide 
an investment which, if anticipated growth rates were met, would reach a target amount.
This is where the problem has arisen. The hoped-for growth rates havent been reached - far 
from it - but they were also never guaranteed to. A shortfall was always possible. Of course, 
no-one thought that would happen in 1996 when the policy was sold, but it doesnt change 
the nature of the contract. 
Mr C paid his premium each month and Scottish Widows had to invest the premium, taking 
costs as and when required from the fund. As far as I can see that is exactly what it did. 
Growth over the policy term has turned the premiums paid into a maturity value which 
unfortunately was less than hoped for.
Mr C was warned about the progress from 2001 up to and including 2014. It was made clear 
that the policy was not performing as expected and was unlikely to reach its target value. Mr C was encouraged to take action to deal with this situation and it appears he considered 
doing so both in 2001 as a result of the first high risk warning letter and in 2006 after his 
mortgage lender upheld his complaint that the policy had been mis-sold.
Scottish Widows did what it had to do. Mr C would have known about the poor performance 
of the policy for some time and that the maturity value wasnt guaranteed. Most investment 
businesses, indeed most investment classes, suffered similar problems. The economic and 
regulatory situation is very different now from what it was in 1996. That is nothing to do with 
Scottish Widows. 
A very large number of decisions over a 25-year period relating to investments, costs and 
charges have been made by the investment managers at Scottish Widows. Those decisions 
were made in a regulated environment with layers of governance, independent scrutiny 
(such as by actuaries and the regulator) and oversight. However, some of the factors 
influencing returns were outside Scottish Widows control. Even if I were to try and drill 
down to individual decisions it is very unlikely that I could point to an individual decision or 
set of decisions which were, without using hindsight, so manifestly bad or wrong that redress 
should be paid. Its unlikely to have been in the interests of the fund managers to perform 
badly and I am sure Scottish Widows would have wanted the fund to do as well as possible. 
I havent seen anything to persuade me that Scottish Widows mismanaged the fund or acted 
negligently. I am also satisfied Scottish Widows provided Mr C with enough information that 
it shouldnt have been a surprise when the policy came to mature in 2021 that it didnt meet 
its target. I am afraid the simple fact here is that Mr C invested in an investment product 
which didnt performed as well as hoped. I have seen no grounds for upholding this 
complaint.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. Under the rules of the Financial 
Ombudsman Service, I am required to ask Mr C to accept or reject my decision before 
25 May 2022.
 
Derry Baxter
Ombudsman