DRN-2887791
The complaint
Mr and Mrs G complain about how Great Lakes Insurance SE handled Mr Gs legal 
expenses insurance claim. Reference to Great Lakes includes its agents. 
What happened
Mr and Mrs G are unhappy with the hourly rate Great Lakes is prepared to pay Mr Gs 
non-panel solicitor in a disability discrimination case against his former employer.
In summary, in March 2019, Mr G received a diagnosis of a medical condition thats a 
disability under the Equality Act 2010. In October 2019, Mr Gs employer said that his 
position was redundant. In January 2020, Mr and Mrs G made a claim against the legal 
expenses section of their policy with Great Lakes.
Great Lakes panel solicitor said that Mr Gs claim for disability discrimination didnt have  
reasonable prospects of success, so Great Lakes declined Mr Gs claim. Mr and Mrs G 
instructed their own solicitor and in June 2020 they received counsels opinion which 
said that Mr Gs case had a 55% prospect of success. Great Lakes reconsidered the 
matter and agreed to deal with Mr Gs claim and cover the costs of counsels opinion. 
Mr and Mrs Gs non-panel solicitor wanted to charge an hourly rate of £250 (exclusive of 
VAT  all following references to hourly rates are exclusive of  VAT) but  said he would 
accept £217. Great Lakes said that the most it would pay was £125 an hour, in 
accordance with the policy terms. Mr and Mrs G pursued a complaint about that. 
I understand that during the course of the complaint, the tribunal found in Mr Gs favour 
in relation to one element of the claim. Mr and Mrs G want Great Lakes to pay their non-
panel solicitor at an acceptable hourly rate and to reimburse them for legal costs theyve 
already paid. 
One of our investigators looked at what had happened. She didnt think that Great Lakes 
had acted fairly. The investigator said that the policy provides that Great Lakes will pay 
no more than £125 an hour. But in the particular circumstances here, Great Lakes 
should pay £201 an hour. Thats the court rate for the level of fee earner and 
geographical area that the investigator thought was relevant here. 
Mr and Mrs G accepted the investigators recommendation, but Great Lakes didnt. It 
said:
It was entitled to rely on its panel solicitors assessment of the prospects of 
success.
When it agreed to deal with the claim, Mr and Mrs G didnt ask whether         
Great Lakes had another panel solicitor they could instruct and had already 
engaged a non-panel solicitor.
If Mr and Mrs G had asked Great Lakes whether it had another panel solicitor, it 
could have made enquiries.
The investigator referred Great Lakes to its e-mail to Mrs G of 6 August 2020, in which it 
said that it was unable to provide options for other suitably qualified solicitors because 
there arent others we work alongside.
Great Lakes said that the above was in response to Mrs Gs query about non-panel 
solicitors. It said that at the relevant time, it had a relationship with a solicitor who may 
have been able to assist but it wasnt given an opportunity to direct Mr and Mrs G to a 
suitable panel solicitor. So, its reasonable for it to apply the cap on fees. Great Lakes 
asked that an ombudsman consider the case, so it was passed to me to decide. 
  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
the relevant policy terms and conditions
The starting point is the terms and conditions of the policy, the relevant parts of which are as 
follows:
Section 4: Home Legal Expenses []
WHAT WE COVER YOU FOR:
[]
D (1) Employment Disputes
We will provide cover for legal costs incurred in the pursuit of civil proceedings against 
your employer, in matters relating to any discriminatory actions as specified in the 
Employment Tribunals Act 1996, including but not limited to:
[]
5. Discrimination on any grounds [] 
Section 4:General Conditions applying to this section []
1.Appointed representative
[]
b) If you do select to appoint your own non-panel solicitor, this section will not cover 
expense over and above the costs that our panel would charge in equivalent 
circumstances. For your information, this means that we would take into account the 
seriousness of the claim and the location and class of non-panel solicitor that you 
choose. The hourly rate is currently set at £125 +VAT. We reserve the right to assess 
each case on its merits, and may agree to pay additional fees if we feel the situation 
warrants it. This will remain entirely at our discretion.
has the claim been handled unfairly?
The relevant rules and industry guidance say that Great Lakes has a responsibility to handle 
claims promptly and fairly. I uphold Mr and Mrs Gs complaint for the following reasons: 
I agree with Great Lakes that it was entitled to rely on its panel solicitors initial 
assessment of Mr Gs claims prospects of success. When Mr and Mrs G provided a 
counsels opinion which said that Mr Gs claim had a reasonable prospect of 
success, Great Lakes was prepared to confirm cover. I think that was fair. But     
Great Lakes wouldnt pay more than £125 an hour, which wasnt acceptable to                  
Mr and Mrs G.The policy terms provide that for a non-panel solicitor, Great Lakes will pay a 
maximum of £125 an hour and has a discretion to pay more according to the merits 
of each case. Wed expect Great Lakes to exercise its discretion fairly and 
reasonably. The central issue for me to decide is whether Great Lakes acted fairly 
and reasonably in capping the amount it will pay to Mr Gs non-panel solicitors to 
£125 an hour. I dont think that Great Lakes has shown that it exercised its discretion 
in this case fairly and reasonably. Ill explain why.
Where proceedings have started, an individual has a legal right to choose their own 
solicitor. Based on what Ive seen, I dont think that Great Lakes expected               
Mr and Mrs G to instruct its panel solicitor who concluded that Mr Gs claim didnt 
have reasonable prospects of success. The relationship between Mr G and that 
panel solicitor had clearly broken down. Great Lakes panel solicitor maintained her 
position about the prospects of success of Mr Gs claim after Mr and Mrs G provided 
counsels opinion to the contrary, which said that the panel solicitor hadnt addressed 
the most striking features of the case. So, I can understand why Mr G didnt want to 
instruct Great Lakes panel solicitor who did the initial assessment of his claim. 
Great Lakes says, in effect, that Mr and Mrs G didnt give it an opportunity to find 
them a suitable alternative panel solicitor, as theyd already instructed a non-panel 
solicitor. But I cant see that Great Lakes offered Mr G a second panel solicitor at any 
stage. Great Lakes now says that it had a relationship with a solicitor who may have 
been able to assist but it wasnt given an opportunity to offer Mr G a second panel 
solicitor. I dont find that persuasive. It was open to Great Lakes to offer Mr G a 
second panel solicitor and it didnt do so. In the particular circumstances here and 
given that Mr Gs relationship with the initial panel solicitor had broken down, I dont 
think it was unreasonable for Mr G to continue to instruct a non-panel solicitor. As 
Ive said, once proceedings have started, Mr G could choose his own solicitor. 
The Court of Appeal in Brown-Quinn & Anor v Equity Syndicate Management Ltd & 
Anor [2012] EWCA Civ 1633 said an insurer has the right to restrict what it will pay to 
a non-panel solicitor, provided the rate isnt so low as to render meaningless the 
policyholders freedom of choice in instructing a solicitor. Ive considered that in 
coming to my decision about whats fair and reasonable in this case. 
Great Lakes says that Mr Gs claim isnt sufficiently complex to merit an increased 
hourly rate for a non-panel solicitor. Mr and Mrs Gs solicitors view is that the case is 
technically complicated and requires a solicitor of over 8 years experience. He says 
that Mr G brought several claims of disability discrimination: direct discrimination; 
failure to make reasonable adjustments and discrimination arising from a disability. 
Mr Gs non-panel solicitor says that the law in this area is complicated, theres a 
detailed and disputed factual background and its a relatively high value claim. On 
balance, I prefer to rely on the evidence from Mr and Mrs Gs non-panel solicitor. It 
seems to me that there is legal and contextual complexity in this case, and Im 
satisfied that it requires a solicitor with over eight years experience. 
Theres clearly some distance between the hourly rate of £125 Great Lakes is willing 
to pay Mr Gs non-panel solicitor and the £217 an hour the latter is willing to accept. 
In cases like this one, our approach is to consider the solicitors guideline hourly rates 
set by HM Courts & Tribunal Service. The guideline sets out hourly rates according to 
the experience and location of the fee earner. Pay band A relates to solicitors with over 8 years experience, which is what Mr Gs 
case required. Mr G lives in an area in national grade 2. Mr Gs non-panel solicitor is 
based in an area in national grade 1, which has a slightly higher rate. I think its 
reasonable for Great Lakes to pay an hourly rate applicable to pay band A in national 
grade 2 for work carried out by a solicitor with over eight years experience. Mr G 
hasnt shown why it was necessary to instruct a solicitor in an area which attracts a 
higher rate than the area in which he lives. So, the appropriate rate here is £201 an 
hour for work carried out by Mr Gs non-panel solicitor with over 8 years experience. 
In response to the investigators view, Mr and Mrs G indicated that they accepted that 
rate. 
In correspondence with Great Lakes, Mr Gs non-panel solicitor indicated that some 
of the work in Mr Gs case had been carried out by more junior fee earners. Thats 
not unusual. Great Lakes should pay the national grade 2 guideline hourly rate 
applicable to the relevant band of fee earner. Thats £177 an hour for solicitors and 
legal executives with over four years experience, £146 an hour for other solicitors or 
legal executives and fee earners of equivalent experience and £111 an hour for 
trainees and other fee earners. 
Putting things right
In order to put things right, Great Lakes should pay Mr Gs non-panel solicitors their 
reasonable legal costs at the guideline rate of £201 an hour plus VAT for work carried out by 
a solicitor with over 8 years experience. Where work has been carried out by other fee 
earners, it should pay the hourly rates specified in the guideline rates for national grade 2, 
plus VAT. These costs are to be paid in line with the remaining terms of the policy, from the 
date when Great Lakes received Mr Gs counsels advice that his claim had reasonable 
prospects of success.        
     
If Mr and Mrs G have already paid any of the legal costs payable under the policy           
Great Lakes should include interest on the amount(s) Mr and Mrs G have paid at the annual 
rate of 8% simple, calculated from the date(s) they made the payment(s) until the date of 
payment by Great Lakes. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold Mr and Mrs Gs complaint. I now require                       
Great Lakes Insurance SE to take the steps Ive set out above. 
 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr G and Mrs G to 
accept or reject my decision before 1 November 2021. 
Louise Povey
Ombudsman