DRN-3435776
The complaint
Ms B says Morses Club PLC (Morses) lent to her irresponsibly. She says that she was 
offered loans when she had struggled to repay the ones she had. Ms B says that she 
kept borrowing more to repay the loans, and the repayments left her with very little 
money.
What happened
Our adjudicator thought the complaint should be partially upheld. Morses disagreed with the 
adjudicators opinion. The complaint was then passed to me. 
I issued my provisional decision saying that Ms Bs complaint should not be upheld. A copy 
of the background to the complaint and my provisional findings are below in italics and form 
part of this final decision. 
What I said in my provisional decision
This complaint is about five home collected loans Morses provided to Ms B between
July 2019 to April 2021. Some of the information I have been provided about the lending is in the 
table below.
LoanDate 
TakenAmount InstalmentsDate 
Repaid
1 11/07/2019 £300 33 23/12/2019
2 23/12/2019 £300 34 11/09/2020
3 11/09/2020 £300 34 15/04/2021
4 15/12/2020 £300 53 outstanding
5 15/04/2021 £300 35 outstanding
Our adjudicator partially upheld the complaint. He thought that Morses made proportionate 
checks before approving loans 1 to 3, and these showed the loans were affordable. But he 
thought that the lending pattern itself had become harmful by loan 4 and so Morses shouldnt 
have approved loans 4 and 5.
Morses disagreed with the adjudicators opinion. It said that Ms B had a reasonable amount of 
spare income each month and the loan repayments were only a small proportion of this. There 
were no significant repayment problems, which would indicate financial difficulties, while the 
loans were being approved.
As no agreement has been reached the complaint has been passed to me.
What Ive provisionally decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about irresponsible lending - including all of 
the relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice - on our website.
Morses needed to take reasonable steps to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In practice 
this means that it should have carried out proportionate checks to make sure Ms B could repay 
the loans in a sustainable manner.
These checks could take into account a number of different things, such as how much was being 
lent, the repayment amounts and the consumers income and expenditure. With this in mind, in 
the early stages of a lending relationship, I think less thorough checks might be reasonable and 
proportionate.
But certain factors might point to the fact that Morses should fairly and reasonably have 
done more to establish that any lending was sustainable for the consumer. These factors 
include:
the lower a customers income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make any 
loan repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income);
the higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income);
the greater the number and frequency of loans, and the longer the period of time 
during which a customer has been given loans (reflecting the risk that repeated 
refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, 
unsustainable).
There may even come a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly 
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable.
Ive provisionally decided not to uphold Ms Bs complaint and Ive have explained why below.
Ive seen a record of the information Ms B provided when she completed her loan applications. 
Ms B said she had a weekly income of around £250 (as a broad average). She had regular 
weekly outgoings of about £100. This left her with a reasonable disposable income. And so, I 
dont think that its unreasonable that Morses thought that Ms B could afford the loan 
repayments.
Our adjudicator said that the lending pattern itself showed that Ms B was struggling financially 
and that she was likely to be reliant on the lending by loan 4. But the repayments seem 
reasonable and the loan amounts didnt vary by much. Ms Bs income and expenditure was also 
reasonably stable.
And looking at the account statements Morses has provided Ms B wasnt having any 
significant problems making her loan repayments. She doesnt seem to be in a debt spiral 
with her Morses loans or, from what I have seen, any other debt.
I agree that Ms B borrowed from Morses over a reasonably long time. And she still hasnt fully 
repaid the lending. But taking everything else into consideration, I dont think this means the 
lending was unsustainable in this case. So, I dont think its reasonable to say that Ms B was 
reliant on this lending and I dont think it was causing her significant problems when Morses 
approved the loans.
It could be said that by the later lending Morses checks shouldve gone further than they did. But 
Ms B hasnt provided any information to show me what Morses wouldve likely seen if it had 
made better checks. So, I cant say for certain that it wouldve seen these loans werent 
affordable for her, or that it shouldnt have lent for any other reason. If it had made different 
checks.
So overall, in these circumstances, I think the assessments Morses did for these loans were 
proportionate. And I think its decision to lend for loans 1 to 5 was reasonable. Im not intending 
to uphold Ms Bs complaint about them.Morses, and Ms B, received my provisional decision. And neither party had anything further 
to add after theyd seen it. So, Ive gone on to make may Final Decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Morses and Ms B didnt raise any new points after receiving my provisional decision. So, Ive 
reached the same conclusions I reached before, for the same reasons. I still think Morses 
decision to approve all of these loans was reasonable, and Im not upholding Ms Bs 
complaint about them. I wont add anything further as both parties didnt have anything to 
add to my provisional decision. 
My final decision
For the reasons set out above and in the provisional decision, I dont uphold Ms Bs 
complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms B to accept or 
reject my decision before 18 May 2022.
 
Andy Burlinson
Ombudsman