DRN-3816790
The complaint
Mrs B complains through her representative that Loans 2 Go Limited irresponsibly lent her
money on three high cost loans, on which she couldnt afford the repayments.
What happened
Loans 2 Go provided Mrs B with the following loans:
Date of loan Amount Repayment 
periodMonthly 
instalment
Loan 1 7/11/2016 £500 18 months £113.28
Loan 2 9/2/2017 £1,000 18 months £195.56
Loan 3 11/7/2017 £1,000 18 months £195.56
Mrs B appears to have repaid loans 1 and 2. However for loan 3 she got into difficulties from
about September 2017, two months into the loan. She missed a number of payments and
then arranged to make lower payments. However it appears she wasnt able to keep to the
arrangement and Loans 2 Go eventually sold the loan on to a third party in August 2019.
She complained through her representative that the loans were unaffordable to her.
Loans 2 Go said it carried out all necessary eligibility checks, including verifying her income
and carrying out credit checks for each loan. It assessed that the loans were affordable.
However in light of her circumstances it offered to refund for loan 3 half of the interest paid.
Mrs B declined the offer.
Loans 2 Go has provided a copy of the credit report it obtained for loan 1, and some
documentation for loan 3. It has provided basic figures it used for its assessment of
disposable income, though it hasnt been able to provide the credit reports obtained for loans
2 and 3.
On referral to the Financial Ombudsman, our adjudicator said that, in light of Mrs B being 
unable to supply her bank statements, without a true reflection of her outgoings, she couldnt 
say the loans were unlikely to be affordable.
I issued a provisional decision. In it I said that I thought all three loans were unaffordable and 
that Loans 2 Go didnt make fair lending decisions in respect of the loans.
Loans 2 Go said it had no additional points to add. Mrs Bs representative hasnt responded, 
so Ill assume it doesnt want to say anything further.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
My provisional findings are set out below in italics:
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about unaffordable/irresponsible lending - 
including all the relevant rules, guidance, and good industry practice - on our website. 
Considering the relevant rules, guidance, and good industry practice, I think the questions I 
need to consider in deciding whats fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this 
complaint are:
Did Loans 2 Go complete reasonable and proportionate checks to satisfy itself that 
Mrs B would be able to repay the loans in a sustainable way?
If not, would those checks have shown that Mrs B would have been able to do so?
The rules and regulations in place required Loans 2 Go to carry out a reasonable and 
proportionate assessment of Mrs Bs ability to make the repayments under the agreements. 
This assessment is sometimes referred to as an affordability assessment or affordability 
check.
The checks had to be borrower-focused  so Loans 2 Go had to think about whether 
repaying the loans would be sustainable. In practice this meant that Loans 2 Go had to 
ensure that making the repayments on the loans wouldnt cause Mrs B undue difficulty or 
significant adverse consequences. That means she should have been able to meet 
repayments out of normal income without having to borrow to meet the repayments, without 
failing to make any other payment she had a contractual or statutory obligation to make and 
without the repayments having a significant adverse impact on her financial situation.
In other words, it wasnt enough for Loans 2 Go to simply think about the likelihood of it 
getting its money back - it had to consider the impact of the loan repayments on Mrs B. 
Checks also had to be proportionate to the specific circumstances of the loan application.
In general, what constitutes a proportionate affordability check will be dependent upon a 
number of factors including  but not limited to  the particular circumstances of the 
consumer (e.g. their financial history, current situation and outlook, and any indications of 
vulnerability or financial difficulty) and the amount/type/cost of credit they are seeking. Even 
for the same customer, a proportionate check could look different for different applications.
I think that such a check ought generally to have been more thorough:
The lower a consumers income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make any 
loan repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income).
The higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to meet 
a higher repayment from a particular level of income).
The greater the number and frequency of loans, and the longer the period during which a 
customer has been given loans (reflecting the risk that repeated refinancing may signal 
that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, unsustainable).loan 1
For this loan, we have the credit report Loans 2 Go obtained before it approved this loan.
Mrs B clearly had several defaulted accounts on which she was making arranged payments.
Ive calculated the amounts she would have been paying for her commitments, ignoring
those that only had a minimal amount left to pay, using the regular payment figure set out
in the report. If Mrs B clearly wasnt paying that Ive used the figure for the amount she was
regularly paying. If no figure was given, Ive used a 5% payment of the balance on the
relevant account. Ive noted that she owed over £660 on a gas account which should have
been a concern if she was getting into difficulties over payment of utilities.
My calculations produce a figure of £334 for monthly credit commitments. Adding that to the
new loan instalment of £113.28 meant that her credit commitments after the loan was
approved amounted to around 52% of her assessed monthly income of £851.39. Which I
think was an indication that the loan was likely to be unaffordable.
Loans 2 Go has set out that Mrs Bs living expenses and credit commitments together were
£408. When considering this would leave around £74 for living expenses, I think this was
unlikely to be realistic.
I think that Loans 2 Go carried out proportionate checks, bearing in mind the amount of the
loan, and whilst there were indications that Mrs B had defaulted accounts I dont think this
would necessarily have led to Loans 2 Go carrying out further checks (and we dont know
what those checks might have revealed). In any event from the information Loans 2 Go did
obtain I think this loan was unaffordable.
loan 2
Loans 2 Go has been unable to provide a copy of the credit report it obtained. Its given us
an overall figure for credit commitments and living expenses of £376. I dont know if Mrs B
paid off loan 1 with this loan. And I dont know if her credit commitments or living expenses
went down. But bearing in mind this was only three months after the first loan I think it
unlikely that Mrs Bs credit status had changed much. If I assume that the credit
commitments had gone down by £32, this still meant that with the new loan instalment, those
commitments would have been around £497.56, still about 52% of her assessed monthly
income of £953.18. For the same reasons as for loan 1 I think this was an indication that the
loan was likely to be unaffordable.
In the case of this loan as well, the figure for credit commitments would have meant very
little for living expenses, again about £74, which again is unrealistic.
I bear in mind that I have had to draw conclusions because of a lack of evidence. But it does
appear that Loans 2 Go did credit checks for all three loans, which it should have been able
to make available. So again whilst it did appear that Loans 2 Go carried out proportionate
checks, I think those checks would have shown the loan to be unaffordable.
loan 3
We have a little more information about this loan, including the loan agreement and a partial
bank statement. But this statement only shows a few entries and not the overall balance. 
And still no credit report is available.
This time Loans 2 Go said Mrs Bs combined living expenses and credit commitments were
around £678. As it seems unlikely that Mrs Bs living expense had gone up by over £300, I
can only assume that her credit commitments had gone up by that figure  it may be that theloan 2 was still continuing. Her assessed income was monthly £965.18. If the credit
commitments had really gone up by that much, then the ratio of those to her income would
have been around 63%. And clearly in my view unaffordable.
Again the lack of information doesnt help with the assessment of this case. But as I think it
likely that the increase in the combined figure was due to an increase in Mrs Bs credit
commitments, this loan was unaffordable. Where a credit report has clearly been carried out
I dont think its for Mrs B or her representative to show us what that report might have
shown.
So for all three loans I dont think Loans 2 Go made fair lending decisions.
As neither party has made any further comments, my provisional findings are now final and 
form part of this final decision.
Putting things right
Mrs B has had the capital payment in respect of the loans, so its fair that she should 
repay this. So far as the loans are concerned, I think Loans 2 Go should refund all 
interest and charges as follows: 
Remove all interest, fees and charges applied to the loans. 
Treat any payments made by Mrs B as payments towards the capital amount. 
If Mrs B has paid more than the capital, refund any overpayments to her with 8% 
simple interest* from the date they were paid to the date of settlement. 
But if theres still an outstanding balance, Loans 2 Go should come to a reasonable 
repayment plan with Mrs B
If Loans 2 Go has sold the outstanding debt to a third-party it should do what it can 
to buy it back - if it cant, it cant deduct any outstanding balance from the redress 
and it then needs to work with the third-party to bring about the steps above.
Remove any adverse information about the loans from Mrs Bs credit file.
*HM Revenue & Customs requires Loans 2 Go to deduct tax from this interest. It should give 
Mrs B a certificate showing how much tax its deducted if she asks for one.
Your text here
My final decision
I uphold the complaint and require Loans 2 Go Limited to provide the remedy set out under 
Putting things right above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs B to accept or 
reject my decision before 19 December 2022.
 
Ray Lawley
Ombudsman