DRN-2348934
The complaint
Mr R and Mrs K made a claim to Shawbrook Bank Limited under sections 56 and 75 of the 
Consumer Credit Act 1974 (the Act) in relation to a solar panel system they said was 
misrepresented to them by the supplier. Shawbrook agreed with Mr R and Mrs Ks claim but 
theyre unhappy with the remedy Shawbrook have offered.
Mr R and Mrs K are represented by a claims management company (the CMC).
What happened
In or around March 2013 Mr R and Mrs K were visited by a company Ill call G to talk about 
purchasing a solar panel system (the system) to be installed at their home.
Mr R and Mrs K decided to purchase the system and finance it through a 15 year (180 
months) fixed sum loan agreement with Shawbrook. The cost including the finance was 
close to £23,200.
The system was subsequently installed with an estimated annual generation of 3306 kWh.
In February 2017 the system was inspected by a contractor appointed by the CMC. He 
found that the installation of the system breached industry guidelines. He said the cables 
below the panels had not been secured correctly, incorrect drill through slate fixings had 
been installed compromising the roof and risking water penetration damage, and cables had 
penetrated the roof felt further affecting the roofs integrity. He concluded: The entire system 
will need to be removed, slates replaced and have suitable fixings installed. The contractor 
also calculated that the systems ability to generate income and savings would likely leave 
Mr R and Mrs K still owing around £4,900 at the end of 20 years.
In May 2018 Mr R and Mrs K made their claim to Shawbrook.
In February 2019 Shawbrook agreed with Mr R and Mrs Ks complaint that the system had 
been misrepresented at the point of sale and made them an offer designed to put them in 
the position they would have been in if the solar system had, in fact, been self-funding. In 
short, they offered to restructure the original loan so that the repayments come to no more 
than the benefits Mr R and Mrs K have received and will continue to receive from the 
system. This meant:
Mr R and Mrs K would keep the solar system and any benefits;
The original loan amount would be reduced to equal the total benefits Mr R and 
Mrs K would receive from the system over the original loan term;
Any payments already made would reduce the restructured loan balance;
No interest would be payable on the restructured loan; and
Shawbrook would pay Mr R and Mrs K 8% simple interest per annum on the 
difference between the monthly payments theyd made and the monthly benefits 
theyd received (overpayments) by way of compensation  this interest would further 
reduce the restructured loan balance.
Shawbrook also offered £200 in compensation for the time it took them to investigate the 
claim.
Mr R and Mrs K didnt accept this offer. They said the system was no longer working.
In May 2019 Shawbrooks contractor attended Mr R and Mrs Ks home to repair the system 
and confirm the cause of the fault. The contractor confirmed that the system was not 
generating, and that the inverter had developed a fault requiring replacement. But 
Shawbrooks contractor didnt agree that any other remedial works were necessary. The 
report said, all wiring and isolators are fine.
Mr R and Mrs K rejected Shawbrooks offer to replace the inverter. The CMC told 
Shawbrook Mr R and Mrs K were seeking the remedy of rescission and wanted the system 
removed.
The CMC then brought the complaint to this service.
Meanwhile, Shawbrooks contractor inspected the site again on 24 October 2019. The 
engineer confirmed that the system is installed correctly and said, the only issue is the 
inverter.
Our investigators view
While we were looking into everything Shawbrook updated their offer. Our investigator said 
Shawbrooks updated offer would make the system self-funding over the original term of the 
loan and would remedy the financial impact Mr R and Mrs K had experienced from the loan 
repayments not being covered by the financial benefits of the solar panels. She concluded it 
was a fair and reasonable offer, and in line with what wed ask them to do.
She said Shawbrook had calculated that Mr R and Mrs K had made overpayments (against 
what they would have done if the panels had been self-funding). The investigator set out four 
options for Mr R and Mrs K to choose from varying in the application of the overpayments 
and the length of the restructured loan.
Mr R and Mrs Ks response to the view
The CMC, on Mr R and Mrs Ks behalf, didnt accept this. They said the system hasnt 
worked since 2017 and this hadnt been reflected in Shawbrooks offer.
Our investigator asked Shawbrook to look into the performance issue, replace the inverter 
and recalculate the self-funding offer to reflect that they havent received any benefits from 
the system since 2017. Shawbrook agreed but said, as their contractor (who visited in May 
2019 and October 2019) hadnt found any other faults with the system or problems with the 
installation, they wouldnt agree to rectify the issues raised by the CMCs contractor in 
February 2017.
Mr R and Mrs K rejected Shawbrooks offer. The CMC told us they have no confidence in the 
system, and that they dont want the worry and stress if the system develops further faults. 
They confirmed they want the system removed.Shawbrook told us they wont arrange for removal of the system as only the inverter has 
been found to be faulty and removal of the system would be inappropriate, and the cost 
disproportionate.
Our investigator said Shawbrooks offer to make the system self-funding and replace the 
inverter is fair given the circumstances.
As no agreement could be reached, the complaint has come to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I note that Shawbrook have accepted Mr R and Mrs Ks original complaint 
that the system was misrepresented to them at the point of sale. And theyve offered to 
remedy that with an offer to make the system self-funding. So, instead of examining the sale 
of the system and whether it was misrepresented to Mr R and Mrs K Ive only considered 
whether, in the circumstances that both parties accept that point, the offer made by 
Shawbrook is fair.
This service has dealt with numerous complaints about mis-sold solar panel systems and we 
have a general approach to compensation where a credit provider, such as Shawbrook, is 
held responsible for any loss under s.75 of the Act. Although each case is looked at on its 
own merits, our starting point is to ensure the consumer doesnt experience any financial 
loss as a result of the misrepresentation and, to achieve that, we often think that making the 
loan self-funding is the fairest outcome.
Ive seen nothing presented in Mr R and Mrs Ks case that is sufficiently different to those 
other complaints for me to consider departing from this general approach. So, I think 
Shawbrook needs to make sure Mr R and Mrs K pay no more than the benefits theyll likely 
get from the system over the original loan term (in this case, 15 years). And so that the 
system can provide those benefits, Shawbrook should, as theyve already agreed to do, 
replace the inverter.
The CMC have rejected this offer as Mr R and Mrs K would prefer to have the system, which 
they dont trust and feel is poorly installed, removed.
Whilst I recognise that Mr R and Mrs Ks experience of owning a solar panel system has not 
been what they expected, I agree with Shawbrook that it would be disproportionate to 
remove it. Ive seen no evidence that prior to the inverter developing an error at some point 
in 2017, the system wasnt working. In February 2017 the system had generated 13605.52 
kWh since installation in April 2013  thats approximately 3,400 kWh a year; slightly above 
the annual generation estimate given at the point of sale.
I note that the CMCs contractor in February 2017 raised some issues about the standard of 
installation. But, given the performance of the system prior to the inverter failing, and the fact 
that Ive not been presented with any evidence that the contractors concerns about the 
integrity of the roof have materialised, I dont see any reason to require Shawbrook to do 
more than replace the inverter. There have been two further inspections since 2017, in 2019, 
the purpose of which was to check the standard of installation, and these concluded that the 
system is installed correctly. So, I think, on balance, the installation was satisfactory.
The offer Shawbrook have made makes the system cost-neutral for Mr R and Mrs K. Once 
the inverter is replaced theyll resume receiving benefits for the life of the system. In the absence of any evidence that the system is beyond providing those benefits once the 
inverter is replaced, I think removing the system would be disproportionate.
The methodology that Shawbrook have used to calculate the compensation due to Mr R and 
Mrs K has been agreed with this service on previous similar complaints, and I think its a fair 
and reasonable remedy to Mr R and Mrs Ks complaint. Shawbrook should update the 
figures to the date any payment is made and/or applied to the loan account. This includes 
paying 8% simple interest a year on the overpayments up to the date that they are effectively 
repaid.
I know Shawbrooks original offer sought to limit the accumulation of compensatory interest 
to a period of 28 days after the date of their offer. However, I dont think that would be fair in 
the circumstances.
We can rarely say for sure what the cost is to someone of being deprived of money. For 
many people, it might have influenced a range of decisions about spending and borrowing 
over a period of time. For most consumers we think a rate of 8% simple interest per year is 
appropriate to reflect the cost of being deprived of money in the past. In Mr R and Mrs Ks 
case the 8% interest is to compensate them for being deprived of the use of the money they 
overpaid for the system. And theyll continue to be deprived of the use of that money until it 
is effectively repaid to them.
Of course, they could have accepted Shawbrooks offer and received their refund in 2019. 
But I dont think theyve unreasonably delayed their acceptance of the offer. They had a 
legitimate right to disagree with Shawbrooks proposed remedy and pursue an impartial 
review by this service through our two-stage process. And during the time thats taken 
theyve continued to not have the use of funds they would have had if the system had not 
been misrepresented to them. So, I think its fair and reasonable that Shawbrook 
compensate them with 8% simple interest a year for the entire time theyve been without 
those funds.
Mr R and Mrs Ks system hasnt been working as it should due to an issue with the inverter. 
Shawbrook have agreed to replace this at no cost to them. Due to the issue with the inverter, 
Mr R and Mrs K have not been receiving any benefit from their system by way of FIT 
payments or electricity savings. Therefore, when calculating the expected income and 
savings over the 15-year term of the loan, Shawbrook should ensure the calculation reflects 
the time when Mr R and Mrs Ks were receiving no benefit. I note that Shawbrook have 
already agreed to do this  to recalculate the self-funding offer to reflect that Mr R and Mrs K 
havent received any benefits from the system since 2017.
Finally, I understand that the CMC put Mr R and Mrs Ks claim to Shawbrook on a number of 
alternative bases; these include that there was an unfair relationship under s.140A the Act, 
as well as the sale being in breach of the Consumer Protection from Unfair Trading 
Regulations 2008. For completeness, Im satisfied that none of these bases for their claim 
change what I think is fair compensation for the unfairness that has resulted from the 
accepted misrepresentation.
Putting things right
Shawbrook have made an offer to settle this complaint, theyve offered to replace the 
inverter and to make the system self-funding. I consider this offer to be fair compensation in 
all the circumstances, and I wont be asking them to remove the system.
Shawbrook Bank Limited should:Replace the defective inverter as they have previously agreed to do, so that the 
system can start generating again;
Recalculate the loan so that Mr R and Mrs K pay no more than the known and 
assumed savings and income that they will receive from the solar panel system over 
the 15-year term of the loan;
Ensure that their calculations take into account that the system has not been working 
since 2017;
Allow Mr R and Mrs K to keep the solar panel system;
Calculate any overpayments made by Mr R and Mrs K, apply them to the loan and 
repay them any balance;
Add simple interest at 8%* a year to any overpayments from the date that they were 
made to the date that they are effectively repaid; and
Pay Mr R and Mrs K £200 to reflect the distress and inconvenience caused.
*HM Revenue and Customs may require that Shawbrook deduct tax from any interest paid. 
Should Mr R and Mrs K request it, Shawbrook should give them a certificate showing how 
much tax has been taken off so that they may reclaim it if appropriate.
My final decision
My final decision is that I require Shawbrook Bank Limited to settle this complaint in the way 
Ive set out above in the Putting things right section of this decision.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr R and Mrs K to 
accept or reject my decision before 30 March 2022.
 
Beth Wilcox
Ombudsman