DRN-3265910
The complaint
Mrs F complains that Bamboo Limited lent to her in an irresponsible manner.
What happened
Mrs F has been assisted in making her complaint by a claims management company. But, 
for ease, in this decision I will refer to all communication as having been with, and from, 
Mrs F herself.
I issued a provisional decision on this complaint in December 2021. In that decision 
I explained why I didnt think the complaint should be upheld. Both parties have received a 
copy of the provisional decision but, for completeness, I include some extracts from it below. 
In my decision I said;
Mrs F was given a single loan by Bamboo. She borrowed £5,000 in November 2018 
and agreed to repay the loan in 36 monthly instalments. The loan was guaranteed by 
Mrs Fs friend. Mrs F repaid the loan earlier than planned, in December 2020.
Bamboo gathered some information from Mrs F before it agreed the loan. It asked 
her for details of her income, and her normal housing costs  although she said she 
was living with her parents, so wasnt paying any rent. It then used some industry 
statistical data to estimate the remainder of Mrs Fs expenditure. It checked Mrs Fs 
credit file to see how much she was repaying to other lenders, and how shed 
managed credit in the past. And it asked Mrs F for some bank statements so it could 
further verify the information shed provided.
Mrs F was entering into a significant commitment with Bamboo. She would need to 
make monthly repayments for a period of three years. So I think it was right that 
Bamboo wanted to gather, and independently check, some detailed information 
about Mrs Fs financial circumstances before it agreed to lend to her. I think that the 
checks Ive described above were sufficient to achieve that aim  I think that 
Bamboos checks were proportionate.
But simply performing proportionate checks isnt always enough. A lender also needs 
to react appropriately to the information shown by those checks. Those results might 
sometimes lead a lender to undertake further enquiries into a consumers financial 
situation. Or, in some cases, the results might lead a lender to decline a loan 
application outright. So Ive looked at the results of the checks to see whether 
Bamboo made a fair lending decision.
 
Mrs F told Bamboo that she was living with her parents and so didnt have any 
housing costs. I dont think what she described was an unusual situation and so 
I think it was reasonable for Bamboo to accept what Mrs F had said. And from what 
Bamboo knew of Mrs Fs other circumstances I dont think it was unreasonable for 
Bamboo to base the remainder of its assessment of her normal expenditure on 
statistical estimates. Generally it would be reasonable to conclude that someone 
living with their parents would have lower living costs than someone living in their 
own property.
So based on the information that Mrs F provided, the statistical data that Bamboo 
assessed, and the credit repayments it could see from the credit check, I think it was 
reasonable for Bamboo to conclude that it would be likely that Mrs F would be able to 
meet her repayments from her normal disposable income.
The credit check showed that Mrs F was making little use of other credit. She had an 
overdraft on her bank account (that I will discuss in more detail later) and had taken a 
relatively small loan around two months before. Both those accounts were up to date, 
and showed no evidence of any repayment problems.
There was however a further account showing on the credit check that had been 
defaulted around six months earlier. That was a mail order shopping account that 
had an outstanding balance of £199 at the time of the default. I think the relatively 
recent nature of that default might have caused some concerns to Bamboo.
Ive thought carefully about this default, and what it might have suggested about 
Mrs Fs finances. At the time her account was defaulted Mrs F had a number of other 
active credit accounts that appear to have showed no similar issues in their 
repayment. And around the time of the default Mrs Fs bank account was showing no 
use of the overdraft that was available to her. So on balance Im not persuaded that 
the default should reasonably be considered to be evidence of an inability for Mrs F 
to meet her repayments. It seems to me that it is more reflective of a choice not to 
repay the outstanding balance rather than her being unable to do so.
The bank statements that Mrs F provided to Bamboo showed a degree of complexity 
in her finances. The amounts that she was receiving into her account were far larger 
than just her normal income. And Mrs F was making significant payments via a 
money transfer service that she says were to support the medical costs of family 
members overseas. Mrs F also says that her bank statements show that she was 
paying £1,410 each month in housing costs.
Bamboo didnt discuss the transactions on the bank statements with Mrs F at the 
time, so I have no way of knowing the explanations she would have provided. I have 
a degree of scepticism that Mrs F was responsible for rent payments each month that 
were in excess of her normal income. And I havent seen anything to verify that she 
was required to make payments of amounts approaching her normal income to 
relatives abroad without contributions from elsewhere. Mrs F says that other 
transactions, both credits and debits to her account, were as a result of her acting as 
some sort of intermediary in a loan transaction between friends.
I think the complexity of Mrs Fs bank statements did make it difficult for Bamboo to 
be entirely sure about what was happening with her finances. But importantly I dont 
think there is any adverse information that suggested the she was having serious 
problems managing her money. Whilst Mrs F was using a sizeable overdraft, the 
level of the overdraft didnt at any time pass her agreed limit and generally remained 
stable. And there was no evidence of other problems such as returned payments or 
borrowing from other lenders.
 
So I dont think that the additional information provided by the bank statements gave 
Bamboo any reason to think that its assessment of Mrs Fs disposable income might 
be incorrect. I think that it was still reasonable for Bamboo to consider that it was 
likely Mrs F would be able to repay her loan in a sustainable manner.I appreciate that my decision will be disappointing for Mrs F. She says that her 
finances were far more stretched than what Bamboos checks showed. But I think 
that it was reasonable for Bamboo to rely on the information Mrs F provided, 
particularly considering that its proportionate checks didnt give any reason for that 
information to be doubted. So I dont currently think that Bamboo was wrong to lend 
to Mrs F.
I invited both parties to provide us with any further comments or evidence in response to my 
provisional decision. Bamboo hasnt provided us with anything further. Mrs F has given us 
some further information including additional copies of her bank statements and a copy of 
her tenancy agreement showing the rent that she needed to pay Mrs F has told us that it 
was incorrect for Bamboo to suggest that she was living with her parents as they were 
resident overseas.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so Im not persuaded that I should alter the conclusions I reached in my 
provisional decision. But I would like to address the additional information that Mrs F has 
provided.
The tenancy agreement shows that another party was also responsible for the rental 
payments  I understand that person to be Mrs Fs partner. So that would suggest, as 
I concluded in my provisional decision, that she wasnt solely responsible for the rental 
payments that were in excess of her normal income. In my experience a prospective tenant 
would need to show evidence of their ability to meet any rental payments before a tenancy 
can be agreed. So I would think it likely that Mrs Fs partner was able to demonstrate income 
in excess of that shown by Mrs F herself when the rental agreement was made.
The extract from its systems that Bamboo provided showed that Mrs F self-declared her 
accommodation situation. When she completed its online application form she told Bamboo 
that she was living with her parents, and paid no contribution to any accommodation costs. 
I dont think that, from the information provided by its other checks, Bamboo had any reason 
to doubt the information Mrs F had provided.
As I said in my provisional decision I appreciate that Mrs F says her finances were 
over-stretched when she asked for the loan. But I think Bamboo was entitled to rely on the 
information she provided. And I dont think that Bamboos proportionate checks gave it any 
reason to doubt what Mrs F had said about her finances, or conclude that the loan wouldnt 
be sustainably affordable for her.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, and in my provisional decision, I dont uphold the complaint or 
make any award against Bamboo Limited.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs F to accept or 
reject my decision before 1 March 2022.
 
Paul Reilly
Ombudsman