DRN-2055764
The complaint
Mr and Mrs H are unhappy that Liverpool Victoria Insurance Company Limited (LV) wont 
pay their home insurance claim for storm/accidental damage to their garden wall.
What happened
In November 2019 part of Mr and Mrs Hs garden wall, which formed the boundary between 
their and their neighbours property, collapsed into their neighbours garden after a day and 
night of heavy rain. It was a retaining dry stone wall. They made a claim to LV who sent out 
a surveyor. He determined that the cause of collapse wasnt the storm but was likely to be 
due to a tree/shrubbery that had grown into the wall which had compromised its stability. LV 
determined that any storm wasnt the cause of the damage.
Mr and Mrs H consulted a chartered engineer who inspected the wall. He said that there was 
no evidence of any tree roots in the wall. He said that the damage to the wall was likely 
caused by excessive heavy rainfall on the day/night it took place. This had drained through 
the wall causing the front stonework to be washed away into the neighbours garden. The 
back stonework remained intact.
LV responded that the usual reason for the collapse of a dry stone wall would be the build up 
of pressure behind it from the retention of water, which would cause the whole wall to 
collapse. That hadnt happened here  the back part of the wall had remained in place and 
only the front part had collapsed. As it was the water draining through the wall this must 
have happened gradually. This is a general exclusion in the policy. It also reiterated that it 
thought the presence of shrubs growing behind the wall had contributed to this.
On referral to this service our investigator didnt uphold the complaint. She didnt think the 
rainfall was sufficient to constitute a storm. She considered whether the damage came under 
the cover for extended accidental damage in the policy. As this required the damage to be 
caused suddenly, she didnt think the evidence showed that it had. Rather the water had 
been constantly washing through the stonework as a gradual process. Again the exclusion 
for something which happened gradually applied.
Mrs H replied that the nature of a dry stone wall is for the water to drain through it. She said 
that the investigators view was based on the fact that the whole wall would have drained the 
water. She believes, backed up by her engineer, that the water was funnelled to a section 
of the wall which washed out. The engineer said the wall didnt collapse as no soil from 
Mr and Mrs Hs side was disturbed.  Mrs H believed this was a sudden incident.
The matter has been referred to me for further consideration.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Unfortunately not all unforeseen incidents that happen are covered by insurance. The storm 
cover in a policy means the damage must be caused by a single identifiable storm. As 
theres no definition of storm in the policy LV uses the generally accepted definition which is 
that a storm generally involves violent winds, usually accompanied by rain, hail or snow. 
Here the windspeed didnt reach more than 29mph which wouldnt generally be sufficient to 
cause any damage to property or to constitute a storm. Occasionally a storm can take place 
where there are no violent winds, but the rainfall would have to be of exceptional or unusual 
intensity. Here the maximum rainfall recorded on the day in question was 5.8 mm an hour 
and 18 mm over the whole day. I dont think that that is exceptional or unusual enough to 
mean there was a storm. 
As presence of a storm is necessary for the storm cover to apply, I can only consider if the 
weather itself caused the damage to the wall, in so far as it might come under the extended 
accidental damage cover in the policy. 
Accidental damage is defined in the policy as: damage caused suddenly by external means 
which is not expected and not deliberate.
The key part of this it has to be caused suddenly. Mr and Mrs Hs engineer said:
..the damage to the wall has been caused by excessive heavy rainfall during the day 
which has drained through the wall overnight and washed out" the front stonework.
Whilst I accept that there was heavy rainfall during the day I dont think this was a sudden 
event. As the rainfall wasnt unusually intense it seems likely to me that it was a cumulative 
effect. Indeed its instructive to note that the rainfall for the previous 30 days was 119.6 mm. 
I think it likely that if the damage was caused solely by the rainfall washing through the 
stonework this wasnt a sudden event but rather took place over a period of days. There is 
also a general exclusion, common to most home insurance policies for any claim arising 
from.. anything that happens gradually.
.. 
So whilst I accept that Mr and Mrs Hs engineer had expertise on the subject, his opinion is 
based on there being storm damage and as there was no storm the cover for this cant 
apply. And, I understand that this is disappointing for Mr and Mrs H, but I dont think that the 
damage is covered as accidental damage.
My final decision
I dont uphold the complaint
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs H and Mr H to 
accept or reject my decision before 16 October 2020.
 
Ray Lawley
Ombudsman