DRN-3354023
The complaint
Mr and Mrs L complain that when TSB Bank plc implemented new security measures known 
as Strong Customer Authentication they could no longer access their bank account online 
because they live overseas and TSB wouldnt send one-time passcodes to non-UK 
telephone numbers.
What happened
In or around July 2020 Mr and Mrs L complained to TSB that they could no longer access 
their TSB online banking because their international phone numbers could not receive the 
required authentication or one-time passcodes (OTPs). TSB looked into their complaint and 
said there was nothing they could do. TSB said they couldnt send OTPs to international 
phone numbers, and they couldnt send the OTPs another way, but that Mr and Mrs L could 
still manage their account via telephone banking.
Unhappy with this response, Mr and Mrs L brought their complaint to this service.
What Mr and Mrs L told us
Mr and Mrs L told us that theyve been customers of TSB for 40 years and when they 
emigrated over ten years ago, they left the account open to assist with online purchases in 
the UK and return visits. They said they accessed online banking infrequently, but that was 
still how they maintained an overview of the account.
Mr L said he understood the importance of the new security measure, but said TSB had 
implemented it with total disregard for their overseas customers needs.
Mr L also let us know theyd obtained a roaming pay as you go mobile phone contract so 
that they could provide TSB with a UK mobile phone number, and receive the OTPs.
What TSB told us
TSB didnt think theyd done anything wrong. They referred us to their Personal Banking 
Terms and Conditions which say that to hold a current or savings account:
You must be resident in the UK 
TSB added, We are aware some customers choose to keep their accounts when they move 
abroad but this can cause restriction for them.
They later, in response to a question from our investigator in May 2021, let us know that the 
issue had been resolved and that customers in the country Mr and Mrs L reside in could now 
receive OTPs to their mobile or landline numbers.
Our investigators view
Our investigator upheld Mr and Mrs Ls complaint. She explained TSB had been obliged by 
regulations to implement what is known as Strong Customer Authentication (SCA) but she 
thought TSB should have provided Mr and Mrs L with a solution when they couldnt send 
OTPs to international telephone numbers, not simply told them to rely on telephone banking.
Acknowledging that TSB had since resolved the issue, she also said it was disappointing 
TSB hadnt let Mr and Mrs L know about that solution sooner. She said TSB should pay 
them £200 compensation for the trouble and upset caused.
Responses to the view
Mr and Mrs L accepted this outcome. But they made it clear they were not looking for 
compensation, only an apology for the way theyd been treated, and that theyd prefer any 
compensation award to go to charity.
TSB didnt accept the investigators view. They said:
Their terms and conditions say account holders must be resident in the UK, therefore 
the expectation is that customers will have a UK mobile or landline;
Whilst customers who move abroad have been able to keep their accounts, TSBs 
processes might not always work as well for customers who choose to live abroad;
Before OTPs could be sent to the country Mr and Mrs L reside in TSB had to show 
compliance with local mobile phone regulations and this took time;
Mr and Mrs L were advised around 26 January 2021 by text message that the 
problem with sending OTPs to the country they reside in had been resolved;
Telephone banking services remained available to Mr and Mrs L throughout;
Mr and Mrs L notified TSB that they'd obtained a UK mobile number by September 
2020 so could receive TSBs OTPs before the issue with international numbers was 
resolved;
Mr and Mrs L had successfully used internet banking in January 2021; and
Mr and Mrs L do not use this account or internet banking frequently so haven't been 
significantly inconvenienced by being unable to use internet banking for a short 
period.
Overall, TSB didn't agree they'd acted unfairly towards Mr and Mrs L and didn't think what 
theyd experienced warranted £200 compensation. As no agreement could be reached, the 
complaint was passed to me to decide.
Further comments from Mr and Mrs L
When I started reviewing Mr and Mrs Ls complaint I let them know I was thinking of 
departing from the outcome the investigator reached, and shared with them TSBs response 
to the investigators view.
Mr and Mrs L told me that they dont accept TSB acted fairly towards them. They accepted 
that theyd not been significantly inconvenienced by what happened but said in this day and 
age TSB should have had a system in place that works worldwide. They said they felt TSB 
had failed them as theyd had to buy a roaming mobile phone to regain online access to their 
account, and they didnt think they should have had to do that because online banking 
access should, today, be easy with appropriate security controls in place.My provisional decision
I issued a provisional decision on 25 February 2022. I wrote:
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Having done so, I not minded to 
uphold Mr and Mrs Ls complaint. Ill explain why.
TSB were required by the Payment Services Regulations 2017 (the PSRs 2017) to 
implement SCA (also known as two-factor authentication). This means that when a 
payment service user accesses their payment account online or initiates an 
electronic payment TSB must check that the payment service user is genuine by 
using something known to them (knowledge check), something only held by them 
(possession check), or something inherent to them (inherence check). As a 
minimum, the elements or factors used in SCA must derive from two of the three 
categories. For example, to login to online banking a payment service user will 
commonly need a password (knowledge) plus an OTP sent to a mobile phone held 
by the payment service user (possession).
The Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) issued guidance to businesses required to 
implement SCA. This was principally set out in their publication Payment Services 
and Electronic Money  Our Approach. This made clear that the FCA expected 
payment service providers (PSPs) to develop SCA solutions that worked for all 
groups of consumers. The guidance said PSPs may have to provide different 
methods of authentication to, for example, cater for customers who dont possess a 
mobile phone or smart phone. The guidance also said PSPs should consider the 
impact of SCA solutions on different groups of customers as part of the design 
process, in particular those with protected characteristics. (Protected characteristics 
meaning those that are protected the under the Equality Act 2010).
Im aware that TSB do provide more than one method of authentication. Personal 
account holders can strongly authenticate by receiving an OTP to their mobile phone 
(any type capable of receiving SMS text messages) or landline (where the OTP is 
spoken), or use biometric authentication if their mobile phone is set up for that. These 
options couldnt be accessed by Mr and Mrs L in July 2020 as they didnt have either 
type of UK phone number. But I dont think the FCAs guidance means TSB were 
obligated to offer a further different method of authentication for Mr and Mrs L in their 
circumstances. And I don't think it's unreasonable that TSB designed their SCA 
process principally with their UK customer-base in mind, and based on the 
assumption that their customers would likely have a UK telephone number (either 
mobile or landline). After all, their terms and conditions do say that account holders 
must be resident in the UK.
Im also mindful that the problem TSBs implementation of SCA created for Mr and 
Mrs Ls online banking access was reasonably straightforward for Mr and Mrs L to 
overcome by obtaining a UK mobile phone number on a roaming contract. I dont 
think it was unfair that they had to do this if they wanted to continue to have the same 
access to an account that
was intended for UK residents. I think its reasonable to expect that if you want to 
continue to hold an account intended for UK residents once youve stopped residing 
in the UK, you might have to take some additional steps to facilitate that; and your 
experience of and access to that service is likely to be different in some respects to 
that of UK residents.Overall, whilst Im pleased to see that TSB did resolve this for overseas customers 
and are now able to send OTPs to international numbers, I dont think it was unfair or 
unreasonable that this wasnt something they could offer Mr and Mrs L between July 
2020 and early 2021. So, I dont propose to direct TSB to do anything on this 
occasion.
Responses to my provisional decision
TSB didnt make any further comments. Mr and Mrs L didnt agree with my findings. They 
said TSB had failed them and had a dont care attitude until Mr and Mrs L escalated their 
complaint. They thought TSB should value their customers more.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I see no reason to depart from what I said in my provisional decision; I dont 
uphold Mr and Mrs Ls complaint. Whilst I appreciate that Mr and Mrs L feel strongly that 
TSB treated them badly, and that theyll likely be disappointed by my decision, I dont think 
theres enough to say that TSB acted unfairly or unreasonably here. I set out my reasoning 
for that conclusion in my provisional decision and nothing Mr and Mrs L have said in 
response to that has given me cause to change that finding.
I remain of the view that it was reasonable for TSB to design their SCA process principally 
with their UK customer-base in mind. And I dont think TSB were obliged to offer Mr and 
Mrs L a different method of authentication in their circumstances. The account was intended 
to be used by customers resident in the UK, and I dont think its unfair that TSBs SCA 
process reflected that.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold Mr and Mrs Ls complaint against TSB Bank plc.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs L and Mr L to 
accept or reject my decision before 5 April 2022.
 
Beth Wilcox
Ombudsman