DRN-2834878
The complaint
Mr B is unhappy that HSBC UK Bank Plc (trading as First Direct) wont refund the money 
hes lost to a fraudster. 
Whats happened?
Mr B has fallen victim to an email interception scam.
During September and October 2019, Mr B corresponded regularly, via telephone and email, 
with a private company he was interested in investing in (the company). On                       
23 October 2019, he received an email which appeared to come from the company  it 
followed on in a chain of emails between Mr B and employees of the company, came from 
the same email address Mr B had corresponded with previously and copied in another email 
address that Mr B had been regularly corresponding with, and it was received the day after 
Mr B had received a genuine email from the company promising its arrival. A Share 
Subscription Form was attached to the email (the form), which gave the account number 
and sort code Mr B should transfer his payment for shares in the company to.
On 24 October 2019, Mr B called HSBC to set-up and send a payment of £24,000 to a new 
payee (the payment). He gave over the account details listed in the form. But unbeknown to 
Mr B, a fraudster had intercepted the companys email and changed the account details in 
the form. So the payment went to the fraudsters account, not the companys.
Mr B has said he didnt find anything suspicious about the email he received on                  
23 October 2019. He trusted where it came from and that the email was correct. It didnt 
occur to him that fraudsters may have changed details within the email, or that the email 
wasnt genuine. There was no indication that the email had been interfered with.
What has HSBC said?
HSBC has said that it warned Mr B about the potential scam when he called to make the 
payment, and it gave him the opportunity to contact the company to confirm the account 
details before the payment was made. Mr B said he had already spoken to the company to 
confirm the details. So the payment was carried out according to his instructions.
Mr B has said that HSBC should have used Confirmation of Payee, but this wasnt in place 
in October 2019.
Mr B reported the fraud on 28 October 2019, and HSBC contacted the receiving bank 
without delay. £201.03 remained in the beneficiary account and this was returned to Mr B in 
December 2019.
What did our investigator say?
Our investigator listened to a recording of the conversation Mr B had with HSBC on            
24 October 2019. He transcribed the part of the call HSBC has referred to in answering 
Mr Bs complaint, and I have included his transcription below:
Agent: How was it you were given the bank details. Have they told you 
verbally or sent you  
Mr B: Theyve sent me a document, Im investing in a private company and 
this is a private companys bank account.
Agent: Righty ho. The only reason I ask that is because we have had 
instances where fraudsters have intercepted letters, texts and emails 
and theyve changed over the bank details. Its just to give you the 
opportunity if you wanted to check those details verbally before 
sending the payment. Are you happy to send it or would you prefer to 
double check with them?
Mr B: ErIm happy to double check.
Agent: If you want to, what I could do is put the sort code and account 
number on the system and then you could just double check with them 
and make sure you know are these definitely the right details and then 
when you ring us back we can just process it.
Mr B: Oh sorry you meantIve already spoken to them, theyve said 
theyve confirmed this is their bank account.
Agent: Oh, theyve confirmed thats fine, thats fine. So which account are we 
setting this payment up from? [Call continues with Mr B giving 
payment details].
Our investigator thought there were some misunderstandings around HSBCs suggestion of 
double checking, and what Mr B meant when he said hed already spoken to the company. 
But overall, he wasnt satisfied that the warning HSBC gave Mr B in their telephone 
conversation was impactful enough to be considered an effective warning under the Lending 
Standards Boards Contingent Reimbursement Model (CRM Code) because, in summary:
He looked at the emails Mr B had exchanged with the company, the email he 
received from the fraudster dated 23 October 2019 and the form, and he didnt think 
the fraud was detectable. Mr B had been expecting to receive an email containing 
details of how to invest in the company, so he could understand why he wasnt 
suspicious. He said that Mr B was highly confident the account details he was 
sending the payment to had been taken from a genuine email from a known contact 
and were correct. So he reasonably thought the warning didnt apply to his situation, 
and the warning wasnt enough to put doubt in his mind in the circumstances.
The agent talked about email interception but didnt explain that a fraudulent email 
could look identical to a genuine one and could appear to come from the correct 
email address.
HSBC suggested that Mr B check the payee account details verbally but didnt 
suggest further steps Mr B could take to protect himself, such as sending a small 
payment and confirming receipt with the company before sending a larger sum.Mr B was reasonably unaware that Confirmation of Payee wasnt in place at the time 
he made the payment. Giving HSBC details of the account holder name gave Mr B 
more confidence that the payment was going to the right place.
So our investigator didnt think that Mr B had ignored an effective warning, or that he was 
aware there was a genuine risk in making the payment. He also thought that Mr B had a 
reasonable basis for believing he was making a legitimate payment because the company 
was genuine and the investment opportunity was legitimate, Mr B had been corresponding 
with the company over several weeks, and the fraud was sophisticated and undetectable.
Our investigator concluded that HSBC should reimburse Mr B under the CRM Code.
HSBC didnt agree. It said that a customers mindset isnt relevant to determining whether a 
warning is an effective warning under the CRM Code, but it clearly explained to Mr B that 
emails could be intercepted in any event. It also argued that the warning it gave was 
impactful because it was targeted at affecting Mr Bs decision making. He was specifically 
advised to confirm the payee details through a verbal conversation because emails can be 
intercepted and account details changed, resulting in losses to the customer. HSBC said it 
thinks Mr B fully understood the warning it gave but chose to ignore it for his own reasons.
HSBC said that as Mr B wasnt prepared to take the simple step of calling the company to 
confirm their account details, its unlikely he wouldve taken more onerous steps to protect 
himself such as sending a small payment first and waiting to see if it had been received.
After our investigator issued his view, Mr B said he never felt he was being specifically 
advised to confirm the account details verbally with the company. It was merely suggested 
as an option as part of a friendly, chatty exchange. There was no sense of gravity or 
seriousness to the suggestion that the email hed received may have been intercepted. If he 
had been told that it was advisable to check the account details, or HSBC had 
recommended he pay a smaller amount to verify that the bank account was valid then he 
thinks this would have influenced his decision making. He wasnt told that HSBC wouldnt 
check that the name of the company matched the bank account details hed given for the 
payment, and he thought this would be checked and verified. If HSBC had made this clear, 
that would also have affected his decision making.
My provisional decision
The complaint was passed to me to decide, and I issued my provisional decision on           
20 May 2021. I considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide what was fair 
and reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I explained that HSBC is a signatory of the CRM Code, which requires firms to reimburse 
customers who have been the victims of Authorised Push Payment (APP) scams, like the 
one Mr B has fallen victim to, in all but a limited number of circumstances. HSBC has argued 
that one of the exceptions applies in this case  its said that Mr B ignored an effective 
warning it gave when setting up a new payee, and immediately before making the payment.
The CRM Code says:
SF1(2)(e) As a minimum, Effective Warnings should meet the following criteria
(i) Understandable  in plain language, intelligible and meaningful to the 
Customer(ii) Clear  in line with fair, clear and not misleading standard as set out in 
Principle 7 of the FCAs [Financial Conduct Authority] Principles for 
Businesses
(iii) Impactful  to positively affect Customer decision-making in a manner 
whereby the likelihood of an APP scam succeeding is reduced. This 
should include steps to ensure that the Customer can reasonably 
understand the consequences of continuing with an irrevocable 
payment;
(iv) Timely  given at points in the Payment Journey most likely to have 
impact on the Customers decision-making;
(v) Specific  tailored to the customer type and the APP scam risk 
identified by analytics during the Payment Journey, and/or during 
contact with the Customer.
I listened to a recording of the conversation Mr B had with HSBC on 24 October 2019 and 
I was happy that our investigators transcription is an accurate representation of what was 
said.
I said that I appreciate HSBC tried to give Mr B a warning in this case, and that it was given 
the impression that Mr B had checked the account details with the company. But considering 
everything, I wasnt satisfied that the requirements of the effective warning exception were 
met. Overall, I didnt think the warning HSBC gave Mr B was impactful enough to be 
considered an effective warning under the terms of the CRM Code.
The Agent told Mr B there had been instances of email interception and gave him the 
opportunity if he wanted to check those details verbally before sending the payment. They 
asked if he was happy to just go ahead with the payment or if he wanted to double check 
with the company. They did not talk about the prevalence of this type of scam or advise Mr B 
to verbally check the account details with the company. Nor did they explain that email 
interception scams can be very sophisticated; so intercepted emails can appear genuine and 
look like they come from the correct email address. I said that under the CRM Code, an 
effective warning should ensure a customer can reasonably understand the consequences 
of continuing with an irrevocable payment. But the Agent didnt explain the potential 
consequences of sending the payment without checking the account details verbally with the 
company if it turned out that the companys email had been intercepted; they didnt say that 
the payment would be sent to the account number and sort code Mr B had given, even if it 
wasnt the companys account, and it would more than likely by irretrievable. In my view, the 
absence of this information meant that the warning wasnt likely to positively affect a 
customers decision making in a manner whereby the likelihood of the scam succeeding was 
reduced.
I thought that the circumstances of the scam made the warning HSBC gave even less 
effective. Mr B has said that the warning was given in a chatty exchange, and he didnt 
appreciate the seriousness of it, or realise that checking the account details with the 
company was more than a suggestion or an option. He trusted that hed received the 
account details from the company after speaking to its employees at length via email and 
receiving the account details in the same email chain. I considered what Mr B has said to be 
reasonable, and I could see why the conversation he had with HSBC didnt put doubt in his 
mind about the email he had received, as he expected to, that looked legitimate, came from 
an email address he was expecting it to come from and didnt appear to have been 
interfered with. Mr B has said that he thought the payee name would be checked and 
verified against the account details, reducing his risk. If the Agent had really brought to life 
what a scam of this nature could look like  how a fraudster can pose as someone else and 
send emails from their email address, on the same email chain  and explained the potential 
consequences of making the payment without verbally checking the account details with the company, then I thought this wouldve been important information in the context of this scam 
that wouldve affected Mr Bs decision making.
HSBC hasnt argued that Mr B lacked a reasonable basis of belief, but for the sake of 
completeness, I addressed this. From what Id seen, I was persuaded that Mr B had a 
reasonable basis for belief for largely the same reasons as our investigator. Mr B had been 
corresponding with the company for some time via phone and email prior to sending the 
payment. The company was genuine, as was the investment opportunity. And Mr B was 
expecting the email he received containing details of how to invest  it followed on in a chain 
of emails between Mr B and employees of the company, came from the same email address 
Mr B had corresponded with previously and copied in another email address that Mr B had 
been regularly corresponding with, and it was sent the day after Mr B had received a 
genuine email from the company promising its arrival. Overall, I said the fraud was 
sophisticated, and I thought it was reasonable that it went undetected by Mr B.
Looking at everything, I was persuaded that HSBC should have refunded the money Mr B 
lost under the terms of the CRM Code. I wasnt satisfied that any of the permitted exceptions 
to reimbursement applied in the circumstances of this case.
In addition, I said that HSBC ought reasonably to have done more to prevent this scam. Mr B 
called HSBC to set-up and send the payment, and this led to a conversation about the 
payment in which HSBC identified that Mr B may be at risk of being scammed. But (as Ive 
already set out) HSBC failed to adequately explain the risk. I said that if HSBC had gone 
further in its explanation, its reasonable to think this wouldve tipped Mr Bs mindset. Indeed, 
hes said it wouldve affected his decision making. If Mr B had been provided with more 
information about this type of scam and been advised to contact the company because 
intercepted emails are not rare and can be very persuasive, and if hed been told about the 
potential risks if he went ahead without checking the account details, then I thought he 
wouldve taken steps to protect himself. Had he contacted the company, I thought the scam 
wouldve quickly unfolded and he wouldnt have gone ahead with the payment.
I explained that the relevance of this finding is that HSBC ought to have prevented the loss, 
rather than just reimbursed Mr B under the provisions of the CRM Code. I said it follows that 
HSBC should pay Mr B interest from the date of loss, rather than the date it decided not to 
refund Mr B under the CRM Code.
In all of the circumstances, I thought it fair and reasonable to uphold this complaint and 
require HSBC to refund Mr Bs outstanding loss of £23,798.97.
The payment was funded by two internal transfers from Mr Bs online saver accounts. 
I thought it was reasonable to assume that Mr B would have invested his money in the 
company as planned if HSBC had prevented the scam. But I said I couldnt know for certain 
how Mr Bs investment in the company would have performed, or how long he would have 
remained invested in the company. In the circumstances, I thought it was fairest to award 
interest at the online saver account rate, compounded from the date of loss to the date of 
settlement.
I also thought it was appropriate to make a modest award of £200 for the trouble and upset 
Mr B has experienced in this matter. I was mindful that his loss was ultimately caused by the 
callous acts of fraudsters, but I said that HSBC, at least, should have refunded the loss 
under the provisions of the CRM Code and, I was persuaded, it ought to have prevented the 
scam altogether. Had it done so, I said that much of the trouble and upset caused to Mr B 
would have been avoided.Responses to my provisional decision
HSBC let me know that it accepts my provisional decision, and Mr B confirmed that he has 
no new evidence or information to add.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As HSBC has accepted my provisional decision, and neither party has given me any new 
information to consider, I see no reason to depart from the conclusions set out in my 
provisional decision.  
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, my final decision is that I uphold this complaint and instruct 
HSBC UK Bank Plc to:
reimburse Mr Bs outstanding loss of £23,798.97 within 28 days of receiving 
notification of his acceptance of my final decision; plus
pay interest at the online saver account rate on that sum, compounded from the date 
the payment was made to the date of settlement*.
pay Mr B £200 for any trouble and upset this matter has caused him.
* If HSBC considers its required by HM Revenue & Customs to take off income tax from the 
interest, it should tell Mr B how much its taken off. It should also give him a certificate 
showing this, if he asks for one, so that he can reclaim the tax from HMRC if appropriate.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 6 July 2021.
 
Kyley Hanson
Ombudsman