DRN-3907767
The complaint
Mr H complains Joslin Rhodes Lifestyle Financial Planning Limited (JR) gave him 
unsuitable advice about transferring the benefits from his defined-benefit (DB) 
occupational pension scheme with British Steel (BSPS) to a personal pension, causing 
him a financial loss.
Mr H is represented in this complaint, but to keep things simple Ill only refer to Mr H.
What happened
In March 2016, Mr Hs employer announced that it would be examining options to 
restructure its business, including decoupling the BSPS from the company. The 
consultation with members referred to possible outcomes regarding their preserved 
benefits, which included transferring the scheme to the Pension Protection Fund (PPF), 
or a new defined benefit scheme (BSPS2). Alternatively, members were informed they 
could transfer their benefits to a personal pension arrangement.
Mr H was concerned about what that announcement meant for the security of his 
preserved benefits in the BSPS. So, in May 2016, Mr H met with JR for advice. Over 
several meetings, JR gathered information about Mr Hs circumstances and objectives. 
Ultimately, JR recorded Mr H was age 55, had three adult children and a long-term 
partner, but was not married and had no plans to get married. That Mr Hs monthly income 
was £2,300 and his partners monthly income was £900. That their monthly essential 
expenses totalled £2,050 including £425 for rent, with a further £721 of monthly 
discretionary expenses. And that their credit card and other debt totalled £7,650, for which 
they repaid £333 per month. Mr H and his partner had no savings but Mr H expected to 
receive an inheritance of £1,500 in the future. JR recorded that Mr H and his partner were 
both entitled to a state pension, and his partner also had an occupational pension scheme 
that JR estimated would provide monthly income of £340.
JR also recorded that Mr H wanted to retire early at age 61 and be able to access his 
pension funds when he chose, including tax free cash (TFC) totalling £56,000 to buy the 
house he and his partner rented, landscape the garden, repay debts and take holidays. 
That Mr H and his partner needed monthly retirement income totalling approximately 
£2,013 (£1,292 for essentials plus a further £721 for leisure), and that this would increase 
to £4,100 at age 85. That Mr H wanted his pension fund to provide his partner and 
children with death benefits they wouldnt be entitled to under the BSPS. And that Mr H 
was worried about the BSPS falling into the PPF and the PPFs financial stability. JR 
assessed Mr Hs attitude to risk as balanced (or, medium) and assessed his capacity for 
loss as low. 
In its Pension Transfer Value Analysis (TVAS) report, or suitability report, dated 8 August 
2016, JR advised Mr H to not transfer out of the BSPS, as it gave Mr H several 
advantages - a guaranteed lifetime income compared with the level of income that might 
be secured through a personal pension, the option to take TFC, no personal investment 
responsibility or risk, and no personal fees or charges.  
JR discussed this recommendation with Mr H on 9 August 2016, and its notes of that 
meeting record that Mr H still wanted to transfer against JRs advice - because hed lost 
trust in his employer and the BSPS, he didnt want BSPS to get out of paying death 
benefits to his partner and children, and he wanted to buy his house sooner rather than 
later without the benefit reduction and income tax hed incur if he did this under the BSPS. 
Mr H wrote an insistent client letter to JR dated 16 August 2016, which said hed read 
and understood the TVAS report. But that he still wanted to transfer to a personal pension 
in order to access £25,000 TFC immediately so he could repay debts, and make home 
improvements. He also wanted money available to him to purchase his home. He said he 
wasnt interested in buying life assurance. And that passing on his pension funds to his 
partner and children, having flexibility and control, and not having to worry about the PPF 
were more important to him than losing guaranteed income from his main pension 
provision and having less income in retirement.
So, JR treated Mr H as an insistent client. The new TVAS report JR produced dated 
28 August 2016 increased Mr Hs attitude to risk to moderately adventurous and his 
capacity for loss to medium, and recommended a personal pension Mr H could transfer 
his DB benefits to. Mr H followed this advice and transferred £297,124.67. Soon after, 
Mr H took £25,000 TFC and repaid his debts. 
In September 2020 Mr H complained to JR about its advice to transfer out of the BSPS. 
Mr H later acknowledged that JRs 8 August 2016 TVAS report had advised him not to 
transfer out of the BSPS, but argued it shouldnt then have treated him as an insistent 
client and recommended a personal pension investment that was higher risk than his true 
attitude to risk and capacity for loss. 
In response, JR said it had taken Mr H through a full advice process, told him about the 
risks of transferring from the BSPS to a personal pension, and recommended that he 
didnt transfer. But Mr H nonetheless made an informed decision to still transfer, so it had 
treated him as an insistent client in line with the regulators guidance and its own process. 
And it then gave Mr H new and suitable advice about which personal pension to invest in, 
in line with his attitude to risk, capacity for loss and objectives.
Mr H asked our Service to look into this complaint, and one of our Investigators upheld it. 
They thought JR hadnt given Mr H clear and balanced information on which to make an 
informed decision about transferring. In particular, they said JR didnt thoroughly understand 
Mr Hs income and expenditure, didnt give Mr H balanced information about death benefits, 
didnt reassure Mr H about the possibility of his scheme moving to the PPF, didnt include all 
the relevant information in its cashflow models, didnt present information in a clear and 
balanced way, and assessed Mr Hs attitude to risk too highly from the start.
Our Investigator thought that if not for this, Mr H would have stayed in the BSPS and 
transferred his benefits to BSPS2 when the time came. So she asked JR to calculate 
compensation based on this assumption, and said it should also pay Mr H £200 
compensation for the distress and inconvenience caused by its mistake.
Mr H generally agreed with our Investigator. He told us he was made redundant in March 
2020 and started taking benefits from his employers defined contribution (DC) pension 
scheme. And then took benefits from this personal pension in October 2021 at age 61. 
JR disagreed with our Investigator and provided further comments. In summary, JR said 
that in 2016, Mr H didnt disclose his employers new DC pension or death in service 
benefit. That the generic life insurance quotes it gave Mr H in 2016 cost about the same 
as the personalised quotes it gave Mr H in 2019. That it wasnt known if or when the BSPS would fall into the PPF and it told Mr H about the PPFs benefits and limitations. That it 
hadnt fully updated its cashflow models but this didnt change Mr H continuing as an 
insistent client. And it had increased Mr Hs attitude to risk at his explicit request and 
invested his personal pension accordingly. JR also said Mr Hs new personal pension had 
performed well so hed not been caused a financial loss. That Mr H was always inclined to 
transfer from the BSPS to a personal pension, shown by his willingness to meet JR so 
often over so many months. And his complaint was motivated by the chance to increase 
his pension funds, and hed brought parts of his complaint outside JRs complaints 
process and benefitted from specialist legal advice. 
Our Investigator didnt change their view of Mr Hs complaint. As agreement couldnt be 
reached, the complaint was referred for an Ombudsmans decision.
Whilst that referral was underway, our Service contacted both Mr H and JR to explain that 
Mr H could choose to have any redress calculated now in line with the regulators current 
guidance in FG 17/9, or he could instead choose to wait for any new guidance/rules to be 
published by the regulator, as expected in early 2023. JR didnt provide a response to this. 
Mr H argued he didnt need to make this choice yet as his complaint wasnt currently being 
considered by an Ombudsman. Mr H was informed that if he didnt make a choice, the 
redress calculation would be based on the current guidance.
This complaint was passed to me for consideration. On 9 December 2022 I issued my 
provisional decision. In summary, I said JRs communications werent clear or fair, and it 
didnt act in Mr Hs best interests or with due care and skill. And if JR had carried out a fair 
insistent client process, Mr H wouldnt have insisted on going ahead with the transfer. So in 
2016, JR should not only have advised Mr H not to transfer to a personal pension, but also 
advised him to wait for further details about the possible outcomes regarding his preserved 
BSPS benefits. And if it had done, Mr H would more likely than not have opted for the 
BSPS2.
I noted that redundancy in 2020 essentially led Mr H to retire that year, and that he didnt 
access his personal pension benefits until October 2021, at age 61. Instead, he accessed 
his DC scheme first. Bearing in mind the actuarial reductions under the BSPS2, I said that I 
thought Mr H would still have done the same thing and accessed his BSPS2 benefits in 
October 2021 at age 61. Therefore, I thought JR should compensate Mr H for its unsuitable 
advice, using the regulator's defined benefits pension transfer redress methodology, and 
using the benefits available to Mr H through the BSPS2 at age 61 for comparison purposes. 
And that JR should pay Mr H £200 compensation for the unnecessary distress it caused him.
Mr H generally agreed with my provisional decision, but suggested JR should calculate 
redress based on the benefits available to Mr H through the BSPS2 at age 63, and not age 
61 as Id said. He explained that when he was made redundant in March 2020, his DC 
pension was worth about £24,000 and he received redundancy payments totalling £21,000. 
Mr H said he was aware of the actuarial reductions for accessing BSPS2 benefits early, so 
would have delayed doing so for as long as possible. Mr H said he was healthy and wouldve 
prioritised his long-term security of income. And so he would have taken part-time work and 
used his redundancy payment and DC pension income to delay accessing his BSPS2 
benefits until age 63. Mr H also told us he chose to have redress calculated in line with the 
regulators current FG 17/9 guidance.
JR confirmed it had received my provisional decision, but didnt provide any further 
comments or evidence for me to consider.Im now in a position to make my final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive taken into account relevant law and regulations, regulators rules, guidance and 
standards and codes of practice, and what I consider to have been good industry 
practice at the time. This includes the Principles for Business (PRIN) and the Conduct 
of Business Sourcebook (COBS). And where the evidence is incomplete, inconclusive 
or contradictory, I reach my conclusions on the balance of probabilities  that is, what I 
think is more likely than not to have happened based on the available evidence and the 
wider surrounding circumstances.
The applicable rules, regulations and requirements
The below is not a comprehensive list of the rules and regulations which applied at the 
time of the advice, but provides useful context for my assessment of JRs actions here.
PRIN 6: A firm must pay due regard to the interests of its customers and treat them fairly.
PRIN 7: A firm must pay due regard to the information needs of its clients, and 
communicate information to them in a way which is clear, fair and not misleading.
COBS 2.1.1R: A firm must act honestly, fairly and professionally in accordance with the 
best interests of its client (the client's best interests rule).
The provisions in COBS 9 which deal with the obligations when giving a personal 
recommendation and assessing suitability. The provisions in COBS 19 which 
specifically relate to a DB pension transfer. And Ive also taken into account that the 
regulator, the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA), states in COBS 19.1.6 that the 
starting assumption for a transfer from a DB scheme is that it is unsuitable. 
In February 2016 the regulator provided guidance about what steps it expected 
businesses to take when advising an insistent client. There are three key steps, which it 
set out on its website as follows.
1. You must provide advice that is suitable for the individual client, and this advice 
must be clear to the client. This is the normal advice process.
2. You should be clear with the client about the risks of their chosen course of action. 
If the advice includes a pension transfer, conversion or opt-out, there may be 
additional requirements. These may include ensuring the advice is provided by or 
checked by a pension transfer specialist, comparing the defined benefit (DB) 
scheme with the defined contribution (DC) scheme and starting by assuming the 
transfer is not suitable (see COBS 19.1).
3. It should be clear to the client that their actions are against your advice.
The regulator said the advice should be set out clearly in the suitability report, and that it 
needed to be clear with its client about the risks of their chosen course of action and that 
they are acting against its advice. It also added that if the client used their own words to 
indicate that they want to act against its advice, this would normally be clear.
The regulator also published additional guidance on its website giving examples of good 
and poor practice. It gave the following example of good practice relating to suitability reports:
The adviser gave a personal recommendation in clear and unambiguous terms regarding 
both the advice on whether or not to transfer and, if the client chose to transfer, the 
receiving product and the funds into which the client was advised to invest.
The adviser discussed the client's reasons and the risks of not accepting the personal 
recommendation. The adviser documented the reasons, the discussion and its outcome in 
a separate document to the original personal recommendation.
Robust warnings were given and documented.
Whilst this was guidance, and not rules, I wouldve expected JR to have been aware of 
this and ensured that the advice and process it followed was consistent with the 
regulators expectations.
Having considered everything, Im upholding this complaint. Before I explain why, I must 
acknowledge that both parties have provided me with a great deal of detailed comments 
and evidence, and Ive carefully considered everything Ive been provided with. But while I 
mean no discourtesy, my decision wont mention everything Ive been provided with. 
Instead, my decision will only address the comments and evidence I see to be relevant in 
reaching a fair and reasonable outcome to this complaint.  
I also acknowledge JR has questioned Mr Hs motivation for complaining, the legal 
support hes had and the process hes followed. But Mr H is entitled to complain about 
JRs 2016 advice regardless of his reasons, and to seek support with that. And ultimately, 
JR has had the opportunity to investigate and respond to the points Mr H has raised.
All parties accept that JR recommended Mr H did not transfer from the BSPS to a personal 
pension. So, my decision is going to focus on what I consider to be the key issue, which is 
whether it was fair for JR to then treat Mr H as an insistent client.
I know that the date when Mr H wrote his insistent client letter is disputed  its dated 
16 August 2016 but Mr H says he in fact wrote it during the discussion on 9 August 2016 at 
JRs direction. I note JR seems to have given Mr H a leaflet setting out what issues his 
insistent client letter needed to address. But regardless, I dont think the dispute about this 
letter changes anything here. Because its not disputed that Mr H himself wrote the letter or 
that JR only started treating Mr H as an insistent client after 16 August 2016.
While I have considered all the comments and evidence available here, I think the key 
documents are JRs TVAS report dated 8 August 2016 and the notes JR made of its 
discussion with Mr H about that report on 9 August 2016. Having carefully considered these, 
I think there were failings in the advice process which meant Mr H wasnt fully informed 
about his position. And I think its more likely than not that the provision of full information 
and better analysis wouldve influenced Mr Hs decision making. Ill explain why. 
JR recorded that Mr H wanted the flexibility to retire early at 61 and access TFC in order to 
buy the house he and his partner rented, landscape the garden, repay debts and take 
holidays. I appreciate Mr H may have liked the idea of doing these things, but JR didnt 
record any pressing need for him to do them. I acknowledge the closing comments section 
of JRs 8 August 2016 TVAS report said We believe it would be appropriate to clear your 
outstanding debts from your natural stream income. The purchase of your property would 
be best deferred until the point where you access the British Steel pension scheme at which 
point you could draw sufficient tax free cash to cover this purchase, and potentially further 
cash to allow for greater flexibility in terms of lump sum expenditure. But I think its fair to say this is mildly put and that JR didnt properly discuss or challenge Mr Hs wish for 
flexibility here. And that it didnt make clear to Mr H that while he might wish to do these 
things, they were not pressing needs such that he needed to take risks with his pension. 
Having considered all the evidence provided, it seems to me that a key reason why Mr H 
wanted to access TFC as soon as possible was to repay debt, and the monthly repayments 
were taking up quite a bit of his and his partners monthly disposable income. So JRs 
starting point ought to have been exploring debt management or loan consolidation with 
Mr H. If the debt was consolidated by Mr H taking a loan, the monthly debt repayments 
couldve likely been reduced. And if Mr H wanted to borrow a higher amount to make home 
improvements, that would also have likely been affordable and preferable to transferring 
Mr Hs pension. Any remaining debt couldve been repaid when Mr H retired using the TFC. 
And Mr H and his partner purchasing their home wasnt imminent, so transferring Mr Hs 
pension when he didnt know if or when this would happen was premature.
In addition, I dont think JR clearly and simply explained to Mr H that transferring his DB 
benefits to a personal pension for this flexibility would come at a very significant cost. The 
personal considerations against transferring section of JRs 8 August 2016 TVAS report 
says: 
We strongly encourage you to review the full report in detail however, in summary, the 
results of the transfer value analysis are not in favour of a transfer.
The critical yield figure of 17.33% indicates that in pure actuarial/monetary terms (based 
on standardised reasonable assumptions), it would not be advantageous to transfer out 
of the British Steel pension scheme (see report for full details).
If we were to look at these figures in isolation, we would strongly recommend remaining 
within the British Steel scheme.
And the report went on to set out many pages of figures and analysis, based on different 
scenarios. But regardless of whatever Mr H himself thought his attitude to risk and capacity 
for loss was, Mr H was still a retail client with no significant investment experience. And I 
think JRs explanation that a transfer was not in favour and would not be advantageous 
was far too vague and did not make it clear enough that Mr H would be significantly worse 
off in retirement if he transferred his DB benefits to a personal pension. And that if he 
withdrew the same income he was entitled to under the DB scheme, his pension would most 
likely run out before he died.
I dont think the very significant financial impact of transferring was made clear when JR 
met with Mr H about the TVAS report on 9 August 2016. Instead, JRs meeting notes 
show that JR presented transferring to a personal pension as just another choice that 
would work for Mr H. JRs meeting notes say We noted that it would appear that both 
routes would achieve his desired outcome. I then presented the transfer value analysis 
report and discussed this in depth. We focused particularly on the personal 
considerations for and against transfer and I explained that although both options 
appeared to work it was the case that remaining in the defined benefit scheme and 
appeared to be the route of lesser risk. Therefore if both roads lead to the same place 
then it is better to take the one that appears more guaranteed to get you back.
I know JR argues Mr Hs personal pension has in fact performed well so he hasnt 
suffered a financial loss. That may be so, but this wasnt something JR or Mr H could 
have known in 2016, and I need to base my decision on whether the advice was suitable 
at the time. In any case, thats a matter for the redress calculation  its possible that 
because of the performance achieved this may not show a loss. But this doesnt mean 
JRs advice was suitable or that this complaint shouldnt be upheld.Even if I thought Mr H did have a pressing need to retire early at age 61 and take TFC, 
which I dont, I think JR should have made it clear to Mr H that he could do these things 
under either his current scheme or the PPF, or that he could wait until more was known 
about the BSPS2. Of course, its possible BSPS2 might not have gone ahead, but Mr Hs 
pension wasnt at risk of moving to the PPF in the immediate future, so I think JR shouldve 
emphasised that Mr H had time on his side and ought to have waited for the outcome of the 
consultation.
JR recorded that up to age 85, Mr H and his partner needed monthly retirement income 
totalling approximately £2,013, made up of £1,292 for essentials plus a further £721 for a 
football season ticket and holidays. This totalled about £24,153 per year. But I think its fair 
to say that the £721 was discretionary spending which Mr H and his partner could choose 
to spend none, some or all of. So, it follows that Mr Hs retirement income needs couldve 
been less than £24,153 per year, and perhaps closer to £15,504. 
JRs 8 August 2016 TVAS report said Mr Hs existing BSPS would give him an annual 
income of £21,795 per year from age 61 if he took a full pension, or £14,764 per year if he 
took maximum TFC and a reduced pension. While JR didnt calculate what the PPF would 
provide Mr H with if he retired at age 61 as he wished, JRs TVAS report did say the PPF 
would give Mr H £25,839 per year from age 65 if he took a full pension, or £19,656 if he 
took maximum TFC and a reduced pension. And given the more favourable early 
retirement factors under the PPF, I dont think it wouldve been substantially less than the 
amount available to Mr H through the BSPS, particularly if he took TFC.
Im mindful that JR recorded Mr H wanted TFC of £56,000, significantly less than the 
maximum TFC he could have taken. Im also mindful that Mr H wouldve had additional 
income from his other pension which would be building up over the next six years. JR says 
Mr H didnt tell it about this new DC pension from his employer, but given that JR was the 
professional here and Mr H asked it for advice about his pension options in light of the well 
publicised BSPS changes, its reasonable to think JR would specifically ask Mr H if his 
employer had set up a new pension for him. But Ive seen nothing to suggest JR did. Mr H 
had at least another six years to build up this new DC pension, and he could take 25% of it 
as TFC and draw down further sums if he needed extra income until his state pension 
became payable at age 66. 
More importantly, Mr Hs partner was entitled to take her DB scheme benefits at age 60, 
the same year Mr H would reach age 61. And JRs TVAS report assumed she would be 
entitled to retirement income of £4,083 per year plus £1,875 of TFC, though it noted this 
was yet to be confirmed.
All of this means that I think Mr H and his partner had sufficient retirement income 
between them to meet all of their essential retirement spending and most of their 
discretionary spending even if Mr H retired at age 61 and accessed his DB scheme 
benefits. And I think that wouldve been the case even if Mr H moved with the scheme to 
the PPF. I think JR should have made this clear to Mr H. And I think JR should also have 
told Mr H clearly and simply that he was choosing flexibility he didnt really need in return 
for significantly lower benefits in retirement, in addition to the risks of running out of funds 
or not leaving behind enough death benefits for his partner - Ill come to this as I now turn 
to the matter of death benefits. 
JRs TVAS report dated 8 August 2016 said that a key reason for Mr H to transfer to a 
personal pension was so that the remaining value of his pension could be passed to his 
partner, and possibly to his adult children, in the event of his death. Mr H and his partner 
werent married, so his partner wasnt likely to be entitled to the spouses pension under Mr Hs DB scheme or the PPF. And neither the DB scheme or the PPF would provide Mr Hs 
children with any pension benefits in the event of his death, because the childrens pension 
provision only went up to age 23 and Mr Hs children were older than that. 
My understanding is that neither the BSPS2 nor the PPF will pay a spouses pension to an 
unmarried partner. So I accept its not likely that Mr Hs partner would have been able to 
receive a spouses pension under the BSPS2 or the PPF at the time of the advice. And I also 
accept JR explored with Mr H whether he and his partner planned to marry in the future, and 
it was recorded that they did not plan to marry.
Death benefits are an emotive subject and of course when asked, most people would like 
their loved ones to be taken care of when they die. The lump sum death benefits on offer 
through a personal pension was likely an attractive feature to Mr H. But whilst I appreciate 
death benefits are important to consumers, and Mr H might have thought it was a good idea 
to transfer his DB scheme to a personal pension because of this, the priority here was to 
advise Mr H about what was best for his retirement provisions. A pension is primarily 
designed to provide income in retirement. I dont think JR properly explored to what extent 
Mr H was prepared to accept a lower retirement income in exchange for higher death 
benefits.
If Mr H died before retirement then his partner would be entitled to a death in service benefit 
 assuming she was nominated as his beneficiary. I know JR says Mr H didnt mention 
whether his employer provided death in service benefits. But as Ive said above, Mr H was 
an inexperienced investor and JR was the professional here. And its reasonable to think that 
Mr Hs employer, a large business already involved in offering other employee benefits such 
as the pension Mr H asked JR for advice about, might offer death in service. So I think its 
fair to have expected JR to have specifically asked Mr H to check whether he had death in 
service that his partner might benefit from. Had it done so, JR would have been able to 
explain to Mr H that he had six times his salary death in service, so about £240,000, that his 
partner would receive in the event of his death before retirement. But JR didnt do this.
I realise death in service would no longer be an entitlement once Mr H had retired. But I 
dont think JR provided Mr H with clear and balanced information about his other options for 
protecting his partner and children in the event of his death. I say that because page four of 
the TVAS, titled Primary Personal Considerations in favour of transferring, said Death 
benefits; protecting [your partner] / potential benefits for your children was arguably the 
most important of the considerations in favour of transferring out of the British Steel Pension 
Scheme. So death benefits were presented as a very important reason for Mr H to transfer 
from the BSPS to a personal pension. 
But JRs modelling shows that if Mr H took TFC and a reduced pension at age 65, 
(equivalent to the benefits he was entitled to under the DB scheme) and achieved a growth 
rate of 5%, then his personal pension fund would be depleted by age 76 - and retiring and 
taking TFC earlier at age 61 would impact this even more. So there may not have been a 
large sum left, if any at all, to pass on when Mr H died. Had JR clearly and simply explained 
this to Mr H, this would have addressed Mr Hs concerns that while He accepts that death 
benefits could be replaced by an insurance policy but he maintains that he would be 
aggrieved that British steel would get out of paying the [death] benefits to [his partner] for his 
children. as recorded in JRs meeting notes on 9 August 2016. In any event, JR should not 
have encouraged Mr H to believe that prioritising the potential for higher death benefits 
through a personal pension over his security in retirement was a reasonable thing to do.
Furthermore, if Mr H genuinely wanted to leave a legacy for his partner and his children, 
which didnt depend on his existing DB scheme, investment returns or how much of his 
pension fund remained on his death, I think JR shouldve instead fully explored life insurance. I acknowledge that Mr Hs insistent client letter said he wasnt interested in buying 
insurance, but I think this was based on Mr Hs belief that there would still be significant 
funds left in the event of his death, if he transferred to a personal pension. And as Ive 
explained, it was a very real risk that there wouldnt be.  
Based on the documents from the time of the advice, Ive seen nothing to suggest Mr Hs 
health meant life insurance couldnt have been considered for him, and he and his partner 
had some disposable income each month. JRs TVAS report dated 8 August 2016 gave 
Mr H non-personalised quotes for life insurance  it said that it could cost him about £100 a 
month to get either whole of life cover of £85,000, or term assurance cover of £330,000, 
before medical underwriting. But it seems likely these quotes were discounted by Mr H 
because they were not specific to him and because of the cost. And I dont think that this 
was a balanced way of presenting this option to Mr H.
Basing the first quote on a much lower cover amount, albeit over potentially a longer term, 
would have left Mr H thinking this option didnt provide the cover he needed. And basing the 
second quote on significantly more than the transfer value of Mr Hs pension benefits made 
that quote more expensive because it essentially assumed Mr H would pass away on day 
one following the transfer, and that isnt realistic. Ultimately, Mr H wanted to leave whatever 
remained of his pension to his spouse or children, which would be a lot less than this if he 
lived a long life. So, the starting point should have been for JR to ask Mr H how much he 
would ideally like to leave to his partner or any other beneficiary, and how much he could 
afford to contribute. Insurance on this basis was likely to be available and of much more 
interest to Mr H, and would have enabled him to leave a legacy without risking his retirement 
income.
Although its evident that JR was unaware of Mr Hs DC scheme, I think it wouldve 
discovered this if appropriate questions had been asked of Mr H. And had it known about the 
DC scheme it wouldve known that Mr H couldve nominated his partner as the beneficiary of 
this scheme. Although this wouldve been a smaller sum, I think making Mr H aware of this 
wouldve reassured him that he already had the means of ensuring part of his pension 
wouldnt die with him and could be passed on. Furthermore, it may have been the case that 
Mr H was in receipt of extra pension income that he didnt need, particularly once his state 
pension became payable. JR ought to have advised Mr H that he could reinvest this money 
for the benefit of his partner or children, for example through a trust.
Overall, I dont think that the alternative means of providing a legacy for Mr Hs partner and 
children were properly explored by JR. And I think that led Mr H to believe that the only way 
he could ensure his partner would benefit from his pension was to transfer out of the 
scheme.
I acknowledge that when Mr H sought advice from JR, he was very concerned about his 
pension and the thought that the BSPS might soon move to the PPF. And I accept Mr H 
may have been inclined to transfer out of the BSPS because of these concerns, as JR 
argues. However, JRs role was to discern what Mr Hs wants and needs were and why 
Mr H wanted to transfer his pension. JRs role wasnt simply to facilitate what Mr H 
wanted. JR had to act in his best interests.
By the time the advice was given, it was possible the BSPS would be moving to the PPF 
at some point. But Mr H was worried this might happen imminently and I dont think JR 
reassured him (as it could and should have) that this wasnt the case, since a consultation 
process was still underway. Instead, JRs notes of its meeting with Mr H on 21 July 2016 
shows that it reinforced this concern, noting [Mr H] is concerned about timescales and 
fearful that the British Steel pension will go into the pension protection fund in the next 
week. I have explained that although that is a possibility there is nothing he can do about it because we need to go through the advice process before he makes his decision and 
any transfer is actions. So, instead of reassuring Mr H that he still had time and that he 
should wait until the outcome of the consultation, it essentially confirmed Mr Hs fears that 
his pension could fall into the PPF at any time.
That said, JRs financial analysis showed Mr H was unlikely to match, let alone exceed the 
benefits available to him through the PPF if he transferred out to a personal pension, 
particularly if he retired early. So, I think JR ought to have reassured Mr H that the 
possibility of his scheme moving to the PPF wasnt as concerning as he thought. The PPF 
wouldve still provided Mr H with a significant, guaranteed income, and he couldve retired 
early from this scheme with TFC (likely at a higher rate than the BSPS would provide). 
And I dont think there was any risk of the PPF benefits changing or being reduced, which 
Mr Hs letter seems to suggest he thought was a possibility.
Furthermore, the scheme moving to the PPF was only one of the outcomes; it was 
possible another scheme with reduced benefits would be agreed (the BSPS2). I 
appreciate Mr H told JR he was unhappy that his employer continued to reduce or modify 
his benefits so he may have been dismissive of a new scheme. But JRs job was to 
reassure Mr H that even if the benefits were reduced, his DB pension was still far more 
valuable than the transfer valued offered to Mr H, which the high critical yields 
demonstrate was very poor value for money. 
Instead, JRs TVAS report dated 8 August 2016 listed removing worry around scheme 
developments as a reason to transfer to a personal pension, and spoke about the PPF in 
overall negative terms. It said The benefits provided by the PPF are not as attractive as the 
main scheme and By transferringit removes future worries around any reduction [of] 
scheme member benefits or potential PPF scenarios. In addition, the later section of the 
report titled Pension Protection Fund (PPF) went on to summarise the PPF, saying, The 
PPF provides very valuable benefits, and in some cases, Pension Commencement Lump 
Sums and Childrens Pensions, that will frequently provide better benefits than the scheme. 
However, the number of small print terms where the benefits are noticeably worse than the 
original scheme will mean that members will receive benefits of a much lower value than the 
headline 90% or 100% would suggest. So JR didnt reassure Mr H about the PPF as it 
could and should have, but instead reinforced Mr Hs existing concerns.
I appreciate JR recommended that Mr H should not transfer to a personal pension, and I 
accept its 8 August 2016 TVAS report included risks about that. But I think JR didnt present 
Mr H with information in a clear and balanced way within both the TVAS report and its 
meeting with Mr H about that report, and I think that seriously undermined JRs 
recommendation not to transfer. 
In this situation Id expect the emphasis of the documentation to be the reasons why the
transfer was not in Mr Hs best interests. But while the TVAS report recommended that Mr H 
not transfer and listed the transfer risks first, these risks were generic in nature and not 
specific to Mr H. JR then listed the reasons for Mr H to transfer - these were much more 
personal to Mr H, and were given prominence over the insufficiently personalised reasons 
not to transfer that the TVAS report then went on to list.
As Ive said, JRs notes of its meeting with Mr H to talk about the TVAS report show JR 
presented a personal pension as just another option Mr H could take, without clearly and 
simply setting out how detrimental it would be for Mr H. And JRs notes go on to say that 
Mr H was still insistent on transferring his pension - the reasons it noted were largely 
emotional, such as Mr Hs loss of trust with his employer, his uncertainty around the BSPS, 
and feeling aggrieved that the BSPS might get out of paying the remainder of his pension fund as death benefits to his partner. For the reasons Ive explained, I think JR could and 
should have addressed each of these concerns with Mr H.
JRs meeting notes also show JR was already talking to Mr H about which personal 
pension he could transfer his DB benefits to, without giving him the time to consider its 
advice or the time to provide an insistent client letter. The notes say, We explored how a 
drawdown would work if he exercised that option and had a long discussion regarding 
portfolio choice. My recommendation was to start in the balanced portfolio largely due to 
his lack of investment experience and the significance of this pot to his overall situation. 
[Mr H] wanted to increase the risk profile whilst he is working and once the moderately 
adventurous. He anticipates reducing exposure when he retires. We had a blunt 
conversation about drops in the market in times of distress and how he would feel if his 
pot dropped by 50,000 or even £100,000 in extreme times. He felt sure that he would not 
be panicked by this scenario. Its only after this that JRs notes mention it asked Mr H to 
take time to think about its advice, and told him it wouldnt do anything further for a week 
until Mr H provided an insistent client letter. 
So, while JR recommended Mr H should not transfer out of the DB scheme, the ambiguous 
way it presented this to Mr H undermined its written recommendation to stay in the BSPS. 
And JR didnt clearly and simply explain to Mr H how he could meet his objectives by 
remaining in the scheme. So, I dont think Mr H was able to make an informed choice  I 
think he believed the only way to meet his objectives was to transfer out.
If JR had emphasised what Mr H would be giving up and looked holistically at his 
circumstances, including his retirement provisions and what this might mean for his future, 
Im not persuaded hed have gone ahead with the transfer. I say this keeping in mind that 
Ive seen no evidence Mr H had any investment or financial experience. So, I think its likely 
he would have been strongly influenced by the professional financial adviser hed engaged 
and was paying. Whilst I acknowledge JRs documents from the time of the advice suggest 
Mr H was adamant he wanted to transfer, I think this was due to incomplete, unclear and 
unbalanced advice on its part. And inexperience and misconceptions that Mr H had, which 
JR failed to address.
On balance, given these failings, I dont think it would be reasonable for me to conclude the
process JR followed meant that Mr H can truly be regarded as an insistent client. JRs 
communications werent clear or fair. It didnt act in Mr Hs best interests. And it failed 
to act with due care and skill. If JR had followed the insistent client process correctly, I 
dont think Mr H wouldve insisted on going ahead with the transfer. Taking everything 
into account, I think that in 2016 JR should not only have advised Mr H not to transfer 
to a personal pension, but also advised him to wait for further details about the 
possible outcomes regarding his preserved BSPS benefits.
I think JRs error here would have caused Mr H some distress, and I think the £200 
suggested by our Investigator is a fair and reasonable amount of compensation for 
this.
I know Mr H argues that JR assessed his attitude to risk and capacity for loss too highly all 
along, but I dont think I need to consider this because Im already upholding this complaint 
for the reasons Ive explained  I dont think Mr H would have transferred out of his DB 
scheme in 2016 if JR had given him complete, clear and balanced advice. 
In May 2017, the PPF announced that the terms of a Regulated Apportionment 
Arrangement (RAA) had been agreed  it said that if risk-related qualifying conditions 
relating to funding and size could be satisfied, a new pension scheme sponsored by Mr Hs 
employer would be set up  the BSPS2.And in October 2017, BSPS members were sent a Time to Choose letter which gave 
them the options to either stay in BSPS and move with it to the PPF, move to BSPS2 or 
transfer their BSPS benefits elsewhere. The deadline to make their choices was 22 
December 2017. So if Mr H had stayed in BSPS as I think he would have done had JR 
given him properly reasoned advice, he would have had the choice to move to the PPF or 
transfer to the BSPS2.
So Ive considered what Mr H would have more likely than not done when asked to make 
this choice. Given that he had already contacted JR for advice, I think its more likely than 
not that Mr H would have again contacted JR or another adviser in order to understand his 
options, so that he was placed into an informed position. And I think Mr H would more likely 
than not have opted for the BSPS2. 
 
At the time of the advice, Mr H was about six years away from his possible retirement, 
so it was not close enough to be a concrete plan - and as I say, I dont think Mr H had 
any pressing needs to retire early at age 61 in any case. And opting into the BSPS2 
would have meant Mr H retained the option to transfer out of the scheme at a later 
date, should his circumstances dictate that this was in his best interests. And the 
escalation rates were generally better under BSPS2. 
In his response to my provisional decision, Mr H said he would have delayed accessing his 
BSPS2 benefits until age 63 by finding part-time employment and using the income from 
this, his redundancy payment and his DC pension income to live on until then. Because he 
was in good health and prioritised his long-term security of income.
I appreciate Mr Hs further comments about what he thinks he would have done, bearing in 
mind the actuarial reductions under the BSPS2. But it remains the case that the personal 
pension Mr H in fact accessed in October 2021 was still his main source of retirement 
income, even though it was a personal pension and no longer a DB pension. 
And I must also consider what Mr H actually did. Mr H was made redundant in March 2020 
and he received a redundancy payment. And after this, Mr H accessed his DC pension first. 
So Mr H in fact already had access to two of the three sources of funds hes recently said he 
wouldve used to delay accessing his BSPS2 benefits until age 63. 
If Mr H wanted to also seek further employment in order to help prioritise his long-term 
security of income and delay accessing his main pension until age 63, then I think he could 
have done so. But theres nothing to make me think Mr H did seek further employment. And 
Im mindful that at the time of JRs 2016 advice, Mr H wanted to retire early at age 61, even if 
JR didnt record a pressing need for him to do so. 
Therefore, I remain of the view that Mr H would still have accessed his BSPS2 benefits in 
October 2021 at age 61.
Putting things right
A fair and reasonable outcome would be for JR to put Mr H, as far as possible, into the 
position he would now be in but for JRs unsuitable advice. I consider Mr H would have 
remained in the BSPS and more likely than not moved with it to the PPF. So, JR should use 
the benefits offered by the BSPS2 for comparison purposes.
On 2 August 2022, the FCA launched a consultation on new DB transfer redress guidance 
and set out its proposals in a consultation document - CP22/15-calculating redress for non-
compliant pension transfer advice. In this consultation, the FCA said that it considers that the current redress methodology in 
Finalised Guidance (FG) 17/9 (Guidance for firms on how to calculate redress for unsuitable 
defined benefit pension transfers) remains appropriate and fundamental changes are not 
necessary. However, its review has identified some areas where the FCA considers it could 
improve or clarify the methodology to ensure it continues to provide appropriate redress. 
A policy statement was published on 28 November 2022 which set out the new rules and 
guidance- https://www.fca.org.uk/publication/policy/ps22-13.pdf. The new rules will come into 
effect on 1 April 2023.
The FCA has said that it expects firms to continue to calculate and offer compensation to 
their customers using the existing guidance in FG 17/9 for the time being. But until changes 
take effect firms should give customers the option of waiting for their compensation to be 
calculated in line with the new rules and guidance.
Weve previously asked Mr H whether he preferred any redress to be calculated now in line 
with current guidance or wait for the new guidance/rules to come into effect.
He has chosen not to wait for any new guidance to come into effect to settle his complaint. 
I am satisfied that a calculation in line with FG17/9 remains appropriate and, if a loss is 
identified, will provide fair redress for Mr H.
JR must therefore undertake a redress calculation in line with the regulators pension 
review guidance as updated by the Financial Conduct Authority in its Finalised 
Guidance 17/9: Guidance for firms on how to calculate redress for unsuitable DB 
pension transfers. JR should use the benefits offered by the BSPS2 for comparison 
purposes.
For clarity, Mr H retired and started accessing his benefits in October 2021 at age 61, so this 
should be the basis for the calculations.
This calculation should be carried out as at the date of my final decision and using the 
most recent financial assumptions at the date of that decision. In accordance with the 
regulators expectations, this should be undertaken or submitted to an appropriate 
provider promptly following receipt of notification of Mr Hs acceptance of my final 
decision.
JR may wish to contact the Department for Work and Pensions (DWP) to obtain 
Mr Hs contribution history to the State Earnings Related Pension Scheme (SERPS or 
S2P). These details should then be used to include a SERPS adjustment in the 
calculation, which will take into account the impact of leaving the occupational scheme 
on Mr Hs SERPS/S2P entitlement.
If the redress calculation demonstrates a loss, the compensation should if possible be 
paid into Mr Hs pension plan. The payment should allow for the effect of charges and 
any available tax relief. The compensation shouldnt be paid into the pension plan if it 
would conflict with any existing protection or allowance.
If a payment into the pension isnt possible or has protection or allowance implications, 
it should be paid directly to Mr H as a lump sum after making a notional deduction to 
allow for income tax that would otherwise have been paid. Typically, 25% of the loss 
could have been taken as tax-free cash and 75% would have been taxed according to 
his likely income tax rate in retirement - presumed to be 20%. So, making a notional deduction of 15% overall from the loss adequately reflects this.
The payment resulting from all the steps above is the compensation amount. This 
amount must where possible be paid to Mr H within 90 days of the date JR receives 
notification of his acceptance of my final decision. Further interest must be added to the 
compensation amount at the rate of 8% per year simple from the date of my final 
decision to the date of settlement for any time, in excess of 90 days, that it takes JR to 
pay Mr H.
Income tax may be payable on any interest paid. If JR deducts income tax from the 
interest, it should tell Mr H how much has been taken off. JR should give Mr H a tax 
deduction certificate in respect of interest if Mr H asks for one, so he can reclaim the 
tax on interest from HM Revenue & Customs if appropriate.
Its possible that data gathering for a SERPS adjustment may mean that the actual time 
taken to settle goes beyond the 90-day period allowed for settlement above - and so 
any period of time where the only outstanding item required to undertake the 
calculation is data from DWP may be added to the 90-day period in which interest 
wont apply. 
If the complaint hasnt been settled in full and final settlement by the time any new 
guidance or rules come into effect, Id expect JR to carry out a calculation in line with 
the updated rules and/or guidance in any event.
Where I uphold a complaint, I can award fair compensation of up to £160,000, plus any 
interest and/or costs that I consider are appropriate. Where I consider that fair 
compensation requires payment of an amount that might exceed £160,000, I may 
recommend that the business pays the balance.
My final decision
Determination and money award: I uphold this complaint and require Joslin Rhodes 
Lifestyle Financial Planning Limited to pay Mr H the compensation amount as set out in 
the steps above, up to a maximum of £160,000.
I also require Joslin Rhodes Lifestyle Financial Planning Limited to pay Mr H £200 
compensation for the distress caused by its mistake.
Where the compensation amount does not exceed £160,000, I additionally require Joslin 
Rhodes Lifestyle Financial Planning Limited to pay Mr H any interest on that amount in 
full, as set out above.
Where the compensation amount already exceeds £160,000, I only require Joslin 
Rhodes Lifestyle Financial Planning Limited to pay Mr H any interest as set out above on 
the sum of £160,000.
Recommendation: If the compensation amount exceeds £160,000, I also recommend that 
Joslin Rhodes Lifestyle Financial Planning Limited pays Mr H the balance. I additionally 
recommend any interest calculated as set out above on this balance to be paid to Mr H.
If Mr H accepts my final decision, the money award becomes binding on Joslin 
Rhodes Lifestyle Financial Planning Limited
My recommendation would not be binding. Further, its unlikely that Mr H can accept 
my final decision and go to court to ask for the balance. Mr H may want to consider getting independent legal advice before deciding whether to accept any final decision.
Joslin Rhodes Lifestyle Financial Planning Limited should provide details of its 
calculations to Mr H in a clear, simple format.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 February 2023.
 
Ailsa Wiltshire
Ombudsman