DRN-3561359
The complaint
Mr Ts complaint concerns the response of Bank of Scotland plc to his claims made under 
sections 56, 75 and 140A of the Consumer Credit Act 1974. The bank trades in this case 
under its Halifax brand. Mr T is represented by a firm of solicitors, which Ill refer to as A. 
Where I refer to Mr Ts submissions and evidence, I include those made by his wife and by 
A.
What happened
In November 2015 Mr and Mrs T were on holiday in Las Vegas. They were invited to attend 
what they were told would be a short presentation at their hotel. Mr T says however that the 
presentation lasted several hours, at the end of which he and his wife agreed to enter into an 
agreement to buy a timeshare product. He paid a deposit of US$1,960.05 (equivalent at the 
time to £1,296.33) using his Halifax credit card. The balance of the sale price was provided 
by way of a loan from the seller.
In 2016 Mr T instructed a business, R, which claimed to specialise in such matters, to 
arrange the termination of the timeshare, for which he paid an up-front fee. It did not 
succeed in ending the agreement.
In June 2020 A contacted the timeshare company to say that Mr T had been misled at the 
point of sale and that he was therefore entitled to end the agreement. The timeshare 
company did not accept the claims made, said it would not cancel the agreement, and 
reminded Mr T of his ongoing obligations under it.
A referred the matter to Halifax. It repeated that Mr T had been misled at the point of sale 
and that he therefore had a claim against Halifax. Halifax did not think there was enough 
evidence to support Mr Ts claims. It also noted that he had paid the fee to R in 2106 by 
cheque, not by credit card. I mention that for completeness, but Mr T has never claimed that 
Halifax is in any way responsible for the actions of R.
A then referred the matter to this service, this time as a complaint that Halifax had not upheld 
the claim. A said that the following representations had been made:
The timeshare could be exchanged through the RCI scheme.
Mr T had been offered a discounted price because he had been in the armed forces.
The timeshare was an investment that could be re-sold at a profit.
Mr and Mrs T would be able to get cheaper holidays for life.
They would be able to refinance the loan at a cheaper rate when they returned to the 
UK.
They could cancel the contract at any time before the end of December 2015  about 
five weeks.
Our investigator did not recommend that the complaint be upheld. She thought that the 
banks response had been fair and noted that the contract had included a statement that Mr 
and Mrs T had only five days in which to cancel it.
Mr T did not accept the investigators assessment and asked that an ombudsman review the 
case. I did that and issued a provisional decision, in which I said:
Sections 56 and 75 of the Consumer Credit Act
Under section 56 of the Consumer Credit Act, statements made by a supplier in relation to a 
transaction financed or proposed to be financed under pre-existing arrangements between a 
credit provider and the supplier are deemed to be made as agent for the creditor.
In addition, one effect of section 75(1) of the Consumer Credit Act is that a customer who 
has a claim for breach of contract or misrepresentation against a supplier can, subject to 
certain conditions, bring that claim against a credit provider. Those conditions include:
that the credit financed the contract giving rise to the claim, either in whole or in part; 
and
that the credit was provided under pre-existing arrangements or in contemplation of 
future arrangements between the credit provider and the supplier.
Credit includes the use of a credit card account, and the arrangements under which 
suppliers are able to take credit card payments are, through membership of card schemes 
such as Mastercard and Visa, sufficient to constitute pre-existing arrangements. I am 
satisfied that such arrangements were in place in this case, and so I have considered what 
Mr T has said about the sale.
The timeshare contract
I have referred to the November 2015 contract as a timeshare arrangement. Usually, that 
refers to an arrangement where the buyer has the use of identified accommodation for a 
fixed period each year. In this case, however, Mr and Mrs T bought a timeshare interest, 
which entitled them to use accommodation from a pool of properties at the same resort. 
Their week was fixed at the same resort each year, as was the type of accommodation, but 
they would not necessarily stay in the same apartment every time.
The contract ran to 14 pages and comprised a number of parts, namely:
a Purchase and Sale agreement and Escrow Instructions;
a Purchasers Acknowledgment;
RCI Weeks Acknowledgement;
a receipt of public offering statement;
a promissory note; and
a sale deed.
I do not need to discuss all the contractual provisions; instead, I will focus on those which I 
consider to be most relevant to Mr Ts complaint.
Page 1 of the Purchase and Sale Agreement set out the parties and the sale price and 
described the timeshare interest being bought and sold. The seller was Eldorado Resorts 
Corp, a Florida corporation. At the top of page 1, in bold and in a larger font than the rest of 
the page, was a statement which said:This is a binding contract by which you agree to purchase an interest in a timeshare project. 
You should examine the statement of your right to revoke this contract within 5 days which is 
contained elsewhere in this contract.
Near the bottom of page 1 was a sub-heading Nevada Disclosure. It included the following 
statement:
The Purchaser of a time share may cancel, by written notice, the contract of sale until 
midnight of the fifth calendar day following the date of execution of this contract 
Mr and Mrs T signed page 1 just below that statement.
Pages 2 and 3 contained additional terms and conditions. They included: an 
acknowledgment that the purchaser had received a set of documents (clause 16); an entire 
agreement clause (clause 19); and a governing law clause saying that the agreement was 
governed by the laws of Nevada (clause 20).
The Purchasers Acknowledgment was a one-page document. It included 12 statements, 
each of which Mr and Mrs T initialled. Immediately before the list of statements was a 
warning in capital letters that Mr and Mrs T should not sign the acknowledgment if they had 
any questions about the intended vacation ownership. The statements included:
a statement that Mr and Mrs T were buying a timeshare for personal use and enjoyment 
with no investment potential as a consideration (1);
a statement that they were not expecting to profit from the rental or resale of the 
property (1);
they would have to pay maintenance fees each year and that for 2016 they were 
US$367.50 for each week (4);
there were no agreements or guarantees regarding the purchase that were not included 
in the documents and Mr and Mrs T could not rely on any oral statements (5);
they were not pressured or coerced into the agreement and had entered into it of their 
own accord (11).
The RCI Weeks Acknowledgment was in substantially the same format. It set out the annual 
membership and fees for exchanges. It said too that exchanges were always subject to 
availability. Mr and Mrs T could either use their timeshare week at their home resort in their 
chosen week or they could exchange it. Again, Mr and Mrs T initialled each statement and 
signed the document at the bottom.
Misrepresentation
Mr Ts primary case is that he has a claim for misrepresentation against Eldorado Resorts 
and that therefore has a like claim against Halifax under section 75. In English law a 
misrepresentation is, in very broad terms, a statement of law or of fact, made by one party to 
a contract to the other, which is untrue and which induces the other party into the contract. 
As I have indicated, the contract here was governed by the laws of Nevada. In the absence 
of any submissions to the contrary, I have approached this complaint on the assumption that 
Nevada recognises claims for misrepresentation in much the same way as English law 
would.
I note however that the purchase and sale agreement included an entire agreement clause 
and that Mr and Mrs T signed an acknowledgment that they could not rely on any oral 
statements. They also acknowledged that they had not been pressured into agreeing to buy 
the timeshare. Whilst parts of the contract were complex and unfamiliar  dealing as they did 
with property rights  I think that the acknowledgments were clear and unambiguous. I believe they were an attempt on the part of Eldorado Resorts to avoid any disputes of the 
type Mr T has raised in this case.
I note as well that two of the specific issues Mr T has raised  the cancellation period and 
the resale of the timeshare  are directly addressed in the agreement and acknowledgment 
documents.
A has referred in correspondence to UK and European consumer protection legislation. It 
may be that the contract in this case would not comply with some UK regulations. As A has 
indicated in correspondence with Eldorado Resorts, that might be something a UK court 
would take into account if it were to pursue Mr and Mrs T in the UK courts  either directly or 
to enforce a judgment obtained in Nevada. I dont believe however that it would be fair for 
me to do so in considering the claims under section 56 and section 75.
In the circumstances, I think that Halifax was entitled to take the view that a claim against 
Eldorado Resorts was unlikely to succeed and to decline to meet Mr Ts claims under 
section 56 and/or section 75.
Section 140A and section 140B of the Consumer Credit Act
Under section 140A and section 140B of the Consumer Credit Act a court has the power to 
consider whether a credit agreement creates an unfair relationship and, if it does, to make 
appropriate orders in respect of it. Those orders can include imposing different terms on the 
parties and refunding payments. In considering whether there is an unfair relationship, a 
court can consider any linked agreement. That can include a contract financed by a credit 
card payment.
In this case Mr T used his existing credit card to pay a relatively small portion of the 
purchase price of the timeshare. There was no direct link between the sale and the provision 
of the credit card.
Only a court can decide if an agreement creates an unfair relationship under section 140A, 
and only a court can make an order under section 140B. I must however take those 
provisions into account in deciding what is fair and reasonable. I have done that but believe 
it is unlikely that a court would be minded to uphold a claim under section 140A in this case.
Halifax said that it accepted my provisional findings. A, on behalf of Mr T, said that it had 
nothing further to add. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
However, since neither party has provided any further evidence or arguments in reply to my 
provisional decision, I see no reason to reach any different conclusion about the resolution of 
this complaint. 
My final decision
For these reasons, my final decision is that I do not require Bank of Scotland plc to do 
anything more to resolve Mr Ts complaint.  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr T to accept or 
reject my decision before 7 April 2023. Mike Ingram
Ombudsman