DRN-2827700
The complaint
Mr and Mrs B are unhappy with the service they received from Aviva Insurance Limited 
following a claim on their boiler breakdown policy. Where I refer to Aviva this includes its 
agents and claims handlers.  
What happened
Mr and Mrs B had boiler breakdown cover underwritten by Aviva. When their hot water went 
off they contacted their insurer to report the problem. A Monday morning appointment was 
booked but the engineer didnt arrive until after 1pm. After inspecting the boiler the engineer 
said hed need to order a new pump. Mrs B said the engineer agreed to return at 7.30am on 
Wednesday so that the problem could be resolved before she started work.
But the engineer failed to arrive. And when they contacted Aviva they were told the engineer 
couldnt have agreed that early a time slot. An engineer finally arrived after midday to carry 
out the repairs.
Mr and Mrs B are very unhappy with the service theyve received. They dont think a 
previous repair was carried out properly, so they had to pay a second excess when the 
pump failed. And they feel the compensation offered by Aviva is insufficient for the distress 
and inconvenience suffered.
Aviva said it was sorry Mr and Mrs B were unhappy with the service theyd received. It 
agreed the engineer hadnt attended the appointments within the given time-frame. And this 
had caused Mrs B to take time off work and wait in the house unnecessarily. And she hadnt 
received any update calls from Aviva to let her know what was happening. 
Aviva accepted its service hadnt been of the standard it expected to offer. And it paid £175 
compensation to Mr and Mrs B for any inconvenience caused.
Mr and Mrs B werent satisfied with Avivas response. So they contacted our service and our 
investigator looked into the matter. She could see Mr and Mrs B had first reported a problem 
with their boiler leaking in August. An engineer had replaced a valve and told Mr and Mrs B 
not to worry about any noises now the boiler had a new valve. Just over a month later the 
boiler stopped working and Avivas engineer said it needed a new pump. 
Although the problem was resolved within a couple of days our investigator could see the 
engineer hadnt kept to scheduled appointments. And Mrs B had chased Aviva many times 
without response to find out what was happening. 
Our investigator said Aviva had accepted the claim and the boiler had been repaired. So the 
key issue was the amount of compensation offered by Aviva for the poor service. Our 
investigator recognised the inconvenience caused to Mr and Mrs B and their family. But she 
felt Aviva had responded and fixed the boiler in a reasonable timescale. 
Itd taken a total of three working days to fix the problem. And Aviva had arranged for an 
engineer to attend on the first available day. 
Our investigator didnt think the second fault was related to the first repair. A valve had been 
replaced due to a leak a couple of months earlier. But about six weeks later the water pump 
had failed and needed replacing. So she didnt think it was unfair that Mr and Mrs B had paid 
two separate excesses for the two different claims on the boiler breakdown policy.
 
She did feel Mr and Mrs B had gone above and beyond what shouldve been reasonably 
expected when trying to communicate with Aviva. But she felt the £175 offered was fair and 
reasonable for the trouble and upset Avivas failings had caused Mr and Mrs B. So our 
investigator said she wouldnt be asking Aviva to increase it. 
Mr and Mrs B didnt agree. Itd been a very unpleasant and upsetting experience and their 
family had been without hot water for three days. The compensation offered only covered 
the charge for that years service  which had been very poor. So theyve asked for an 
ombudsmans final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I can appreciate how disruptive this mustve been for Mr and Mrs B. Despite trying to 
arrange for an engineers visit around work and school-run commitments the engineer didnt 
arrive when expected. 
Mrs B called Aviva a number of times to find out what was going on. But despite promises of 
a call-back that didnt happen. And Mr and Mrs B spent three days without hot water before 
the problem was solved. 
Unfortunately in any situation such as this, there is a degree of inconvenience and stress. 
But as Mr and Mrs B had boiler breakdown cover Id have expected Aviva to respond as 
quickly and efficiently as possible to put things right. 
Ive looked at Avivas records and they show an engineers visit was arranged for the same 
day the fault was reported. Although they didnt arrive in the morning as expected, the 
engineer attended later in the day and identified that the pump needed replacing. This was 
installed two days later and the problem was resolved. 
I think thats a reasonable timescale for Aviva to identify the fault, obtain the replacement 
part and complete the repairs. But I do recognise the distress caused to Mrs B when the 
engineers didnt attend at the time expected. She had work to do and also children to collect 
and couldnt do anything in case the engineer arrived. Mrs B said she waited for five hours 
for an engineer after first reporting the fault. And although they promised to return and install 
the new pump in the early morning they actually arrived after lunch  causing further 
disruption and inconvenience.
Sometimes delays are unavoidable. But Id have expected Aviva to keep Mrs B informed so 
she wasnt waiting unnecessarily. Unfortunately no one from Aviva got in touch with Mrs B. 
And when she called to ask where the engineer was, the promised call-back never 
materialised.
Aviva has acknowledged it couldve done better. And its paid £175 compensation for the 
trouble and upset caused to Mr and Mrs B by failing to keep them updated about the 
engineers arrival. Im sure Aviva also reviews the outcome of all the complaints it receives to 
see if it can improve its service.Mr and Mrs B are also unhappy theyve had to pay two excesses for separate claims within a 
short period of time. They say they mentioned to the engineer who dealt with a leak a month 
or two earlier that the boiler was making a noise. And if the engineer had dealt with that then, 
theyd have avoided the second excess when the pump failed six weeks later.
But Ive not seen anything to suggest the two faults are connected. The engineer felt the new 
valve would resolve any problems that existed at the time. And it repaired the leak reported 
by Mr and Mrs B. But the engineer didnt feel there was any need to investigate or replace 
any other parts. There seem to have been two separate, unrelated, issues that needed 
dealing with. And therefore its not unreasonable for two separate excesses to have been 
charged.
Mrs B also raised a concern about being told the engineer hadnt re-attended due to Covid19 
symptoms. And that lead to her family having to self-isolate after his first visit. I dont doubt 
Mrs Bs recollection of the conversation, but Ive not been able to find any record or mention 
of this on Avivas records. Unfortunately the Covid19 situation has caused huge disruption to 
businesses and customers alike. And in the circumstances I dont think this is something I 
can hold Aviva responsible for.
But although Aviva dealt with the boiler breakdown within a reasonable period of time, its 
clear Mr and Mrs B feels the compensation offered for the poor service they received is 
insufficient. So Ive considered whether Aviva has done enough to put things right.
I dont think it would be fair to ask Aviva to refund the annual premium for the boiler 
breakdown policy as Mr and Mrs B have successfully claimed twice on the policy during that 
period. But I do think Aviva should compensate Mr and Mrs B for the poor service in not 
keeping them updated about the late arrival of the engineer. Aviva also failed to call Mrs B 
back when she reported that the engineer hadnt arrived.
I realise how strongly Mr and Mrs B feel about this matter. And I dont underestimate the 
distress caused by the late arrival of the engineer of both occasions. The lack of information 
from Aviva impacted on Mrs Bs work schedule and family commitments.
But the boiler breakdown cover policy is intended to help with repairs when something goes 
wrong. It doesnt provide compensation for loss of earnings. And based on everything Ive 
seen I think Avivas offer of £175 compensation for the trouble and upset caused by its poor 
communication and late arrivals is fair and reasonable in the circumstances. 
Its in line with the sort of award this service would normally make. And I wont be asking 
Aviva to do anything more. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B and Mrs B to 
accept or reject my decision before 20 September 2021.
 
Andrew Mason
Ombudsman