DRN-2258828
Complaint
Miss H has complained that she was mis-sold a payment protection insurance (PPI) policy. 
Its been agreed in this case that AXA France IARD (AXA) as the insurer, should accept 
the responsibility for the complaint. To keep things simple, Ill refer to AXA in my decision.
Background
Miss H bought the policy in 2002 at the same time as taking out a store card. 
Our adjudicator didnt uphold the complaint. Miss H disagreed with the adjudicators opinion, 
so the complaint has been passed to me.
My findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding Miss Hs case. Having done so, Ive decided not to 
uphold Miss Hs complaint. Ill now explain my reasons.
AXA should have taken reasonable steps to make it clear the PPI was optional and gained  
Miss Hs consent before adding it to her store card. However, Miss H has said that the PPI 
wasnt discussed and it shouldnt have been added to her account. 
 
AXA has provided a copy of Miss Hs store card application form completed instore. The 
form has a section for the PPI titled Account Cover and requires applicants to sign this 
section if they wish to take out the PPI. The section reads (Only sign this box if you require 
Account cover) and you had to sign underneath Yes, I would like to protect my Account 
with Account Cover (subject to eligibility). . Miss H has signed this section, indicating she 
wanted the cover added to her account.
Ive also noted that on the application form, Miss H had the option of selecting whether or not 
she wanted Card Protection Plan. Miss H didnt select this product, so I think she would 
have known she had a choice about taking out either product. 
The difficultly I have is that I cant be sure what was discussed between Miss H and the store 
assistant when the policy was sold. Im also mindful that these events took place many years 
ago, and that exact recollections of what happened can fade over time. 
Taking all of this into consideration, in the absence of anything else to support what Miss H 
has told me, I dont think it would be fair or reasonable for to me to say that AXA didnt make 
Miss H aware that she had a choice about buying the PPI. And I dont think she would have 
signed for the PPI if she didnt want to take it out. 
Both parties agree that the PPI wasnt recommended to Miss H, which means AXA didnt 
have to check if it was right for her. But AXA did have to give her enough information about 
the policy, so she could decide if she wanted to take it or not.
Its possible the information AXA gave Miss H about the PPI wasnt as clear as it should 
have been. But Miss H doesnt appear to have been affected by any of the main things the 
policy didnt cover  such as pre-existing medical conditions. I also havent seen anything to 
suggest the policy wasnt affordable for Miss H.
Miss H has told us she would have been entitled to statutory sick pay from her employer if 
she was too unwell to work. Looking at the policy Miss H took out, I can see the PPI would 
have paid out in the event that Miss H was off work due to illness. The PPI also would have 
paid a benefit if Miss H was ever made redundant. 
Ive also considered what Miss H has said about being able to rely on her partner to help her 
with her repayments. But I dont think this meant that the PPI wasnt useful for her. While    
Miss Hs partner may have wanted to help, their financial situation could change, so this help 
couldnt always be relied on. 
So overall, I think Miss H could have found the policy useful if she ever fell on hard times 
and I dont think that any better information would have put her off from taking out the policy.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold Miss Hs complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss H to accept 
or reject my decision before 20 May 2021.
 
Donna Parsons
Ombudsman