DRN-2553978
The complaint
Mr M is unhappy about a mortgage application he made to National Westminster Bank Plc 
(NatWest). He is unhappy that he had to pay out for surveys and reports and eventually had 
to arrange borrowing with a different lender because of the conditions NatWest placed on 
the application. Mr M wants NatWest to pay him £15,000 to compensate him for what he 
considers was mis-selling of the mortgage.  
Mr M has been represented in some aspects of his complaint, but for ease I will refer to all 
comments being made by him.
What happened
Mr M applied for a mortgage with NatWest via a broker. He wanted to buy an unoccupied 
property.
NatWest had a valuation report completed on the property and the surveyor who conducted 
the valuation noted that there was evidence of damp in the property. The report said an 
inspection by a specialist timber and damp contractor, that was a member of the Property 
Care Association (PCA), should be done and all recommended remedial work carried out. It 
also said there was evidence of structural movement and a structural assessment should be 
completed by an appropriately qualified engineer or surveyor. 
NatWest followed the recommendations contained in the valuation and asked Mr M to obtain 
the necessary reports. 
Mr M complained to NatWest about the valuation. He wasnt happy about the additional 
reports being required. He said hed been told by the estate agent the valuer was only at the 
property for around five minutes and he didnt think the individual was competent.
NatWest considered Mr Ms concerns, but it didnt agree with him. It said it used a panel of 
surveyors to complete valuations and they were all members of the Royal Institute of 
Chartered Surveyors (RICS), which meant they were suitably qualified to complete a 
valuation report. It also highlighted that a valuation report was for mortgage purposes only 
and was not meant to be a detailed, in-depth report on the property. NatWest also said that 
valuation reports often didnt take much time on site as the surveyor would have completed 
various investigations before attending the property. 
NatWest said when assessing a mortgage application, it would always follow the guidance of 
a qualified surveyor when determining if the property was suitable security for a mortgage, 
as it was not qualified to make its own assessment. It ended its response by confirming that 
the additional reports would need to be obtained at Mr Ms cost.
The property was assessed by a firm of civil and structural engineers, which determined the 
cause of the structural movement the surveyor had identified when doing the valuation. It 
recommended what works were needed to stop the problem and the repairs needed to the 
fabric of the building.  
A damp and timber inspection was also completed by a member of the PCA as required by 
the surveyor. This detailed problems with the timbers in the roof and some damp issues 
around the property. It recommended various works were undertaken.
The reports were sent to the surveyor for consideration.  The surveyor said all recommended 
works should be carried out before the after works value could be relied on. It said the 
works recommended by the structural engineer should have an insurance backed guarantee 
provided.
NatWest followed the advice of the surveyor and confirmed to Mr Ms broker that the works 
detailed in both reports needed to be completed before it was willing to issue a mortgage 
offer. Mr M wasnt happy about this, especially as he didnt agree with the findings of the 
timber and damp report.  Mr M had a further timber and damp inspection completed on the 
property. It expressed a different opinion about the some of the damp problems and what 
needed to be done. The business that produced this report was not a member of the PCA, 
as the surveyor had required. Mr M has said that he asked NatWests complaints 
department to forward the report to the surveyor that completed the valuation, but NatWest 
refused to do so.
NatWest responded to Mr Ms further comments, but it confirmed that it was only able to 
accept a valuation completed by its panel of surveyors and instructed by it. It also reiterated 
that a valuation was for mortgage purposes only and carried out to ensure the property was 
safe for it to lend against. It hired in experts to assess whether that was the case and it said 
it would continue to rely on the opinion of the valuer. As such, if he wanted to proceed with 
the mortgage, he would need to follow the guidance from the surveyor. 
Mr Ms application was cancelled the following day.
Mr M didnt accept NatWests response to the complaint and asked this service to consider 
the complaint. When doing so he said he considered the timber and damp report he 
commissioned from a PCA-registered company was fraudulent and he explained what he 
thought was wrong with it. Mr M also questioned how the repairs were to be done before the 
completion of the mortgage and where they were supposed to live when this was happening. 
Following this it was explained how easy it had been for Mr M to obtain a mortgage with a 
different lender (albeit for a lower amount) and how quickly it had been arranged. He said 
that was how it should have been with NatWest and there was absolutely no reason for 
NatWest not to have issued a mortgage offer, other than if it was trying to RIP us off.  Mr M 
considered it was plain and simple fraud by NatWest.
One of our investigators considered the complaint, but she didnt recommend it be upheld. 
She concluded that NatWest was entitled to rely on the expert opinion it had commissioned 
about whether the property was suitable security for the mortgage. This concluded the 
property would be suitable security, but only once some works had been done to it. As such, 
NatWest was not wrong in deciding it would only lend if the damp and structural repairs were 
completed. 
Mr M responded to say that he had no issue about the valuation or the structural engineering 
report that were produced. It was the timber and damp assessment that he considered was 
negligent and inaccurate. He believed the company that provided the report saw the 
opportunity to make money and breached its duty of care, which caused him to lose the 
mortgage with NatWest. He said NatWest had also been negligent, but he didnt explain why 
he thought that. 
Our investigator clarified that the surveyor had required a timber and damp assessment to 
be done by a PCA-registered company. She reiterated that the content of the expert reports, be that the valuation or the timber and damp report, were not something we could comment 
on as they fell outside our remit. NatWest had not unreasonably relied on the surveyors 
expert opinion, which had taken account of the timber and damp specialists report, when a 
decision about lending was made. 
Mr M remained unhappy with the investigators conclusions and said that NatWest was guilty 
of negligence, as he didnt receive any correspondence from the bank, other than the 
agreement in principle. He said he never received a final response from NatWest, nor was 
he told that he could only use timber and damp specialists on its panel. Mr M said NatWest 
was guilty of false advertising, as it advertised that it will consider other surveys or 
recommendations from other specialists/trades. He requested that the complaint be referred 
to an ombudsman for consideration. 
Our investigator confirmed that Mr M had been sent final response letters by NatWest and 
gave details of their dates so he could identify them. She confirmed that she would pass the 
complaint to be considered by an ombudsman.
Mr M confirmed that the correspondence he was referring to not having received was not the 
final response letters from the complaints department at NatWest. Rather he was referring to 
letters and emails not being received directly from the mortgage department during its 
assessment of the application. He gave an example of correspondence he would have 
expected to receive as a letter telling why it wouldnt offer the mortgage hed applied for.  
Mr M also suggested that the surveyor or the broker had acted inappropriately in order to 
make the sale of the property fall through for their own purposes.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Before I consider the merits of Mr Ms complaint, I would confirm that the mortgage was 
applied for via an independent mortgage broker. This means that during the application 
process, the broker was acting as Mr Ms representative and NatWest would have liaised 
with the broker, rather than directly with Mr M. This is quite normal in such circumstances, 
and while Mr M may have expected correspondence to be sent direct to him, that isnt what 
would normally be expected in such a situation.
Mr Ms complaint is essentially that the timber and damp report was wrong, and NatWest 
shouldnt have relied on it when making its lending decision. I can understand Mr Ms 
disappointment that the mortgage he wanted wasnt granted without conditions. However, I 
dont consider NatWest did anything wrong in the circumstances.
As NatWest said in its correspondence with Mr M, it isnt a property expert and so it 
commissions a qualified surveyor (a member of RICS) from its approved panel to complete 
an assessment of properties to determine if they are suitable security for a mortgage. That is 
what it did in this case, and I cant find fault with it for relying on that expert opinion. This 
applies to when initially it was said that further investigations into the condition of the 
property needed to be conducted, and by what type of expert. It is also the case when the 
surveyor later considered the outcome of the further investigations and it was determined the 
property would only be suitable security after the recommended repairs were complete. 
The report that Mr M objects to was not commissioned by NatWest, it didnt rely on it directly 
and nor did it chose the company that completed the assessment  that was Mr Ms choice. 
As with the valuation report, NatWest isnt responsible for the content of the timber and damp report and the business that produced it, falls outside my remit; and I cant comment 
on it.
Mr M has commented how easy it was for his application with another lender to go through. 
A lender is entitled to decide what types of risk it is willing to take when it lends, and that risk 
profile will vary between lenders. So the fact that another lender was willing to lend on the 
property in the condition it was in, doesnt mean NatWest did anything wrong. 
I know this will disappoint Mr M, but I cant find that NatWest did anything wrong in relying on 
the opinion of the surveyor it commissioned to determine if the property was suitable security 
when it assessed his application.
My final decision
My decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. Under the rules of the Financial 
Ombudsman Service, I am required to ask Mr M to accept or reject my decision before 
9 August 2021.
 
Derry Baxter
Ombudsman