DRN-3884817
Complaint
Mr R has complained that Omni Capital Retail Finance Limited (Omni) rejected his claim 
against it under Section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974.
Background 
Mr R bought a solar panel system (the system) for his home in January 2018. The 
purchase was funded by a loan from Omni, and that business is therefore liable for the acts 
and omissions of the installer under the relevant legislation. In this case, Mr R alleges that 
the installer misled him into believing that the panels would be self-funding.
Mr Rs complaint was considered by one of our investigators. She thought that the 
documents from the time of sale (which Mr R signed) made it clear that the benefits of the 
solar panel system would not cover the cost and therefore the system would not be 
immediately self-funding in the way Mr R says he was led to believe. She added that there 
were also inconsistencies in Mr Rs testimony. So, overall, the investigator did not think a 
misrepresentation had taken place.
Mr R disagreed. He reiterated (through his representatives) that he was told the benefits 
provided by the system would cover his monthly finance payments. He added that had he 
known the estimated benefit figures set out by the supplier, he would not have purchased 
the system as it was financially disadvantageous for him. He also reiterated that he didnt 
believe the signature on the estimated returns document was his.  
As the complaint couldnt be resolved by our investigator, Ive been asked to make a
decision.
My Findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In this case the relevant law includes section 56 and section 75 of the Act. Section 75 
provides protection for consumers for goods or services bought using credit. 
As Mr R paid for the system with a fixed sum loan agreement, Omni agrees that section 75 
applies to this transaction. This means that Mr R could claim against Omni, the creditor, for 
any misrepresentation or breach of contract by the supplier in the same way he could have 
claimed against the supplier. So, Ive taken section 75 into account when deciding what is 
fair in the circumstances of this case.
Section 56 is also relevant. This is because it says that any negotiations between Mr R and 
the supplier, are deemed to have been conducted by supplier as an agent of Omni.
For the purpose of this decision Ive used the definition of a misrepresentation as an untrue 
statement of fact or law made by one party (or his agent) to a second party which induces 
that second party to enter the contract, thereby causing them loss.
Having carefully considered everything provided, for the same reasons as those explained
by the investigator, I do not uphold this complaint.
Im satisfied that Mr R was provided with the sales documents and that he wouldve seen 
these at the time of sale, as he has signed the documents. I appreciate Mr R says he doesnt 
believe the signature on the estimated returns documents is his but having reviewed all of 
the documents, Im still satisfied that he did sign them, and the documents are therefore 
reliable evidence. 
The estimated returns document submitted by Omni shows the supplier set out that the 
maximum estimated year one benefit was £371.90. The above figures are not hidden away 
in small print, but are, in my view clearly visible. And Mr R has signed directly beneath this 
section  So, I think he wouldve, at the very least, seen this when he signed the document. I 
understand Mr R says he doesnt recall discussing these figures and the signature on the 
document isnt his. But, as explained by our investigator, the document contains specific 
information about his circumstances. For example, the unit rate charged by his electricity 
provider from January 2018 is noted on there  Mr R would have had to have provided this 
information to the supplier. So, as Ive said above, based on what Ive seen, I think its more 
likely he did discuss the contents of the document and Im satisfied he did see and sign this 
document.
On the same day, Mr R went on to sign his credit agreement agreeing to take out a 10-year 
loan to fund the purchase of the system. The cost of the system is £9,650 and this is set out 
on several documents that he signed, so I think that was made clear to him. I also dont think 
its likely that Mr R agreed to such a significant purchase without knowing the cost or agreed 
to finance without discussing some of the basic details of the loan agreement such as the 
term of the loan. I think its apparent that to repay a loan for £9,650 over 10 years, Mr R 
would need at least £965 per year to cover the cost of the system  and this is without any 
finance charges. This is significantly more than the maximum year one benefit set out by the 
supplier. His monthly payments were also £124.74, and I think its clear that 12 payments of 
£124.74 is significantly more than £371.90 (the maximum estimated year one benefit). 
I think the documents likely reflect the nature of the discussions Mr R had with the supplier at 
the time of sale  and I think its clear that the system would not be immediately self-funding.  
If Mr R had been told something different at the time of sale, on being asked to sign these 
documents, I would have expected him to question what hed been told and Ive seen no 
evidence that he did  suggesting they most likely did not contradict his understanding at the 
time. 
Omni has added that Mr R contacted the supplier two years after the installation to ask it to 
complete a scheduled system update  and at this time made no mention that the system 
wasnt performing as expected. If the system had not been producing the benefits Mr R was 
expecting, I would have expected him to have raised this with the supplier at the time. 
As our investigator also pointed out, there is also an inconsistency with Mr Rs testimony 
which he has not been able to explain. He said (through his representative) that he was cold 
called by the supplier whereas the supplier says he completed an online enquiry form 
expressing an interest in purchasing the system. While I believe Mr R has provided us with 
his best recollection from the time of sale, memories can fade and a significant amount of 
time has passed since he purchased the system, which I must bear in mind. 
Overall, while Ive carefully considered Mr Rs testimony, I find the documents from the time 
of sale to be more persuasive in terms of what information he was likely given at the time of 
sale. So, on balance, I think the evidence suggests that it is unlikely there was a 
misrepresentation that would enable me to uphold this complaint.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision before 24 February 2023.
 
Asma Begum
Ombudsman