DRN-3855249
The complaint
Mr W is unhappy that Bank of Scotland plc, trading as Halifax, didnt provide a clear 
explanation of why they introduced a new term into their conditions as he requested.
What happened
In August 2022, Halifax issue a letter to their customers advising of changes to Halifaxs 
terms and conditions. These changes included a new term which said that if it was 
necessary due to economic circumstances, Halifax could restrict the amount of money that 
customers could hold in an account, either by applying a limit or imposing a charge.
Mr W asked Halifax via social media to provide a clear explanation of what this term meant 
and under what circumstances it would be applied. However, Halifax didnt answer Mr Ws 
questions to his satisfaction, and so Mr W raised a complaint.  
Halifax looked at Mr Ws complaint. They apologised for any inconvenience or upset Mr W 
may have incurred in trying to obtain an answer to his questions and explained that they 
currently had no plans to implement the new term and that if economic circumstances 
changed such that they did decide to implement the new term that all affected customers 
would receive at least two months notice of this. Mr W wasnt satisfied with Halifaxs 
response, so he referred his complaint to this service.
One of our investigators looked at this complaint but didnt feel that Halifax had acted unfairly 
in how theyd managed the situation. Mr W remained dissatisfied, so the matter was 
escalated to an ombudsman for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The letter Halifax issued to its customers in August 2022 explained that Halifax were making 
changes to their terms and conditions which would come into effect at the start of November 
that year. The letter included specific notices of over 30 term changes, bullet pointed under 
relevant headings. The specific point about which Mr W presently complains read as follows:
Weve added a new condition that says if its necessary, due to economic 
circumstances that affect the banking industry, we may restrict the amount you can 
have in your accounts either by applying a limit or imposing a charge. If we have to 
do this and it applies to your account, well write to you with more information.
Mr W then contacted Halifax via social media and asked what had prompted the inclusion of 
the new term and for the context surrounding it. Halifaxs social media team couldnt provide 
any further information about the new term and referred Mr W to Halifaxs customer services 
team. Mr W wasnt happy that he wasnt getting clear answers to his questions from Halifaxs 
social media team, and so raised his complaint.
While I can appreciate that Mr W would like more information about the new term, I dont feel 
Halifax are reasonably or fairly obliged to provide the detailed answers hes seeking here. 
One reason for this is that the nature of the new term is clearly designed to allow Halifax to 
respond to potential changes in future economic circumstances. This is evidenced by the 
fact that the new term refers to if and we may, which imply possibility rather than certainty.
Given that this new term is designed to allow Halifax to potentially respond to changing 
circumstances, it doesnt seem reasonable to me to expect Halifax to then provide clear 
definitions of what specific circumstances the new term would be applied  as this would 
negate the flexibility to potentially act and respond which the new term is clearly designed to 
provide. Indeed, Halifax allude to this point in their response to Mr Ws complaint, as follows: 
We have no current plans to introduce caps and/or charges on high balances. We 
would only do this in certain economic circumstances, and we think those 
circumstances are very unlikely in the current economic climate.
Mr W may argue that the whole point of his position is that he wants Halifax to explain what 
those certain economic circumstances are. But I dont feel that Halifax have any obligation 
to provide this information, both for the reason previously explained and for the more general 
reason that a business isnt obliged to explain the detailed reasoning behind its commercial 
decisions  as the implementation of this new term is  to either its customers or the wider 
public. Instead, Im satisfied that all that a business is fairly required to do in such 
circumstances is provide advance notice of the new term, which Halifax has done here. 
Mr W is also unhappy with the service he received from Halifaxs social media team. But 
even if I did feel that Halifax should have provided the detailed answers to Mr Ws questions 
as he would have liked, I dont feel its reasonable to expect a social media communications 
team to be able to provide those answers, and I feel that the response they provided to Mr W 
that Mr W should contact Halifaxs customer services team about this matter was a fair one.
All of which means that I dont feel that Halifax have acted unfairly towards Mr W as he 
contends here, and it follows from this that I wont be upholding this complaint or instructing 
Halifax to take any further action. I trust that Mr W will understand, given what Ive explained 
above, why Ive made the final decision that I have.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 10 March 2023. 
Paul Cooper
Ombudsman