DRN-3711544
The complaint
Mrs S complains about the information recorded on her credit file by Advanced Payment 
Solutions Limited trading as Cashplus Bank (Cashplus).
 
What happened
Mrs S had a loan with Cashplus. In June 2017 Mrs S agreed a payment arrangement of £30 
per month. But in January 2018 Mrs S reduced the payment to £5 a month after a drop in 
household income. Cashplus didnt contact Mrs S about the reduced payments she was 
making or let her know the existing arrangement had failed. 
Last year, Mrs S found missed payments on her credit file and complained to Cashplus. But 
Cashplus didnt agree that it had acted unfairly or incorrectly reported the status of the loan 
on Mrs S credit file. Cashplus didnt uphold Mrs S complaint. 
An investigator looked at what happened and said Cashplus shouldve taken the step of 
closing Mrs S account and recording a default in March 2018, after she stopped making the 
agreed £30 repayments. The investigator also asked Cashplus to pay Mrs S £150 for the 
distress and inconvenience caused. Cashplus initially rejected the investigators view but 
agreed to amend Mrs S credit file.
Mrs S got back in touch to say the credit file information hadnt been corrected as promised. 
As a result Mrs S complaint has been passed to me to make a decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I agree with the investigator that Cashplus waited too long to take action in respect of Mrs S 
account. The loan had been subject to a reduced payment arrangement in June 2017 but 
that failed in January 2018 when Mrs S reduced her payments to £5 a month. Id have 
expected Cashplus to contact Mrs S to check when the payments level reduced. Instead, 
Cashplus left the account in place and continued to report increasing arrears on Mrs S credit 
file. I agree with Mrs S that the information recorded by Cashplus is unfair. 
Our investigator asked Cashplus to backdate the default to March 2018  three months after 
Mrs S started making reduced payments of £5. Thats the point Id have expected Cashplus 
to review Mrs S account and decide whether it was reasonable to leave the commitment 
open. Had Cashplus closed the account and recorded a default, it wouldve put a specific 
end date for the commitment on Mrs As credit file. And that means the default entry will drop 
off Mrs S credit file six years after March 2018. In my view, this is a fairer representation of 
the account history so Im going to tell Cashplus to proceed on that basis. 
Cashplus has sent a screenshot of its updated entry. Whilst I can see the date of default 
was changed to reflect 1 March 2018, the monthly payment profile used was still incorrect. 
The monthly payment profile shows the account as being subject to missed payments until 
June 2022 and in July 2022 a D representing default is listed. So Cashplus will also need 
to ensure Mrs S payment profile is updated to reflect a default of March 2018, in addition to 
the overall date of default reported. 
I can see Mrs S has experienced a reasonable level of distress and inconvenience over an 
extended period. As a result, Im going to award £150 to reflect the trouble and upset caused 
by Cashplus actions. 
My final decision
My decision is that I uphold Mrs S complaint and direct Advanced Payment Solutions 
Limited trading as Cashplus Bank to settle as follows: 
- Amend Mrs S credit file to reflect a default date to 1 March 2018, ensuring the 
monthly payment profile is also updated to reflect the new information 
- Pay Mrs S £150 for the distress and inconvenience caused
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs S to accept or 
reject my decision before 8 December 2022.
 
Marco Manente
Ombudsman