DRN-3554170
The complaint
Mr G complains that Bank of Scotland plc (trading as Birmingham Midshires) unfairly 
recorded late payments on his credit file in relation to his buy to let mortgages. He asks that 
the late payments are removed.
What happened
Mr G has two buy-to-let mortgages with Birmingham Midshires. He makes mortgage 
payments by direct debit on the 28th of each month. In December 2021 there were 
insufficient funds in his account and the payments were returned unpaid. Mr G says he tried 
to contact Birmingham Midshires by phone but problems with its systems meant he was 
unable to get through before the end of December 2021. 
Birmingham Midshires successfully took the direct debit payments in mid-January 2022. 
However, it recorded late payments on Mr Gs credit file. It said this was because the 
payments werent made in the month they were due. Mr G says this is unfair and will affect 
his ability to borrow, which he needs for his property investment business.
Our investigator said the late payment markers werent incorrect. Mr G didnt agree. He said 
this has badly affected his credit score. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Lenders have a duty to report accurate, complete and up to date information to the credit 
reference agencies. The purpose is to assist third parties  such as other lenders  gain an 
understanding of an individuals existing obligations before offering them credit.
Mr G says the late payment markers are unfair. He says Birmingham Midshires should allow 
time for the payment to be made after theres been a problem. And Birmingham Midshires is 
partly at fault due to the problems with its phone lines. I have to decide whether its fair to 
require Birmingham Midshires to remove the late payment markers. Ive taken the following 
into account.
The terms of Mr Gs mortgages require him to make a monthly payment on each 
payment date. He didnt make payments in December 2021. 
Birmingham Midshires reports to the credit reference agencies at the end of each month. 
In line with its policy, it reported at the end of December 2021 that it hadnt received 
payments into Mr Gs mortgage accounts. The late payments recorded on Mr Gs credit 
file are accurate.
Mr G says its unfair that customers with a payment date at the end of the month have 
less time to sort things out if theres a problem with the payment. I dont agree that Mr G 
has been treated unfairly compared to other customers. Mr G (like other mortgage 
customers) has to make a payment each month. If Mr G had asked for a payment date 
earlier in the month hed have had more time to sort matters out after the direct debit 
failed. I dont think, in fairness, Birmingham Midshires had to allow him further time to 
make the payments.
Birmingham Midshires requested Mr Gs direct debit payments. They were returned 
unpaid on 30 December 2021 because there were insufficient funds in his account, not 
due to any error by Birmingham Midshires.
Mr G called Birmingham Midshires at the end of January 2022. He said hed had 
difficulty with the phone system not working as it should when he tried to call that day. 
Birmingham Midshires accepts there were problems with its phone systems at the end of 
January 2022. Mr G didnt say hed tried to call at the end of December 2021 or that hed 
had problems doing so. 
When Mr G called Birmingham Midshires at the end of January 2022, he said the late 
payment markers should be removed because the direct debit payment was successful 
on the second attempt, and because of the effect this was having on him. He didnt say 
hed tried to make the payment in late December 2021. In fact, he said he didnt call to 
make the payment because he was worried Birmingham Midshires would re-present the 
direct debit request and the payments would be taken twice. 
While Mr G told us hed tried to call Birmingham Midshires to make the payments before 
the end of December 2021, this isnt consistent with what he told Birmingham Midshires 
when he made his complaint.
Its Mr Gs responsibility to make his contractual monthly payments. As he pays by direct 
debit he needs to ensure theres enough money in the account to cover the payments. Mr G 
says hes a property investor. I appreciate that late payment markers could affect Mr Gs 
access to borrowing for his business. On the other hand, its reasonable for Birmingham 
Midshires to expect Mr G to manage his business finances.
Mr Gs payments were late, and this wasnt due to an error by Birmingham Midshires. The 
payments were late because there were insufficient funds in the paying account. Mr G has 
said he was aware of this. While its possible Mr G could have made payments before the 
end of December 2021 by bank transfer or by calling Birmingham Midshires, the evidence 
doesnt suggest he tried to do so. 
In the circumstances, I dont think its fair and reasonable to require Birmingham Midshires to 
remove the late payments from Mr Gs credit file.
Birmingham Midshires said Mr G should contact it if he wants to change his payment date. It 
also gave him information about how to arrange for a notice of correction on his credit file.
 
My final decision
My decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision before 29 August 2022.
 
Ruth Stevenson
Ombudsman