DRN-3995951
The complaint
Mr V complains that One Call Insurance Services Limited (One Call) unfairly charged a fee 
for cancellation shortly after he took out its motor insurance policy.  
What happened
In mid-April 2022 Mr V used a comparison website to take out an insurance policy. The 
policy was due to commence towards the end of April. Shortly afterwards he contacted his 
current insurer to advise it not to renew his policy. Mr V says the insurer offered to reduce 
the premium below that hed agreed with One Call. He decided to stay with his existing 
insurer and contacted One Call via a webchat to cancel the newly agreed policy. 
One Call told Mr V that it would charge a cancellation fee of £49.99. It offered to match the 
reduced premium, but Mr V says he no longer wanted to switch insurers. Mr V says it isnt 
fair that hes charged £49.99 when the policy hadnt yet been set up. Especially as hed 
cancelled within a very short time frame. One Call says it incurred costs for the referral from 
the comparison site and when carrying out validation checks. 
Mr V didnt think this was fair and referred the matter to our service. Our investigator didnt 
uphold his complaint. He says One Call had evidenced the validation work and costs it had 
incurred. He says the fees it charged are set out in its terms of business. Because of this he 
didnt think One Call should refund its cancellation fee. 
Mr V disagreed and asked for an ombudsman to consider his complaint. 
It has been passed to me to decide.        
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so Im not upholding Mr Vs complaint. Let me explain. 
The regulations that apply to this complaint are set out in the Financial Conduct Authorities 
(FCA) Insurance Conduct of Business Sourcebook (ICOBS).
ICOBS 7.1.1 says a consumer has a right to cancel, without penalty and without giving any
reason, certain contracts within 14 days. This is called the right to cancel. Im satisfied the
right to cancel applies to the contact of insurance Mr V had through One Call. And that he 
exercised his right to cancel within the first 14 days of taking it out.
ICOBS 7.2 deals with payment by a consumer for the service provided before cancellation. A
consumer may be required to pay an amount on cancellation including any sums that a firm
has reasonably incurred in concluding the contract. However, this shouldnt include any 
element of profit. The amount payable must not:
exceed an amount which is in proportion to the extent of the service already provided in 
comparison with the full cover of the contract; and in any case be such that it could be 
construed as a penalty. 
Also, of relevance here is ICOBS 7.2.2 (3), which says:
A firm must not require a consumer to pay any amount:
(a) unless it can prove that the consumer was duly informed about the amount payable 
 
One Call says £49.99 is chargeable when a policy is cancelled to cover set-up fees, which is 
a fixed cost applied to all confirmed applications of insurance. It says this was outlined to Mr 
V and agreed prior to his purchase. It says it is charged £60 by the aggregator (the price 
comparison website) and also incurs costs completing validation checks. One Call has 
provided evidence to show the validation checks it performed in this case. 
One Call refers to the information contained in its Information Booklet, which says:
We reserve the right to charge to cover the cost of setting up your policy where your
cover is cancelled within the cooling off period - £35.99 for renewals and £49.99 for new
business policies. This period is effective from when you accept your application to buy
the insurance policy. 
In the circumstances I dont think the cancellation fee One Call has charged Mr V is 
unreasonable. Given the administration costs it has highlighted, it hasnt profited from 
charging this fee. But it can only charge this fee if it can show that Mr V was duly informed 
about it when he agreed to take out the policy. 
One Call says all of its fees and charges are explicitly disclosed to customers via its policy 
information booklet as part of the online journey when purchasing an insurance policy. It 
says Mr V was given the opportunity to review the terms and conditions prior to purchase. 
I asked One Call to demonstrate that its administration charge was made clear prior to 
purchase. It sent a screenshot that shows the information Mr V was provided with. This 
includes hyperlinks to the information booklet, our charges, and Important Information 
documents. A subsequent screen says that by clicking Continue Mr V agrees to One Calls 
Important Information and Terms and Conditions  Info Booklet. The information booklet 
confirms the cancellation charges that apply within the cooling off period.
Im satisfied that Mr V was reasonably made aware that a cancellation fee would apply if he 
cancelled the policy, and therefore One Call can charge him a fee for the administration 
costs involved.  
In summary I dont think One Call treated Mr V unfairly when relying on its policy terms and 
charging the cancellation fee it did. So, I cant reasonably ask it to do any more. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr V to accept or 
reject my decision before 26 April 2023.
 
Mike Waldron
Ombudsman