DRN-3015724
The complaint
Mr H complains about the management and administration by M & G Securities Limited 
(M&G) of his investment in its Managed Growth Fund. In particular, Mr H complains how 
M&G has communicated with him about fund charges.
What happened
On 15 January 2021 M&G wrote to Mr H to say that from 15 February 2021 it was reducing 
its charge in respect its Managed Growth Fund from 1.40% to 1.05%.
On 28 January 2021, and in receipt of M&Gs letter dated 15 January 2021, Mr H telephoned 
M&G to say that it would appear  based on his personalised investment update and 
statement covering the period 5 April 2020 to 5 October 2020 (statement)  that he had 
been charged 1.71% historically (not 1.40%) and he would like to log a complaint about the 
same.
On 15 April 2021 M&G issued Mr H with a  final response letter (FRL). Under cover of this 
FRL M&G apologised for not having logged Mr Hs complaint on 28 January 2021, when he 
had asked for it to be logged. It then went on to say that since 1 August 2019 it had correctly 
taken 1.40% plus transaction charges from his account and no more. It also said, for 
reasons I dont repeat here, that the information recorded in Mr Hs statement was simply 
wrong and not reflective of what had actually been taken.
Mr Hs complaint was considered by one of our investigators. In her view Mr H hadnt been 
overcharged, but for providing incorrect charge information in Mr Hs statement, and for the 
delay in logging and investigating his complaint, it should pay £50 in compensation.
M&G agreed with the investigators view, but Mr H didnt. And because Mr H didnt agree 
with the investigators view his complaint has been passed to me for review and decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I can confirm that Im in agreement with the investigator and there is very 
little I can usefully add to what has already been said.
Based on what both parties have said and provided I can confirm that I find M&Gs 
submission that despite what is noted in Mr Hs statement it only took 1.40% plus transaction 
costs from his account (at the relevant time) to be both plausible and persuasive. And 
because of this I only need to decide what, if anything, M&G should have to pay Mr H in 
compensation for the incorrect statement charge information and for the delay in logging and 
investigating his complaint.
Now I accept that Mr H might not agree. But given M&Gs extensive response, and when this 
was sent, I find that £50 represents a fair and reasonable sum for it to have to pay for the 
incorrect statement charge information and for its handling of the complaint.
My final decision
My final decision is that to the extent it hasnt already done so M & G Securities Limited must 
pay Mr H £50. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 18 October 2021.
 
Peter Cook
Ombudsman