DRN-2919373
The complaint
Miss O complains that Soteria Insurance Limited (trading as Co-op) gave incorrect 
information which resulted in her being stopped by the police.
What happened
Miss Os father has a motor insurance policy with Co-op. Miss O is a named driver on the 
policy. Miss Os father contacted Co-op to tell it that he was changing his car registration 
number. Co-ops notes of the phone call say he explained that he didnt have the new plates 
yet, but DVLAs database had been updated. Co-ops adviser said that since DVLAs records 
had already been updated, the policy needed to be amended straight away to show the new 
registration number. And it went ahead and made the change. Miss O says Co-op confirmed 
that they could continue to drive the car in the meantime.
A few days later, Miss O was driving the car when she was stopped by the police. They 
explained that the cars registration number wasnt showing on their database. The Motor 
Insurance Bureau contacted Co-op to check whether the car was insured. Co-op confirmed 
that it was. But it then realised that the registration number on the policy shouldnt have been 
changed until DVLA had sent out the new log book. And it confirmed it could amend the 
policy to show the original registration number, pending confirmation from the DVLA that the 
new logbook had been sent out.
Co-op has listened to a recording of the phone call, and it accepts that it gave incorrect 
information on the phone. It initially offered Miss O £75 to apologise for the trouble and upset 
shed experienced. Miss O wasnt happy with the offer, and said she could have been given 
points on her driving licence. Co-op increased its offer to £150. But Miss O isnt satisfied with 
the offer. She says being stopped by the police impacted her anxiety and depression. Shed 
like formal action to be taken against the adviser who gave the incorrect information. And 
shed like £100 additional compensation.
One of our investigators considered Miss Os complaint, but he didnt think it should be 
upheld. In summary, he said he thought Co-ops offer of £150 was fair. He accepted that 
Miss O had been an hour late for an appointment as a result of the incident. But she hadnt 
received any points on her driving licence, and the car hadnt been seized. He explained that 
we cant recommend that a business takes action against an individual member of staff, and 
that its up to a business how it deals with this type of situation.
Miss O wasnt happy with the investigators view, so the complaints been passed to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided not to uphold the complaint, for much the same reasons as the 
investigator.
It isnt in dispute that Co-op was mistaken when it told Miss Os father that the cars 
registration number needed to be changed on the insurance policy straight away, even 
though the new number plates werent yet on the car. Co-op accepts that it shouldnt have 
amended the policy until the DVLA had sent out the new logbook for the car. And it accepts 
that Miss O experienced some distress and inconvenience as a result. What I need to 
consider is whether what Co-op has done to resolve the complaint is fair and reasonable.
I dont doubt that being stopped by the police was an upsetting and stressful experience for 
Miss O, and I sympathise with her. I accept that she was caused inconvenience because 
Co-op changed the registration number on the policy prematurely and led her to believe that 
she could continue to drive the car as normal. 
Miss O has told us she was an hour late for an appointment as a result of being stopped by 
the police, and I can see that this would have been inconvenient. But she didnt receive any 
points on her driving licence as a result of the incident, and the car wasnt impounded.  
I acknowledge that Miss O has commented that she could have been given points. But 
I need to consider what actually happened, not what could have happened. 
This service isnt a regulator, and it isnt our role to punish or fine a business. Taking 
everything into account, I think that the £150 offered by Co-op is fair to reflect the trouble 
and upset Miss O experienced. If it hasnt already paid that to Miss O, it should do so. But 
I cant fairly require it to do any more than that.
My final decision
My decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss O to accept 
or reject my decision before 16 September 2021.
 
Juliet Collins
Ombudsman