DRN-3845443
The complaint
Mr and Mrs S are complaining about the way Liverpool Victoria Insurance Company Limited 
(LV) has handled a claim they made on their buildings insurance policy.
LV has used a number of agents to assist it with the handling of the claim. But for ease of 
reference I shall refer to anything that their agent has done as being done by LV.
What happened
The facts of this complaint are well known to all parties, so Im not going to set them out in 
detail. But, in summary, in November 2021 Mr and Mrs Ss property was damaged in a storm 
with damage inflicted to the roof, which in turn damaged their conservatory. They contacted 
LV to claim for the damage on their buildings insurance policy. They explained that the 
property wasnt habitable and asked LV to provide them and their family with alternative 
accommodation. But they also highlighted that Mrs S had a disability, they were a large 
family and they needed to take their children to school. And they wanted LV to take this into 
consideration when sourcing a suitable property.
LV said there werent any houses immediately available that were suitable, so it arranged for 
Mr and Mrs S and their family to stay in a local hotel while it looked to source a more suitable 
property. LV then arranged for the property to be repaired.
Mr and Mrs S are unhappy with the way LV handled the claim and, in summary, have raised 
the following issues:
They remained in the hotel for nearly a year because of the way LV handled the claim. 
They highlighted that the contractor instructed to repair the property failed to properly 
safeguard it from further damage, which meant significant further damage occurred in 
December 2021. They said that this additional damage meant the repair time was 
significantly extended. 
They said that the hotel wasnt a comfortable living environment  highlighting that it 
didnt have air conditioning, it was noisy and staff had to evict guests because of unruly 
behaviour.
Theyre unhappy LV wouldnt replace the whole of the roof as it was only willing to carry 
out work to a small section of it.
The property wasnt fully repaired, even when they had moved back in.
They said a lot of their personal effects were damaged or lost while in storage.
Our investigator agreed that LV could have handled the claim better and thought it should 
pay £400 in compensation. Mr and Mrs S didnt think £400 was fair compensation for whats 
happened. And they said it wouldnt be a lesson for LV to learn to not do this to others. 
I contacted both parties to say that I was minded to increase the level of compensation to 
£800. I said Mr and Mrs S have had to stay in alterative accommodation for nearly a year, 
which shouldn't have been the case. I thought it was clear that the claim had been handled 
poorly at the start by the initial contractors. I noted that there had been a failure to 
adequately safeguard the property at the start which resulted in further damage. And I said it 
seemed to me that it's ultimately this further damage that caused the prolonged timeframes. 
I acknowledged that this was a significant claim. It was a significant storm that caused a lot 
of damage to Mr and Mrs S's roof  I understand around 40 tiles came off. I also recognised 
that this claim was complicated further because of the non-standard nature of the roof tiles. 
Also I'm also conscious that there were some significant differences of opinions between 
Mrs S and LV about how the claim should be handled which caused some delays to the 
works. And I didnt think LV was at fault for this. But I said it should be noted that further 
damage occurred to the property in a storm in February 2022  nearly three months after the 
initial incident. 
Ultimately, due to the way the claim was progressing, it was decided that a surveyor needed 
to be instructed to oversee the claim. And it seemed to me that  the claim only started 
properly progressing at this point  three months after the initial storm. The report by the 
surveyor clearly sets out the issues at the start  notably poor communication between the 
various contractors. He also highlighted a very poor standard of temporary works and said 
this contributed to the further damage.
I thought that the simple reality was that, a claim that should have been resolved within a few 
months, took nearly a year to resolve. Mr and Mrs S and their family had to live in a hotel 
throughout this time. I acknowledged LV covered this cost in full and paid them £80 per day 
disturbance allowance  plus other expenses. But it also needs to be remembered that 
Mrs S was disabled and living in a hotel is significantly different to living in their own house. I 
also acknowledged that Mr and Mrs S also had the upset of seeing their property suffer 
further damage, which could have been avoided if it had been properly secured.
I considered the fact that I understand that the policy only covered up to £15,000 of 
alternative accommodation. But it seems to me that, had the claim been resolved as it 
should have been, it shouldnt have taken more than around four months based on initial 
estimates and scopes of work. So I think this should have been largely sufficient to cover the 
amount of alternative accommodation required.
But I also took into account that LV paid more than it would usually pay in disturbance 
allowance and paid more than normal in a daily rate for alternative accommodation to 
accommodate Mrs Ss disability. So I thought it had looked to support Mr and Mrs S during 
the claim process. But, as I said, they have undoubtedly suffered a significant amount of 
avoidable distress and inconvenience, which was compounded because of Mrs Ss disability. 
And I thought £800 was a fairer level of compensation.
LV responded and accepted my provisional decision. Mrs S didnt think the compensation 
was sufficient and said she was looking for around three times as much. And she said the 
following:
She didnt think £800 reflected the challenges her family had faced over the last year.
She said further work was still required as the plastering was done to a substandard.
Shes unhappy the contractor took away the spare roof tiles because if something was to 
happen to their roof, such as if a single tile came off, they would need to get money from 
somewhere to replace the entire front elevation. So they thought that cost needed to be 
taken into consideration.
She also said that because of the delay, they couldn't sell their house and lost out on an 
offer.
She doesnt think her annual premiums should be impacted due to the high cost of the 
claim, which she said was increased due to the way LV handled the claim.
She said her children were still traumatised by the situation.What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive taken Mr and Mrs Ss additional comments into consideration and reflected further on 
whats happened on this case. As I said above, its clear that this claim hasnt been handled 
well, which has caused some significant delays and increased distress and inconvenience. I 
naturally sympathise with the situation Mr and Mrs S found themselves in. But I also have to 
take into account that LV have also done more than it needed to do in other areas  namely:
Paying over £115,000 in alternative accommodation when the policy had a claim limit of 
£15,000  i.e. under the terms of the policy Mr and Mrs S would normally be expected to 
cover the cost over and above £15,000. I should also comment that the cost of the hotel 
was around £2,000 per week. As I said previously, the initial estimated repair time was 
around four months. So, while I think £15,000 would have been sufficient for the majority 
of the repair process, I think its likely there would have been some shortfall. So I do think 
Mr and Mrs S have received more than they were contractually entitled to in alternative 
accommodation.
LV has paid them £80 per day in disturbance allowance. The terms of the insurance 
policy dont specifically require LV to pay disturbance allowance, but we think its 
generally fair and good practice for an insurer to cover expenses that were more than a 
consumer would usually pay had they been in their own home. Its important to note that 
this isnt intended to cover everything that a consumer has to pay, but is to reflect the 
increase in their daily costs. £80 is more than an insurer would usually pay in these 
circumstances.
Im also conscious LV agreed to pay the cost of buying a number of items to make 
Mr and Mrs Ss living situation in the hotel more manageable.
Im not saying that this diminishes the mistakes LVs contractors made here, because it 
doesnt. The inescapable fact is the following:
Mr and Mrs Ss property suffered further damage due to LVs contractors failure to 
properly safeguard the property from further damage.
Mr and Mrs S and their family had to live in a hotel for nearly year  at least six months 
longer than they should have done.
Their property was lost or damaged while in storage.
But I do need to take into consideration the mitigating factors I set out above in assessing 
what LV should pay in compensation. Im satisfied that LV has regularly acknowledged 
throughout the claim journey that it should have handled the claim better and it has looked to 
assist Mr and Mrs S throughout. And at times its done more than it needed to do to assist 
Mr and Mrs S given the issues at the start.
I note Mr and Mrs S have raised further issues  namely that theres still further damage to 
be repaired, theyve been unable to sell their house and their insurance premium has 
increased. But I can only consider issues that were raised with LV before this Service started 
investigating this complaint. And these issues werent raised at that point. So I cant take 
them into consideration.
Ultimately, I remain of the opinion that £800 is fair compensation for the distress and 
inconvenience this matter has caused. So I dont think LV needs to pay anything more than 
that.My final decision
For the reasons Ive set out above, its my final decision that I uphold this complaint and I 
require Liverpool Victoria Insurance Company Limited to pay Mr and Mrs S £800 in 
compensation for the distress and inconvenience its caused. I make no further award.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S and Mrs S to 
accept or reject my decision before 17 April 2023. 
Guy Mitchell
Ombudsman