DRN-2685408
The complaint
Mr M complains about how esure Insurance Limited has handled his motor insurance claim.
References to esure include its agents.
What happened
In March 2020, Mr Ms car was damaged in a non-fault accident. esure arranged for Mr Ms 
car to be collected and delivered to its approved repairers. It told Mr M he would need to pay 
his policy excess of £1,200 to the repairer once the repairs were completed.
The approved repairers fixed the damage caused to the car in the accident. But they noticed 
an issue with the cars gearbox, which they didnt believe could have been caused by the 
accident.  Mr M said there wasnt a problem with the gearbox before the accident, as he was 
driving it. So esure arranged for one of the manufacturers dealers to review the issue. It was 
established that the issue related to the internal gearbox solenoid. esure said this fault 
couldnt have been caused by the accident because the component was located at the rear 
of the gearbox, meaning it wasnt close to any impact damage. 
esure told Mr M that the cost of repairs to the gearbox wouldnt be covered by the policy 
because they werent a result of the accident. It suggested he get an independent report if 
he didnt agree with esures decision. 
Mr M said he couldnt afford to pay the £1,200 excess that needed to be paid before his car 
could be released. esure agreed to waive the excess. It said he would need to collect his car 
to avoid being charged storage costs.
Mr M wasnt willing to collect his car without the gearbox being fixed. He complained to 
esure who said it wasnt able to offer any further assistance. It believed the problem with the 
gearbox wasnt part of the claim.
 
I issued a provisional decision on 1 February 2021 where I explained why I didnt intend to 
uphold Mr Ms complaint. In that decision I said:
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Based on what Ive seen so far, I dont intend to uphold Mr Ms complaint. Ill explain why.
Repair costs
Mr M is unhappy that esure hasnt agreed to pay for his cars gearbox to be repaired. The 
terms of the policy say that any loss or damage not a as a direct result of your accident or 
theft isnt covered.
Mr M feels strongly that his gearbox was damaged as a result of the accident. He says he 
didnt experience any problems with it before the accident. I appreciate Mr M might not have 
been aware of an issue with the gearbox prior to arranging for the car to be repaired. But this 
doesnt necessarily mean that there wasnt a problem with it or that the fault was a result of 
the accident.
esure has provided an engineers report from its approved repairers which says that the 
gearbox warning light came on when they took the car for a test drive after finishing the 
repairs. A scan came up with a fault which they said was to do with the control module 
which is located at the back of the gearbox and is not located around the impact area.
Following this, they arranged for a manufacturers dealer to diagnose the problem and 
theyve provided a screenshot which refers to an issue with the shift solenoid. While the 
manufacturers dealer doesnt appear to have commented on the likely cause of the issue, 
esure says its technical engineer determined this fault could not have been caused by 
impact from the accident and the problem was unrelated. 
I can see esure explained this to Mr M and also told him he could arrange for his car to be 
reviewed independently if he didnt agree with its decision on the claim. And Mr M hasnt 
provided a report which shows the fault is accident related.
On balance, Im not persuaded that the problem with the gearbox is covered by the terms of 
the policy because I dont think it was likely to have been caused by the accident. So, I think 
esures decision not to pay for the gearbox to be repaired was reasonable.
 
Storage costs
esure has provided information showing Mr M was told several times that he risked being 
charged storage costs if he didnt collect his car from the approved repairers.  On 25 August 
2020 esures approved repairers sent him an email asking him to contact them to arrange 
delivery of his vehicle. They said failing to call would incur daily storage charges of £25 
+VAT starting from 26 August.
 
After Mr M said he couldnt afford the £1,200 excess to get the car back, esure agreed to 
waive this. esure has noted on 10 September 2020 that Mr M was told he had seven days to 
collect his car or he might be charged storage fees. In an email of 16 September 2020 esure 
said that both it and the approved repairer had tried to contact Mr M to arrange collection of 
his vehicle but had not been able to get in touch. The excess of £1,200 had been waived 
and his claim had been closed. But he would be liable to pay storage charges if he didnt 
arrange to get his car back as soon as possible.
esure says that although the storage costs were being charged at £25 a day (plus VAT), the 
repairer has capped them at £2,000. The car is currently in safe storage while esure awaits 
the outcome of Mr Ms complaint.
I appreciate Mr M is frustrated by the storage costs hes been charged. But as Ive said, Im 
not persuaded the cost of fixing the cars gearbox is covered by the policy. And from what 
Ive been told, the damage to the car resulting from the accident had been fixed. So, I think 
esure acted reasonably when it removed the excess to allow Mr M to collect the car from the 
repairer. And it also made sure Mr M was aware of the consequences if he didnt do so.
So, I dont think esure is responsible for Mr M incurring storage costs from the repairer.
Delays and courtesy carMr M has also commented on the length of time the car was with the repairer. He says he 
was given a courtesy car, but it was taken away from him after one month. 
esure says the repairer was closed from the end of March to mid-June 2020 because of the 
nationwide lockdown. There was also a considerable waiting time for a manufacturers 
dealer to assess the gearbox issue after the repairs were completed. 
Mr Ms accident occurred on 25 March 2020, which was at the beginning of the first national 
lockdown due to the Covid-19 pandemic. esure says there wasnt an alternative repairer 
available to it at the time. The majority of its garages were closed and the ones that 
remained opened had furloughed a significant number of staff. esures notes show repairs to 
damage from the accident were completed by the end of June but the gearbox warning light 
came on when the garage took it for a test drive. Mr M said there wasnt an issue with the 
gearbox before the accident, so esure attempted to get further information from one of the 
manufacturers dealers.
On 2 July esure has noted that it had tried every dealer in the area, but the first booking was 
on 30 July.  Its also noted being told that only a manufacturers dealers machine would be 
able to read for the fault occurred. So, I think esure made reasonable attempts to try to 
resolve things as quickly as it could in the circumstances. 
esure says Mr M was provided with a hire car from an accident management company on 27 
March. Mr M says the car was taken from him after one month. But esure says Mr M had 
use of the car until 11 June 2020. The car hire was withdrawn by the accident management 
company after Mr M said he didnt want them to deal with his case.
esure says that when Mr M notified him of the claim, it told him the garage would be able to 
provide him with a courtesy car if there were any issues with the hire car. It says it didnt 
know that Mr M had ended his relationship with the accident management company and no 
longer had the hire car at the time. If it had been aware he was without transport, esure 
would have looked to provide a courtesy car as required under his policy. 
esure says Mr M placed a different car on his policy on 15 April 2020. And I can see from 
esures notes (in September 2020) that Mr M said hed bought a new car while his car was in 
for repair. 
Mr M has also told us he didnt use the hire car because he left the country shortly after it 
was given to him.
I appreciate the delay in Mr Ms vehicle being repaired was frustrating for him. But this 
doesnt appear to have resulted in Mr M being without the use of a vehicle. So again, based 
on what Ive seen so far, I dont think esure has acted unfairly or unreasonably. 
 
I gave both parties the opportunity to respond with any further information or comments they 
wanted me to consider before I reached my final decision.
Responses
esure said it didnt have any additional information to provide and would await my final 
decision.
Mr M said he was very dissatisfied with esure. His car was perfectly functional. He had to 
buy a new car. He couldnt go to his home country with what he rented. His wife was quite 
seriously injured, and he had to go to his home country to see a doctor because he didnt 
want to speak English. What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I appreciate it must have been a difficult situation for Mr M and I hope his wife has recovered 
from her injuries. I know my answer will be disappointing for Mr M, but his comments havent 
made a difference to the conclusions I reached in my provisional decision.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I dont uphold Mr Ms complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 19 April 2021.
 
Anne Muscroft
Ombudsman