DRN-4400846
The complaint
Mrs B complained about delays that occurred during the process of arranging a cash ISA 
transfer from her previous ISA provider (whom Ill refer to as M) to abrdn Investments 
Limited (abrdn).
What happened
This brief timeline shows key events and dates:
28 September 2021  abrdn received signed transfer paperwork from Mrs B.
30 September 2021  abrdn posted a (correctly) completed transfer form to M.
19 October 2021  abrdn received correspondence from M requesting confirmation of 
Mrs Bs date of birth and National Insurance number (although this information was shown 
on the transfer form sent already).
21 October 2021 - abrdn sent a second transfer instruction, restating the information M had 
requested.
16 November 2021  Mrs B contacted abrdn to find out what was happening with the 
transfer.
23 November 2021 - abrdn sent a chaser letter to M. 
9 December 2021 - abrdn phoned M and was told that a new transfer instruction was 
needed. The reason given was that M required Mrs B to confirm on the transfer form that 
she wanted to proceed with the transfer irrespective of the fact that she would incur an 
interest penalty as a result of cashing in her ISA before the end of its fixed term. 
13 December 2021  abrdn wrote to Mrs B enclosing a new transfer form for her to complete 
with the required declaration M wanted. 
23 December 2021 - abrdn received the updated transfer instruction from Mrs B and sent 
this to M the same day. This was subsequently rejected by M. 
31 January 2022 - abrdn resent the transfer instruction to M.
3 February 2022 - abrdn phoned M for a progress report.
10 February 2022  abrdn received a cheque for the ISA proceeds from M and reinvested 
this into a new ISA for Mrs B the next day.       
M accepted it was responsible for some service failings during the transfer process and paid 
redress to Mrs B that reflected half of the investment loss identified. 
When Mrs B complained to abrdn about its part in the delayed transfer, it didnt agree it had 
contributed to the transfer taking so long to complete. 
An investigator thought differently. He felt that abrdn had contributed to delays during the 
transfer process and that it should accept responsibility for half of the loss caused by unit 
price movements during the delay. 
Mrs B agreed with this assessment of her complaint. abrdn however disagreed, mainly 
saying that it had done everything correctly and in line with Mrs Bs instructions. abrdn said it 
had allowed a reasonable amount of time for M to receive, review and respond to each 
instruction and M had been responsible for all the delays. 
The complaint came to me to decide. I issued a provisional decision. 
What I said in my provisional decision
Here are some of the main things I said. 
As I understand things, the crux of Mrs Bs complaint about abrdn is that it played a part in 
delaying the cash ISA transfer she wanted to make from M to abrdn. 
HMRC guidance says that transferring a cash ISA should take no longer than 15 working 
days. 
Given this suggested transfer timetable, I think it's fair to say that:
there was an onus on arbdn as the acquiring provider to have been more proactive.
For example, arbdn could usefully have followed up its initial transfer instruction 
when it didnt hear back from M sooner. Whilst I accept that the reason M gave for 
rejecting this transfer was incorrect as no inaccurate information had been provided, 
arbdn didnt receive Ms rejection for some 13 working days. Its failure to follow up 
the transfer it had sent risked putting the transfer timetable in jeopardy at the outset  
and had arbdn chased M sooner, its possible that the issues arising could have been 
highlighted and addressed earlier than happened.     
I think the 23 working day period between arbdns second transfer instruction sent on 
21 October 2021 and its chaser letter of 23 November 2021 was unreasonably 
lengthy. arbdn knew it had provided the correct information for a second time plus the 
form now included Cs confirmation that she wanted to proceed despite the interest 
penalty which arbdn thought addressed the reason for the hold-up so far. So I think 
its fair and reasonable to expect arbdn to have contacted M sooner than it did to find 
out the reason for the continuing delay.    
I havent identified any significant delays on arbdns part after this but, by this time, 
the recommended HMRC timescale for this sort of transfer had long since slipped 
whilst the cumulative periods of inactivity in-between arbdn taking action and 
awaiting a response continued to add to the overall time taken for the transfer to 
complete. I think it's fair to say that things might have progressed faster if arbdn had 
been less tolerant of Ms delays and done more to advance matters, as Mrs B might 
reasonably have expected her acquiring provider to have done.    I agree with the investigator that abrdn didnt act quickly enough to get the transfer moving 
and there were delays, as described above, during which arbdn could have chased M far 
sooner than it did. So I am upholding the complaint. 
Ive considered the question of redress carefully. Its fair that the compensation Mrs B 
receives properly reflects the extent and impact on her of abrdns service failings on this 
occasion.
So I have first considered if there was any financial impact. 
I appreciate that Mrs B is concerned about investment loss. But even if abrdn had not 
delayed dealing with its side of the transfer process, there were other considerations beyond 
its control that would still have significantly held up the transfer process  as far as I can see, 
the way M handled its end of the transfer was mainly the reason that things took so long. 
I dont think it would be fair to direct abrdn to pay redress in respect of investment loss in 
these circumstances  even on a proportional basis  when its difficult to identify specific 
investment loss attributable to particular delays on abrdns part. 
Ive also kept in mind that although the transfer took a lot longer than Mrs B reasonably 
expected, this mitigated loss of interest.  
All this leads me to conclude that theres no identifiable cash loss that it would be fair to 
require abrdn to redress. But fair compensation isnt just about not being worse off in money 
terms  it needs to properly reflect the full impact on Mrs B of abrdns service failings on this 
occasion. 
I can see how abrdns handling of this matter caused Mrs B some inconvenience and made 
the transfer even more stressful for her. 
I consider an award of £200 is fair and reasonable in these particular circumstances. I am 
satisfied that this is in line with the amount this service would award in similar cases and it is 
fair compensation for Mrs B in her particular circumstances. 
What the parties said in response to my provisional decision 
Mrs B was happy with what I said in my provisional decision.
abrdn said that for the most part it agreed with what I said, although whilst empathising with 
Mrs Bs frustrations over the course of the matter, abrdn shouldnt be held liable in terms of 
compensation where abrdn was not at fault. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive taken carefully into account whats been said in response to my provisional decision. 
Id like to assure abrdn that I've thought carefully about everything again before coming to 
my final decision and taken into account everything Ive been asked to reconsider. I appreciate that abrdn followed its standardised procedures and that even if abrdn had been 
more proactive in chasing things up more frequently, I cant be sure that this would have led 
to a faster resolution for Mrs B. I have acknowledged in my provisional decision that the way 
M handled its end of the transfer was mainly the reason that things took so long. 
But I still think that abrdn missed opportunities to provide the level of service Mrs B was 
entitled to expect and that an award of £200 is fair and reasonable to reflect the extent and 
impact on Mrs B of shortcomings abrdn was responsible for. 
As abrdn hasnt provided me with any new information that changes what I think about this 
case, I stand by what I said in my provisional decision. 
abrdn has already indicated that if my view is unchanged, it will accept my final decision. 
I thank abrdn for this confirmation, as I think Mrs B will appreciate the goodwill this 
demonstrates.Putting things right
To put things right, abrdn should pay Mrs B £200 compensation for the impact on her of the 
service failings I have identified and for which it is responsible.  
My final decision
I uphold this complaint and direct abrdn Investments Limited to take the steps I've set out 
above to put things right for Mrs B. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs B to accept or 
reject my decision before 14 November 2023.
 
Susan Webb
Ombudsman