DRN-2725563
The complaint
Mr R is represented. He says Craig Mitchell (CM) is responsible for an unsuitable 
investment of £30,000 he was advised to make, in 2017, in 300 UK Property Development 
Solutions (UKPDS) PLC bonds (the bonds). CM disputes the complaint and its principal 
says he never met Mr R, that he was never introduced to Mr R, that he never communicated 
with Mr R in any way and that CM did not advise Mr Rs investment in the bonds. 
What happened
Documentary evidence is limited in this complaint. However, some documents have been 
made available.
A copy of Mr Rs application for the bonds includes, in the main, details to support the 
application, Mr Rs signature and the date of 20 February 2017, and then a section for his 
advisers details which consists of CMs principals name, CMs details (including FCA 
number) as the Authorised Adviser, its principals signature and the same date of 20 
February 2017.
Information about Mr R and his circumstances at the time refers to the following  he was in 
his late 50s, retired, single, without dependents and he had incomings no more than £40,000 
per year; he was debt free; he held around £50,000 in cash, a mixed overall portfolio of 
personal investments and a pension. There is reference in the complaint form to a third-party 
unregulated intermediary who, it appears, Mr R says introduced his business to CM.
One of our investigators looked into the complaint and concluded that it should be upheld. 
He addressed CMs claim that it did not advise Mr Rs investment; he referred to regulatory 
guidance in the FCAs Handbook (in the Perimeter Guidance Manual (PERG)) on what 
constitutes advice; he acknowledged that both parties agree they never met; but he 
considered that the contents of the adviser undertaking in Mr Rs application for the bonds, 
signed and dated by CM, suggests that CM was the authorised adviser for the investment 
and that such evidence makes it difficult to accept CMs principals claim that the undertaking 
was completed under the misunderstanding that he was verifying Mr Rs identity. 
In terms of suitability of the bonds for Mr R, the investigator noted the absence of advice 
related evidence explaining why they were recommended to him, but took the view that they 
were unsuitable for him because they were particularly high risk investments  given that 
they were mini bonds issued by companies too small or too new to raise capital through 
more traditional methods (companies that also had a higher risk of failure). The investigator 
considered that they required a sophisticated investor prepared to take high risks and that 
although Mr R was not an inexperienced investor there is no evidence the bonds were 
suitable for him. The investigator considered it more likely (than not) that Mr R would not 
have invested in the bonds without CMs express undertaking that they were suitable for 
him.
CMs principal disagreed with this outcome. He repeated his original position on the 
complaint and added that the absence of advice related documentation shows a lack of merit 
in the complaint, and that the regulators records for CM show that it was not authorised to 
give investment advice from December 2014 onwards, so it could not have given such 
advice in 2017.
The matter was referred to an ombudsman.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
For the sake of transparency, it should be noted that I have decided other complaints about 
CM with similar claims from the complainants and similar rebuttals from CM. One such 
complaint included documentation and information about the nature of UKPDS and of the 
bonds. I will summarise this information further below, when I address suitability. First, I must 
address CMs disclaimer of the advice Mr R says he received to invest in the bonds.
Responsibility for Mr Rs investment
I endorse, and incorporate into this decision, the investigators findings in terms of the 
guidance given in PERG 8.28 (about what constitutes advice from a firm). There is no 
evidence of direct engagement between the parties to consider in this respect, so I am not 
persuaded that the guidance is enough, in the present case, to determine CMs dispute. In 
other words, the absence of such evidence leaves little, in terms of facts of engagement 
(direct or indirect), to consider under PERG 8.28. However, as set below, there is enough 
alternative evidence to determine CMs dispute.
Even though both parties agree that they never met, available evidence suggests that the 
third-party intermediary could have played an introducing role between them  albeit an 
introduction that did not extend to Mr R ever meeting CM. I draw this conclusion because his 
application for the bonds clearly includes the advisers undertaking, which was expressly 
completed, signed and dated by CMs principal. The application, which also includes 
sections completed, signed and date by Mr R, must therefore have passed between him and 
CM, so someone must have facilitated that. I have not seen evidence that UKPDS played 
that role and it appears more likely (than not) that the third-party intermediary did. 
CMs signed undertaking said  
I/we can confirm that I/we have complied with the suitability rules in COBS 9 of the Financial
Conduct Authority's Handbook of Rules and Guidance and have assessed this investment
as suitable for the above named client.
I consider it impossible for CM to claim, with any credibility, that it gave the undertaking 
whilst believing its purpose was to verify Mr Rs identity or that its principal was unaware of 
what he was doing by completing the undertaking. Nothing in the above text refers to 
verifying Mr Rs identity. The above text makes clear that the undertaking confirms the 
investment had been assessed suitable for Mr R (who was the above named client in the 
application).
Whilst documentation is scarce in the present case, as I said above more documentation 
and information about UKPDS and the bonds was available in another comparable 
complaint. Based on that, I am aware that confirmation of independent financial advice was 
a pre-requisite to investing in the bonds, hence the need for the authorised adviser 
undertaking within the application document. CM gave that undertaking and therefore made 
Mr Rs investment possible. Overall, on balance and for the reasons given above, I am satisfied that CM undertook 
responsibility for advising Mr R that his investment in the bonds was suitable for him. If, as 
its principal argues, CM did not give such advice, it is still possible  indeed probable, given 
the existence of its signed undertaking  that it nevertheless assessed suitability of the 
bonds for Mr R based on information about the bonds and any information it had about Mr R. 
If CM says it conducted no such assessment and that it had no information about Mr R, then 
its undertaking was false; such false undertaking was relied upon by Mr R, as I am 
persuaded that he attached weight to CMs undertaking in terms of making his investment 
decision for the bonds; and CM would therefore hold responsibility for misleading Mr Rs 
investment in the bond.
Suitability of Mr Rs investment
In broad terms, and based on information from one of the comparable cases I have referred 
to, the bonds had a maturity term of 12 months (extendable to 18 months) and were used by 
UKPDS to raise capital which would then be issued as loans to third-party firms for the 
business of property acquisition, development and sale. It appears that the proceeds of the 
property sales were to be used to service the loans, which then provided funds to be used in 
paying the coupons on the bonds (and to redeem the bonds). This meant there were a 
number of layers of risk involved. The bond issuer (UKPDS) was not the end user of the 
capital raised and does not appear to have had any control over the third-party end users; so 
due diligence on UKPDS and the end users would have been important. There is no 
evidence of such due diligence being conducted by CM. 
Furthermore, it is commonly considered that property-based investments can have 
associated high risks in terms of determining a reliable value of the underlying assets and in 
terms of liquidity of the underlying assets. Such risks were potentially heightened in the 
context of the relatively short 12 to 18 months term of the bonds and in the context of the 
bonds brochures confirmation that the end users operations were based on using an  
advanced computer search algorithm  to identify suitable development sites  which 
suggests investment decisions not particularly based on due care, skill and analysis by 
experienced managers.
I share the investigators observation that Mr R was not an inexperienced investor. His wider 
portfolio at the time of his investment in the bonds suggests he had a reasonable amount of 
investment experience. However, I have not seen evidence that he wanted a high-risk 
investment or that he presented himself as suitable for such an investment. It also appears 
to be the case that CM had no information or instruction from him, portraying a high-risk 
investor profile, in the course of giving the suitability undertaking that it gave.
Overall, on balance and for the reasons given above, I do not consider that the bonds were 
suitable for Mr R; and I also find that CM had no basis to give the undertaking  which it 
gave  that they were.
Putting things right
fair compensation
Fair compensation will be to put Mr R as close as I can to the position he would probably 
now be in if he had not made the unsuitable investment in the UKPDS bonds. I take the view 
that he would have behaved differently. It is not possible to say precisely what he would 
have done differently but I am satisfied that what I have set out below is fair given available 
information, as summarised above, of his profile at the time.
what must CM do?To compensate Mr R fairly, CM must:
Compare the performance of his bond investment with that of the benchmark shown 
below and pay him compensation in the amount of the difference between the fair 
value and the actual value of the investment. However, if the actual value is greater 
than the fair value, no compensation for financial loss is payable. 
Pay him interest, if set out below. Income tax may be payable on any interest 
awarded.
Provide him with details of the calculation of compensation in a clear and simple 
format.
investment status Benchmarkfrom (start 
date)to (end 
date)additional interest
Mr Rs 
UKPDS 
PLC bondsStill existsthe Bank of England 
average return from fixed 
rate bondsdate of 
investmentdate of 
settlement Not applicable
actual value
This means the actual amount payable from the investment at the end date. If at the end 
date the investment is illiquid the actual value should be assumed to be zero. This is 
provided Mr R agrees to CM taking ownership of the investment, if it wishes to. If that is not 
possible then CM may request an undertaking from Mr R that he repay to CM any amount 
he may receive from the investment in future. 
fair value
This is what the investment would have been worth at the end date had it produced a return 
using the benchmark. To arrive at the fair value when using the fixed rate bonds as the 
benchmark, CM should use the monthly average rate for fixed rate bonds with 12 to 17 
months maturity as published by the Bank of England. The rate for each month is that shown 
as at the end of the previous month. Those rates should be applied to the investment on an 
annually compounded basis. 
Any withdrawal, income or other payment out of the investments should be deducted from 
the fair value at the point it was actually paid so it ceases to accrue any return in the 
calculation from that point on. If there are a large number of regular payments, to keep 
calculations simpler, I will accept if CM totals all those payments and deducts that figure at 
the end instead of deducting periodically.
why is this remedy suitable?
I have decided on this method of compensation because:
Mr Rs precise objectives in 2017 are not clear, but it is implicit within his interest in a 
bond investment  given the generic nature of bonds and the generic nature of capital 
invested in bonds  that he probably wanted to safeguard his capital, hence his 
choice of a bond investment.
The average rate for fixed rate bonds would be a fair measure for someone who 
wanted to achieve a reasonable return without risk to capital. 
I consider that the above benchmark matches the investment profile Mr R probably had in 2017, and that its use in calculating compensation for him would reasonably 
put him into a position that broadly reflects the sort of return he could have obtained 
from a suitable investment. 
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I uphold Mr Rs complaint and I order Craig Mitchell to pay him 
compensation as set out above. Craig Mitchell must also provide him with a calculation of 
the compensation in a clear and simple format.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision before 29 September 2021.
 
Roy Kuku
Ombudsman