DRN-3347427
The complaint
Mrs L complains that Barclays Bank UK PLC didnt provide the service it should have when 
she was trying to buy flight tickets with her card.
What happened
Mrs L tried to book a flight ticket, but her transaction was blocked. She called Barclays and 
says she was on the telephone for ten minutes and three attempts were made before the 
transaction was successful. When she tried to book return tickets her transaction was 
blocked again, and she had to call Barclays for the transaction to be completed. Mrs Ls trip 
was cut short and so she needed to rebook her tickets but again she encountered problems 
and when she tried to contact Barclays through its chat function she got no response. She 
says she kept trying to rebook the tickets with the same airline but experienced problems. 
She then found tickets with a different airline, but these were more expensive and meant she 
would need to leave sooner. She says because of the issues she took the tickets with the 
alternative airline and raised a complaint on her return to the UK. Mrs L says that Barclays 
didnt care about the distress the issues had caused her and gave contradictory information 
in response to her complaint.
Barclays said that Mrs L tried to may a purchase on 10 June 2021, but this was declined. It 
said it tried to send a text message, but this was declined. The transaction was attempted 
again but failed but then a further attempt on the same day was successful. It said that the 
transactions were declined as they were deemed high risk and so further verification was 
needed. Mrs L confirmed the transaction was genuine, but this was then blocked by 
Barclays fraud team. Once this was received the transaction was authorised. Following this 
the transaction was approved. 
Barclays said there was then no spending on Mrs Ls card between 17 and 24 June 2021. 
On 24 June, the transaction was declined by the verification check. Barclays said that Mrs L 
should have received a text asking her to contact the bank. It said it had no evidence of 
Mrs L making contact and that it sent a text message and attempted to call Mrs L but didnt 
receive a response so the issue was closed. 
Our investigator didnt uphold this complaint. She didnt think that Barclays had done 
anything wrong 
Mrs L didnt agree with our investigators view. She said Barclays told her there would be no 
issues using her card when abroad, but this wasnt the case. She also said that Barclays 
said the text message was free, but she had to spend time and money calling Barclays and 
that the Barclays staff didnt give her correct information. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I can understand why Mrs L is upset as she feels her transactions were unreasonably 
blocked even after she was told that she would be able to use her card abroad. She is also 
frustrated that she was told the message service was free, but she then couldnt respond to 
the text and had to spend time and money calling Barclays to try to ensure her transaction 
was completed. However, for me to uphold this complaint I would need to be satisfied that 
Barclays had done something wrong or treated Mrs L unfairly.
Mrs L tried to make a transaction on 10 June, but this was declined. I can appreciate this 
was frustrating for Mrs L but Barclays is required to have security systems in place to protect 
customers money and this can result in transactions being blocked until further verification is 
provided. 
Barclays has explained that when the card is not present at the transaction there is an initial 
layer of protection used by merchants and card issuers to verify that the spending is 
genuine. If the transaction is deemed to be high risk then verification may be required, and 
the customer is generally asked to contact the bank which then allows the block to be 
removed and the transaction re-attempted. When Mrs L tried to buy tickets on 10 June the 
transaction was initially declined but as Mrs L then confirmed the transaction as genuine it 
was sent for authorisation. The transaction was then declined by Barclays fraud detection 
team and was referred for further security checks. I can understand how frustrating this must 
have been for Mrs L but as Barclays is required to have security checks and the standard 
process was applied to the transaction I cannot say she was treated unfairly. Once the 
required checks were completed, the transaction was processed and as this with 30 minutes 
of the original attempt I think the issue was resolved within a reasonable timeframe. I note 
that Mrs L then had issues when she made a further payment later that day but again this 
was resolved in a timely way. Therefore, I do not require Barclays to take any further action 
regarding the payments on 10 June. 
I note Mrs Ls comment about Barclays being aware that she would be abroad and using her 
card, but this doesnt mean that its security systems are no longer relevant or that checks 
wont take place. Barclays has said there were no transactions between 17 and 24 June and 
then when Mrs L tried to make a purchase on 24 June this was declined at the verification 
stage. Barclays has said this didnt come through to it for authorisation. Therefore, I cannot 
say that Barclays did anything wrong. Barclays has explained that Mrs L would have been 
sent a text message to get in touch with the bank, but this didnt happen. It says it tried to 
make contact with Mrs L, but this wasnt successful. As the transaction was flagged at the 
verification point and not presented for authorisation to Barclays I cannot say it did anything 
wrong in regard to this transaction. 
I understand that Mrs L feels she hasnt been provided with the service she should have. 
She feels she hasnt been given accurate information as she thought her payments would go 
through without issue but this wasnt the case (she had to call Barclays about her second 
payment on the 10 June as well as issues when she was trying to re-book her tickets) and 
she wasnt able to respond to the text message which she believes means it wasnt a free 
service. I have listened to the calls that have been provided and on these the advisers tried 
to assist with the transactions to ensure these went through. I have looked at the webchat 
Mrs L has referred to and note that Barclays says it has no record of this. I can see that 
Mrs L was trying to make contact and this wasnt successful, and I can appreciate this was 
frustrating. However, I cannot say why the connection didnt work and so I cannot say for 
certain this was the fault of Barclays rather than another connection issue. While I note 
Mrs Ls comment about not being able to respond to the text message sent on 10 June and 
have seen the screenshot Mrs L has provided, I also recognise that Mrs L was able to 
contact Barclays about this issue and the transaction was completed within a reasonable 
timeframe so I do not find that this issue caused any material disadvantage to Mrs L.In conclusion, while I understand why Mrs L is upset by the experience she has had, on 
balance, I do not find that Barclays has done anything wrong or treated her unfairly and so I 
do not find I can uphold this complaint. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs L to accept or 
reject my decision before 25 May 2022.
 
Jane Archer
Ombudsman