DRN-3183801
The complaint
Mr and Mrs P are unhappy at the interest and charges Nationwide Building Society 
(Nationwide) added to their overdraft over the years.
What happened
Mr and Mrs P complained to Nationwide that when facing financial difficulties it levied 
excessive charges on their account. Nationwide says all charges were applied correctly in 
line with the terms and conditions of the account.
One of our adjudicators looked into their concerns and reached the conclusion Nationwide 
hadnt done anything wrong or treated Mr and Mrs P unfairly and so didnt recommend the 
complaint be upheld. Mr and Mrs P disagreed and so the complaint was passed to an 
ombudsman for a final decision. 
Why I think we can only look at part of your complaint
The rules applying to this service say that, I cant look at a complaint made more than six 
years after the event being complained about  or (if later) more than three years after the 
complainant was aware, or ought reasonably to have been aware, of cause for complaint. 
This is Dispute Resolution rule 2.8.2R(2)  which can be found online in the Financial 
Conduct Authoritys handbook.
Mr and Mrs P raised their complaint in September 2019 in relation to charges applied to their 
overdraft dating back to 1998. Six years before they raised their complaint is September 
2013. And as the charges for use of the overdraft wouldve been notified to Mr and Mrs P at 
the time they were being applied, I think they ought to have known enough to decide 
whether they were unfair or causing financial difficulty. So, I dont think that three years from 
when they ought to be reasonably aware they had reason to complaint provides Mr and Mrs 
P with a longer period than the six year rule. So, I will only be looking at charges applied 
from 22 September 2013.
I can still look into Mr and Mrs Ps complaint about overdraft charges outside this time if Im 
satisfied the failure to complain earlier was due to exceptional circumstances. Mr and Mrs P 
have told us that over the years they have suffered both family bereavements and their 
daughter also suffered from a serious medical condition. 
I sympathise with Mr and Mrs P and I accept that they have had a lot to cope with over the 
years. But in coming to my decision I have to be fair to both Mr and Mrs P and Nationwide 
and what I have to decide is whether I think the circumstances outlined by Mr and Mrs P 
wouldve prevented them from referring their complaint earlier had they chosen to do so.
I have thought carefully about everything they have told us about their circumstances during
the relevant period. But some of the charges they are complaining about were applied over 
20 years ago and there was a period of a few years after their daughters illness where they 
couldve made their complaint.  
I understand why referring the complaint may not have been a priority for Mr and Mrs P. But 
I think they still could have referred their complaint about the charges incurred between 1998 
and 2013 within the time limits, especially as it only takes an email or telephone call to do so.
And as such I dont think that exceptional circumstances apply so I am unable to look at 
charges applied before 22 September 2013. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having considered everything provided, Ive decided not to uphold Mr and Mrs Ps 
complaint. Ill explain why in a little more detail.
Mr and Mrs P have referred to the proportionality of the charges applied to their account. But 
before I go any further, I want to be clear in saying that I havent considered whether the 
various amounts Nationwide charged over the years were fair and reasonable, or 
proportionate in comparison to the costs of the service provided. 
Ultimately how much a bank charges for services is a commercial decision. And it isnt 
something for me to get involved with. That said, while Im not looking at Nationwides 
various charging structures per se, it wont have acted fairly and reasonably towards Mr and 
Mrs P if it applied any interest, fees and charges to Mr and Mrs Ps account in circumstances 
where it was aware, or it ought fairly and reasonably to have been aware Mr and Mrs P were 
experiencing financial difficulty.
So Ive considered whether there were instances where Nationwide didnt treat Mr and Mrs P 
fairly and reasonably. I dont think that Nationwide did treat Mr and Mrs P unfairly or 
unreasonably here though. I say this because having looked at Mr and Mrs Ps statements I 
cant see anything to suggest that Nationwide ought to have realised they might have been 
experiencing financial difficulty prior to it being notified of this. I accept that Mr and Mrs P 
were using the overdraft regularly and there were some months where the account didnt 
see a credit balance, but there was often a credit balance and in 2016 the overdraft wasnt 
used at all.  And although I can see that in the later years (2018-2019) Mr and Mrs P were 
again using their overdraft, I can also see a regular standing order of £500 going out and 
other large cash transfers which could have easily cleared their overdraft had they chosen to 
do so.
I accept this doesnt necessarily mean that Mr and Mrs P werent experiencing financial 
difficulty. But there isnt anything in these transactions in themselves which ought to have 
alerted Nationwide to any potential financial difficulty.
So, in these circumstances I dont think that it was unreasonable for Nationwide to proceed 
with adding the interest, fees and charges it did in light of how Mr and Mrs Ps account was 
being used. 
Overall and having considered everything, I dont think that Nationwide treated Mr and Mrs P 
unfairly or unreasonably and this means that Im not upholding this complaint. 
I appreciate that this will be very disappointing for Mr and Mrs P. But I hope they understand 
the reasons for my decision and that theyll at least feel their concerns have been listened to. 
My final decisionFor the reasons Ive explained, Im not upholding Mr and Mrs Ps complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P and Mrs P to 
accept or reject my decision before 8 February 2022.
 
Caroline Davies
Ombudsman