DRN-3070615
The complaint
Miss S complains that a car that was supplied to her under a hire purchase agreement with 
Oodle Financial Services Limited, trading as Oodle Car Finance, wasnt of satisfactory 
quality.
What happened
I issued a provisional decision on this complaint to Miss S and to Oodle Car Finance on 10 
September 2021. In my provisional decision I described what had happened as follows:
A used car was supplied to Miss S under a hire purchase agreement with Oodle Car 
Finance that she electronically signed in April 2019. The cars engine failed in 
January 2020 so Miss S contacted the dealer. She didnt accept the options that it 
offered her so she complained to Oodle Car Finance.
It asked Miss S to provide an independent experts report about the issues with the 
car so she arranged and paid for a report which she provided to Oodle Car Finance. 
It didnt consider that the issue with the cars coolant rendered the car of 
unsatisfactory quality and it said that it had received no evidence to confirm that the 
fault was present or developing at the point of sale so it would deem it to be a wear 
and tear issue. Miss S wasnt satisfied with its response so complained to this 
service.
Our investigator recommended that her complaint should be upheld. She was 
satisfied that the car wasnt of satisfactory quality when it was supplied to Miss S and 
that it would be fair for Oodle Car Finance to repair the car. She recommended that 
Oodle Car Finance should: arrange to repair the car at no further cost to Miss S; pay 
for the cost of the independent report and any storage costs charged to Miss S whilst 
she has been unable to move the car; refund any monthly payments made since 
January 2020 as Miss S didnt have use of the car; pay interest on those amounts; 
and amend any adverse information that it had reported.
Oodle Car Finance has asked for this complaint to be considered by an ombudsman. 
It has provided a detailed explanation about the issue with the car and says that its 
not a known fault relating to the degas pipe but was caused by a leaking coolant 
bypass valve. It says that this has been confirmed by the independent expert and the 
degas pipe has not split. It says that theres no evidence to show that the coolant 
tank was split or that the coolant bypass valve was leaking, or that those issues were 
developing, at the point of sale.
Miss S says that the car has been off the road since January 2020 and shes still 
paying the monthly instalments under the finance agreement, theres mould inside 
the car (and shes provided photos showing the mould) and the tyres have been 
stationary for a long time and have a flat edge. She says that she would now like to 
be able to reject the car.
In my provisional decision, I set out my provisional findings as follows:
Oodle Car Finance, as the supplier of the car, was responsible for ensuring that it 
was of satisfactory quality when it was supplied to Miss S. Whether or not it was of 
satisfactory quality at that time will depend on a number of factors, including the age 
and mileage of the car and the price that was paid for it. The car that was supplied to 
Miss S was nearly five years old, had been driven for 44,300 miles and had a price of 
£10,995.
Satisfactory quality also covers durability which means that the components within 
the car must be durable and last a reasonable amount of time  but exactly how long 
that time is will also depend on a number of factors. The car was supplied to Miss S 
in April 2019 and she was able to use it without there being any significant issues 
with it until January 2020 when the engine failed.
She took the car to a manufacturers dealer in September 2019 because of a recall 
about an unrelated issue and when the engine failed the cars mileage was 57,608 so 
shed been able to drive about 13,000 miles in the car between April 2019 and 
January 2020. After the engine failed, a manufacturers dealer diagnosed the issue 
as follows: 
Carry out visual inspection for overheating, found to be a lack of coolant in 
expansion tank and expansion tank cracked. Re-filled coolant and pressure 
test system, found 2 coolant leaks from expansion tank and coolant by-pass 
valve. Run up engine, found excessive smoke from exhaust. Removed spark 
plugs and found number 2 spark plug discoloured (Black). Suspect head 
gasket failure and piston damage caused by overheating. Recommend 
replacement engine. Suspect manufacturing defect with expansion tank.
It also said it hadnt seen any evidence of any other factors that could cause the 
crack in the coolant tank and it wouldnt expect it to fail. Miss S complained to Oodle 
Car Finance and it asked her to provide an independent experts report about the 
issues with the car - so she arranged and paid for the car to be inspected in May 
2020 and she provided the inspection report to Oodle Car Finance.
The inspection report concluded:
In our opinion this vehicle has over heated due to a leaky bypass valve. The 
vehicle was driven until the coolant level dropped to a low level causing the 
engine to overheat and causing the coolant to boil and causing the header 
tank to split. 
There was evidence of coolant calcification in and around the area of the 
coolant bypass valve confirming that the bypass valve has been seeping 
coolant for some considerable time, however it cannot be confirmed that the 
bypass valve was leaking at the point of sale i.e. if the coolant bypass valve 
had been leaking at the point of sale the coolant level would have dropped, 
and would have or should have been noted by the driver of the vehicle that 
there was a loss of coolant with the investigation and subsequent repair 
preventing current engine damage.
In simple terms the vehicle has lost coolant, as a result of a leaking coolant 
bypass valve, reduction in the coolant level has resulted in thermal stressing 
to the engine and ultimately caused the split to the coolant expansion tank as 
a result of the system over pressurising.As it is the drivers responsibility to check the coolant levels regularly, as 
detailed within the vehicles handbook, a drop in coolant level should have 
been picked up and the cause being investigated and rectified this would 
have prevented the current engine damage.
Given the fact that the vehicle has covered some 13,000 miles at the point of 
purchase, it is our considered opinion that the vehicle was fit for purpose and 
road legal and of satisfactory quality at point of sale and met minimal MOT 
standards, with the current coolant seepage having developed at some point 
after the point of sale thereafter the vehicle has been driven on in a distressed 
condition resulting in consequential engine damage.
The manufacturer has issued a safety recall for the size, type and age of engine that 
was fitted in the car that was supplied to Miss S and it says that in 2018 it initiated a 
voluntary safety recall in respect of those engines and that:
Operation of the vehicle without sufficient coolant may result in the engine 
cylinder overheating. The overheating may cause the cylinder head to crack 
allowing oil to leak on to a hot surface that could result in a potential fire risk 
in the engine compartment;
and it established a goodwill programme for customers who had had issues with 
those engines.
Our investigator said that there is a known fault with these engines that causes either 
the degas hose or head gasket to crack which leads to overheating occurring 
resulting in the engine failing. Oodle Car Finance has described in detail why it 
considers that the issue with Miss Ss car isnt related to the known fault and has 
been caused by a leaking coolant bypass valve.
In complaints like this one, where the evidence is incomplete, inconclusive or 
contradictory, I have to make my decision on the balance of probabilities  in other 
words, what I consider is most likely to have happened in light of the available 
evidence and the wider circumstances. Having done that, I consider it to be more 
likely than not that the engine failure was caused by a fault that was present or 
developing with the car when it was supplied to Miss S and that the car wasnt of 
satisfactory quality at that time because of that fault.
The engine failed in January 2020  about 20 months ago  and Miss S hasnt been 
able to use the car since then but has continued to pay the monthly payments under 
the hire purchase agreement to Oodle Car Finance. Shes provided photos showing 
the poor condition that the car is now in with extensive mould inside it, shes also 
described the condition of the tyres and says that she would now like to be able to 
reject the car.
In these circumstances I find that its fair and reasonable for Miss S to reject the car 
and that Oodle Car Finance should end the hire purchase agreement and arrange for 
the car to be collected  both at no cost to Miss S. The hire purchase agreement 
shows that Miss S paid a deposit of £1,200 for the car. I find that Oodle Car Finance 
should refund that deposit to Miss S, with interest and that it should also remove any 
information about the agreement that its recorded on Miss Ss credit file.
Miss S hasnt been able to use the car since the engine failed in January 2020 but 
shes continued to make the monthly payments to Oodle Car Finance. I find that it 
would be fair and reasonable for Oodle Car Finance to refund to Miss S the monthly payments that shes made under the agreement since the engine failed, with interest. 
I also find that it should reimburse Miss S for the cost of the independent report and 
any storage costs that shes incurred for the time that the car has been with the 
dealer.
These events have clearly caused distress and inconvenience for Miss S. I find that it 
would also be fair and reasonable for Oodle Car Finance to pay her £250 to 
compensate her for that distress and inconvenience.
So, subject to any further representations by Miss S or Oodle Car Finance, my provisional 
decision was that I was minded to uphold this complaint. 
Miss S has accepted my provisional decision but Oodle Car Finance has provided further 
information from the manufacturer in which it says that it:  would not look to contribute 
towards the costs incurred for repair on this occasion. The recall regarding the ecoboost 
engines and the coolant was related to Ford Focus 1.0l ecoboost engines so your vehicle 
falls outside of this and is not related to a recall.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im not persuaded that I should change my provisional decision. The 
manufacturer says that the engine in Miss Ss car wasnt covered by the recall but the car 
was inspected by a manufacturers dealer after the engine had failed in January 2020 and it 
said that it suspected a that there was a manufacturing defect with the expansion tank.
The independent expert came to a different conclusion after inspecting the car and I said in 
my provisional decision that in complaints like this one, where the evidence is incomplete, 
inconclusive or contradictory, I have to make my decision on the balance of probabilities  in 
other words, what I consider is most likely to have happened in light of the available 
evidence and the wider circumstances.
It remains my opinion that its more likely than not that the engine failure was caused by a 
fault that was present or developing with the car when it was supplied to Miss S and that the 
car wasnt of satisfactory quality at that time because of that fault. For that reason I consider 
that its fair and reasonable for Miss S to be able to reject the car. 
Putting things right
I find that it would be fair and reasonable  in these circumstances for Oodle Car Finance to 
allow Miss S to reject the car and to take the actions described in my provisional decision 
and as set out below.My final decision
My decision is that I uphold Miss Ss complaint and I order Oodle Financial Services Limited, 
trading as Oodle Car Finance, to:
1. End the hire purchase agreement and arrange for the car to be collected  both at no 
cost to Miss S.
2. Refund to Miss S the deposit that she paid for the car.
3. Refund to Miss S the monthly payments that shes made under the hire purchase 
agreement since the cars engine failed in January 2020.
4. Reimburse Miss S for the cost of the independent report and any storage costs that 
shes incurred for the time that the car has been with the dealer.
5. Pay interest on the amounts at 2, 3 and 4 above at an annual rate of 8% simple from 
the date of each payment to the date of settlement.
6. Remove any information about the agreement that its recorded on Miss Ss credit 
file.
7. Pay £250 to Miss S to compensate her for the distress and inconvenience that shes 
been caused.
HM Revenue & Customs requires Oodle Car Finance to deduct tax from the interest 
payment referred to at 5 above. Oodle Car Finance must give Miss S a certificate showing 
how much tax its deducted if she asks it for one.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss S to accept 
or reject my decision before 1 November 2021. 
Jarrod Hastings
Ombudsman