DRN-4253052
The complaint
Mr and Mrs A complain that Accredited Insurance (Europe) Ltd declined their claim on their 
home insurance policy. 
What happened
Mr and Mrs A had home insurance that was underwritten by Accredited. In November 2022 
they made a claim after a routine check of their septic tank revealed a collapsed wall that 
needed fixing. 
Accredited assessed the claim but declined it. It said the damage to the septic tank had been 
caused by tree roots pushing against the wall. And as this was a gradually operating cause it 
was excluded from policy cover. It also said as the policy had only incepted a couple of 
months before the claim, the damage likely happened before the policy was in place, so it 
was for any previous insurer to deal with. 
Mr and Mrs A didnt agree this was fair. They said they couldnt have known about the tree 
roots as the damage happened underground. And previous inspections of the tank had 
shown no issues. So they said theyd claimed as soon as theyd been made aware of the 
problem. 
They made a complaint but Accredited didnt uphold it. So they brought it to this service.
Our investigator recommended the complaint be upheld. She said while tree roots growing 
into the wall would have happened gradually, this service thinks an insurer should take into 
account whether the customer could have reasonably known about the cause of the 
damage. And here, she didnt think Mr and Mrs A could have. She also said they raised a 
claim as soon as they discovered it, so it wasnt fair to decline it due to it being pre-inception. 
She thought Accredited should reconsider the claim without applying the exclusions for a 
gradually operating cause or an issue that began pre-inception.
Mr and Mrs A accepted our investigators outcome, however Accredited didnt. It said that 
there was a large tree near to the septic tank, so it should have been clear to Mr and Mrs A 
that this may cause problems.  And it said it would unlikely be able to carry out a long lasting 
repair anyway, as the issue would reoccur. It asked for the complaint to be reviewed by an 
ombudsman.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Accredited has said that as the cause of the damage happened gradually, it would be 
excluded under the policy. There is no dispute that tree roots growing into the side of the 
wall of the tank would have happened gradually. However I need to decide if Accredited has 
acted fairly by declining Mr and Mrs As claim in the circumstances.
Mr and Mrs A have explained that they get their septic tank emptied by a professional 
around every three to five years. They say they checked the tank in 2020 and it didnt need 
emptying at this time. And at this stage there was no sign of any issues with it. It wasnt until 
the tank was inspected again in October 2022 when it was emptied that the problem became 
evident. 
As the septic tank is underground, while the damage had been happening gradually, this 
wouldnt have been apparent to Mr and Mrs A. And that means they wouldnt have been able 
to do anything to prevent the cause or mitigate their losses. Therefore I dont think its fair for 
Accredited to rely on the exclusion in the circumstances. 
Accredited has said that as there was a large tree close to where the septic tank was 
positioned, they should have known the roots may cause a problem. However I dont agree 
this is a reasonable expectation. The septic tank had been in place for a long time and Mr ad 
Mrs A have said the last empty was in 2017. At this time, and for all the time before this, 
there had been no issue with the tank. I therefore wouldnt expect Mr and Mrs A to have 
considered that damage had developed in 2022. 
Further, I dont think its a reasonable expectation of a lay consumer to consider the impact 
of the proximity of vegetation from the tank. Or to reasonably expect them to predict that this 
may cause problems. 
For these reasons I dont think Accredited has acted fairly by relying on the exclusion for a 
gradually operating cause to decline this claim.
Ive also considered what Accredited has said about the damage happening before the 
policy with it began. However as Mr and Mrs A discovered the damage for the first time 
when the policy had already began and took action promptly when they did, I think it 
reasonable that Accredited deal with the claim under the current policy. As it is an ongoing 
issue and was discovered during its policy term.
Based on this, I agree with our investigator that Accredited should reconsider Mr and Mrs As 
claim under the policy, without applying the exclusion for a gradually operating cause or 
declining due to pre-inception damage. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given, I uphold Mr and Mrs As complaint and direct Accredited 
Insurance (Europe) Ltd to reconsider their claim for damage to their septic tank, without 
applying the exclusion for a gradually operating cause, in line with the remaining policy terms 
and conditions. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A and Mrs A to 
accept or reject my decision before 1 September 2023.
 
Sophie Goodyear
Ombudsman