DRN-3626064
The complaint
Miss M complains that Bank of Scotland plc (trading as Birmingham Midshires) sent her 
letters and texts intended for someone else and might not be keeping her data safe. 
What happened
In early 2022 Miss M started receiving post from Birmingham Midshires intended for other 
family members (who Ill refer to as Mr and Mrs M). Mr and Mrs M had never lived at her 
address. Mr M had asked Birmingham Midshires to correct this, but further post was sent to 
Miss Ms address. By the time Miss M complained shed received 11 of these letters. Mr M 
complained to Birmingham Midshires and Miss M received a text with Mr Ms complaint 
reference.
Miss M says shes hoping to move and is worried that Birmingham Midshires will continue to 
send information to her address when a stranger lives at the property. She said she 
accidentally opened one of the letters and now knows more about Mr and Mrs Ms private 
financial affairs than she should. She said her emails to Birmingham Midshires making a 
complaint went unanswered.
Our investigator said Miss M hadnt suffered any loss. Birmingham Midshires said it had 
fixed the problem and explained what had gone wrong, as far as it was able. It gave 
reassurances about Miss Ms data being safe and paid £100 for her upset. Our investigator 
said this was reasonable. 
Miss M said shed asked fair questions which hadnt been answered. She said she wasnt 
asking for monetary compensation. And shed started receiving spam texts to her phone 
addressed to Mr M which is too much of a co-incidence.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Miss Ms questions include why her details were active and accessed when she no longer 
has an account there. She says a technical glitch isnt acceptable when it happened so 
many times. Miss M is concerned about whats happening with her own data, and what steps 
Birmingham Midshires has taken to secure the use of her personal details. She says 
Birmingham Midshires breached GDPR (the General Data Protection Regulation) and asks 
whether it reported the incident to ICO.
We provide an informal dispute resolution service. I understand Miss Ms frustration but 
there are limits on what we can do. We arent regulators and we dont have the powers of a 
regulator. I cant require Birmingham Midshires to make changes to its IT systems. I cant 
say whether theres been a breach of GDPR  thats a matter for a court or ICO. And 
questions about whether Birmingham Midshires followed ICOs process are better dealt with 
by ICO. I must also be clear that I cant look into what happened to data belonging to anyone 
other than Miss M. 
What I can do is consider whether Birmingham Midshires treated Miss M fairly, and if not if 
its done enough to put matters right.
Miss M didnt suffer any financial loss, and theres no evidence her own data was at risk. 
Theres no doubt though that this matter caused Miss M worry and upset. Receiving post 
intended for other people is (at best) inconvenient. Its understandable that Miss M is worried 
about the effect of this on her family members and her family relationships. And its caused 
Miss M to be worried about the security of her own data. I think its right that Birmingham 
Midshires apologised, offered reassurance and paid compensation. Miss M says she doesnt 
want monetary compensation. She wants answers to her questions.
Birmingham Midshires has Miss Ms details because she had a mortgage with it. This was 
repaid in April 2021. Its usual for banks to retain records for a period of time after an 
account is closed. 
Birmingham Midshires said letters intended for Mr and Mrs M were sent to Miss Ms address 
due to an IT error. It said it didnt fully understand how this happened but its IT team were 
looking into it.
Birmingham Midshires told Miss M the problem had been fixed and shouldnt happen again. 
It said it took its responsibility of care for Miss Ms data very seriously.
I understand Miss Ms frustration that Birmingham Midshires hasnt shared further details 
about the IT problem or what steps it took to fix it with her. But I must be fair to both parties. 
Birmingham Midshires told Miss M it would tell her more about the problem if it was able to 
do so. Its not clear that Birmingham Midshires understands what caused the IT problem. 
And I have to take into account that Birmingham Midshires has to keep details of its IT 
systems private as this information could assist fraudsters. Unfortunately, this means it cant 
necessarily provide a fuller explanation to Miss M, and I cant reasonably require it to do.
I think Birmingham Midshires has taken fair and reasonable steps in the circumstances to 
compensate Miss M for the upset and inconvenience caused and to reassure her that her 
data is safe. 
I understand Miss Ms concern that shes recently received a text intended for Mr M. As 
Miss M says its not satisfactory for these sorts of errors to recur. Birmingham Midshires 
says its trying to fix the IT problem. I cant see theres anything I can reasonably order 
Birmingham Midshires to do at this time thats likely to help it achieve this more quickly.
My final decision
My decision is that the compensation paid, and other steps taken by Bank of Scotland plc 
(trading as Birmingham Midshires) are fair and reasonable in the circumstances.  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss M to accept 
or reject my decision before 15 September 2022.
 
Ruth Stevenson
Ombudsman