DRN-3339486
Complaint
Miss M is unhappy that PayrNet Limited (trading as Pockit) didnt do more to help her when 
there was unauthorised activity on her account.
Background
Miss M has an account with Pockit. In May 2021, there were around 28 transactions on her 
account that she says she didnt make or otherwise authorise. The total value of those 
transactions was £2,635.
On 24 May, she informed Pockit that she hadnt authorised the transactions in question. It 
eventually agreed to refund those transactions but it didnt do so until 20 December. She 
chased Pockit regarding her dispute on 25 and 29 May and then on multiple occasions 
throughout June. On 2 June, she told Pockit that she was severely unwell and needed the 
funds as a matter of urgency. On 3 June, at Pockits request, she highlighted the specific 
transactions that she hadnt authorised. On 7 June, Pockit contacted Miss M and asked her 
again which transactions she was disputing  a request shed already responded to on 3 
June.
Four days later, Pockit asked her to complete a declaration that she hadnt been responsible 
for those transactions. After several further exchanges of messages and Miss M chasing 
Pockit on multiple occasions, she was told that her complaint would be referred to the 
chargeback team. On 5 July, she reminded Pockit that her health was extremely poor and 
that she needed her dispute to be looked at as a matter of urgency. It wasnt until 20 
December that Pockit agreed to pay a refund of the transactions to Miss M and accepted 
that it shouldve done so sooner.
Unfortunately, from what Miss M has told us, her personal circumstances were exceptionally 
difficult during this period and she says they were exacerbated by Pockits failure to deal with 
her complaint promptly. Miss M told us that she was living in accommodation at the time 
which wasnt suitable for her clinical needs. Her limited mobility meant she needed a 
property with a wet-room, and she needed a second bedroom for a live-in carer. She was 
instead in a one-bedroom home with a conventional bathroom. 
Her local authority had been keeping her informed of available properties in her local area 
and shed been told she had a very high level of priority on the bidding system employed for 
the allocation of social housing in her council area. However, shed been told that there 
would be some expenses that would fall on her once a suitable property had been found. 
The property would likely be unfurnished and not have basic white goods, including a 
cooker. Miss M tells us shed been saving her money to finance the costs associated with 
such a move knowing that, once it had taken place, there would be an immeasurable 
improvement in her quality of life.
Unfortunately, she says that the loss of the funds to these unauthorised transactions meant 
that a move was immediately unaffordable to her. She wasnt refunded those transactions 
for around seven months with the effect that she was forced to remain in a property that was 
unsuitable for her needs for that period.
Furthermore, she tells us that during this time she was spending money on essential 
supplies, including incontinence products and a powdered energy drink fortified with 
micronutrients (something shed done on and off for some time as a result of her medical 
conditions). Evidence from a district nurse involved in Miss Ms care shows that there have 
been severe practical problems with medical personnel visiting her at her home. This was 
primarily due to her severe anxiety disorder.
She referred her complaint about Pockit to this service and it was looked at by an 
Investigator. Pockit had already agreed to refund the disputed transactions and so the 
Investigator only commented on whether it needed to pay any further compensation to 
Miss M. The Investigator thought Miss M had incurred additional expenses during this period 
and thought Pockit should pay £600 to compensate her for them. The Investigator thought 
that, if Miss M had moved into her new home, her care plan wouldve been reassessed and 
this wouldve likely led to some of the items she was spending money on privately being 
made available to her on prescription. He thought the delays meant that shed had to spend 
more money on sourcing these items privately than she otherwise wouldve done. He also 
thought Pockit should pay her £1,000 in recognition of the distress and inconvenience it 
caused to her in the way it handled her claim.
Pockit disagreed with the Investigators opinion. It said:
- It didnt accept that Miss M wouldve incurred any costs when moving to a new home.
- It didnt think it should be expected to cover the cost of any medical supplies or 
supplements. Its likely that she wouldve been provided with adequate supplies for 
free and so any additional spending was at her discretion.
- An award of £1,000 for distress and inconvenience was disproportionate and not in 
line with the amounts awarded on other cases it had seen.
- The Investigator doesnt have the required medical qualifications to form a judgement 
as to whether the property was suitable for someone with Miss Ms needs or to 
assess the psychological impact of her claim. It said that any impact on [her] health, 
physical or mental, would have to be assessed by a medical professional.
It agreed to pay Miss M £200, which she rejected. Because Pockit disagreed with the 
recommendation of the Investigator, the complaint has been passed to me to consider and 
issue a final decision.
Findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Pockit has already accepted that it shouldve refunded the disputed transactions much 
sooner than it did. The only issue I must consider therefore is whether it should also pay her 
additional compensation. After careful consideration, I am persuaded that it does need to do 
so, and Ive set out my reasons below.
Financial loss
Pockit has already paid the £2,635 to Miss M. However, the Investigator argued that Miss M 
paid around £1,200 for essential supplies during the period in which she was waiting for 
Pockit to deal with her complaint. He said that some of these costs would eventually be 
picked up as part of her revised care plan  for example, incontinence products and 
powdered nutritional drinks are both items that couldve been made available to Miss M on prescription. However, he conceded that there was uncertainty about some of the items 
Miss M was paying for and whether theyd be available to her for free. As a result, he 
thought the fair and reasonable thing to do was to ask Pockit to compensate her for 50% of 
these expenses.
However, Im not persuaded its fair to ask Pockit to compensate her for these costs.  While I 
think its likely that Miss M has incurred additional financial expenses as a direct result of her 
move to new accommodation being delayed, I dont think these expenses were foreseeable. 
I can see that Miss M was very clear with Pockit that she was in exceptionally poor health 
and that it was critical that her claim be decided as a matter of urgency. However, I dont 
think it was on notice that delaying the claim would likely result in her incurring these 
additional costs. For those reasons, I dont direct Pockit to pay Miss M any further 
compensation for financial loss.
Non-financial loss
Ive also considered whether it would be fair and reasonable for Pockit to pay Miss M further 
compensation in recognition of her non-financial losses. DISP 3.7.2R sets out the types of 
awards an Ombudsman can make:
a money award may be such amount as the Ombudsman considers to be fair 
compensation for one or more of the following  (1) Financial loss (including 
consequential or prospective loss); or (2) Pain and suffering; or (3) Damage to 
reputation; or (4) Distress or inconvenience.
As the deciding Ombudsman, I must reach a decision on what I think fair compensation is in 
all the circumstances of this case. Weve published guidance for firms on our website setting 
out the general factors well consider when determining how much to award for non-financial 
loss. It divides up the awards into several different bands. 
One of those bands (£750 to £1,500) is described in the following terms:
An award of over £750 and up to around £1,500 could be fair where the impact of a 
business's mistake has caused substantial distress, upset and worry  even 
potentially a serious offence or humiliation. There may have been serious disruption 
to daily life over a sustained period, with the impact felt over many months
The higher band (£1,500 to £5,000) is described in the following terms:
An award of over £1,500 and up to around £5,000 is appropriate where the mistakes 
cause sustained distress, potentially affecting someones health, or severe disruption 
to daily life typically lasting more than a year. A mistake that has an extremely 
serious short-term impact could also warrant this level of compensation, but usually 
youd expect some ongoing or lasting effects.
Im persuaded that Pockits inaction here has been the cause of Miss Ms distress. Shes 
provided evidence showing the costs that would be involved in her moving into her new 
home  including being expected to pay two-weeks rent upfront, purchase furniture and 
white goods. Being short of £2,635 during this period effectively meant that any move was 
impossible. She needed to wait until the refund had been paid to her. Its significant that she 
was able to move into a new property very promptly after the refund had been paid to her.
The impact this inaction had on Miss M was clearly significant. There are unmistakeable 
parallels between her circumstances and those described in our published guidance on this 
topic. Miss M continued to live in accommodation that was plainly unsuitable for her needs. It 
resulted in a delay to her being provided with a live-in carer and she had to live in a property without a wet room which meant it was difficult for her to maintain basic hygiene. Shes 
provided evidence from a nurse involved her care showing that she has suffered with severe 
psychological ill health throughout this time and that this has been exacerbated by the 
prolonged delay in her move to suitable accommodation.
In response to the Investigators view, Pockit cited five different decisions issued by 
Ombudsmen in which an award for distress and inconvenience was lower. Its not clear what 
argument it was making by doing so. The facts of those five cases are completely different to 
Miss Ms and theyre of no use in respect of working out what fair compensation is in this 
case.
Pockit offered Miss M £200 in response to the Investigators view. Its disappointing that it 
considered it appropriate to offer such a small sum given how clearly the impact of its error 
had been explained. Overall, Im satisfied that a fair sum in recognition of the pain and 
suffering, distress and inconvenience caused to Miss M is an award of £1,600.
Final decision
For the reasons Ive explained above, I uphold this complaint. 
PayrNet Limited should pay Miss M £1,600 without delay.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss M to accept 
or reject my decision before 10 April 2022.
 
James Kimmitt
Ombudsman