DRN-3857495
The complaint
S complains that BCR Legal Group Limiteds (BCR) appointed representative took money
for a warranty that it didnt provide.
Mr C has brought the complaint on S behalf.
What happened
Mr C is the director of S. On 23 August 2019 Mr C approached BCRs appointed
representative, who Ill refer to as C, to get a quote for a ten-year structural defect building
warranty for a property S was building. C provided a quote for a warranty with an insurer, Ill
refer to as G.
On 29 August 2019 S made payment of £8277.09 to C for the warranty. However around
this date Cs bank account was frozen by the bank due to financial difficulties and it later
entered a Creditors Voluntary Agreement (CVA). This meant the money was never passed
on to G and the warranty was never set up.
When Mr C learnt of Cs position, he contacted G directly to find out what would happen to
his warranty and found out that it hadnt been set up as the money hadnt been received. He
made a complaint to C and later BCR, as he wanted a refund of the money hed paid.
C responded to say that the money paid wasnt refundable and was now with its
administrators, so Mr C should contact them. BCR said it wasnt responsible for Cs actions
as it wasnt acting on its behalf when arranging warranties for G.
Unhappy with these responses, Mr C brought the complaint to this service.
Our investigator considered all the issues and recommended a complaint against BCR
should be upheld. He said he was satisfied that C were acting as an appointed
representative of BCR when arranging the warranty, so would be responsible for this
complaint. He also thought that BCR or C should have informed S about Cs financial
position before selling the warranty, so it could make an informed decision before buying it.
And he thought if it had, S wouldnt have chosen to take a warranty out with C. Therefore he
thought C had mis-sold the warranty. So he recommended that BCR reimburse S the
amount it paid for the warranty and pay 8% interest on this amount from when it was paid
until the date of settlement.
Mr C accepted our investigators recommendations. However BCR didnt, it responded with 
the following objections, which I have summarised:
It didnt agree that it was responsible for C when it carried out the sale because it said 
that C was acting for G and not for BCR, as BCR didnt have a specific agreement in 
place for selling Gs policies. So the complaint should be against G not BCR.
It also said that even if it were responsible for C, it was carrying out an ancillary 
activity and not one that is regulated by the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA). And 
this service only has the authority to consider regulated activities carried out by an 
appointed representative against the principal. It said that BCR could therefore only 
be responsible for the regulated fees paid to C such as the premium, but not the full 
amount.
C couldnt have known that its bank account would have been frozen as it was done 
suddenly and unexpectedly. Until the bank account was frozen C had every 
expectation that it would continue trading and fulfilling its commitments, as it had full 
shareholder support up until that point.
BCR fulfilled its obligations as principal by checking on Cs financial position, most 
recently by writing to them shortly before it provided S with the quote.
BCR isnt responsible for Cs insolvency debts and it feels this service is suggesting it 
is.
S could seek to recover its money from Cs administrators and it should do that rather 
than pursuing it through BCR.
It offered S a payment of £5,000 to resolve the complaint, however Mr C rejected this as he
said he was due the full amount that he paid for the warranty back. BCR therefore asked for
the case to be reviewed by an ombudsman.
On 22 November 2022 I issued a provisional decision that stated as follows:
As BCR has raised concerns about whether this complaint falls into this services 
jurisdiction, I have started by considering whether we have the power to look into the merits 
of the complaint.
Jurisdiction
BCRs relationship with C
When considering this services jurisdiction to decide on this complaint, its first important to
explain the relationship between C and BCR and the agreement in place between them.
C itself is not authorised by the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) to carry out regulated
activities. However between June 2013 and September 2019, it was appointed by BCR as 
its appointed representative. This appointment was made through a written agreement with
BCR, who acted as the principal. This agreement was in accordance with the regime set up 
in s. 39 of the Financial Services and Markets Act 2000 (FSMA 2000). Essentially, it allowed 
C to perform regulated activities through BCRs own authorisation, that it wouldnt have the
authority to carry out otherwise.
In entering into this agreement, FSMA lays out that the principal  BCR in this case  is
responsible for any acts or omissions that are carried out as part of the agreement. It states:
The principal of an appointed representative is responsible, to the same extent as if he had
expressly permitted it, for anything done or omitted by the representative in carrying on the
business for which he has accepted responsibility.
So when C was carrying out any activities for which BCR had accepted responsibility underthe agreement, then BCR was responsible for any acts or omissions it made.
An addendum to the appointed representative agreement was added on 19 May 2015 and
this laid out the permissions BCR gave more explicitly. Clause 1 of the addendum stated that
BCR gave C permission to:
carry on the business consisting of one or more of the following activities in relation to non-
investment insurance contracts:
- Advising
- Arranging
- Assisting in the administration and performance of a contract of insurance
- Dealing as agent
- Making arrangements with a view to transactions.
It went on to state:
The Principal accepts responsibility for the activities of [C] in carrying on the whole or part of
such business.
So under the agreement, any activities listed that C carried out would be the responsibility of
BCR.
Does this service have the jurisdiction to look at this complaint against BCR?
BCR has said that it doesnt consider itself responsible for Cs actions in this complaint under 
the agreement. It says it didnt have an agreement in place specifically for C selling 
warranties for G and therefore C was acting as an agent of G rather than BCR when selling
its warranties. Its also said that not all the money paid was for regulated activities and
therefore BCR wouldnt be responsible for all of the funds, even if C was acting for BCR.
In order to satisfy myself that we have the power to consider this complaint, I need to be
persuaded that C was operating as BCRs appointed representative when it carried out the
actions in this complaint and that the activities it carried out where regulated by the FCA. Ive
therefore considered each of these points in turn.
Sale of Gs policies are not part of the appointed representative agreement 
BCR has said that C wasnt acting for it when arranging policies for G. And that the 
complaint should be set up against G itself as C was acting as its agent. However BCR 
hasnt provided any evidence to show that there was an agreement between G and C that 
would override the appointed representative agreement. And as the agreement between 
BCR and C covers it carrying out any regulated activity that BCR is authorised to carry out, 
Im satisfied that C was acting for BCR for matters within this complaint.
Further, Article 21 of the Regulated Activities Order 2001 states:
Buying, selling, subscribing for or underwriting  relevant investments  as
agent is a specified kind of activity.
BCR has said C was acting as an agent of G when selling policies for it and not as its
appointed representative. And the RAO states that the activity is still a regulated one when it
is being carried out as an agent for an insurer. As C only had the authority to carry out
regulated activities through the appointed representative agreement with BCR, I conclude
that this service does have the jurisdiction to look into this complaint against BCR.Regulated activity
BCR has said that even if C were acting for it under the appointed representative agreement,
then it would only be responsible for the costs associated with regulated activities, as this is
what the agreement allows C to carry out on its behalf. It therefore says the fees for Cs
services wouldnt be covered by the agreement and BCR would have no responsibility for
this amount.
S paid a total of £8277.09 to C for the warranty. This was made up of £3,520 for the
insurance premium, £422.40 for the insurance premium tax and the rest for Cs services
such as underwriting, risk management, completing surveys and a membership fee. BCR
says that only the sale of the insurance policy itself amounts to a regulated activity, so as C
wasnt carrying out a regulated activity when selling its services, this didnt form part of its
representative agreement and therefore this service wouldnt have the power to look at this
part of the sale against BCR.
The FCA sets out the rules for the complaints that this service can and cant look into in the
DISP sourcebook of the FCAs Handbook. DISP 2.3.1R states as follows:
The Ombudsman can consider a complaint under the Compulsory Jurisdiction if it relates to
an act or omission by a firm in carrying on one or more of the following activities:
regulated activities
 or any ancillary activities, including advice, carried on by the firm in connection with
them.
Ive already explained that under the appointed representative agreement BCR is
responsible for acts and omissions made by C when carrying out regulated activities, so to
be satisfied this service has the jurisdiction to decide on this complaint I need to satisfy
myself that C was carrying out a regulated activity when selling S the warranty.
Before looking at this, its useful to define the purpose of the warranty that C sold to S. S is a
developer that builds properties to eventually sell. And it bought latent defect warranties, as
when the property is ready to sell, having a warranty in place likely makes it a more
appealing prospect to potential buyers. The warranty itself is therefore intended to benefit a
person who might purchase a property in future, rather than S itself, other than from
potentially making the property more saleable.
With this in mind, I need to consider whether the sale of such a warranty would amount to a
regulated activity. The FCA says that a regulated activity is one that falls under the
Regulated Activities Order 2001 (RAO). Article 25 (1) describes the regulated activity 
arranging (bringing about) deals in investments and how this relates to contracts of
insurance. It states:
making arrangements for another person (whether as principal or agent) to buy, sell,
subscribe for or underwrite a particular investment which is(b) a relevant investment  is
a specified kind of activity.
BCR is authorised by the FCA to undertake insurance mediation; including arranging
(bringing about deals) in investments. The investment type to which this permission
relates is non-investment insurance contracts for retail and commercial customers.
Based on the nature of the policy sold by C, it qualifies as such a contract. So, Im satisfied
our service can consider a complaint about BCR in relation to the arranging of this policy, as
it meets the definition of a regulated activity as outlined in the RAO.I note BCR has said that as some of the money S paid for the warranty was for Cs fees, and
these arent regulated activities so wouldnt form part of the appointed representative
agreement. The costs it is referring to is the money paid on top of just the insurance
premium and premium tax. This is made up of various fees for services that C provides such
as site inspections, underwiring fees, risk management and a membership fee.
The sale of the warranty is dependent on these services being included. For example, the
warranty cannot be activated, and therefore have value, without the necessary site
inspections being carried out. So the insurance premium paid cannot reasonably be
separated from the charges for Cs services. The warranty is sold either as a package with
Cs services or not at all. C sold S the warranty along with a package of services that would
enable the warranty to be activated. And they are therefore part and parcel of the warranty
itself.
Further, in FCAs perimeter guidance PERG, section 5.6.2 states:
In the FCA's view, a person would bring about a contract of insurance if his involvement in
the chain of events leading to the contract of insurance were important enough that, without
it, there would be no policy..."
As Ive explained, the additional costs, on top of the policy premium, form an intrinsic part of
arranging the warranty and without them the policy would not be able to be activated. I
therefore think its reasonable that these too would reasonably amount to a regulated
activity. As without Cs services, the warranty couldnt be activated on completion of the
development, which is equivalent to there being no warranty at all for the potential home
buyer.
And even if I were to conclude that Cs services were separate and not regulated in
themselves. As quoted above, the FCA lays out in the DISP rules that this service has the
power to consider a complaint that relates to regulated activities or any ancillary activities,
including advice, carried on by the firm in connection with them And the additional services
sold as part of the warranty are, at the very least, ancillary if not regulated activities in
themselves. So Im satisfied this service has the power to consider the full amount paid as
part of the sale.
So based on these reasons, Im satisfied BCR was responsible for Cs actions in taking the
money for the total cost of the warranty in this case. I therefore need to consider whether C
treated S fairly when doing so.
The merits of S complaint
The Insurance Conduct of Business Sourcebook (ICOBS) says that when selling a policy, a
firm needs to ensure it is providing information that is clear, fair and not misleading, so that
the customer can make an informed decision as to whether they wish to go ahead with the
purchase. So Ive considered whether C met these obligations here, in order to decide if it
treated S fairly or if it mis-sold the policy.
When C sold the warranty to S, it gave S the reasonable expectation that in exchange for the
money paid it would receive a warranty in return. Therefore, were there to have been any
doubt that it would be able to arrange the warranty, then I think it ought to have either not
sold the warranty at all, or made S aware of its circumstances so that S could have made an
informed decision based on clear and not mis-leading information. Its accepted that C
proceeded to sell the warranty to S without giving any such information. So, when
determining if the warranty was mis-sold, what I need to decide is whether C was aware, or
ought reasonably to have been aware, that it may not have been able to fulfil the warrantywhen it sold it.
C originally sent a quote for the warranty on 23 August. And BCR has confirmed that Cs
bank account was frozen on either 28 or 29 August  the day, or day before, S paid for the
warranty.
BCR has said this happened unexpectedly, with no notice. So C wouldnt have known this
was about to happen when it quoted for the warranty, regardless of the close proximity in
date.
While neither BCR or C have made it clear exactly why the bank account was frozen, BCR
has commented as follows:
We understand from [C] that as a consequence of certain County Court judgments, [C]s
bank froze their bank account without reference to [C] as a precautionary measure.
So it seems it was due to County Court Judgements (CCJ) that were registered against C.
But regardless of the specific reason, while the freezing of the account on that day may have
been unexpected, I dont agree that C wouldnt have been reasonably aware that this was a
possibility or that it may otherwise have been unable to fulfil the sale of the warranty given
the problems it was facing at the time.
BCR has said that C was dealing with a large amount of litigation from various developers
due to its dealing with a warranty provider that collapsed in 2018. And due to the volume of
threats, this meant it missed the CCJ which led to the account being frozen. But because it
hadnt been aware of the threat of a CCJ, it wouldnt have known that this would happen.
Ive considered this but I think C ought to have known they were at risk of not being able to
fulfil the sale of the warranty. The fact that C was subject to a large number of threats of
litigation, would be a clear indication that it wasnt in a financially stable position and may
enter into financial difficulty in the near future. Further if C was under such intense pressure
from possible litigation that it overlooked something as important as a possible CCJ, its hard
to conclude that it would have been in a stable enough position to accept significant sums of
money as it did from S. So based on this alone, I think C ought to have known it may not
have been able to fulfil the sale of the warranty. Even if the bank account being frozen on
that date was unexpected.
Based on this I think C ought to have been reasonably aware that it may not be able to fulfil
the warranty it sold to S. So in order to fulfil its obligation under ICOBS to provide clear, fair 
and not misleading information it follows that it either shouldnt have provided, or accepted
payment, for the warranty at all or made the customer aware of its circumstances at the time
of the sale. As it sold the warranty and didnt provide this information, Im persuaded that it
didnt fulfil its obligations and therefore mis-sold the warranty. And it isnt just a matter of
whether it met its obligations under ICOBS but also whether it acted fairly and reasonably in
the circumstances. And because of what BCR has said about the level of litigation levelled
against it at the time, I dont think it did.
BCR has said that as a principal, it only has the responsibility of doing reasonable checks to
ensure C is financially stable and therefore suitable to continue as its appointed
representative. Its shown that it wrote to C shortly before it sold the warranty to S to ask for
clarity around its financial position. And C confirmed that it had full support of all its
shareholders so this shows BCR carried out due diligence and had no reason to discontinue
the agreement at this stage.
While I agree that as principal BCR does hold this responsibility, I dont agree that itsresponsibilities end at that. In this case C were acting as an appointed representative of
BCR, which means BCR is responsible for Cs actions. Ive explained why I think C didnt
meet its obligations under ICOBs or treat S fairly and reasonably when selling the policy, so
Im persuaded its got something wrong. And as C was acting as an appointed
representative of BCR, BCRs responsible for this action. So as Im persuaded C ought to
have been aware of its financial situation and the risks of not being able to fulfil the sale of
warranties, then BCR was responsible for that.
In addition, from the letter BCR has provided that it sent to C in July 2019, it seems BCR had
reason to be concerned about Cs financial position. In the letter it states:
You have indicated to me that you might consider in the near future insolvency procedure
for [C] such as a CVA
So regardless of Cs reassurances in response to the letter, it shows that BCR had reason
for concern about Cs financial position in July 2019. And if it held these concerns, I think C
would likely also have been aware of its delicate financial position itself, particularly as it
appears to have discussed a potential CVA with BCR.
Further it isnt clear exactly what support Cs shareholders showed during this time other
than by not withdrawing. Ive asked BCR for more information about what support was being
offered by shareholders that convinced it that C was not at risk of collapse, but it has
provided no specific detail other than that they withdrew support once Cs account was
frozen. So Ive not seen enough to persuade me that BCR carried out robust checks to
ensure Cs stability or that it took action based on its concerns.
For the reasons Ive outlined, Im persuaded that C ought to have been reasonably aware
that it may not have been able to fulfil the warranty it sold to S at the time it sent the quote in
August 2019. And for the reasons above, Im not satisfied it acted fairly when it continued
with the sale and took payment from S for a warranty it wasnt able to setup. Further I think
there was more BCR could, and should, have done to satisfy itself of Cs financial stability
and its ability to continue to fulfil the warranties it was selling on BCRs account. Ive
therefore considered what BCR should do to put things right.
To do so, Ive considered what would have happened if C had acted fairly and in line with its
obligations under ICOBS. And in order to do this, it would have either not sold the warranty
at all, or made S aware of its situation when it did. In both of these circumstances, I think the
outcome would have been the same  S wouldnt have paid C the £8277.09. As I consider it
most likely wouldnt have bought the policy if it had known there was a significant risk C 
wouldnt be able to fulfil it, because this would only cause potential problems when it came to
sell the properties. And Ive seen nothing to suggest S wouldnt have been able to purchase
a different warranty from a different provider in this instance, which I think it likely would have
done in order to avoid this problem.
Therefore in order to put things right I agree with our investigator that BCR should reimburse
S the amount it paid for the warranty. And due to the fact S has been without the money for
a number of years, it should pay 8% interest on the amount from the date it paid C until the
date the settlement is paid by BCR.
Ive also considered BCRs comments about S claiming the money back through Cs
administrators and I agree this is an option open to S. But it doesnt change my position on
what BCR should do to resolve this complaint fairly. However, I agree it wouldnt be fair for S
to receive the money back twice, so should S receive any refund from Cs administrators it
should pay this money to BCR on receipt.Response to my provisional decision
While BCR confirmed it received my provisional decision, it didnt provide any further 
comment in response.
Mr C also provided no further comment. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As neither side has provided anything further in response to my provisional findings, I see no 
reason to depart from the outcome I laid out in my provisional decision.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given, I uphold S complaint and direct BCR Legal Group Limited to:
Reimburse S £8277.09 it paid for the warranty.
Pay 8% simple interest on this amount from the date it paid C until the settlement is paid 
by BCR.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask S to accept or 
reject my decision before 9 February 2023.
 
Sophie Goodyear
Ombudsman