DRN-3100090
The complaint
Mr B complains that Hargreaves Lansdown Asset Management Limited (HLAM) didnt act 
on instructions to reinvest dividends. He wants his account credited for the shares that 
should have been purchased from July to November 2020 and compensation for the distress 
and inconvenience caused.
What happened
Mr B had two accounts with HLAM  one in his sole name and one in joint names with his 
wife. His wife sadly died in 2020. HLAM wrote to Mr B on 14 April 2020 to tell him that the 
assets in the joint account would be transferred to the account held in his sole name.
The joint account instruction for income and dividends was for these to be reinvested. But, 
when the assets were transferred into Mr Bs sole name, this didnt happen.
HLAM said it didnt have a dividend instruction on Mr Bs sole account, so its default option 
was applied, and income was held as cash. This instruction applied when the joint assets 
were transferred to his sole name. It paid Mr B £50 as a gesture of goodwill for any 
misunderstanding.
Our investigator didnt recommend that the complaint should be upheld. He concluded that 
the joint and sole accounts were separate, and that income had not been reinvested in 
Mr Bs sole account since it was opened with HLAM in July 2019. So he didnt think HLAM 
had done anything wrong, or that it had needed to specifically explain to Mr B that the 
income instructions from the joint account were no longer valid.
Mr B didnt agree. He said, in summary, that:
HLAM should have told him about the cancellation of the dividend reinvestment 
instruction. He should have been given the opportunity to provide new instructions as 
this was what was required.
When he complained (separately) about the direct debit instruction no longer being valid, 
HLAM accepted it had provided poor service and would be changing the way it 
communicated with its customers about this in the future. He cant see this is any 
different to the dividend reinvestment instruction.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I find I have come to the same conclusion as our investigator for the 
following reasons:
When Mrs B died, the joint account effectively passed into Mr Bs sole name. He already had 
a sole account with HLAM, and it wouldnt have made sense to keep a second account. So, 
once it had received the information it needed to transfer the assets into Mr Bs sole name, 
HLAM wrote to him to explain that the assets previously held in joint names would be 
transferred to Mr Bs existing sole account. Had Mr B wanted to keep the previously held 
joint assts in a separate account, he could have provided HLAM with instructions to do so. 
But I dont find there was any obligation on HLAM to seek alternative instructions.
When Mr Bs account, and the joint account with his wife, were transferred to HLAM in 2019, 
information was sent to Mr B which made it reasonably clear that accounts would 
automatically be set up for income to be held as cash, but that instructions could be given for 
income to be automatically invested. So I think Mr B had the option to change the instruction 
for his sole account at any time. He had online access to his accounts, and he received six 
monthly reports. I think it would have been clear from these reports that income was being 
reinvested in the joint account but was being held as cash in his sole account. 
When the assets in the joint account were transferred to the sole account, I think it was 
reasonably clear that instructions on that sole account would apply to the assets held in it  
including the assets transferred from the joint account. I say this because the instruction 
covered the account, not the individual assets within it. In other words, it wasnt possible to 
ask for income to be reinvested for one holding but held in cash for another. 
Mr B says the income instruction is no different to the direct debit instruction  and for that, 
HLAM accepted it failed to make it clear that the instruction had been cancelled. Whilst this 
is similar, I dont think the circumstances are the same. I say this because Mr B did not have 
a direct debit mandate set up for his sole account. But there were instructions, albeit the 
default option, for income to be held as cash. HLAM did apologise for any misunderstanding 
about the income instruction and paid Mr B £50 as a gesture of goodwill which I think is fair 
and reasonable in the circumstances.
I do sympathise with Mr B  this was an upsetting time for him, and the transfer was not as 
straightforward as he would have liked. But, for the reasons Ive explained, I dont think 
HLAM acted unreasonably or treated Mr B unfairly, so I dont find it is obliged to pay him any 
additional compensation.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, my final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 29 November 2021.
 
Elizabeth Dawes
Ombudsman