DRN-3836414
The complaint
Mr W complains Charter Court Financial Services Limited trading as Charter Savings Bank 
(Charter) didnt provide him with sufficient reassurance his data hadnt been breached, after 
he received a wrongly addressed email from them. 
What happened
Mr W says on 15 March 2022 he received an email from Charter, but it was addressed to 
someone else. Mr W says he immediately contacted Charter to check if this was a scam but 
felt its explanation as to why this email was incorrectly addressed, failed to reassure him his 
personal data hadnt been breached. Mr W says Charter were dismissive in its following 
responses to his concerns surrounding his data, and its eventual offer of £30 by way of an 
apology isnt acceptable for the amount of stress he has experienced over this matter.
Mr W wants Charter to prove his data hadnt been compromised and pay him an appropriate 
amount of compensation for the trouble and upset this has caused. 
Charter says it has explained to Mr W the email he had received was genuine, but the 
salutation was incorrect, and this was an isolated administrative error and whilst his name 
may have been included on another email, no sensitive information was shared. Charter 
says it provided further reassurances to Mr W when he wasnt happy with its final response 
letter and agreed to pay him £30 for its service shortfalls and frustration caused. 
Mr W wasnt happy with Charters response and referred the matter to this service. 
The investigator looked at all the available information and upheld Mr Ws complaint. The 
investigator felt although he was satisfied Charter hadnt compromised Mr Ws personal 
data, it took too long to provide a clear explanation of that to Mr W and this created 
unnecessary stress. The investigator felt Charter should increase its compensation offer to 
Mr W to £150.
Charter didnt agree with the investigators view and asked for the matter to be referred to an 
ombudsman for a final decision. 
I sent both sides a provisional decision, where I said: 
Ive considered all of the evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable in the 
circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I have come to a different outcome to that of the investigator and I will 
explain how I have come to my decision. 
I can understand it would have been worrying for Mr W to have received an email from 
Charter addressed to someone else. When looking at this complaint I will consider if Charter 
could have done more to have addressed Mr W concerns about his personal data and if the 
compensation it has offered is sufficient. 
The first thing to say here is Charter have acknowledged the email containing a survey sent 
to Mr W on 15 March 2022, was incorrectly addressed and was a result of an isolated 
incident of human error, but it confirmed no personal data had been compromised. 
Mr W is unhappy that Charter havent fully reassured him his data hasnt been breached and 
its offer of compensation of £30 doesnt go far enough for the level of stress this has caused 
him. 
I understand the points Mr W makes and theres no dispute here that Charter made a 
mistake when it incorrectly addressed a marketing survey email to another person other than 
Mr W. With that in mind whats important here is how quickly Charter dealt with alleviating Mr 
Ws concerns about his personal data being compromised. 
From the information I have seen Charter sent an explanatory email on 18 March 2022 to all 
those customers that had been affected, explaining and apologising for its mistake but made 
clear Mr Ws details were safe and secure. In the meantime, Mr W had raised his concerns 
to Charter on the 17 March 2022 and Charter responded to that email on 20 March 2022, 
again stressing that his personal information and savings details were safe and secure. 
While I accept this letter may have not contained a full explanation why the error had 
occurred, I am satisfied it made clear Mr Ws bank account details were safe and without 
trying to minimise the frustration and worry this would have undoubtedly caused him, I am 
satisfied at this point Charters explanation should have put Mr Ws mind at rest that his 
personal data wasnt at risk. 
So that leaves me to consider if Charter could have done more to explain to Mr W how the 
mistake occurred to further reassure him. I can see on 5 April 2022 following Mr W raising a 
complaint, Charter went on to explain an investigation had been undertaken and the error 
was an administrative mistake and again reassured Mr W no sensitive information had been 
shared. Mr W remained unhappy with Charters explanation and this was escalated to the 
CEO, whose team responded on 12 May 2022, which again went on to reassure Mr W about 
its own investigations and that the error would not reoccur. 
Its not clear what information Mr W wanted from Charter to reassure him, but its fair to say 
its not my role to tell Charter it must divulge to him its practices when looking into how the 
mistake was made, as this may contain sensitive business information. What is important 
here is Charter did respond within the timescales this service would expect, once a formal 
complaint has been raised, but its not the role of this service to scrutinise Charters 
complaints process or tell Charter how it should deal with complaints more widely. 
So, where I disagree here with the investigator and his reasons behind why the 
compensation should be increased, is that I am satisfied Charter did provide timely 
responses to Mr Ws genuine issues and concerns over a possible data breach. Although Mr 
W feels Charter were dismissive about his concerns Im not full persuaded by his argument 
here, after all within a matter of days he received an apology and was told his data and 
account details were safe and I cant expect much more from Charter than that. 
As I have said previously, I do understand Mr Ws genuine concerns about his data and that 
isnt something to be taken lightly, but from the information I have seen Charter have 
apologised for that, explained what happened and promptly confirmed to Mr W that at no 
point was his data compromised. In addition, it has offered £30 to apologise for its service 
shortfall and any frustration caused. While Mr W doesnt think that goes far enough, its not 
my role to penalise businesses when mistakes occur, but to see it apologises, takes action 
to put things right and in some situations offer an appropriate level of redress. Overall, Im satisfied Charter did that here. 
While Mr W will be disappointed with my decision, I wont be asking anymore of Charter here 
and I will leave it with Mr W to contact Charter if he now wishes to accept its compensation 
offer. 
Both Mr W and Charter responded to my provisional decision, so the case has been passed 
back to me to make a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I gave both Mr W and Charter until 1 December 2022 to accept or reject my provisional 
decision. While Charter have accepted my provisional decision, Mr W has raised some 
further points for me to consider. 
I understand Mr W feels strongly that the level of compensation Charter offered him doesnt 
take into account the time he spent dealing with this matter and the inconvenience this has 
caused him. Mr W has alluded to the fact my provisional decision is saying the time he spent 
on this matter and the stress it caused him, hasnt been properly valued and the decision is 
in some way biased.  
I understand the points Mr W makes but Im not persuaded by his argument, as whats 
important here and while Mr W may not agree, although he says it took some months to 
conclude matters, Charter did within a matter of a few days of the mis-addressed email, 
send Mr W an apology and confirmed to him his data wasnt at risk. 
Its worth saying just because an error occurs or inconvenience is caused, this must mean 
compensation should always be paid and for the reasons I have already explained in my 
provisional decision I dont think it did here. That said, Charter after some consideration paid 
Mr W £30 by way of a conciliatory gesture and Im satisfied given the fact it confirmed to Mr 
W within a matter of a few days his data hadnt been compromised, that was sufficient here. 
The fact Mr W wasnt happy with Charters explanation, which was subsequently reiterated 
to him again, doesnt mean Charter hadnt done what it could, to have reasonably put his 
mind at rest over the incident. Some of the delays Mr W refers to are due to the fact he didnt 
accept Charters initial explanation but that doesnt mean it wasnt a valid one. I should 
mention that  part of the delays Mr W refers to concerns Charters complaints process - as I 
have explained in my provisional decision, thats not a regulated area that this service can 
consider. 
So, with that in mind and having considered Mr Ws comments, I see no need to change or 
add to my provisional decision and so my final decision remains the same.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 2 January 2023.
 
Barry WhiteOmbudsman