DRN-2387100
The complaint
Mr D complains that Monese Ltd blocked his current account and didnt release his funds. 
Hed like his funds returned and compensation for the distress caused. 
What happened
Mr D had a current account with Monese. On the 19 April 2019 he received a payment of 
£9,900. After receiving the credit Monese asked Mr D to provide evidence of his entitlement 
to the funds and restricted access to his account. And on the 29 April 2019 Monese closed 
Mr Ds account. 
In July 2019 Mr D complained to our service to say that Monese hadnt released his funds. 
Monese accept that on the 23 December 2019 they were notified the funds could be 
released  however they didnt release his funds until the 28 April 2020.
 
One of our investigators looked into Mr Ds complaint and concluded that Monese acted 
fairly in restricting access and closing Mr Ds account however they should have released his 
funds sooner  in December 2019. And because of the inconvenience caused they directed 
Monese to pay £150 compensation in recognition of this. 
Mr D accepted our investigators opinion. However Monese didnt respond. So its been 
passed to me for a decision.
 
On reviewing Mr Ds complaint I came to a slightly different conclusion to our investigator. 
And I wrote to Monese outlining my thoughts on the 17 January 2021 giving them until the 
1 February 2021 to reply. Mr Ds accepted my thoughts however Monese havent replied  
so Ive proceeded to issue my final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so Ive reached a slightly different conclusion to our investigator and Ive 
explained why below. 
In my initial thoughts I explained that Im satisfied that Monese were entitled to restrict Mr Ds 
access to his account and close it without notice on the 29 April 2019. I say this based of the 
terms and conditions of Mr Ds account which allow the bank to close an account with 
immediate notice in certain circumstances  which Im satisfied Monese have met on this 
occasion. Mr D accepts this, so I wont go into this in more detail.
However Ive moved on to consider Moneses actions when releasing Mr Ds funds. And I'm 
satisfied - as I think Monese accept - that the bank made an error in failing to release Mr D's 
funds sooner namely the 23 December 2019 or shortly thereafter. I say this as Im satisfied 
Monese were provided with sufficient information on this date to release his funds, and 
therefore acted incorrectly in not doing so. 
In my initial thoughts I explained that I thought by holding on to Mr Ds funds for longer than 
Monese should have they caused him inconvenience  which I think is fairly compensated 
by £150. However Mr D was also deprived of the use of this funds  therefore I think he 
should be compensated 8% interest in recognition of this. 
Monese havent presented any new arguments for me to consider so I no reason to change 
my conclusions. 
Putting things right
I direct Monese Ltd to:
Pay Mr D £150 in compensation.
Pay 8% on the funds returned from the 23 December 2019 to the 28 April 2020. 
My final decision
My final decision is I uphold this complaint against Monese Ltd as set out above.  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision before 13 March 2021.
 
Jeff Burch
Ombudsman