DRN-1695816
 
The complaint
Miss B says AXA France IARD (AXA) mis-sold her a payment protection insurance (PPI) 
policy.   
What happened
This complaint is about a PPI policy taken out in connection with a store card in 1999.
Our adjudicator recommended the complaint should be upheld, because she didnt think 
Miss B wouldve bought the policy if shed had better information about its cost and benefit. 
AXA disagreed with the adjudicators opinion so the complaint has been passed to me.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Where the evidence is incomplete, 
inconclusive or contradictory (as some of it is here), I reach my conclusions on the balance 
of probabilities  that is, what I consider is most likely to have happened in light of the 
available evidence and the wider surrounding circumstances.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding Miss Bs case.
Ive decided to uphold Miss Bs complaint because I think if better information about the 
policys costs and benefits had been provided by AXA, its unlikely Miss B would have taken 
it out.
The information AXA gave Miss B about the cost and benefit wasnt as clear as it should 
have been. I say this because although Miss B may have been told the cost was £1.00 per 
£100 of the outstanding balance, I think its unlikely she wouldve been told that the premium 
would be added to her store card balance and could attract interest. I also think its unlikely 
that AXA pointed out that the benefit was actually less than 15% in real terms, as Miss B 
would have to continue paying the premium while receiving the policy benefit.
I think this would have mattered to Miss B because at the point of sale she was entitled to 
full pay from her employer if she was off sick for six months, followed by half pay for the next 
six months. Shes also told us she had savings that were readily available to her. So the 
combination of her sick pay and savings means she doesnt appear to have had a strong 
need for the policy, given she had other ways to meet the store card repayments for a while 
without it.
I dont think Miss B would still have wanted to take out the policy if she had better 
understood its cost and limited benefit to her. So, I think Miss B has been disadvantaged as 
a result of AXAs failings in this case, because I dont think she would have taken out the 
policy if better information had been available.I've taken into account AXA's comments, including what it's said about discrepancies in the 
amount of savings Miss B says she had. AXA also has concerns about the level of sick pay 
Miss B says she was entitled to. 
I'm mindful that these events took place over twenty years ago. So I don't think it's 
reasonable to expect Miss B to be able to provide the evidence of her sick pay and savings 
at the time.
I accept that Miss B has quoted different amounts for the savings she says she had. But I've 
also taken into account that Miss B told AXA she could've covered her outgoings for eight 
months, based on the lower amount of savings she quoted.
Keeping in mind the nature of Miss B's employment and the length of time she'd been in her 
job, I don't think it's unreasonable for me to accept what Miss B has said about the sick pay 
she says she was entitled to. 
When I take all of these points into account, I still don't think Miss B had a strong need for 
the PPI, and I remain of the view that it's unlikely she would've bought the policy if she'd had 
better information about its cost and benefit. So I still think the complaint should be upheld.  
Putting things right
AXA should put Miss B in the financial position shed be in now if she hadnt taken out PPI.
A.  AXA should find out how much Miss B would have owed when she closed her store card 
account if the policy hadnt been added.
So, it should remove the PPI premiums added, as well as any interest charged on those 
premiums. It should also remove any charges that were caused by the mis-sale of the PPI  
as well as any interest added to those charges.
AXA should then refund the difference between what Miss B owed when she closed her 
account and what she would have owed if she hadnt had PPI.
If Miss B made a successful claim under the PPI policy, AXA can take off what she got for 
the claim from the amount it owes her.
B.  AXA should add simple interest on the difference between what Miss B would have owed 
when she closed her account from when she closed it until she gets the refund. The interest 
rate should be 8% a year. 
C.  If  when AXA works out what Miss B would have owed each month without PPI  Miss 
B paid more than enough to clear her balance, AXA should also pay simple interest on the 
extra Miss B paid. And it should carry on paying interest until the point when Miss B would 
have owed AXA something on her store card. The interest rate should be 8% a year. 
D.  AXA should tell Miss B what its done to work out A, B and C.
 HM Revenue & Customs requires AXA to take off tax from this interest. AXA must 
give Miss B a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if she asks for one. 
 
 
My final decisionMy decision is that I uphold this complaint. I direct AXA France IARD to pay compensation to 
Miss B in line with the instructions above.    
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss B to accept 
or reject my decision before 19 May 2020.
 
Caroline Stirling
Ombudsman