DRN-4210182
The complaint
Mr G complains that Clydesdale Bank Plc trading as Virgin Money (Virgin Money) 
irresponsibly gave him a credit card account that he couldnt afford.
What happened
On 16 April 2019, Mr Gs credit card was opened by Virgin Money with an initial credit limit 
of £8,400. This credit limit was never increased. 
In 2022, Mr G complained to Virgin Money to say that the account shouldnt have been 
opened for him because it wasnt affordable and that Virgin Money ought to have made a 
better effort to understand his financial circumstances before opening the credit card for 
him. Virgin Money declined to uphold the complaint. And Mr G brought his complaint to 
this service.
Our adjudicator recommended the complaint be upheld. Virgin Money didnt agree. So, the 
complaint was passed to me to decide.
I issued my provisional decision in respect of this complaint on 9 June 2023, a section of 
which is included below, and forms part of, this decision. In my provisional decision I set out 
the reasons why I didnt agree with the adjudicators view and that it was my intention not to 
uphold Mr Gs complaint. I set out an extract below:
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Ive read and considered the whole file, 
but Ill confine my comments to what I think is relevant. If I dont comment on any specific 
point its not because Ive failed to consider it but because I dont think I need to comment 
on it in order to reach what I think is the right outcome in the wider context. My remit is to 
take an overview and decide whats fair in the round.
Virgin Money will be familiar with all the rules, regulations and good industry practice we 
consider when looking at a complaint concerning unaffordable and irresponsible lending. 
So, I dont consider it necessary to set all of this out in this decision. Information about our 
approach to these complaints is set out on our website.
Mr Gs complaint is that Virgin Money made credit available that was unaffordable. Virgin 
Money has explained that it relied in part on information that Mr G provided at the time of 
application to assess affordability. They said they carried out a credit search in Mr Gs name 
to assess Mr Gs level of debt at that time and to understand how he had been managing 
that debt. With that information and using their own scoring metric, Virgin Money decided to 
agree to the credit limit of £8,400. So, there was some assessment of affordability at the 
time of the sale. And Mr G declared an income, both personal and household, that was far 
from modest. And the credit limit was not immodest compared to the declared household 
income. 
The Virgin Money checks showed that Mr G had over £16,000 in unsecured borrowings. 
And I have noted that Mr Gs credit file was very clean at the time of the loan application. 
When I say this, I mean that Mr Gs management of his existing credit showed no recent 
history of CCJs, defaults or any late payments. Mr G thinks his credit history was not clean 
at this time. But Mr G provided us with his credit report which is devoid of any adverse 
marking. This suggests that if there were issues, as Mr G has said, they had not found their 
way onto this credit reference agencys report, which was clean. 
So, it would have seemed to Virgin Money from the information they had from credit 
reference agencies that, at the point that the lending decision was made, Mr G was 
affording his existing credit. And so, Virgin Money were not put on notice of any reason not 
to agree the lending from that. And so, I dont think that the information that Virgin Money 
had at the time of the lending decision, would have led them to feel they ought to make 
more searching enquiries of Mr Gs expenditure. And Mr G has provided a copy of his P60 
from that time. So, had Virgin Money wished to make more searching enquiries into Mr Gs 
income, they would have seen that the information he declared about income was true. 
Mr G has provided us with some bank statements for his current account with a different 
bank and they do show some evidence of gambling on them. I have to look at the 
information that was available to Virgin Money at the time it made its lending decisions and 
not to use hindsight. I have seen no evidence that Mr G made Virgin Money aware of his 
gambling at the time the credit card was applied for. And I have seen insufficient evidence 
that the other information that Virgin Money acquired or had presented to it at the time of the 
lending decision, would have led them to think that they were remiss in not checking Mr Gs 
expenditure more closely. 
In this case, I have also considered that the credit card came with a promotional rate for 
balance transfers made in the first 60 days of the agreement. Any such balance transfers 
were to be treated with a 0% interest rate for 28 months. Virgin Money has explained that 
once the credit card was agreed Mr G made two balance transfers, one for £3,000 and 
one for £4,000. And so, I have noted that very shortly after the credit card commenced Mr 
G had used the majority of his credit limit with balance transfers that would have enjoyed 
0% interest for over two years. 
So, I dont see the activity on the card as evidence solely of new credit being provided by 
Virgin Money, adding to an already large amount of personal borrowing. Instead, the new 
credit, rather than adding to Mr Gs burden of credit, it looks like Mr G was taking steps, 
that could be termed sensible, to manage his existing debt by taking out this card and 
using it to secure more favourable terms to existing credit. I say that because Mr G would 
have been saving money on interest he would have been paying elsewhere. So, it doesnt 
seem automatically unreasonable for Virgin Money to have facilitated that.
I know that Mr G will be disappointed with my decision, in itself and because he has 
invested time and energy in pursuing his complaint. But I want Mr M to know that I 
considered all the submissions made in this case. But having considered all the 
submissions in this case, particularly those at the time of the lending decisions, I have not 
found sufficient evidence to uphold this complaint. I have seen insufficient evidence to think 
that the credit Virgin Money provided to Mr G was unreasonable.
I asked the parties to the complaint to let me have any further representations that they 
wished me to consider by 23 June 2023. Virgin Money has not acknowledged receiving the 
provisional decision, made a further submission or asked for an extension to do so. Mr G 
has made a final submission to me.
I consider that both parties have had sufficient time to make any further submissions they 
wished to make, had they wished to. So, I am proceeding to my final decision.What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr G is disappointed with my provisional decision. He has pointed out the increase to his 
borrowings in the year before the Virgin Money lending decision on 16 April 2019 and the 
high usage of those cards. Mr G has also pointed to his own personal records which show 
him going overlimit on his existing borrowings in the year before the Virgin Money lending 
decision. 
There are no prescriptive rules that state what a proportionate check should look like. Virgin 
Money were not obliged to get bank statements to provide credit to Mr G. And none of the 
evidence they had seen suggested they might need to look more closely into Mr Gs 
finances before doing so. In saying this I am referencing the credit report that Mr G sent us 
that shows no incidence of anything adverse on his credit report for the year before the 
lending decision. The credit card borrowing that Mr G has detailed to me was with other 
lenders than Virgin Money. So, its difficult to see how they would have had access to the 
sorts of records that Mr G has provided in support of his own case. The credit check that 
was done at the time of the lending decision is supported by Mr Gs own credit report that he 
supplied to us. And that suggests that Mr G was managing his existing credit. If the truth of 
the situation was different to that, then it was not reflected in the information that Virgin 
Money had available to them at the time.
And whilst the overall credit may have increased in the year before April 2019, the credit 
agencies suggested Mr G was managing that credit well. And thats not surprising as Mr G 
had an employed income that was not modest, even for the level of non-secured borrowings 
he had in April 2019. 
Mr G thinks that a proportionate check should have seen Virgin Money get bank statements. 
Mr G thinks they would then have become aware of his gambling and not provided credit. As 
I said in the provisional decision, I have to look at the information that was available to 
Virgin Money at the time it made its lending decisions and not to use hindsight. I have seen 
no evidence that Mr G made Virgin Money aware of his gambling at the time the credit card 
was applied for. And as Ive said above, I dont think that Virgin Money were put on notice 
from anything they saw in the application or from anything they had presented to them at 
that time, that they needed to make more searching enquiries into Mr Gs finances.
And the credit was used almost entirely from the beginning to secure promotional rates of 
interest on balance transfers. As I explained in the provisional decision,
So, I dont see the activity on the card as evidence solely of new credit being provided by 
Virgin Money, adding to an already large amount of personal borrowing. Instead, the new 
credit, rather than adding to Mr Gs burden of credit, it looks like Mr G was taking steps, 
that could be termed sensible, to manage his existing debt by taking out this card and 
using it to secure more favourable terms to existing credit. I say that because Mr G would 
have been saving money on interest he would have been paying elsewhere. So, it doesnt 
seem automatically unreasonable for Virgin Money to have facilitated that.
I am sorry that Mr G is disappointed with my provisional decision. I hope that my further 
explanation has been helpful. But I have seen insufficient new argument or evidence to 
reach a decision different to the one I detailed in my provisional decision. Having considered again all the submissions in this case, particularly those at the time of the 
lending decisions, and everything that Mr G has said and provided, I have not found 
sufficient evidence to uphold this complaint. 
My final decision
For the reasons set out, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision before 24 July 2023.
 
Douglas Sayers
Ombudsman