DRN-4002483
The complaint
Mr S and Mrs K complain about the decision by AWP P&C SA to turn down their travel 
insurance claim. 
What happened
Mr S and Mrs K have travel insurance through Mrs Ks bank account. 
Whilst on holiday, Mr S had problems walking and experienced numbness as well as pins 
and needles in his foot. He went to a hospital and, after having an MRI scan, he was told he 
needed urgent surgery within the next 24 hours. 
Mr S and Mrs K say they called AWPs emergency assistance line and they were told the 
surgery would be covered. However, after Mr S had the surgery, AWP told them the claim 
had been declined. Unhappy with this, Mr S and Mrs K brought a complaint to this service. 
AWP provided this service with its final response letter and policy terms. However, it didnt 
provide any information about why the claim was declined, despite our investigator 
requesting this information twice. 
Based on the limited evidence, our investigator recommended the complaint be upheld. He 
thought AWP hadnt shown why the claim wasnt payable, and so recommended it pay the 
claim, plus interest. He also thought AWP should pay £150 compensation for the delay in 
making a decision on the claim.
AWP didnt respond to our investigators recommendations, and so the matter has been 
passed to me for a decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im satisfied that AWP has had sufficient opportunity to respond to this service. In the 
absence of its input, Ive based my decision on the limited evidence available. 
AWP hasnt told us why the claim was declined, and Mr S and Mrs K say they havent 
received a decision in writing from AWP with an explanation about this. 
The policy covers emergency medical fees. Mr S and Mrs K say that Mr S was admitted to 
hospital after his MRI scan on 29 August, and they called AWP to obtain authorisation for the 
surgery. They say that AWP received a medical report, and then gave them authorisation for 
the surgery on 30 August. The surgery was carried out the following day. The timing of this 
supports Mr S and Mrs Ks assertion that the surgery was needed urgently. 
Mr S and Mrs K have also provided their call history, and this shows they had several 
conversations with AWPs emergency assistance company whilst Mr S was in hospital. 
Theyve also highlighted the call they say they received from AWP giving authorisation for 
the surgery to go ahead. 
Based on the information received from Mr S and Mrs K, Im satisfied the claim falls within 
the policy terms. I therefore find that AWP should pay the claim.
Mr S and Mrs K also say they had to keep chasing AWP for a response about their claim. I 
see that AWP accepted in its final response letter that it took too long to make a claims 
decision, and that its service fell short of its normal standards. Taking this into account, I 
agree with our investigator that AWP should pay £150 compensation for the delays with the 
claim.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint. I require AWP P&C SA to pay the claim. 
Interest* should be added at the rate of 8% simple per annum, from the date the invoice/s 
were paid to the date of settlement.
* If AWP considers that its required by HM Revenue & Customs to take off income tax from 
that interest, it should tell Mr S and Mrs K how much it has taken off. It should also give Mr S 
and Mrs K a certificate showing this if they ask for one, so they can reclaim the tax from HM 
Revenue & Customs if appropriate. 
I also require AWP to pay Mr S and Mrs K £150 compensation.    
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs K and Mr S to 
accept or reject my decision before 6 April 2023.
 
Chantelle Hurn-Ryan
Ombudsman