DRN-3722313
The complaint
Miss T complains that Everyday Lending Limited trading as Everyday Loans (Everyday) 
irresponsibly lent her money on a high cost loan which she couldnt afford the repayments 
for.
What happened
Everyday provided a loan to Miss T on 13 February 2017, of £3,000 repayable over 36 
months at the rate of £206.47 a month. She started to miss payments from April 2017 due to 
here starting a new job on lower pay, then she was off sick for a while. I see Everyday 
offered to accept reduced payments but so far as I am aware no formal arrangement has 
been set up. Miss T complained to Everyday in May 2022 that the loan was unaffordable.
Everyday said it carried out all necessary eligibility checks. These included obtaining and 
reviewing up to two months worth of bank statements from Miss Ts primary bank account, 
obtaining and reviewing one month's payslip, conducting a Credit Search, and carrying out a 
job check. It used ONS (Office for National Statistics) data to assess her living expenses. As 
the loan was for consolidation of some existing loans, it assessed that the loan was 
affordable.
On referral to this service our adjudicator said that from the information Everyday gathered, 
prior to making its lending decision, as well as additional information it couldve reasonably 
obtained, he said Everyday was aware or shouldve been aware, Miss T couldnt afford to 
sustainably repay the loan.
Everyday disagreed and requested an ombudsmans decision. The matter has been passed 
to me for further consideration.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about unaffordable/irresponsible lending - 
including all the relevant rules, guidance, and good industry practice - on our website. 
Considering the relevant rules, guidance, and good industry practice, I think the questions I 
need to consider in deciding whats fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this 
complaint are:
Did Everyday complete reasonable and proportionate checks to satisfy itself that Miss T 
would be able to repay the loan in a sustainable way?
If not, would those checks have shown that Miss T would have been able to do so?
The rules and regulations in place required Everyday to carry out a reasonable and 
proportionate assessment of Miss Ts ability to make the repayments under the agreement. 
This assessment is sometimes referred to as an affordability assessment or affordability 
check.
The checks had to be borrower-focused  so Everyday had to think about whether 
repaying the loan would be sustainable. In practice this meant that Everyday had to ensure 
that making the repayments on the loan wouldnt cause Miss T undue difficulty or significant 
adverse consequences. That means she should have been able to meet repayments out of 
normal income without having to borrow to meet the repayments, without failing to make any 
other payment she had a contractual or statutory obligation to make and without the 
repayments having a significant adverse impact on her financial situation.
In other words, it wasnt enough for Everyday to simply think about the likelihood of it getting 
its money back - it had to consider the impact of the loan repayments on Miss T. Checks 
also had to be proportionate to the specific circumstances of the loan application.
In general, what constitutes a proportionate affordability check will be dependent upon a 
number of factors including  but not limited to  the particular circumstances of the 
consumer (e.g. their financial history, current situation and outlook, and any indications of 
vulnerability or financial difficulty) and the amount/type/cost of credit they are seeking. Even 
for the same customer, a proportionate check could look different for different applications.
I think that such a check ought generally to have been more thorough:
The lower a consumers income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make any 
loan repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income).
The higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to meet 
a higher repayment from a particular level of income).
The greater the number and frequency of loans, and the longer the period during which a 
customer has been given loans (reflecting the risk that repeated refinancing may signal 
that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, unsustainable).
This loan was supposed to be for consolidation of existing loans. Everyday assessed that 
Miss T was paying £964.66 in credit commitments out of an income of £1,201 per month. It 
assessed that by consolidating, Miss T would save £647 per month in repayments. However, 
one of those was a revolving credit short term loan which had £314 outstanding. 
So, by paying this off Miss S wasnt really saving 250 a month, but rather transferring the 
balance to her loan and extending it by three years, at a (likely) higher rate of interest. As our 
adjudicator said there was no guarantee that this closed the account. Indeed, I note that she 
obtained further credit from that provider in March 2017. However, I do note from her bank 
statement that Miss T did pay the £314 balance on that account after receiving the loan.
The other loan that was paid off was paid directly by Everyday before releasing the balance 
of the loan monies to Miss T. This would have saved her the £102 a month payment. Ive 
seen no evidence that any other loans were paid off. 
If the intention was to pay off other loans, specified in its go-live audit, then Everyday 
should have paid off these loans also before releasing the money to Miss T. As it is I dont 
think those loans were paid off, theres certainly no evidence of this from her bank 
statement, and the loan monies were paid into that account. So I think Miss Ts credit 
commitments remained high, at around £612.66 a month. After adding the new loan 
repayment to this figure Miss T would have been spending around 68% of her income on 
credit commitments. In light of that, I think that indicates that the loan was unaffordable.Everyday assessed Miss Ts disposable income to be around £177 a month based on her 
living at home and not paying anything to her parents for bills. Ive seen no evidence, as 
Miss T tells us, that she informed Everyday she would be starting a new job on lower pay, so 
I think it was fair for Everyday to base its assessment on what she told it. Nevertheless 
because it appears that she didnt pay off other loans, the disposable income figure would 
have just about been wiped out.
Finally Everyday saw two months bank statements at the time of the application. These 
showed that Miss T had an overdraft of £249, and that she had regularly been receiving 
credit (in both the December 2016 and January 2017 statements) from the company that 
provided the revolving credit. There was no provision for paying off the overdraft though I 
note there was an expectation that she would pay the balance of her loan towards it. 
Technically she did this though the account soon went back into overdraft. Miss T has 
pointed out that she had been having problems gambling. However while I note there were a 
few gambling transactions they (at that stage) appeared to be minimal).
So I think that this loan was unaffordable and Miss T was unlikely to be to be able to sustain 
the payments. Even if she had paid off all the loans she was expected to, I still think that the 
amount she was still paying out on credit commitments was too high to justify incurring the 
added debt of this loan for three years.
Putting things right
Miss T has had the capital payment in respect of the loan, so its fair that she should 
repay this. So far as the loan is concerned, I think Everyday should refund all interest 
and charges as follows: 
Remove all interest, fees and charges applied to the loan. 
Treat any payments made by Miss T as payments towards the capital amount. 
If Miss T has paid more than the capital, refund any overpayments to her with 8% 
simple interest* from the date they were paid to the date of settlement. 
But if theres still an outstanding balance, Everyday should come to a reasonable 
repayment plan with Miss T
If Everyday has sold the outstanding debt to a third-party it should do what it can to 
buy it back - if it cant, it cant deduct any outstanding balance from the redress and 
it then needs to work with the third-party to bring about the steps above.
Remove any adverse information about the loan from Miss Ts credit file.
*HM Revenue & Customs requires Everyday to deduct tax from this interest. It should give 
Miss T a certificate showing how much tax its deducted if she asks for one.
My final decision
I uphold the complaint and require Everyday Lending Limited trading as Everyday Loans  to 
provide the remedy set out under Putting things right above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss T to accept or 
reject my decision before 2 December 2022.
 Ray Lawley
Ombudsman