DRN-4051833
The complaint
Mr R has complained about the way Vodafone Limited administered a fixed sum loan 
agreement. 
What happened
The events of the complaint are well known to both parties, so Im not going to go over 
everything again in detail. But in summary:
Mr R bought a mobile phone using a fixed sum loan agreement with Vodafone in 
2021. The phone cost around £900 and he was to pay the loan back with £24 
payments over three years. Mr R also has other agreements with Vodafone including 
airtime agreements. 
In May 2022 Mr R contacted Vodafone to change the bank details for his direct debit. 
Vodafone changed details for his airtime but not the fixed sum loan. 
Mr R says he didnt realise he started to miss payments towards the fixed sum loan. 
He thought everything was in order. 
Vodafone started to write to Mr R about the missed payments from August 2022 
onwards. It ended up defaulting and terminating the agreement because it didnt hear 
back from Mr R. 
Mr R contacted Vodafone in January 2023 to discuss an upgrade but was informed 
about the arrears, and that he needed to clear the balance in full. Mr R complained. 
Vodafone responded to acknowledge it made a mistake. It gave Mr R £200 credit 
towards his airtime. Initially it didnt agree to remove the adverse information from 
Mr Rs credit file because it had written to Mr R about the missed payments and that 
it was his responsibility to monitor the account. 
Mr R brought his complaint to our service to consider. Vodafone agreed to reinstate 
Mr Rs £24 monthly payment. And it said it would remove negative credit file markers 
from May to September 2022 as this is when Mr R should have realised he needed 
to amend the direct debit. 
Our investigator looked into things and said she thought Vodafones offer was 
broadly fair. Mr R didnt agree. He said he contact Vodafone in 2022 and wasnt told 
about the issue. He says the offer wasnt fair.  
As things couldnt be resolved, the complaint was passed to me to make a decision. I 
arranged to contact the parties to say that I acknowledge Vodafone tried to contact Mr R 
about the missed payments and that what was reported was technically accurate. But I also 
explained that the issue stemmed from a mistake from Vodafone. And Vodafone itself said 
had it updated the direct debit correctly Mr R wouldnt have missed payments. I explained 
that its likely Mr R simply thought things were in order, and probably didnt notice the 
correspondence from Vodafone. I also highlighted that in addition to reporting accurate 
information, it also needs to be fair. 
I said to the parties that I thought the £200 put towards the airtime account broadly seems 
fair in all the circumstances. And that given what Ive said above, I proposed Vodafone:
Remove the default. 
Allow Mr R to reinstate his £24 monthly payment.
Remove all adverse information on the account once the arrears are cleared. 
Vodafone accepted the resolution. Mr R said he would accept the resolution only if his credit 
file is repaired. But he was still unhappy with the compensation. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Vodafone is reporting information to the credit reference agencies relating to Mr Rs 
regulated fixed sum loan agreement. Our service is able to consider complaints relating to 
these sorts of agreements. 
Ive set out to the parties why I thought the adverse information should be removed if the 
arrears are cleared. Vodafone accepts the initial mistake it made. And I take on board it 
wrote to Mr R about the arrears. So, at the time, it wasnt unfair of it to report accurate 
information relating to missed payments. But in all the circumstances, I didnt think this was a 
true reflection of how Mr R managed this credit commitment. I think it was a mistake, and 
Mr R simply didnt notice the arrears or the communication about them  probably because 
he thought everything was in order. Hes a long-time customer of Vodafone and hes said 
hes not had any issues before. 
However, as Ive said to Vodafone, the reporting to the credit reference agencies needs to 
be fair as well as accurate. So I consider, in this particular case, the default should be 
removed and the other adverse credit reference information is removed when the arrears are 
cleared. I agree on balance Mr R wouldnt have missed any payments had it not been for the 
mistake with the direct debit. Mr R should also be able to continue his monthly payments. I 
think this is a fair outcome for all parties involved. 
I appreciate Mr R doesnt think the £200 was sufficient. But I have to be mindful that things 
wouldve been resolved much sooner had he noticed the contact from Vodafone about the 
missed payments. And Vodafones point about customers being responsible for monitoring 
their accounts is a fair one. So while I dont doubt hes been caused some inconvenience, 
this wasnt solely as a result of Vodafones initial mistake. I dont find I have the grounds to 
direct Vodafone to do more.  Putting things right
I direct Vodafone Limited to:
Remove the default. 
Allow Mr R to reinstate his £24 monthly payment.
Remove all adverse information with the credit reference agencies about the missed 
payments once the arrears are cleared. 
I understand the £200 compensation has already been applied, but if thats not right, 
Vodafone should also take that step. If Mr R is going to accept this decision, he should 
contact Vodafone to put his monthly payment back in place. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint and direct Vodafone Limited to put things 
right in the way Ive set out above. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision before 8 September 2023.
 
Simon Wingfield
Ombudsman