DRN-3112124
The complaint
Mr T complained that the compensation offered by Phoenix Life Limited is insufficient in 
respect to it sending him annual benefit statements in error following a pension transfer in 
2002.  He believes the error raised his expectations about the value of the pension plan, 
which has affected his retirement planning.
 
What happened
In August 2002, Mr T transferred a Retirement Annuity Contract (RAC) from Scottish Mutual 
(now Phoenix Life) to a scheme run by his then employer.  The transfer value at that time 
was £10,568.
Following this transfer, Phoenix Life continued to send annual benefit statements to Mr T, 
which wrongly showed a value which the fund would have achieved if the transfer had not 
taken place.
This error did not come to light until October 2020, when a pension transfer was requested 
on behalf of Mr T, based on discharge forms issued by Phoenix Life, showing a fund value of 
just over £36,500. These discharge forms were also based incorrectly on the value that 
would have been achieved if the transfer in 2002 had not taken place. The transfer didnt go 
through and Mr T was told he no longer had funds to transfer.
Mr T complained to Phoenix Life on 15 October 2020, to which Phoenix Life responded on 9 
November 2020, apologizing for the error and offering a payment of £500 in respect of the 
trouble and upset that its error had caused.
Mr T rejected this offer and suggested a sum of £7,500 to reflect that he had made 
retirement plans based upon an incorrect and inflated view of the value of his pension funds.
Phoenix Life refused to increase the offer of compensation, and the case was referred to the 
Financial Ombudsman Service. 
After reviewing all the relevant information, our Investigator recommended that this 
complaint not be upheld, and that the sum of £500 compensation offered by Phoenix Life 
was fair in the circumstances.  Mr T disagreed, so the case has been passed to me to take a 
fresh look at the evidence and reach a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, and considered the view of our investigator, I have reached the same 
conclusion and shall not be upholding Mr Ts complaint.
This complaint arises not from any dispute relating to the facts of the case, in that Phoenix 
Life sent incorrect annual benefit statements to Mr T, but to what an appropriate level of 
compensation would be for any material financial loss suffered by Mr T, and the distress and 
inconvenience this has caused him.
Mr T transferred out in 2002 and yet Phoenix Life continued to send statements as if he 
hadnt transferred out. So Phoenix Life has made a mistake here; it has given the impression 
that Mr T still held a pension with it, and did so for an extended period of time.
However, the funds detailed in the annual benefit statements had long previously been 
transferred out of the RAC, and were instead invested into Mr Ts then employers scheme, 
so it is not clear to me that that he has suffered any material loss as a result of this error. 
Those funds have been made available to Mr T.
I recognise Mr T says he made financial decisions based on the statements he continued to 
receive. But he hasnt articulated in detail what those decisions were, and the financial 
losses he believes he incurred as a result. 
Besides, Mr T would have known he had transferred out in 2002. So I think he should, 
reasonably, have queried the statements when he first starting receiving them. If he had 
queried the initial post transfer statements with Phoenix Life at the time (or specifically asked 
at any point why he was still receiving statements even though he had transferred out) the 
error would have been identified much sooner and this situation would not have carried on 
for as long as it did. And even without querying the statements, I dont consider it reasonable 
for Mr T to have made financial decisions on the assumption that he continued to have a 
pension with Phoenix Life. So I dont consider it fair and reasonable to hold Phoenix Life 
responsible for Mr Ts financial decisions.
I therefore dont think compensation should be anywhere near what Mr T has asked for. That 
said, Phoenix has incorrectly sent Mr T statements over an extended period. So I appreciate 
he may well have come to view the pension as still being in place (even if that wasnt a 
reasonable view for someone to take) or at the very least had his expectations raised. I think 
Phoenix Life should recognise the distress and inconvenience caused to Mr T when he was 
subsequently told about its error. In the circumstances, and with our usual approach to such 
payments in mind, I consider £500 compensation fair and reasonable.
My final decision
For the reasons explained above, I do not uphold Mr Ts complaint.
If it hasnt already done so, Phoenix Life Limited should make arrangements to pay the sum 
of £500 to Mr T to fulfil its original offer of compensation to him as soon as possible.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr T to accept or 
reject my decision before 26 August 2022.
 
Bill Catchpole
Ombudsman