DRN-3671068
The complaint
Mrs K and Mr K say that Shawbrook Bank Limited, who Ill call Shawbrook, unfairly 
declined their claim for misrepresentation under section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974 
(the CCA) in relation to a timeshare they were sold.
What happened
Mrs K and Mr K bought a timeshare product from a company I will call C in October 2019. 
They financed the deal through a fixed sum loan with Shawbrook.
Mrs K and Mr K complained to Shawbrook in early 2022. They said that the timeshare and 
the associated finance agreement were misrepresented to them as:
They were given false information about the loan agreement because they were told 
the interest rate was 2.35% but it turned out to be 11.3%.
They were pressured into signing the loan documents without fully reading them.
They were led to believe they wouldnt get all the benefits of the package if they took 
the documents away to read.
They werent told the loan agreement had a cooling off period.
Shawbrook didnt uphold Mrs K and Mr Ks claim as they didnt think Mrs K and Mr K had 
provided sufficient evidence to support their claims of misrepresentation, and they thought 
the documentation provided in the various agreements set out the product in sufficient detail. 
They also explained that the fixed sum loan gave Mrs K and Mr K a right to withdraw from 
the finance agreement within 14 days. Our investigator agreed with Shawbrook but as Mrs K 
and Mr K didnt, the complaint has been referred to me, an ombudsman, for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I know it will disappoint Mrs K and Mr K, but I dont think Shawbrook have been 
unreasonable to reject their section 75 claim. Ill explain why.
Im required by DISP 3.6.4R of the Financial Conduct Authoritys (FCAs) Handbook to take
into account the relevant, laws and regulations; regulators rules, guidance, and standards;
codes of practice and, when appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry
practice at the relevant time.
The Financial Ombudsman Service is designed to be a quick and informal alternative to the
courts under the Financial Services and Markets Act (2000). Given that, my role as an
ombudsman is not to address every single point that has been made. Instead, it is to decide
what is fair and reasonable given the circumstances of this complaint. And for that reason, I
am only going to refer to what I think are the most salient points. But I have read all of the
submissions from both sides in full and I keep in mind all of the points that have been made
when I set out my final decision.
The Consumer Credit Act 1974
When something goes wrong and the payment was made with a fixed sum loan, as was the 
case here, it might be possible to make a section 75 claim. This section of the Consumer 
Credit Act (1974) says that in certain circumstances, the borrower under a credit agreement 
has a right to make the same claim against the credit provider as against the supplier if 
there's either a breach of contract or misrepresentation by the supplier.
From what I can see, all the necessary criteria for a claim to be made under section 75 have 
been met.
It's not for me to decide the outcome of a claim Mrs K and Mr K have under section 75 but 
Im required to take the provisions into account when deciding whether the lender was 
reasonable to reject Mrs K and Mr Ks claims.
The claim under section 75 of the CCA
Misrepresentation is, in very broad terms, a statement of law or of fact, made by one party to 
a contract to the other, which is untrue, and which materially influenced the other party to 
enter into the contract.
Whilst I understand Mrs K and Mr Ks assertions they were told the loan had a 2.35% 
interest rate, theyve not been able to provide any documentation to support that claim and 
the fixed sum loan agreement they signed explains that the rate is 11.3%. I dont think 
Shawbrook therefore had sufficient evidence to suggest the loan was misrepresented on that 
basis.
The fixed sum loan also explains Mrs K and Mr Ks right to withdraw from it within 14 days, 
and the timeshare information statement signed in October 2019 also sets out Mrs K and Mr 
Ks right to withdraw from the timeshare agreement within 14 calendar days, without giving 
any reason. So, I dont think there is sufficient evidence to suggest Mrs K and Mr K were 
given false statements with regard to their withdrawal rights. And, as Im persuaded it was 
explained to Mrs K and Mr K that they could withdraw from the timeshare agreement and its 
associated credit agreement within 14 days, I dont think it would be fair to suggest there is 
sufficient evidence they were likely to have been told they wouldnt receive all the benefits of 
the timeshare arrangement if they didnt sign immediately. The benefits of the agreement 
were clearly set out in the timeshare agreement and within the associated information 
statement.
For those reasons I dont think a court would be likely to uphold a claim under section 75 and 
I dont think Shawbrook were unreasonable to do so.
The claim under section 140A of the CCA
Mrs K and Mr K say they were pressured into signing the loan. Section 140A of the CCA looks at the fairness of the relationship between a debtor and 
creditor arising out of the credit agreement (taken together with any related agreement). If 
Mrs K and Mr K were unduly pressured I may think an unfair relationship was created. I 
therefore think this aspect of Mrs K and Mr Ks claim should be considered under section 
140A of the CCA.
Section 56 of the CCA is relevant to the claim under section 140A of the CCA as the
pre-contractual acts or omissions of the supplier will be deemed to be the responsibility of 
the lender, and this may be taken into account by a court in deciding whether an unfair 
relationship exists between Mrs K and Mr K and Shawbrook.
We know it is common that these sales often lasted for a number of hours and a focus was 
placed on the benefits of the timeshare and on overcoming any objections. But Ive not seen 
anything to suggest Mrs K and Mr K werent aware they could simply walk away, and I think 
the withdrawal clauses in the timeshare and credit agreements allowed them to do so once 
theyd read through the detail of the agreements in their own time.
Overall, therefore, I dont think a court would likely conclude that the relationship between 
Mrs K and Mr K and the lender was unfair based on the information provided. So, for that 
reason, I dont think Shawbrook has to do anything further in relation to Mrs K or Mr Ks 
claim.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs K and Mr K to 
accept or reject my decision before 22 August 2023.
 
Phillip McMahon
Ombudsman