DRN-3775739
The complaint
Mr G is unhappy with how Aviva Insurance Limited handled a claim against him on his motor 
insurance policy.
What happened
In July 2021 Mr G was involved in an accident with another vehicle. He explained, as he 
approached a red light the vehicle in front began reversing as it had overshot the lights. He 
began to reverse also but not far enough, and the other vehicle hit his car.
As there was minor damage to his vehicle and no evidence of damage to the other vehicle, 
both drivers decided to settle the issue between them exchanging contact information. Mr G 
tried to contact the other driver following this but was unsuccessful.
In September 2021 Aviva contacted Mr G making him aware theyd received a claim against 
him and as they hadnt received a response, they settled the claim on a without prejudice 
basis covering the third partys claim in December 2021.
In January 2022 Mr G complained to Aviva. He was unhappy as he had responded to their 
email and they hadnt taken account of it and went ahead and settled the third-party claim 
without any details or input from him. 
Aviva acknowledged Mr G had responded and the claims handler had failed to upload the 
email to the system. They apologised and offered £50 compensation. They also let Mr G 
know they had dealt with the third-party claim on a without prejudice basis meaning if he 
wished to dispute it and had evidence to support his version of events, they could dispute 
the claim.
Mr G referred his concerns to this service. Our investigator felt Aviva shouldve done more 
when handling the claim at the outset and should pay £150 to reflect this. Mr G remained 
unhappy with the liability decision made and felt Aviva should have told him the accounts of 
the incident differed. He feels if they had they wouldnt have been able to hold him 100% at 
fault. As the investigator was unable to resolve things, it has now been passed to me decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Aviva have a responsibility to handle claims promptly and fairly. Their terms and conditions 
set out the agreement between them and Mr G and it highlights that if an insureds vehicle is 
involved in an incident, the insured should contact them quickly even where theres no 
damage to the vehicle.
I understand why Mr G didnt do this as he thought it was being resolved between them, but 
irrespective of this he should still have reported it to Aviva in line with the terms. However, 
Aviva received notification of the incident from the third party and contacted Mr G to make 
him aware. Mr G had responded the same day but this wasnt actioned as it shouldve been 
meaning Aviva went on to settle the claim without his input.
I can understand why Mr G was upset by this, he hadnt been able to put his version of 
events forward before Aviva decided he was at fault for the incident. And they hadnt asked 
for any supporting documentation that might have helped clarify liability. I can also see he 
had to chase Aviva for a response to his complaint, which took around a month for a reply.
Aviva have accepted they made a mistake, apologised and offered Mr G £50 for their error. 
And as they settled the third-party claim on a without prejudice basis, theyve let Mr G know 
it remained open for him to dispute the claim and provide any evidence he had to support his 
version of events. Im not aware he has provided anything further to dispute the claim.
Taking account of the service provided overall, I think the apology and £150 compensation is 
a fair resolution to the complaint. I say this because it fairly reflects the impact of the error 
made in not actioning Mr Gs email, delays in responding to Mr G and not sharing the third 
partys testimony with him so he fully understood the allegations made against him.
I understand Mr G remains unhappy in respect of liability. It isnt my role to determine liability 
but hes in no different position than he wouldve been had Aviva uploaded his email for 
consideration as Aviva have maintained their view. Whilst I think Aviva should have taken 
account of his email at the time and followed up to better understand the situation from Mr 
Gs perspective, this is an option thats open to him still. Aviva have advised they can 
consider any evidence he wants to provide to dispute the third partys version of events. And 
as the claim has settled on a without prejudice basis, theyre able to dispute liability if they 
feel its appropriate based on the evidence.
My final decision
My final decision is that Aviva Insurance Limited should pay Mr G £150.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision before 6 January 2023.
 
Karin Hutchinson
Ombudsman