DRN-3098726
The complaint
A partnership, which Ill refer to as W, complains that Lloyds Bank PLC (trading as Cardnet) 
has breached the terms of its merchant services contract by unfairly deducting amounts from 
funds due to W. 
Mr M, a partner in W, brings the complaint on W's behalf.
What happened
W is a retail business, which has a contract with Cardnet for the provision of merchant 
services. It also has a contract with a third party, which introduced W to Cardnet and dealt 
with the completion of contracts (the introducer). 
In 2019, for a period of around three weeks, the introducer has said it made an error, which 
meant that a merchant terminal that wasnt Ws was attached to Ws merchant account. 
The error meant that payments processed through the other merchants terminal and were 
therefore due to that merchant were instead credited to Ws account. These payments 
totalled around £12,400. The introducer asked W to get in touch to arrange repayment of 
these funds.
In January 2020, Cardnet wrote to W. They also asked for the money to be repaid. 
Mr M complained to Cardnet on behalf of W. He said they hadnt explained adequately why 
the money in question belonged to another merchant and he was concerned about the data-
sharing between Cardnet and the introducer. 
In February 2020, Cardnet responded formally to Ws complaint. They apologised for 
forwarding Mr Ms first email to the introducer without first telling him they were going to do 
so. They also explained how to use Ws online access to see which transactions were 
processed through which terminal. They reiterated that this showed that a series of 
payments had been credited to Ws account from a terminal that wasnt Ws. They asked 
again for W to arrange repayment of the misdirected funds. 
Not content with this response, Mr M referred Ws complaint to our service. 
In the meantime, in March 2020, Cardnet wrote to W again to say that, as repayment hadnt 
been arranged, they would start reclaiming the funds by deducting £250 a day from 
payments due to W. 
W later told us that Cardnet had underpaid them in excess of £12,000. The partnership 
argued that Cardnet wasnt entitled to claim these amounts under the merchant services 
contract. W said the payments it had received were in accordance with the transaction data 
and the terms of the contract. It said that if an error had been made, that was a matter 
between the introducer and the other merchant, not between W and Cardnet. 
In July 2020, one of our investigators looked into things and concluded that Cardnet hadnt 
done anything wrong. In summary, he said that the evidence showed that an incorrect 
terminal had been attached to Ws merchant account, so the transactions processed through 
it didnt belong to W. He thought it was reasonable for Cardnet to reclaim these sums. 
Mr M disagreed with our investigator and sent a detailed response explaining why he 
considered the terms of Ws contract didnt permit the actions taken. He said, in summary, 
that Cardnet had taken sums not due to them using contract terms that didnt apply. And he 
asked for an ombudsman to look at the matter again. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im sorry to disappoint Mr M but I agree with our investigator that Cardnet 
hasnt done anything wrong in this case. So Im not going to uphold Ws complaint. Ill 
explain why below. 
I dont think there is any real question here that the sums in question were not amounts due 
to W from transactions it carried out and processed through its terminals. They were 
processed through another merchants terminal, which was temporarily attached to Ws 
merchant account in error. Im satisfied that the transaction data, which clearly shows the 
code for each terminal, demonstrates this to be the case. This evidence has been shared 
with Mr M, who hasnt disputed it. 
I know that Mr M would like me to make findings about the correct interpretation of various 
clauses in Ws contract with Cardnet. I understand his argument that the amounts in 
question are not sums due to Cardnet itself and that the wording of the contract doesnt 
entirely fit the circumstances prevailing in this case. 
However, the Financial Services and Markets Act 2000 specifies that my role is to determine 
complaints by reference to whats fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of the case. 
And in the circumstances of this particular case, I think Cardnet has acted reasonably in 
reclaiming funds paid in error, regardless of the interpretation of different contract clauses. 
I say this because the amounts in question didnt belong to W. So I think it was fair for 
Cardnet to reclaim them and restore them to their rightful owner. 
I note that Cardnet gave W some time to repay before it took any action to reclaim the funds. 
I think this was fair. By the time Cardnet started to take the money back, W had been 
contacted several times asking it to repay and had received a formal response to its 
complaint. Some six months had elapsed during which W had the use of funds that didnt 
belong to it. 
Ive considered whether the original error in this case has caused W to incur a loss or, more 
generally, inconvenience. I appreciate that Mr M has spent considerable time and effort in 
pursuing this complaint, but I think that was his choice. Im not persuaded that the 
introducers mistake caused W a direct loss. And I dont think it would have caused any 
material inconvenience had it been resolved, as suggested, by the swift return of the 
misdirected funds. Im therefore not going to make any award in this case. 
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold this complaint against Lloyds Bank PLC. Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask W to accept or 
reject my decision before 12 November 2021.
 
Louise Bardell
Ombudsman