DRN-3299524
The complaint
Mr W has complained that Bank of Scotland plc, trading as Halifax (Halifax), mis-sold him a 
payment protection insurance (PPI) policy along with his mortgage.
What happened
In November 1992 Mr W took a PPI policy at the same time he applied for a mortgage. In the 
event of a successful claim for accident, sickness or unemployment the policy would pay 
£250 per month towards his mortgage repayment for a maximum of 12 months per claim. 
The policy premium was £17.50 per month.
Mr W thought he had been mis-sold the policy. In November 2019 Halifax rejected the 
complaint so remaining dissatisfied Mr W bought his complaint to this service. 
He told us he had other cover he could have relied upon to make the mortgage repayments 
if he wasnt working. He says he wouldnt have taken the cover if he had been properly 
briefed, if he had lost his job he would likely be re-employed as the industry he worked in 
was buoyant and that alternatives to losing his home in the event he couldnt have kept up 
with the repayments werent explained to him. He also referred to the culture of the mis-
selling of PPI at the time that had been recognised.
Our adjudicator who considered the complaint didnt think it should be upheld. They thought 
that the policy hadnt been mis-sold to him despite the other cover Mr W told us about. 
In response to the adjudicator Mr W said he had been manipulated into taking the PPI rather 
than it being suitable for him. He said pressure had been applied in order for him to take the 
policy  if he wanted to keep his house, he needed PPI. 
As the complaint remains unresolved, it has been passed to me for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account when deciding Mr Ws case.
Having done so, Ive decided not to uphold Mr Ws complaint. Ill explain why.
The crux of Mr Ws complaint is that Halifax inappropriately applied pressure and guidance 
in order for him to buy the PPI. He has said mis-selling was common at the time and that he 
was manipulated into accepting it rather than it being suitable for him. It was implied that he 
wouldnt be able to keep his house in the event he couldnt keep up with the mortgage 
repayments. 
Clearly, I cant know what was said to Mr W at the meeting he had in-branch or how exactly 
the PPI was presented to him. Halifax hasnt been able to give us copies of the documents 
that would have been completed at the point of sale. But I would say I dont find this 
surprising bearing in mind this sale took place 30 years ago - the mortgage itself has been 
redeemed over 25 years ago - and that businesses arent obliged to keep paperwork 
indefinitely. 
I have also borne in mind that because of the length of time since the sale this would 
inevitably have had an impact on the parties recollections of the events. And where I have to 
consider conflicting testimony, I have to decide the complaint on what I think is more likely to 
have happened bearing in mind the evidence and the information I do have. 
Halifax has been able to give us a copy of the policy terms and conditions that it says would 
have reflected those that applied to this sale. That document refers to a form that would 
have needed to have been completed in order for the PPI to have been applied for. And from 
what Mr W has told us, he was made aware the PPI was separate from the mortgage and he 
did have a choice about taking it. But he says Halifax pressured him into taking it.
So, Ive thought about whether what I have seen and been told by Mr W shows its more 
likely that although Mr W was made aware he had a choice about taking the policy, Halifax 
pressured him into taking it. Mr W has said it was implied that if he didnt take the policy his 
home would be re-possessed if he couldnt keep up with the repayments, no alternative 
guidance was given, and he was told that he would have been stupid not to have taken it. 
But bearing in mind what Ive already said above  the time that has passed and the very 
limited evidence I have been given  Ive not seen anything else to make me that it more 
likely than not that Mr W was pressured to take the policy rather than it being just as likely 
that Halifax recommended it to him. For example, Im not aware of anything to suggest that 
Halifax at this time wouldve usually pressured consumers like Mr W into taking PPI at sales 
like these, rather than giving them a fair choice about it.
The PPI provided cover that could help Mr W with his mortgage payments if he suffered 
disability or unemployment. His mortgage was a loan secured on his home, so if he could 
not keep up payments his home wouldve been at risk. The PPI benefit could therefore help 
reduce the chances of his home being put at risk if he suffered a loss of income in those 
situations  and it wouldve been reasonable for Halifax to make points along those lines. On 
balance, what I have isnt enough to make me think Halifax put points like this to Mr W in a 
way that was unfair or pressured him into the policy.
I know Mr W has been extremely disappointed and frustrated by this and I appreciate it is 
difficult to evidence what was said during a conversation at a meeting  and so to judge 
whether what was said crossed the line between advice or persuasion and pressure - but I 
hope I have been able to explain how and why I have reached the conclusion about this 
point that I have. 
Halifax says it advised Mr W to take out the policy and if it did, it had to do more and make 
sure the policy was suitable for him. And looking at Mr Ws circumstances, I think it was 
suitable. Ill explain why.
Mr W has said he would receive between three and six months pay from his employer if he 
was off work because of accident or sickness. But the policy would pay out for 12 months if 
Mr W was too unwell to work. And it would have paid out over and above any employee 
benefits he was entitled to. So those benefits could have been used to pay other household 
expenses at what could have been a difficult time.Mr W has told us he would receive a redundancy pay-out if he lost his job and said that he 
was confident he would have got a new job very quickly because of the buoyancy in his 
employment sector. But circumstances can change  and again, the policy would pay out on 
top of any redundancy benefits Mr W would have received from his employer. 
Mr W told us about the other financial means he could have relied upon  he had some 
savings, would have received unemployment benefit if he lost his job, he had an endowment 
policy as well as critical health insurance and could have relied on his family for financial 
support. 
However, having the policy would have meant his savings would have remained intact for 
longer and could have been used for their original purpose or other emergencies. I dont 
think it would have been advisable to have relied upon statutory benefits as a means of 
making a mortgage repayment and his endowment policy wouldnt have been of use in the 
case of him not being able to work because of redundancy or illness. Mr Ws critical health 
insurance wouldnt have provided the same sort of cover the PPI did in case of accident, 
sickness or unemployment and relying upon his family for financial support couldnt have 
been guaranteed as their own circumstances could have changed.
Mr W was solely responsible for making the mortgage repayments. Insurance is there to 
protect against the unexpected and I do think the policy would have been a useful benefit to 
Mr W in what could have been a financially stressful time if he wasnt able to work. 
Mr W doesnt appear to have been caught by any restrictive terms or exclusions in the 
policy. For example, he didnt have any unusual employment arrangements or a pre-existing 
medical condition at the time of taking out the PPI.
Mr W has referred to the culture of the mis-selling of PPI. I am aware there were failings in 
the financial services industry and PPI was mis-sold. But I have to consider what I believe to 
be fair and reasonable in the individual circumstances of Mr Ws own particular complaint. 
And Id like to reassure him I have taken into account what both parties have told me in 
reaching the conclusion that I have. 
I know my conclusions will be extremely disappointing and frustrating for Mr W  he has put 
time and effort into bringing his complaint. And I thank him for that. But after taking all of the 
testimony and the limited evidence into account, I am not upholding the complaint.      
                                                                                                                                         
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I am not upholding Mr Ws complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 25 March 2022.
 Catherine Langley
Ombudsman