DRN-3937604
The complaint
Mr B complains Legal and General Assurance Society Limited unfairly terminated his claim 
when he was still too unwell to work.
What happened
Mr B is a beneficiary of his employers group income protection scheme, underwritten by 
L&G. The policy is designed to a pay a benefit when a member is incapacitated due to 
illness or injury, after a 26 week deferred period. 
Mr Bs absence from work began in July 2019, after he was diagnosed with cancer. And he 
underwent treatment. 
The policy terms define incapacity as follows. 
Own occupation
Means the insured member is incapacitated by illness or injury that prevents him 
from performing the essential duties of his occupation immediately before the start of 
the deferred period.
The insured members capacity to perform the essential duties of his own occupation 
will be determined whether or not that occupation remains available to him.
A claim was made against the policy in January 2020. L&G contacted Mr Bs GP for his 
medical records and these were provided in February 2021 after some considerable delay. 
The records included reports from Mr Bs treating specialists  Dr C and Dr D. 
A report from Dr C dated 10 March 2020, reflected a review Mr B had attended at a clinic. It 
said Mr B had ongoing issues, including an acute pulmonary embolism and was being 
prescribed medication. Dr C stated Mr B had said his fatigue was improving, as well as his 
concentration and stamina in the past month. Mr B was noted to have said he could manage 
his stairs without becoming significantly breathless. However he also reported ongoing pain. 
The doctor stated Mr B still had ongoing toxicity from his treatment, which was causing 
tingling and numbness of the fingers and toes. But Mr B had reported this was improving. Dr 
C also noted Mr B had said he was moving house and had painted a bedroom over the past 
two weeks. There was no comment on Mr Bs fitness for work in the report. 
There are further reports from an associated specialist  Dr D  dated April and May 2020, 
as Mr Bs condition was being reviewed around every four weeks. These reports continue to 
details some improvements in Mr Bs symptoms, but also continued pain at the site of the 
surgery. Mr B was also experiencing some chest pain, which the doctor attributed to a car 
accident in December 2020. Mr B continued to be prescribed medication which was being 
monitored and adjusted, and results from his scans were under review. There was no 
comment on Mr Bs fitness for work in these reports. 
In July 2020, a further report from Dr D reflects that Mr B had been moved to telephone 
appointments, whereas he had previously been reviewed in the clinic. Dr D noted Mr B had 
said his pain was improving, as was his exercise tolerance. Although he had still struggled 
with some breathlessness. Dr D said the intermittent pain Mr B continued to experience at 
the surgery site was in-keeping with post-operative changes, and that his blood tests had 
shown normal tumour markers. He also referenced a foot injury Mr B had sustained when he 
fell down some stairs. Dr D said Mr B was intending to go back to work in the near future, 
and the doctor said in view of on-going fatigue and breathlessness due to residual on-going 
chemotherapy effects, I would recommend a phased return.  
L&G accepted the claim and agreed to pay it from the end of deferred period, which was 17 
January 2020. But said it would only pay the claim up until 17 March 2020, terminating it 
from this date. It thought the medical evidence showed Mr Bs treatment had been 
successful and he had responded well. It said the reports from March and April 2020 
reflected Mr B being fit to undertake tasks such as DIY at home, which it thought showed he 
was able to return to work. 
Mr B said he was still unfit for work and complained to L&G in March 2021, appealing the 
declinature of the claim. L&G responded to the complaint in September 2021. It said no new 
medical evidence had been supplied, so it had again reviewed the medical reports 
previously obtained. And it said it maintained that Mr B was fit to return to work in mid-March 
2020. It also noted that Mr B seemed to have been out of the country for around six months 
from November 2020, and there was no evidence that he had consulted his specialist or 
received any treatment or check-ups during that time. It said it thought it had been right to 
pay the claim up until mid-March 2020 only.
Unhappy with L&Gs response, Mr B brought his complaint to this service. An investigator 
here looked into what had happened. They said they thought there was insufficient evidence 
for L&G to terminate the claim as soon as it did. And they thought the claim should have 
been paid up until mid-July 2020, based on the medical evidence. 
Mr B accepted the investigators view. However L&G disagreed. In summary it said the 
medical report from July 2020 commented on Mr Bs fitness for work. However it said the 
March 2020 report reflected Mr B functioning normally day to day.  And it said although the 
reports prior to July 2020 didnt state Mr B could return to work, they also didnt state he 
could not. It also commented on Mr Bs travel abroad at the end of 2020, and that he had not 
engaged with L&Gs enquiries for information. In summary it said it thought there was a lack 
of objective evidence to support total incapacity until July 2020. 
As L&G asked for a decision from an ombudsman, the case has been passed to me to 
decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
And Ive looked at the relevant rules and industry guidelines, which say L&G has a 
responsibility to handle claims promptly and fairly and shouldnt reject a claim unreasonably. 
Having done so, I dont think L&G has acted fairly in the particular circumstances of this 
case. And Ill explain why.As the claim had been accepted, when deciding to terminate it, it was for L&G to evidence 
that Mr B no longer met the policy terms of incapacity  specifically that he was no longer 
incapacitated by illness or injury, preventing him from performing the essential duties of his 
occupation. However, Im not persuaded L&G sufficiently evidenced this, and I think the 
claim was unfairly terminated too soon.
L&G terminated the claim as at mid-March 2020. Mr B reported activity including moving 
house and painting a bedroom, at the March 2020 review with his specialist. And L&G said it 
thought this meant Mr B was no longer incapacitated. However Im not satisfied this 
sufficiently demonstrates Mr B was fit to carry out the essential duties of his job role. 
Although moving house and painting can be considered quite strenuous physical activity, 
there is no detail in the medical report of what help Mr B had with these tasks, how much he 
carried out himself, or over what period of time. And no comment on the functional capacity 
needed for these tasks, compared to those of the job role.  Also the report contains no 
comment from the specialist on Mr Bs fitness for work. So Im not persuaded it was fair for 
L&G to rely on this and other statements about Mr Bs activity at the time, to terminate the 
claim.
Having reviewed the subsequent reports from Mr Bs treating specialist, the first comments 
on Mr Bs fitness for work appear in the report dated 13 July 2020. As set out above, within 
this report it was documented that Mr B had said he thought he would be able to return to 
work, and Dr D recommended a gradual phased return. So I think this is the earliest point at 
which there is medical evidence to support L&Gs stance that Mr B was no longer 
incapacitated. 
L&G has said there was a lack of evidence to support Mr Bs ongoing incapacity after March 
2020. However as Ive explained above, once the claim was accepted, the burden of proof 
no longer sat with Mr B to evidence his claim. In terminating the claim, it is for the insurer to 
demonstrate that the claimant no longer meets the policy definition of incapacity. 
Im satisfied there was sufficient evidence that Mr B was no longer incapacitated, in the July 
2020 medical report, whereby Dr D stated Mr B was able to start a phased return to work. 
This is the point at which Im persuaded he no longer met the policy terms of incapacity. So 
thats the point at which I think L&G could have fairly terminated the claim. So, to put things 
right, L&G should pay the claim from the point at which it was terminated, until the date of Dr 
Ds report on 13 July 2020. 
Mr B and L&G have made points about events which occurred later in 2020 and in 2021, 
however Ive not found it necessary to comment on these, as Im satisfied the claim should 
have been paid up until July 2020, at which time Im satisfied L&G could have fairly 
terminated it. 
Mr B has referenced other symptoms and conditions he has since suffered with, which he 
says continued to prevent him from returning to work. However thats not something I can 
look into as part of this complaint. If Mr B would like L&G to consider a new claim, he should 
raise that directly with the insurer for its assessment. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given, its my final decision that I uphold this complaint. And I direct 
Legal and General Assurance Society Limited to pay the incapacity claim benefits up until 13 
July 2020. Legal and General Assurance Society Limited should pay interest on the benefit payments at 
8% simple, from the date the payments should have originally been paid, until the date of 
settlement. 
Legal and General Assurance Society Limited must pay the compensation within 28 days of 
the date on which we tell it Mr B accepts my final decision. If it pays later than this, it must 
also pay interest on the compensation, from the date of my final decision to the date of 
payment, at 8% simple.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 10 April 2023.
 
Gemma Warner
Ombudsman