DRN-3956768
The complaint
Mr R complains that Great Lakes Insurance SE hasnt refunded the premiums paid for a 
single trip insurance policy.
Mr R has been represented throughout this complaint by his wife, however, for ease of 
reading I will refer only to Mr R.
What happened
On 8 January 2020, Mr R took out a single trip travel insurance policy to cover a trip 
departing on 17 April 2020. The policy was provided by Great Lakes. The policy also 
included additional premiums to cover Mr Rs pre-existing medical conditions. In total he paid 
£1430.42 in premiums for this policy, which included a discount.
Because of the global pandemic, the trip was cancelled and on 23 March 2020, he contacted 
Great Lakes to cancel the policy and request a refund of the premium. Great Lakes said that 
as it was more than 14 days since the purchase of the policy, Mr R was not entitled to a 
refund of the premium. However, Great Lakes said it would be willing to offer a pro-rata 
refund of £799.12. This was in the form of a voucher, valid for three years, that could be put 
towards purchasing another insurance policy. Or it could be gifted to friends or family to be 
used.
In August 2022, Mr R contacted Great Lakes to ask for a cash refund to be provided. He 
said this was because he wasnt going to be able to go on holiday now, due to the cost-of-
living increase and that the amount he would have to pay in insurance would be too 
prohibitive. He also wasnt happy that he hadnt been given a full refund of the premium. 
Great Lakes didnt agree to provide a cash refund and so he made a complaint and brought 
his complaint to this service.
Our investigator set out the details of the relevant cancellation rights and how they applied in
the circumstances of this case. The investigator also explained that it is a fundamental
principle of insurance law that if the insurer had started to bear risk  for however short a
time  the premium paid is not returnable. That means its not unreasonable for an insurer to
keep any premiums relating to the risk it covered during that time. The investigator also
explained that Covid-19 didnt make it impossible for the contract of insurance to be
performed because cover under the policy started on 8 January 2020 and the policy
covered various risks during that time.
The investigator acknowledged the unique and unprecedented circumstances of Covid-19.
They thought that the fair and reasonable outcome in all the circumstances of this complaint
was for Great Lakes to provide a pro-rata refund of the policy in the form of a voucher, from 
the date Mr R requested that the policy was cancelled. And so they didnt think Great Lakes 
needed to provide a cash refund. 
Mr R didnt agree with our investigators opinion. As no agreement could be reached, the 
complaint has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Our investigator identified, and set out, the rules, regulations and law. I agree those are the 
relevant considerations which apply to the specific circumstances of this case.
The policy terms and conditions say:
You have the right to cancel your policy within 14 days of the date of issue or receipt 
of your documents, whichever is later. We will only refund to you any premium you 
have paid, less any fees and charges if you have not travelled, or have made, or 
intend to make a claim.
If the notice of cancellation is received outside the 14-day cooling off period no 
premium will be refunded, however discretion may be exercised in exceptional 
circumstances such as bereavement or a change to the policy resulting in us 
declining to cover your medical conditions.
The policy was cancelled outside the cooling off period and so there is no requirement under
the relevant industry rules and guidelines for the insurer to offer a refund. As Ive outlined
above, the contract of insurance says that Great Lakes doesnt have to pay any refund of a
policyholders premium after the cooling-off period has ended. In this case, Mr Rs
cooling-off period ended on 22 January 2020. But the policy wasnt cancelled until 23 March 
2020. So, Im satisfied the cancellation was outside of the 14-day cooling-off period.
The policy terms and conditions do give Great Lakes discretion to refund the premium to a
policyholder if a policy is cancelled outside of the 14-day cooling off period in exceptional
circumstances. The examples of exceptional circumstances listed are specific to the
individual policyholder such as bereavement and/or a change in a policyholders medical
conditions  whereas the Covid-19 global pandemic has had a far-reaching impact, affecting
a large number of Great Lakes policyholders. Im not persuaded that this type of situation is
one which the policy term relating to discretion is intended to cover. 
Ive also considered what is fair and reasonable in the circumstances of the complaint
including the unique and unprecedented circumstances surrounding Covid-19. In the
circumstances of this case I think Great Lakes offer to provide Mr R with a credit
voucher for the unused portion of the cover, from the date he cancelled the policy, was fair
and reasonable.
The voucher value of £799.12 has been calculated based on the unused period of the travel
insurance cover. This is reflective of the fact that Great Lakes wouldnt have been covering 
any further risk under the policy from the date the policy was cancelled. Mr R has said that 
he doesnt understand why he didnt receive a full refund as it wasnt his choice to cancel  
he was forced to as a result of the Covid-19 pandemic. But Mr Rs policy didnt just provide 
cover during the time he was on a trip. It also covered the risk of him having to cancel his trip 
for other reasons covered by the policy from the date the policy was taken out, on 8 January 
2020. Mr R had specifically taken out this policy to provide cover for his pre-existing medical 
conditions, and Great Lakes was on risk for him making a successful claim on the policy 
from the issue date until 23 March 2020. So, Im not persuaded Mr R should receive a full 
refund of the premium for the time that Great Lakes was on risk.
Mr R is unhappy that Great Lakes will not provide a cash refund of the insurancepremium, rather than a credit voucher. Mr R has said he cannot use the voucher due to the 
financial situation and cost of living increases since the policy was cancelled. He has said 
that the cost of getting insurance would be more than the voucher. In considering whether I 
think Great Lakes should now make a pro-rata refund of their premiums by way of a 
monetary refund, Ive thought about what would be fair and reasonable to both parties. I 
appreciate why Mr R may not have felt he was able to go on a trip during the period of the 
voucher, however, the voucher was valid for 36 months, and could have been used to buy 
insurance for any type of trip not just for the same long-haul destination that Mr R was meant 
to be going to in April 2020. And the terms of Great Lakes voucher werent unreasonably 
restrictive  they also allowed for the voucher to be gifted to others if it couldnt be used by 
Mr R - so Im satisfied the voucher was a fair offer in the circumstances. Im not persuaded 
that Great Lakes has to now offer a monetary refund on this occasion.
Mr R has told us that he is aware that other insurers have made full cash refunds on travel 
insurance policies cancelled as a result of the Covid-19 pandemic. So, he doesnt think it is 
fair that Great Lakes hasnt done the same. Whilst I appreciate his comments, complaints 
are considered on their own individual merits, based on the specific circumstances of that 
case. The complaint made to this service relates to the refund of premium of the policy that 
Mr R held with Great Lakes and, based on the information and evidence supplied in support 
of this complaint, I think Great Lakes has acted fairly when reaching this offer. 
My final decision
For the reasons mentioned above, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision before 16 May 2023.
 
Jenny Giles
Ombudsman