DRN-1552825
The complaint
Mr H has complained that Barclays Bank UK PLC mis-sold him credit card payment 
protection insurance (PPI) policies. 
What happened
Mr H took out the policies at the same time as applying for the dual credit cards in 1998 
during a branch meeting
Our adjudicator didnt uphold the complaint. Mr H disagrees with the adjudicators opinion 
and so the complaint has been passed to me for a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Weve set out our general approach to 
complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
this case.
Im not upholding Mr Hs complaint and Ill explain why.
Mr H says he was told he had to have the PPI if he wanted the credit cards. Ive seen a copy 
of the application form Mr H completed and signed at the time. There is a separate section 
for PPI with Yes and No boxes to either request or decline the policy. The Yes box has 
been ticked. Mr H could have ticked the No box if he hadnt wanted the policy. The sale was 
a long time ago and so it wouldnt be surprising if Mr Hs recollection of events has faded. 
From the available evidence, Im persuaded that Mr H was probably given a choice about 
taking out the PPI. It seems to me that he decided to buy it, knowing that he didnt have to, 
even if he no longer remembers doing so.
Barclays advised Mr H to buy the policies. Therefore, in recommending the PPI to him, it 
needed to ensure that it met his needs. And from what I know of Mr Hs circumstances at the 
time, the PPI was suitable for him.
Mr H would have received some sick pay from his employer. But the PPI would have paid 
out in addition to any sick pay and potentially for longer than Mr H would have received full 
pay for. Mr H hasnt mentioned having any other means, such as savings, that he could have 
fallen back on. But even if he did have some savings, the PPI would have allowed him to 
retain these or use them to cover other outgoings at what would have been a difficult time. 
Overall I think that Mr H had a need for the PPI and could have benefitted from it.
Its possible the Barclays didnt provide as much information about the policy as it should 
have, particularly about the things that it didnt cover. But Mr H wasnt affected by any of 
those things. As I think that Mr H had an interest in the PPI and decided to buy it, I dont 
think that further information would have caused him to change his mind. So he is no worse 
off a result of anything Barclays may have done wrong, so theres nothing Barclays needs to 
do to put things right.My final decision
My decision is that I do not uphold Mr Hs complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 20 May 2020.
Carole Clark
Ombudsman