DRN-2079914
The complaint
Mr C complains about a decision by One Insurance Limited (One Insurance) to reject his 
motor insurance claim after his car was stolen.
What happened
In April 2019, Mr Cs car, along with its key, was stolen. His claim form described what 
happened:
Car was taken from driveway. Car was locked but boot open as I was unloading goods. 
Keys were in garage on worktop. Garage door was open. I was [intermittently] in car/ 
garage/ garden. 
Mr Cs belief is that someone entered the garage through the open door, took the cars key 
from the worktop, and then used that to open the car and drive it away. 
One Insurance considered these circumstances, and decided to reject Mr Cs claim. In their 
response to his complaint, they said this was because leaving the boot open had directly 
resulted in the vehicle being stolen. Mr C didnt think this was fair, so he brought the matter 
to us.
Our investigator upheld Mr Cs complaint. He felt Mr C had done enough to secure the car 
before it was stolen. He noted the open boot hadnt been used to access the car. And he felt 
Mr C could have expected the key to be reasonably secure inside the garage. He also 
looked at the wording of the insurance policy, and felt Mr C had done enough to meet its 
conditions about securing the car. 
One Insurance acknowledged some of this, but ultimately disagreed with the view they 
should reassess the claim. They suggested that the boot being open could have been what 
led whoever stole the car to go looking for the keys in the garage. 
Given theres no agreement about how to resolve this complaint, its come to me for a formal 
decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive decided to uphold Mr Cs complaint. Hed done enough to meet the conditions of the 
policy, so One Insurance shouldnt have rejected his claim. Ill explain why.
The theft of the keys as well as the car tells me they were probably used to steal the car. So 
although the boot of the car was open when it was stolen, that isnt relevant to considering 
how the thief was able to get in to the car and steal it. They had the key, making it easier to 
open one of the locked doors, rather than climb through the boot. So I think its more likely 
thats what they did.
The terms of the insurance policy said Mr C wouldnt be covered for loss due to theft if his 
car was left unlocked, left with the keys in it, on it or left with a window or roof open. 
Here, while the open boot might just about count as an unlocked door or an open window, as 
that wasnt relevant to how the theft took place, I dont think its fair for One Insurance to use 
that as a reason to refuse the claim. 
The relevant part of the condition is where the key was left, as this is probably what was 
used to steal the car. The key wasnt in or on the car  it was on a worktop in a nearby 
garage. So Mr C did enough in my view to observe this condition of the policy. 
But theres a more general condition, which One Insurance also highlighted in their 
complaint response. Mr C needed to take reasonable precautions to protect his car from 
being stolen. 
Its here that the key being left in a garage that had the door open and unlocked needs to be 
considered. Had that door been closed and locked, it would have been more difficult for a 
thief to steal the cars key. That added difficulty could have prevented the theft. 
But Mr C was around his car and the garage, in a way that he could expect would deter a 
thief that didnt want to be seen. And there was a risk that could have been expected to deter 
the thief  the garage formed part of the main house. Mr C, or someone else living in the 
house, could have been inside, not visible to the thief before they entered, in a position to 
see them when they did. 
I dont think Mr C could be expected to plan for a thief taking that level of risk when acting to 
protect his car from being stolen. Being nearby and moving between the car and other 
areas, with the key in a nearby, occupied building, not in the car itself, was enough of a 
precaution to count as reasonable in my view. So I find it was unreasonable for One 
Insurance to reject Mr Cs claim the way they did.
In response to the investigators earlier view, One Insurance suggested the open boot may 
have contributed in some way to the thief deciding to enter the garage. But that possibility 
comes back to the same point  Mr C could have expected his presence around the car and 
in the garage when unloading, though intermittent, would deter most thieves. He didnt have 
to plan for every risk a thief might take to fulfil the policys need for reasonable precaution.
Putting things right
One Insurance shouldnt have rejected the claim. To put this right, they now need to 
reassess his claim against the remaining terms and conditions of the policy. 
To reflect the undue delay caused by the unreasonable decision to reject the claim, One 
Insurance should also pay interest on any settlement amount in this case. To calculate this, 
they should use a simple 8% per year rate, applied from the date the car was stolen to the 
date any settlement is paid.
My final decision
Ive decided to uphold Mr Cs complaint about One Insurance Limited. To put this right, One 
Insurance Limited should reassess the claim. Any settlement paid for the claim should have 
simple interest added at 8% per year, to reflect the delay theres been in paying it to Mr C.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask X to accept or 
reject my decision before 6 November 2020.
 
Paul Mellor
Ombudsman