DRN-3252604
The complaint
Mr and Mrs Q complain that Nationwide Building Society gave them incorrect information 
about when an early repayment charge (ERC) would be applied if they repaid their 
mortgage. 
What happened
In 2016, Mr and Mrs Q took out a fixed rate mortgage with Nationwide. An ERC applied if the 
mortgage was repaid during the first 60 months of the mortgage.
Later, when Mr and Mrs Q approached Nationwide to ask whether they could borrow more to 
repay their help to buy loan, they said they were told they should look for a different lender 
and that there would be no ERC if they repaid their mortgage from November 2020. They 
said that Nationwide later gave them the same information.
Mr and Mrs Q arranged a mortgage with another lender  but when they received the 
redemption statement from Nationwide it included an ERC. They said they couldnt change 
the completion date in December 2020 as they would incur various fees related to the help 
to buy loan and they were committed to take the new mortgage.
Mr and Mrs Q complain that Nationwide gave them incorrect information about the ERC and 
that the ERC is unfair and excessive bearing in mind there was only a few days before they 
understood the ERC would expire on 1 January 2021.
I issued a provisional decision saying that I intended to uphold the complaint in part. I 
provisionally found:
Based on the evidence we had, and in particular Mr and Mrs Qs notes of the 
conversations they had with Nationwide at the time in question, that it was more likely 
than not that Nationwide had given them incorrect information about the ERC.
Mr and Mrs Q could have mitigated their loss by delaying the remortgage. It was their 
decision not to do so, but I didnt consider it was fair to tell Nationwide to refund the ERC 
in those circumstances. It had been applied in line with the mortgage offer that Mr and 
Mrs Q had accepted.
Nationwide should pay Mr and Mrs Q £200 for the distress and inconvenience they 
suffered because of the incorrect information. They had arranged their finances based 
on the information Nationwide had given them and were disappointed when they found 
out at a late stage that information was wrong.
Mr and Mrs Q accepted what I said. Nationwide said it had nothing further to add.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As both sides have not made any substantive responses to my provisional decision, I see no 
reason to reach a different outcome here, for the same reasons I set out in my provisional 
decision:
On balance, I consider that Nationwide did give Mr and Mrs Q inaccurate information about 
when the ERC would apply. I say that because Mr and Mrs Q had notes of the relevant 
conversation, but Nationwide did not.
Mr and Mrs Q could have avoided the ERC if they had delayed the remortgage. So I wont 
be asking Nationwide to refund the ERC. But they did suffer distress and inconvenience 
because of the incorrect information. In all the circumstances I think it would be fair for 
Nationwide to pay them £200 to reflect that.
My final decision
My final decision is that Nationwide Building Society should pay Mr and Mrs Q £200 for any 
distress and inconvenience they suffered as a result of this matter.  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr and Mrs to 
accept or reject my decision before 11 February 2022.
 
Ken Rose
Ombudsman