DRN-1693266
The complaint
Miss R says Lloyds Bank PLC mis-sold her a payment protection insurance (PPI) policy. 
What happened
This complaint is about a PPI policy sold to Miss R in 1995 when she applied for a credit 
card.
Our adjudicator didnt think the policy was mis-sold. Miss R disagrees, so the complaint has 
been passed to me for a final decision. 
Miss R mainly said she was never told about the PPI and feels that if she had been told she 
would've definitely said no, as she always says no to extra cover. Miss R has also said that 
she feels the PPI may have been added without asking her.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding this case.
Ive decided not to uphold Miss Rs complaint. Ill explain why. 
I dont know what mightve been discussed about the PPI. But the application form Miss R 
completed made it clear that it was up to her to say if she wanted PPI. The PPI part of the 
form has been ticked and shes signed the form to indicate that she required it. 
I accept its possible that some parts of this form may have been completed for Miss R by a 
Lloyds representative. But I think its likely that the information on the form probably reflected 
discussions the representative had with Miss R. I think its reasonable to expect that Miss R 
wouldve looked carefully over the completed application before signing to make sure it 
reflected her wishes. 
I dont think the evidence is strong enough for me to say that someone else ticked the form 
after shed signed it to say Miss R wanted PPI without her knowing about it or agreeing to it, 
just based on what Miss R says. 
I can completely understand why Miss R might find it hard to remember all the 
circumstances of this sale as this was a long time ago. But I think its likely that Miss R 
wouldve been able to see at the time that the application form showed that having the PPI 
was optional - and it was added to her account when she chose to take it. 
Miss R wouldve been able to see from her monthly card statements if she was being 
charged for the policy. If PPI hadnt been something she had requested or she wanted to 
pay for, I think its likely that Miss R wouldve taken this up with Lloyds at the time. I havent 
seen anything to make me think that happened. So overall, what she says about the way 
she was sold the PPI isnt enough on its own for me to be able to uphold her complaint. 
As Lloyds wasnt sure how it sold the PPI to Miss R, and Miss R thought it mightve been by 
phone, in fairness to her it treated this as an advised sale  so, as if it had personally 
recommended PPI to her. I think thats the fairest way to look at this complaint as it imposes 
an extra obligation on Lloyds - giving Miss Rs complaint the best chance of success. So I've 
looked at it this way too. This means Lloyds not only shouldve given Miss R important policy 
information in a clear way. It also shouldve taken reasonable steps to make sure the cover it 
recommended was suitable for her. And if Lloyds didn't do those things, Ive thought about 
whether this makes any overall difference.  
Ive checked the policy document that was in use when Miss R took out this PPI. 
Miss R was eligible for the PPI.
The policy couldve paid more than her minimum credit card repayments for up to 12 months 
per claim in the event of accident or sickness. As Miss R told us she had no sick pay 
entitlement through work I think this couldve been a useful benefit at a difficult time. 
The policy couldve also protected Miss Rs credit card repayments and paid out for up to 
12 months if she lost her job unexpectedly and was out of work. 
Repeat claims were possible under the policy. And if Miss R had claimed successfully for 
12 months in a row, the policy would've cleared her card balance. 
Miss R mentioned having savings that she could use to make her repayments and life 
insurance. But I dont know if Miss R would have always had savings to rely on if she wasnt 
able to work. And life insurance paid out a different sort of benefit in different circumstances 
to PPI.  
So I think PPI was worthwhile for Miss R. It gave her useful protection, taking into account 
what shes told us about her situation when she took out this PPI. I find that the policy was 
suitable for her.
Its possible some of the information Lloyds gave Miss R about the PPI wasnt as clear as it 
shouldve been. I dont know if Lloyds properly explained what the policy would cost, or what 
it might pay out if Miss R made a claim. But Miss R chose to take out the policy when she 
didnt have to  so she seems to have wanted this type of cover. The cost was shown on her 
monthly statements and Miss R couldve queried this or cancelled the policy at any time if 
her circumstances changed and she no longer wanted to pay for it. 
The policy didnt cover some things. Miss R told us about a pre-existing medical condition 
she had when she took out the policy. I've checked the policy terms and thought carefully 
about everything Miss R has told us about her condition. I havent seen enough to say its 
likely that Miss R would have been affected by this condition. In any event, nothing Miss R 
has said makes me think that she would have had any reason to think shed be likely to be 
off work for long enough to need to claim on the policy for absence from work as a result of 
this condition. 
So, I dont think having more information about the policy exclusions and limitations wouldve 
made any difference to her decision to take out PPI. Looked at overall, I think its unlikely that having clearer policy information wouldve put 
Miss R off taking out the policy. This means Lloyds doesnt have to pay back all of the cost 
of the PPI to Miss R.
But Lloyds has paid back some of the cost of the PPI to Miss R because: 
Lloyds got a high level of commission and profit share (more than 50% of the PPI 
premium) - so it should have told Miss R about that. Because Lloyds didnt tell 
Miss R, that was unfair. 
To put that right, Lloyds has paid back the amount of commission and profit share 
that was above 50% of the PPI premium - and I think that is fair in this case.
My final decision
The PPI policy wasnt mis-sold  so Lloyds Bank PLC does not have to pay back all of the 
cost of the PPI to Miss R.
But Lloyds Bank PLC does have to pay back to Miss R any commission and profit share it 
got that was more than 50% of the PPI premium. I understand it has already done this, so 
I dont award any further compensation. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss R to accept 
or reject my decision before 29 March 2021.
 
Susan Webb
Ombudsman