DRN-1655672
 
The complaint
Miss A complains that Assurant General Insurance Limited damaged her laptop beyond 
repair whilst it was handling a claim on a gadget insurance policy. Shes unhappy with the 
amount offered to replace the laptop. 
What happened
In December 2019, Miss A made a claim on her gadget insurance policy for a damaged 
laptop screen. This was accepted and repaired, but when it was returned to her she found 
that it was dented in the corner and was running slowly. She believes it was dropped. So she 
made a complaint to Assurant.
Assurant looked at photos taken by its repair centre when it received the laptop and shortly 
before it was retuned. And it acknowledges that the dent occurred whilst the laptop was in its 
care. As the laptop is beyond repair, Assurant has offered to pay a cash settlement of just 
under £500  which it considers to be the cost of a like for like replacement taking into 
account the age of the laptop and the market value of a second-hand replacement. Its also 
offered £125 compensation for the trouble and upset caused.
Miss A isnt happy with this offer. She says her laptop cost £900 when she purchased it as 
new two years before this claim. And she wanted Assurant to pay her this amount so she 
can buy a new one. Shes brought her complaint to our service. 
Our investigator upheld the complaint. He said its not fair for Assurant to rely on the policy 
terms which say that if a device cannot be repaired, Assurant will provide a replacement 
which may be from remanufactured stock. This is because these terms would only apply if 
Miss A was making a claim on the policy  which isnt the case here. Miss A is seeking 
reimbursement following damage caused by Assurant. 
Our investigator didnt think that Assurant should pay the full cost of a new laptop. This is 
because Miss A had use of it for two years. But he thought the current offer of just under 
£500 is too low as a £400 deduction seems disproportionate to the amount of time Miss A 
had the benefit of her laptop for. He recommended that the offer be increased to £700. This 
is in addition to the £125 compensation payment.
Miss A agreed with this outcome. But Assurant didnt. It said the amount offered reflects 
what Miss A is entitled to under her gadget insurance policy. And whilst it acknowledges that 
it caused the damage, this is why its offered a further payment of compensation. 
The complaint has been passed to me for a final decision
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Having done so, Ive reached the same conclusions as our investigator, and for broadly the same reasons.
Its not in dispute whether Assurant damaged Miss As laptop. So I dont need to make a 
finding on whether it did something wrong  Assurant acknowledges that it did. What I need 
to decide is whether it has done enough to put things right, and I dont think it has. Ill explain 
why. 
When Miss A initially contacted Assurant, she was making a claim for a damaged laptop 
screen. This claim would be subject to the terms and conditions of her insurance policy. 
Assurant says the terms and conditions set out what it will do where a customer device is 
damaged or breaks down, regardless of where the damage has occurred. But the terms 
apply to dealing with claims on the policy. And the damage Miss A complains about is not 
the damage she made a claim for. This is damage caused by Assurant to Miss As property 
whilst it was in Assurants care. So the terms and conditions of Miss As policy dont apply 
here. 
Miss A shouldnt be left worse off as a result of Assurant causing damage to her property. In 
this case, Miss As laptop is beyond repair, so she is entitled to expect a replacement. And I 
dont think this should be of a lesser standard than the one she owned. 
My aim  as far as possible  is to put Miss A in the position she would have been in, if 
things hadnt gone wrong. Had it not been for Assurants actions, Miss A would have a two-
year-old working laptop that shed owned from new. So I think the payment should be 
enough for Miss A to buy a new laptop, with a deduction to reflect the two years shed had 
the benefit of her previous one. For this reason, I think the £700 recommended by our 
investigator is fair. 
I understand Assurant has offered £125 compensation for the trouble and upset caused to 
Miss A. It says this should be taken into account when considering the offer of settlement for 
the laptop. But I dont agree. Compensation is paid as a way to apologise for what has 
happened and reflects the distress and inconvenience Miss A has been put to because of 
Assurants actions. It isnt to top up any settlement offered towards the cost of a replacement 
laptop. 
Ive thought about the impact Assurants actions had on Miss A. And Im mindful that not only 
did Assurant damage Miss As laptop, but it returned it without notifying her of what had 
happened. It advised that the laptop had been repaired and it was posted back to Miss A. 
But it was clear further damage had been caused as Assurant had before and after photos 
showing a dent had appeared after it took possession of it. 
I think it would have been common courtesy for Assurant to take ownership of this mistake 
and inform Miss A before returning the laptop. She expected her laptop to be returned in 
good working order and would have been very upset to find that wasnt the case. But the 
offer Assurant has made is a fair reflection of the upset caused to Miss A and the trouble she 
was put to.  
Putting things right
Assurant should pay Miss A £700 for the damage caused to her laptop. If Assurant want to 
keep the laptop, and Miss A hasnt already disposed of it, then its entitled to do so. 
Assurant should also pay Miss A £125 compensation for the trouble and upset caused. 
 My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I uphold this complaint and direct Assurant General 
Insurance Limited to pay to Miss A:
£700 for the damage caused to the laptop 
£125 compensation for the trouble and upset caused.
This should be paid within 28 days of the date on which we tell it Miss A accepts my final 
decision.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss A to accept 
or reject my decision before 23 July 2020.
Peter Whiteley
Ombudsman