DRN-3944065
The complaint
Mr T complains about Admiral Insurance (Gibraltar) Limiteds handling of a claim he made 
on a motor insurance policy.
What happened
Mr T insured his car with Admiral. He was involved in a collision with a third party and after 
investigating, Admiral concluded Mr T was at fault for the collision, accepted liability and 
recorded a fault claim against Mr T.
Mr T complained to Admiral. He said the third party had been undertaking at excessive 
speed, meaning he wasnt at fault. He was also unhappy that dashcam footage which hed 
been told was available (and which he believed would show he wasnt at fault) hadnt been 
obtained. He also complained that Admiral had paid for repairs to damage to the third party 
vehicle which hadnt been caused in the collision.
When Admiral rejected his complaint, Mr T referred it to our service. Our investigator didnt 
think Admiral had done anything wrong. Mr T didnt accept this, and asked for an 
ombudsmans decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
When it accepted liability for the third partys claim, and recorded a fault claim against Mr T, 
Admiral relied on a condition of the policy which says: 
We are entitled to conduct the investigation, defence and settlement of any claim on your 
behalf.
These types of conditions arent unusual or unfair. My role here isnt to say who was at fault 
for the collision. What I need to decide is whether Admiral acted reasonably when it 
concluded Mr T was at fault, in light of the evidence available to them.
Certain elements of what happened here arent disputed by any of the parties involved. Mr T 
was travelling on a multi-carriageway road when the car in front of him braked and slowed 
suddenly. In order to avoid a collision with that car, Mr T braked and moved to the inside 
lane, and as he was moving into that lane collided with the third party.
Mr T says the reason the collision occurred is because the third party was speeding and 
undertook him. The third party denied they were speeding. 
There was no CCTV or dashcam footage available, or other evidence to confirm the speed 
of the third party vehicle. I can see that Mr T told Admiral at the outset of the claim that the 
third party vehicle was fitted with a dashcam. Theres also evidence that Admiral asked 
whether the third party had any dashcam footage, but was told that none was available. 
I dont dispute that Mr T understood dashcam footage was available but having asked about 
it, and been told that none was available, I dont think theres anything additional Admiral 
could have done. Im not persuaded that it would have been reasonable for Admiral to query 
Mr Ts liability solely on that point.
The Highway Code says that when changing lanes, the person changing lanes needs to 
ensure that the lane theyre entering is clear. Its fair to say that the duty to ensure the lane is 
clear is on the person whos entering the lane  rather than requiring the person already 
established in the lane to move or slow.
I know Mr T says the third party was travelling at excessive speed, and so hed thought the 
lane was clear when he moved to avoid the car in front. Admiral noted that the third party 
may have appeared to be travelling at excessive speed because Mr T had slowed because 
of the car in fronts braking. That would have meant the third party was travelling faster than 
Mr T and inevitably resulted in them undertaking him. I think thats a reasonable position in 
the circumstances.
Im satisfied Admiral reached a reasonable decision to record this as a fault claim against Mr 
T. It had no evidence to support Mr Ts view that the third party was speeding, and the duty 
was on Mr T to ensure that in changing lanes he didnt collide or impede someone already 
established in that lane. On that basis, I think Admiral fairly concluded that it had no option 
but to accept liability, settle the third partys claim and record a fault claim against Mr T.
I know Mr T also considers that the third partys claim included repairs for damage which 
hadnt been caused in the collision. Ive seen a copy of the engineers report for the third 
party vehicle, which includes photos of the damaged area. Im satisfied from these photos 
that the damage claimed is to the area of the car which Mr T says he collided with. Ive seen 
nothing to suggest that previously existing damage, or non-accident related damage, has 
been claimed.
Finally, Mr T has made specific reference to wanting an independent assessor to view the 
damage and determine the extent of what was caused in the collision and who was at fault. 
My understanding is that an independent assessor would be able to review the damage and 
accounts and determine whether the damage claimed is consistent with whats been said to 
have happened. I cant say theyd be able to determine fault, or the speed at which the third 
party was travelling at the time. In any case, as Ive outlined above, I think Admiral acted 
reasonably when it concluded Mr T was at fault for the collision and the damage which has 
been claimed appears to be consistent with the collision. I dont think there was any reason 
for Admiral to ask for an independent assessor to look into this claim.
My final decision
Its my final decision not to uphold this complaint. Im satisfied Admiral Insurance (Gibraltar) 
Limited acted reasonably. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr T to accept or 
reject my decision before 3 March 2023.
 
Ben Williams
Ombudsman