DRN-4020929
The complaint
Mr and Mrs H complain that Shawbrook Bank Limited (Shawbrook), has rejected the claim 
they made under sections 75 and 140 and of the Consumer Credit Act 1974 (the Act) in 
relation to a solar panel system including a voltage optimiser and boiler optimiser (the 
system). Mr and Mrs H is represented by a claims management company (the CMC). 
What happened
The CMCs initial letter of claim alleged the following misrepresentations had been made that 
induced Mr and Mrs H to enter into the contract:
The system would not cost more than what could be recovered from the Feed-In 
Tariff (FIT).
Mr and Mrs H could make money from the solar system which would more than 
cover the cost of the loan. In other words, the system would be self-funding or 
would pay for itself.
The calculations put forward as to performance of the system were false. 
Mr and Mrs H say that they were led to believe they would make money immediately and the 
main reason they agreed to the purchase was because of the exceptionally large profit and 
return on investment.
The CMC also said there was a breach of contract because:
P failed to carry out the work with reasonable care and skill and by installing a 
system which is not fit for purpose, of satisfactory quality and/or does not operate as 
described.
The quote formed part of the contract and the promised returns have not been 
achieved.
The statement by P that Mr and Mrs H would not suffer loss by buying the system 
was a warranty which has been breached.
Shawbrook rejected most of the claim, saying the quote was clear in that the system would 
not be self-funding. But made an offer due to the wrong inflation figures being used. The 
offer was to refund the difference between the benefits shown on the quote and the benefits 
that shouldve been shown if the correct inflation figures were used, covering the term of the 
loan only. The offer was for a total of £778.21. And it offered a further £200.00 compensation 
for how long it took to respond to the claim.
The CMC also made a claim under section 140 of the Act saying that Mr and Mrs Hs 
relationship with Shawbrook was unfair on them because:
The putting it all together table in the quote:
oExaggerated the benefit of the voltage optimiser, boiler optimiser and the total 
savings.
oDid not take into account the cost of credit.
The CMC also wrote to Shawbrooks legal department and alleged that P was fraudulently 
misrepresenting information it its quotes because:
In some cases, P misquoted Office of National Statistics (ONS) inflation data which 
was used in its quotes to estimate future benefits of solar panel systems, with the 
result that the benefits appeared to be higher than if the accurate inflation data had 
been used.
The CMC said that this was evidence that P had a predilection for misleading 
consumers and that there were systemic failures in its processes. 
Shawbrook did not change its position and the CMC made a complaint to the Financial 
Ombudsman Service on Mr and Mrs Hs behalf. When doing so it wrote to us and 
Shawbrook reiterating some of the points it had previously made and pointing to some rules, 
regulations, and applications of law that it felt had been breached. It also said that:
For Mr and Mrs H, and the average consumer, the quote is complex and difficult to 
understand. It is made more difficult by the implied verbal representations made by 
the sales representative which directly contradict what is written in the quote.
Our adjudicator considered the matter and didnt think the complaint should be upheld. The 
CMC disagreed for a number of reasons, but largely reiterated its previous points. Because 
the adjudicator has been unable to resolve the complaint, Ive been asked to make a 
decision.
I issued a provisional decision saying that I didnt think the system had been misrepresented 
to Mr and Mrs H as self-funding in the way alleged, that Shawbrooks offer in relation to the 
incorrect inflation figures was reasonable, and that if Mr and Mrs H could provide FIT 
statements showing the system was significantly underperforming (generating less than 90% 
of the expected electricity per year) as they alleged, then Shawbrook should take some 
action to put this right.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The CMC has made the claim under sections 75 and 140 of the Act. So, I have considered 
these sections in particular, as well as other relevant law and regulations, relevant regulatory 
rules, guidance and standards and codes of practice; and, where appropriate, what I 
consider to have been good industry practice at the relevant time. I have read all of the 
CMCs and Shawbrooks submissions and taken all of these into account when making my 
decision.
Shawbrook had a duty to treat Mr and Mrs H fairly when responding to their claims.
The Financial Ombudsman Service was set up to be a quick and informal alternative to the 
courts. So, I will not refer to every submission, comment, or relevant consideration. Instead, 
my decision sets out what I think are the most important points in order to explain my 
decision in a way that is intended to be clear and easy to understand.
The quote
Im satisfied that the quote was provided to Mr and Mrs H during the sales meeting. They 
signed the quote during the sales meeting and the benefits of the system appear to have 
been discussed with them.I think the quote provides important evidence of what was likely discussed before Mr and 
Mrs H agreed to the purchase. The CMC has made specific points about where it thinks the 
quote was misleading, and its view that what Mr and Mrs H was told contradicted what was 
shown in the quote. Mr and Mrs H have said that the salesperson focussed on the savings 
and income theyd receive when taking them through the quote.
The basic price and overall cost of the system
The basic (or cash) price of the system was set out clearly in the quote and the credit  
agreement as £7,000.00. However, the overall cost to Mr and Mrs H was more, due to them 
paying for the system using an interest-bearing loan.
The quote showed several repayment options, including one over 180 repayments of £73.73 
per month. This was slightly more than the actual amount on the credit agreement due to the 
first repayment being deferred. But I think Mr and Mrs H wouldve understood roughly how 
much the loan would cost per month.
The credit agreement clearly sets out that the loan was repayable through 180 monthly 
payments of £76.03. It shows the total amount payable would be £13,685.40. So, I think that 
is the total cost that Mr and Mrs H wouldve expected to pay for the system. 
Alleged misrepresentation - the solar system would not cost more than what could be 
recovered from the FIT
As mentioned above, I think Mr and Mrs H wouldve understood that the price of the system 
was £7,000.00 but that overall, they would pay £13,685.40 due to the loan. 
The quote includes a table setting out the estimated performance of the system over 30 
years. This included the estimated FIT generation and export payments each year and a 
total for each at the bottom. The FIT payments were only shown for 20 years, since this is 
how long a customer would receive FIT payments from the date they registered for the FIT 
scheme.
The table showed the following totals for FIT payments over 20 years:
Generation Tariff £1,629.79 
Export Tariff £941.51
The quote did not go on to show the total 20-year FIT payments of the generation and export 
tariffs added together. Nevertheless, I think it wouldve been clear that the total of these two 
amounts added together (which is £2,571.30) was less than the basic price (£7,000.00) and 
overall cost (£13,685.40) that Mr and Mrs H had agreed to pay.
In light of this, I think it is unlikely that the salesperson wouldve represented the cost of the 
system as being no more than the FIT income, when the quote showed that was not the 
case.
Alleged misrepresentation  Mr and Mrs H could make money from the solar system which 
would more than cover the cost of the loan. In other words, the system would be self- 
funding or would pay for itself; The calculations put forward as to performance of the 
system were false.
Ive found above that the quote made clear the estimated FIT income that Mr and Mrs H 
could expect to receive over 20 years was £2,571.30 in total. The same table included figures for the estimated savings over a 25-year period. The totals 
over 25 years were as follows:
Solar panel savings £21,097.81
Voltage optimiser savings £9,123.30
Boiler optimiser savings £13,304.83
The table provided a total for all estimated income and savings over 30 years, which was 
£46,097.24. This is more than the basic price of the system and the total payable under the 
loan agreement. So, I accept that Mr and Mrs H was likely to have been told that the overall 
benefits of the system over 30 years were estimated to exceed what they would pay for it 
overall, which was £13,685.40.
So, the question is whether this was a misrepresentation that induced Mr and Mrs H into 
purchasing the system when they otherwise wouldnt have done so.
FIT payments
The quote and MCS certificate show the system was expected to generate 1,472 kWh of 
electricity each year. The CMC says the system has generated on average 1,282 kWh over 
four years. This is slightly less than 90% of the amount shown on the quote and the MCS 
certificate. According to the CMC, there has not been any year when the system has 
generated at least 90% of the estimate shown on the quote and MCS certificate.
I think this is a significant difference compared to what Mr and Mrs H were led to expect and 
beyond what I would consider a reasonable margin of error. Less electricity generated 
means less in FIT payments and potential electricity savings from the solar panels only. So, I 
said in my provisional decision that if Mr and Mrs H could provide evidence of this significant 
under-generation then there had been a misrepresentation and Shawbrook should put this 
right.
Mr and Mrs H have provided FIT statements that show the annual generation as follows 
(based on dates showing as close to a whole year/s of generation, to avoid seasonal 
variations that could distort the annual figures):
period start 
datestart 
reading 
(kWh)period end 
dateend 
reading 
(kWh)(kWh) 
in 
perioddays 
in 
periodavg 
kWh 
per 
dayannualised 
avg kWh 
for period
13/09/2016 290 14/09/2017 1669 1379 366 3.768 1375.23
12/03/2017 549 17/03/2018 1911 1362 370 3.681 1343.59
14/09/2017 1669 19/09/2021 7132 5463 1466 3.726 1360.16
17/03/2018 1911 25/03/2019 3362 1451 373 3.890 1419.88
25/06/2018 2592 26/06/2019 3932 1340 366 3.661 1336.34
25/03/2019 3362 14/03/2020 4697 1335 355 3.761 1372.61
14/03/2020 4697 14/03/2021 6049 1352 365 3.704 1352.00
14/03/2021 6049 02/03/2023 8742 2693 718 3.751 1369.00
The MCS certificate showed the estimated annual generation figure was 1,472.00 kWh. So, 
90% of this would be 1,324.80 kWh per year (a 10% margin of error in the expected 
generation figure is reasonable). The FIT statements show that each year the system generated more than 90% of the 
expected amount of electricity. So, the system has not been significantly underperforming. 
And Shawbrook does not need to take any action in relation to this. 
Savings 
The solar panel and voltage optimiser savings will be made on what Mr and Mrs H pays for 
electricity versus what they wouldve paid without the system. The boiler optimiser savings 
would be on what they pay for gas, oil, or LPG versus what they would pay without the boiler 
optimiser.
So, this would not be money paid to Mr and Mrs H, but rather money they will have that they 
otherwise wouldve paid to their energy or fuel suppliers. The savings are discussed further 
below.
Solar panel savings and the self-consumption rate
To calculate the savings from the solar panels, P used a self-consumption rate of 64%. Self- 
consumption rate is the proportion of electricity generated by the solar panels that P 
assumed that Mr and Mrs H could use themselves, rather than exporting it to the grid. My 
understanding is that P tailored the self-consumption rate based on what it knew about the 
customers electricity consumption.
The CMC has argued that P shouldve used the industry standard self-consumption rate of 
50% when calculating the savings. But I dont think it was unreasonable for P to tailor the 
self-consumption rate based on the information available to it. And I have not seen sufficient 
evidence to persuade me that the self-consumption rate used by P was unreasonable at the 
time. Im aware that P has used higher and lower self-consumption rates on other quotes 
that I have seen  which reinforces its claim that it was tailored to each customer. 
I understand Ps methods were checked by an industry body before P started using them, 
and no objection to Ps methods was raised at that time. So, I think that, for the time when 
the quote was prepared, I cant reasonably conclude that the self-consumption rate was 
unreasonable.
The CMC has pointed to an MCS guidance document on calculating self-consumption rates, 
which suggests a lower rate may have been used if this guidance was followed. However, 
this guidance was issued in April 2022  some years after P sold the system to Mr and 
Mrs H. So, I dont think this guidance was available at the time of sale. Or that P could have 
been expected to use it when it didnt yet exist.
Ultimately, I think that at the time of sale, P is likely to have made reasonable assumptions 
when calculating the self-consumption rate. So, I dont think the self-consumption rate was a 
misrepresentation even if Mr and Mrs H have not used the amount of generated electricity as 
predicted. The savings will be dependent upon how electricity is used in the home and that is 
beyond Ps control.
The quote also included the following clarification in the section about electricity bill savings 
 The amounts saved will depend on the amounts used. So, I dont think the estimated 
savings were presented as being guaranteed.
Voltage optimiser savingsThe CMC has made arguments about the voltage optimiser savings being exaggerated. But 
Im not persuaded by those arguments. 
The CMC has suggested the estimated voltage optimiser savings were too high, given 
various reports that were available at the time. However, I understand that Ps method of 
calculating the savings was approved by an industry body, which is more qualified than I am 
to know if it was reasonable at that time.
How P calculated the savings was also explained in the quote, with reference to a specific 
report that informed its method of calculation. The quote also included the following 
statement alongside the figures for electricity savings from the voltage optimiser: 
Savings are dependent on individual circumstances and may be higher or lower than 
those stated above and are based on the manufacturers own figures. 
Overall, I think there were a number of reports which found that voltage optimisers could 
provide various levels of benefit. Considering those reports, I think that Ps estimated voltage 
optimiser savings in this case are not outside of a reasonable range. 
One report mentioned by the CMC said that the benefits of voltage optimisers would reduce 
over time. So, the CMC argued that savings from the voltage optimiser shouldve reduced 
rather than increased as shown in the quote. But it appears to me that P estimated the 
benefit of the voltage optimiser based on what it knew about the product it was selling, Mr 
and Mrs Hs home and how they used electricity.
I am not persuaded that Ps estimate of the benefit of the voltage optimiser was 
unreasonable. And Im not persuaded that the benefit of the voltage optimiser shouldve 
been assumed to reduce each year, rather than increase with inflation. 
Boiler optimiser savings
Ps estimate seems to be based on what it knew about the product it was selling and warned 
that the quoted benefits may be higher or lower. So, I dont think there is sufficient evidence 
for me to conclude that its estimate for the boiler optimiser savings were unreasonable. 
Summary of findings regarding savings
Overall, I think the underlying assumptions used to calculate the savings were reasonable. 
Allegation  In some cases, P misquoted Office of National Statistics (ONS) inflation data 
which was used in its quotes to estimate future benefits of solar panel systems, with the 
result that the benefits appeared to be higher than if the accurate inflation data had been 
used.
Im not persuaded by the CMCs argument here. It said that this happened in between 10% 
and 30% of cases it had seen. That does not strike me as a systemic issue. Nor do I think it 
can be inferred from this that P had a predilection for misleading its customers by 
exaggerating the benefits of the products it was selling. Nor that all the other figures used 
should be assumed to be unreliable.
Nevertheless, Shawbrook has confirmed that this issue did occur in this instance, and one or 
more of the inflation figures used was higher than it shouldve been. Ive explained above 
how Shawbrook has offered to put this right. And I think that is reasonable. I dont think how P generally calculated the predicted annual inflation of the FIT payments or 
energy savings was unreasonable. It was based on a number of years of historical inflation 
data from a reputable source. P explained in the quote how it had reached these figures and 
indicated that the actual inflation rates could be higher or lower. 
I also think that the quote did make clear that other outcomes were possible, since it 
included graphs based on inflation being 0% throughout, and half the rate it used in the other 
tables. It also stated in the section about the ONS that, In reality the return may be higher or 
lower depending on the actual growth.
Allegation  the quote formed part of the contract, and since the promised returns have not 
been achieved this is a breach of contract.
The quotation stated the following:
"The performance of solar systems is impossible to predict with certainty due to the 
variability in the amount of solar radiation (sunlight) from location to location and from 
year to year. This estimate is based upon the Standard Estimation Method set by 
MCS and is given as guidance only. It should not be considered as a guarantee of 
performance."
However [P] will guarantee your Standard Performance Estimation output in year one 
that we stipulate in your contract.
The estimate referred to by this guarantee included the FIT generation income of £62.56, 
FIT export income of £36.14 and electricity savings from the solar panels only of £144.00 in 
year one  a total of £242.70. As far as Im aware, Mr and Mrs H did not make a claim under 
that guarantee.
Overall, Im not persuaded that the estimated benefits over 30 years formed a contractual 
term. I dont think it would be reasonable to expect estimates to be accurate over such a 
long period given the potential fluctuations in energy prices and the Retail Price Index. P did 
guarantee the benefits derived from the electricity generated in the first year, but not beyond 
that.
I think that estimates should be based on reasonable assumptions. And Ive discussed 
above why I think they were (and that where there was an error in the figures that 
Shawbrooks offer to put this right is fair). Where the assumptions were reasonable, but the 
reality hasnt matched those assumptions, I dont think that is a breach of contract.
The statement that Mr and Mrs H would not suffer loss by buying the system was a warranty 
which has been breached.
Mr and Mrs H said in their statement that they were convinced the system was a good 
investment following a discount being offered to them. 
As set out in the quote, the financial benefits of the system will increase over time due to 
inflation increasing the FIT and electricity unit rates. While the actual inflation rates over 
future years cannot be known, Im satisfied that over the lifetime of the system the benefits 
will likely exceed what Mr and Mrs H paid for it. That is, in time I think it is likely that the 
system will be self-funding and they wont suffer a loss overall.
So, while I dont think a warranty was created in the way suggested by the CMC, I also do 
not think that Mr and Mrs H will overall suffer a loss due to the purchase. Allegation  for Mr and Mrs H, and the average consumer, the quote is complex and difficult 
to understand. It is made more difficult by the implied verbal representations made by the 
sales representative which directly contradict what is written in the quote.
I have not found that the system was misrepresented to Mr and Mrs H. While the quote is a 
long document with a lot of information in it, there are graphs and tables, some of which I 
have mentioned above, which I do not think were complex or difficult to understand. Im also 
satisfied that the salesperson talked through the quote with Mr and Mrs H in an attempt to 
avoid any misunderstandings and allow them to ask questions if they were unsure. 
Allegation  there was a breach of contract because P failed to carry out the work with 
reasonable care and skill, installed a system which is not fit for purpose, that is not of 
satisfactory quality and/or does not operate as described.
I think the CMCs allegation here is due to the benefits of the system not being as high as 
expected. But Im not persuaded the estimated benefits were a term of the contract beyond 
the first year, which P guaranteed. The system did generate electricity within a reasonable 
margin of error the estimated annual generation figure shown on the MCS certificate. So, the 
system does generate electricity as expected, and is therefore of satisfactory quality, fit for 
purpose and was installed with reasonable care and skill.
Allegation  Mr and Mrs Hs relationship with Shawbrook was unfair because: The Putting it 
all together section of the quote: Does not include the cost of maintenance or the cost of 
credit (such as loan interest); The self-consumption rate, voltage optimiser savings and 
boiler optimiser savings were unreasonably high; Pressurised sales tactics were used.
I have explained my findings on the self-consumption rate, voltage optimiser savings and 
boiler optimiser savings. I think the estimated benefits were based on reasonable 
assumptions, and the quote included clarifications that these were estimates and not 
guaranteed returns.
The putting it all together table would have been clearer if the table had included the cost of 
credit and maintenance. However, I must consider the relationship as a whole, not just one 
table in one of the documents that was provided at the time of sale. Having done so, Im 
satisfied that Mr and Mrs H knew what they were paying for the system, including the cost of 
credit. This was shown on the credit agreement. So, they could compare this to the 
estimated benefits before deciding to buy the system.
In addition to this, the repayments table and the estimated performance over 30 years 
table in the quote both did incorporate the cost of credit into its illustration of the benefits of 
the system.
The repayments table showed the annual benefit would not exceed the annual loan 
repayments within the period of the loan. And the estimated performance table showed it 
would be about 18 years before the overall benefits of the system exceeded the total amount 
payable under the loan agreement.
I have not seen evidence that persuades me that P sold the system in a way that was not 
fair or clear, or in a way that was misleading (other than in relation to the error in inflation 
figures, which Ive mentioned above). I think the information provided to Mr and Mrs H before 
they agreed to the purchase showed the cost and expected benefits of the system. The 
expected benefits were set out over 30 years, with warnings that those benefits were not 
guaranteed. I think it is likely that this was discussed with Mr and Mrs H before they agreed 
to the purchase.So, I do not think an unfair relationship was created between Shawbrook and Mr and Mrs H 
as a result of Ps actions when selling the system to them.
Other points the CMC has raised with us but not with Shawbrook
I have the power to consider whether Shawbrooks response to the claim was reasonable. 
The CMC has raised some further points with us but not with Shawbrook. Given Shawbrook 
was not made aware of those points I would not expect it to consider them when responding 
to the claim. So, I have not covered these in my decision.
Summary
In summary, my findings are that:
There was no breach of contract by P. 
There was a misrepresentation only in terms of the estimated inflation rates, in light 
of which Shawbrook has already made a reasonable offer to put things right.
I do not think that a court would find that there was an unfair relationship between 
Shawbrook and Mr and Mrs H due to the way P sold the system to them.
Overall, since Shawbrooks offer puts things right in a fair and reasonable way, I do uphold 
this complaint. If Mr and Mrs H have not received the payment offered by Shawbrook and 
would like to do so, they should let Shawbrook know as soon as possible. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I dont upohld this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs H and Mr H to 
accept or reject my decision before 18 April 2023.
 
Phillip Lai-Fang
Ombudsman