DRN-4143458
The complaint
Mrs and Mr S complain that Clydesdale Bank Plc has failed to treat them fairly when 
providing information and advice about their mortgage and options available to them.
What happened
Mr and Mrs S raised a complaint in early 2022 about a number of different areas where they 
felt Clydesdale had failed to treat them fairly. This included issues with the mortgage 
appointment and advice given when they ported their mortgage previously with an additional 
borrowing application made. This resulted in them having two mortgages on the new 
property, mortgage one was the ported mortgage and mortgage two was the additional 
borrowing. 
Mrs and Mr S were also unhappy that when they spoke with Clydesdale to discuss their 
options when one of their mortgage products was due to end in early 2022 that the advice 
wasnt suitable. They felt the waiting times on calls were unreasonable, they hadnt received 
a maturity notice for their mortgage with the product that was due to end and an incorrect 
offer was sent out. Overall they felt Clydesdale caused confusion and the service was not at 
the level they expected.
Clydesdale looked at the complaint and issued a final response on 10 March 2022. It 
apologised for mistakes it had made and paid £200 to recognise the impact of any distress 
and inconvenience caused.
After Mrs and Mr Ss product transfer had been completed on part of their mortgage, Mrs 
and Mr S complained again to Clydesdale. This time they complained about the following:
That theyd been given incorrect advice about their monthly payments and what 
these would be after a capital repayment was to be made.
That they were misadvised in relation to the product transfer options  in hindsight 
they would have preferred to pay an Early Repayment Charge (ERC) and marry up 
the two mortgage accounts to one product.
They dont feel Clydesdales process is adequate.
Post was sent to their old address.
They had approached an independent adviser but they were told by Clydesdale the 
mortgage was locked in.
They are concerned the monthly payment amount is incorrect as another lenders 
online calculator gave a different figure to what they are paying.
The call wait times were too long and they were transferred to the wrong department 
and the complaint handling wasnt resulting in an outcome they were happy with.
The interest rate was quoted incorrectly in the capital repayment letter sent to Mrs 
and Mr S.
As a result of these errors, Mrs and Mr S have said theyd like to be able to move to a new 
lender without having to incur and early repayment charge.
Clydesdale looked at the complaint and agreed there had been mistakes made. When Mrs S 
spoke with it in January 2022 about the product transfer and the monthly repayments going 
forward after a capital repayment, they hadnt used the repayment term Mrs and Mr S 
wanted and instead, the quoted monthly repayment amount was based on a longer term. 
This meant the amount quoted was lower than what Mrs and Mr S need to pay each month 
with the reduced term. 
It also accepted that the capital repayment letter contained incorrect information and that it 
was sent to the wrong address.
But they felt the payment has been calculated correctly following the capital repayment. This 
is based on the new repayment term and interest rate applied to the mortgage. Clydesdale 
didnt agree it had done anything wrong when it provided advice to Mrs and Mr S about their 
options when the product rate on one of their mortgages was expiring. So it didnt think it 
misadvised them about the ERC which would be applied if they wanted to move their other 
mortgage account on to the same rate before its product term ended. 
It said it couldnt find any information to show a conversation with it and a financial adviser 
working on behalf of Mrs and Mr S. But it said it would never stop a customer seeking 
independent advice and the mortgage is not locked to prevent this from being obtained.
Clydesdale felt its previous response had covered issues with wait times and service up until 
8 March 2022. However, it recognised there had been subsequent issues as Ive highlighted 
above and it awarded £200 in recognition of these additional issues.
Mrs and Mr S brought their complaint to this Service on 23 December 2022.
Our investigator looked at the complaint and said that he didnt think we could consider all of 
it. He explained the complaint points addressed in the final response issued in March 2022 
couldnt be looked at. This is because they had been brought to this Service more than six 
months after the final response had been issued and he hadnt seen anything he considered 
to be exceptional that stopped Mrs and Mr S bringing their complaint sooner.
With the complaint points brought in the later complaint and addressed in the September 
final response, our investigator agreed that Clydesdale had made mistakes. But overall, he 
felt the compensation it offered in recognition of this was in line with an amount this Service 
would award and because of this, he didnt ask it to do anything else.  
Mrs and Mr S disagreed with the outcome. They didnt think it was fair that we said we can 
only consider part of the complaint. They dont think the impact of the errors made by 
Clydesdale has been reflected fairly with the compensation offered for the distress and 
inconvenience and they asked that the complaint be referred for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having considered this complaint, Ive reached the same outcome as our investigator for broadly the same reasons. I know this will be disappointing for Mrs and Mr S, but Ill explain 
why I dont think we can consider all of their complaint points. And for the complaint points 
we can consider; I dont think Clydesdale need to do anything else.
What we cannot consider
This service is not free to consider all complaints that are brought to it. The Financial 
Conduct Authority (FCA) sets out the rules which include which complaints we can and 
cannot look into. We are bound by these rules, called the Dispute Resolutions Rules (DISP). 
These can be found in the FCA Handbook and are available online.
DISP 2.8.2 explains this service cannot consider a complaint brought more than six months 
after the date of the final response. The only exceptions to this are if the business 
complained about consents to us considering the complaint after it has been brought late, or 
if we feel the reason for the time delay was the result of an exceptional circumstance. 
Mrs and Mr S first complaints were addressed by Clydesdale in its final response letter dated 
10 March 2022. This set out the referral rights to this Service which explained Mrs and Mr S 
had six months from the date of their letter to bring their complaint to us if they were 
unhappy with the response provided. So they had until 10 September to bring their complaint 
to us and Clydesdale hasnt consented to us considering this complaint when it was brought 
after this.
Mr and Mrs S didnt bring a complaint to us until 23 December 2023, more than six months 
after the final response was sent. I appreciate theyve said they were still in discussions with 
Clydesdale and there were some issues that were ongoing. But continuing to engage with a 
business is not something which would generally extend the time for a complaint to be 
brought. 
Ive not been provided with anything which I consider to be an exceptional circumstance that 
prevented Mrs and Mr S from raising their complaint with us sooner. The continued contact 
with it about the complaint and newer issues isnt something that I would consider as 
exceptional. As a result, due to the complaint not being brought within the six-month time 
limit set out within the final response, Im satisfied this Service is not able to consider the 
complaint points dealt with within it. 
What we can consider
Mrs and Mr S have raised a number of points in their later response and these were 
addressed by Clydesdale in its final response issued on 30 September 2022. They repeated 
some concerns which had been addressed in the earlier final response around whether they 
had been misadvised with the product transfer and complaints about the call wait times. I 
cant consider these for the reasons Ive explained above, but there are some linked parts to 
this which can be considered as explained and covered by our investigator. This is because 
although relating to advice of the earlier calls for the transfer, Mrs and Mr S would not have 
known until later that there was cause for complain. 
Mrs and Mr S explained they were planning on making a capital repayment to their mortgage 
and so the figures they were provided with during the calls with Clydesdale were indicative of 
what they could expect to pay after this. This should have been based on the correct 
mortgage term Mrs and Mr S wanted their account to move to, which was 15 years  taking 
7 years off the overall term. However the adviser looked at figures based on the existing 
term of 22 years and so, the amount was lower than it would have been. This isnt disputed 
by either side and although I can see why this will have caused some loss of expectation, I 
have to also consider that the figures were only ever meant to be indicative of what Mrs and Mr S might have paid.
In later calls ahead of the product transfer being agreed, Mrs and Mr S were provided with 
the total monthly payment theyd need to make for their two mortgages combined. So I think 
it was made clear what their total payment was before anything was agreed, even if there 
was confusion caused in earlier calls. 
Mrs and Mr S feel that with hindsight they should have chosen a different option when they 
did a product transfer with just one of their mortgages. Some of this concern will be linked to 
their earlier complaint which I cannot comment on. I appreciate with time feelings about 
choices made and whether it was the best option will change. But I am satisfied Mrs and 
Mr S were given the correct information about their mortgage payments and what this would 
be with the two different rates running alongside each other and I dont think Clydesdale 
need to do anything else in relation to this.
Ive seen nothing to indicate the monthly repayment amount Mrs and Mr S are paying is 
incorrect and Clydesdale has confirmed this. I dont think another lenders online calculator 
can be taken as evidence to show an issue with Clydesdale and how it is charging the 
repayment figure it is. 
Ive also not seen anything to support that Mrs and Mr Ss independent financial adviser was 
given information about their mortgage or that Clydesdale has made attempts to stop them 
from receiving independent advice.
Mrs and Mr S have complained about Clydesdales process, including how it notifies 
customers of changes to their account. While I appreciate they may feel it could do things 
through a different medium, I dont think it has done anything wrong when relying on the 
communication channels it does. As a business it is for it to decide how it communicates with 
its customers. Providing it is not treating customers differently, I dont think it is acting 
unfairly or doing anything wrong when operating in this way. 
It isnt disputed that Clydesdale did send information to the incorrect address and some of 
the information it shared with Mrs and Mr S wasnt as clear or as accurate as it could have 
been. The Information Commissioners Office can look into data protection breaches as our 
investigator explained, but we can consider the impact of a service failing when something 
goes wrong like information being sent to the wrong address.
Overall, I can see why Mrs and Mr S are unhappy with Clydesdale as it has made mistakes 
when dealing with their mortgage. And this will understandably have caused distress. But I 
think the award made of £200 for this is in line with the range of awards this Service would 
make for these failings. Ive not been provided with anything to show the impact of the errors 
made by Clydesdale would warrant for this to be increased and as a result, I am not asking it 
to take any further action.
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint as I feel the actions taken by Clydesdale to put things right are 
fair and reasonable.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs S and Mr S to 
accept or reject my decision before 27 October 2023.
 
Thomas Brissenden
Ombudsman