DRN-3921748
The complaint
Mr G complains that Tesco Personal Finance PLC irresponsibly gave him a loan that he 
couldnt afford. For simplicity, I will refer to the business throughout as Tesco. 
What happened
In May 2017, Mr G applied for a loan with Tesco. He was given a loan of £24,999 and the 
monthly repayment was £372.16. 
In 2022, Mr G complained to Tesco to say that the account shouldnt have been opened 
for him because it wasnt affordable.
Our adjudicator recommended the complaint be upheld. Tesco didnt agree. So, the 
complaint was passed to me to decide.
I issued my provisional decision in respect of this complaint on 6 January 2023, a section of 
which is included below, and forms part of, this decision. In my provisional decision I set out 
the reasons why I didnt agree entirely with the adjudicators view. I set out an extract below:
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive read and considered the whole file, but Ill confine my comments to what I think is 
relevant. If I dont comment on any specific point its not because Ive failed to consider it 
but because I dont think I need to comment on it in order to reach what I think is the right 
outcome in the wider context. My remit is to take an overview and decide whats fair in 
the round.
That said, there are some documents that I havent been able to read, namely the post 
assessment responses from Tesco. That is because Tesco has password protected those 
documents. But as I am proceeding to a provisional decision, I dont think Tesco has 
suffered any detriment and they can, I trust, make any existing or further submissions 
they feel they want to once theyve seen this provisional decision. 
Tesco will be familiar with all the rules, regulations and good industry practice we 
consider when looking at a complaint concerning unaffordable and irresponsible lending. 
So, I dont consider it necessary to set all of this out in this decision. Information about our 
approach to these complaints is set out on our website.
Mr Gs complaint is that Tesco made credit available that was unaffordable. Tesco has 
explained that it relied in part on information that Mr G provided at the time of application 
to assess affordability. Tesco accepted what Mr G told them about his income at the time 
of the lending decision. And that income was not a modest amount. And Tesco used 
information from Mr G and its own metrics to establish affordability for the loan. 
Tesco said they carried out a credit search in Mr Gs name to assess Mr Gs level of debt 
at that time and to understand how he had been managing that debt. With that 
information and using their own scoring metric, Tesco decided to agree to the loan of 
£24,999. So, there was some assessment of affordability at the time of the sale.
Mr G declared the reason for the loan to be to refinance existing debt. The Tesco checks 
showed that Mr G had £22,272 in unsecured loans and £17,512 in revolving credit. Yet 
Mr Gs credit file was very clean at the time of the loan application. When I say this, I 
mean that Mr Gs management of his existing credit showed no recent history of CCJs, 
defaults or any late payments. So, it seemed from the credit file that at the point that the 
lending decision was made, Mr G was affording his existing credit and that suggested that 
the new lending would be affordable. 
So, Tesco appeared to have little reason to make further enquiries into Mr Gs 
expenditure at that time based on the information it was provided by Mr G and it had 
procured for itself. And so, Tesco were not put on notice of any reason not to agree the 
lending from that. 
But, considering the amount of the loan Mr G was taking, the amount he would have to 
repay for it in total and his existing borrowings, I think that Tesco could have made more 
searching enquiries into Mr Gs income. I say this as the regulations suggest that they 
could have sought corroboration for the declared income. But Mr G provided us with 
some bank statement information that shows that had Tesco sought clarification through 
payslips, I do not believe that what they would have seen anything that would have made 
the loan seem unreasonable. 
Mr G has explained that he had a gambling habit at the time which was the prime cause 
of his existing borrowings and the one he was applying for with Tesco. But Mr G had not 
told Tesco about the gambling habit. And, as discussed above, the gambling habit had 
not led Mr G to blemish his credit file at the time he applied for the loan. 
I have to look at the information that was available to Tesco at the time it made its lending 
decisions and not to use hindsight. Tesco was not made aware of the habit at the time the 
loans were made. And I have seen insufficient evidence that the other information that 
Tesco acquired or had presented to it at the time of the lending decision, would have led 
them to think that they were remiss in not checking Mr Gs expenditure more closely. 
At the time of the lending decision, had Tesco seen the bank statements that Mr G 
supplied to us in the investigation of this complaint, it is very likely his gambling would 
have been evident. But Mr G did not share information about his gambling with Tesco. 
And so, Tesco were denied information that may have changed their lending decision. So, 
considering the information that Tesco did have at the time of the lending decision, I think 
they had no reason to make more searching enquiries than they did. 
In saying that, I have also noted that Mr G told Tesco that the loan was to provide funds 
for debt consolidation when he applied for the loan. So, I dont see the lending decision 
Tesco made as evidence solely of new credit being provided by Tesco, adding to an 
already significant amount of personal borrowing. Instead, rather than the new credit 
adding to Mr Gs burden of credit, it would have appeared to Tesco that Mr G was taking 
steps, that could be termed sensible, to manage his existing debt by taking out a loan and 
using it to secure more favourable terms to existing credit. I say that because Mr G could 
have been saving money on interest he would have been paying elsewhere, had he used 
the loan for the reasons he provided to Tesco at that time. So, it doesnt seem 
automatically unreasonable for Tesco to have facilitated that.
So, Im not persuaded that based on the information provided to Tesco, or what Tesco 
could see of Mr Gs management of other credit ought to have prompted it to have acted differently than it did.  And so, having considered all the submissions made in this case, I 
have seen insufficient evidence to think that the credit Tesco provided to Mr G was 
unreasonable.
I know that Mr G will be disappointed with my decision, in itself and because he has 
invested time and energy in pursuing his complaint. But I want Mr G to know that I 
considered all the submissions made in this case. But having considered all the 
submissions in this case, particularly those concerning the time of the lending decision, I 
have not found sufficient evidence to uphold this complaint.
I asked the parties to the complaint to let me have any further representations that they 
wished me to consider by 20 January 2023. Mr G has made a further submission. I consider 
his submission below. Tesco has not acknowledged receiving the provisional decision. But I 
consider Tesco has had sufficient time to have made a further submission had they wished 
to do so.
So, I am proceeding to my final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr G is disappointed with my provisional decision. He has had another complaint against the 
same business upheld by us and thinks this one is similar. Let me say that each case is 
decided on its own merits. The individual circumstances of each complaint will be particular 
to it. The case mentioned by Mr G was for a different product that had no set repayment 
plan, amongst other differences. 
Mr G acknowledges that his credit file was, at the time of the lending decision, in a much 
better shape than it became later on. Even so, Mr G has provided some details from his 
credit history and these show some payment arrangements near the time of the lending 
decision and Mr G told us of a late payment on an account. Its not clear if Tesco knew about 
these. Thats not necessarily a failing on their part if they didnt. I say that because I notice 
that not all of the credit agencies reported all the details that Mr G has mentioned  indeed 
one of the credit reference agencies has no record of the issues Mr G has now made us 
aware of. In any event, based on the information they did have, I still dont think Tesco were 
put on notice that they needed to make more searching investigation into Mr Gs 
expenditure. 
But even had Tesco been aware of these things, they are not, in my opinion, sufficient to 
make this otherwise responsible lending irresponsible. In saying that I have also reviewed 
the stated purpose of the loan was for debt consolidation. And, as I said above, 
I dont see the lending decision Tesco made as evidence solely of new credit being 
provided by Tesco, adding to an already significant amount of personal borrowing. Instead, 
rather than the new credit adding to Mr Gs burden of credit, it would have appeared to 
Tesco that Mr G was taking steps, that could be termed sensible, to manage his existing 
debt by taking out a loan and using it to secure more favourable terms to existing credit. I 
say that because Mr G could have been saving money on interest he would have been 
paying elsewhere, had he used the loan for the reasons he provided to Tesco at that time.
And the loan, when consolidating credit card debt, provided a repayment plan for credit that 
might not otherwise be repaid. So, it doesnt seem automatically unreasonable for Tesco to 
have facilitated that.I am not pretending that this case is anything but nuanced and balanced. But having 
reviewed all the submissions made in this complaint, I have seen insufficient reason to 
depart from the findings I made in my provisional decision. And as Ive already set out my full 
reasons for upholding Mr Gs complaint in part, I have nothing further to add. 
My final decision
For the reasons set out, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision before 21 February 2023.
 
Douglas Sayers
Ombudsman