DRN-4152810
The complaint
Mr M complains that NewDay Ltd trading as Marbles was irresponsible in its lending to him. 
He wants the default removed from his credit file and a refund of the interest charged on his 
account. 
What happened
Mr M was provided with a credit card account by NewDay in March 2017. The initial credit 
limit was £100 and wasnt increased. 
Mr M says that the credit card shouldnt have been provided. He said he had a gambling 
problem at the time, and this resulted in issues which led to his account being defaulted..  
NewDay issued its final response letter in February 2023. It said that before the credit card 
account was provided it gathered information from credit reference agencies as well as 
asking Mr M about his income and employment through its application process. It said that 
Mr Ms credit check didnt show any adverse information and it noted that Mr M had £300 of 
unsecured debt. Mr Ms annual income was recorded as £18,000. NewDay said that Mr M 
met its lending criteria and so was provided with the credit card account with a £100 credit 
limit. 
Our adjudicator didnt uphold this complaint. She thought the checks that took place before 
the account was opened were proportionate and she didnt think the information gathered 
suggested the lending was irresponsible. She noted that NewDay had stopped applying 
interest and charges after Mr M informed it of his financial difficulties. 
Mr M didnt agree with our adjudicators view and his complaint has been passed to me, an 
ombudsman, to issue a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Our approach to considering complaints about unaffordable and irresponsible lending is set 
out on our website. Ive had this approach in mind when considering whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As our adjudicator explained, before providing credit, lenders need to assess the ability of 
the consumer to make the repayments in an affordable way. There arent specific checks 
that need to be carried out, but the regulations say these need to be reasonable and 
proportionate to the type and amount of credit being provided, the length of the credit being 
provided, the frequency of its use, the repayments and the total cost of the credit.
Before Mr M was provided with the credit card account, NewDay carried out a credit check. I 
have looked at the results it received, and these didnt show any concerns that would 
suggest the account shouldnt be provided. Mr M had no defaults, public records or accounts 
in arrears and his total unsecured debt was £300. 
Although I do not find that the credit check raised any issues, NewDay was still required to 
undertake reasonable checks to ensure any lending would be affordable. As part of the 
application process Mr M declared his annual income as £18,000. NewDay has explained 
that it assesses affordability through a credit reference agency model and uses third party 
data sources to assess expenditure. It said Mr M met its lending criteria. While in certain 
circumstances we would expect further verification of income and expenses to take place, 
given the low credit limit provided, £100, and noting Mr Ms declared income I find the 
checks undertaken in this case were proportionate. As these didnt raise concerns about the 
affordability of the lending, I do not find I can say NewDay was wrong to provide the credit 
card account with a £100 credit limit.
I am sorry to hear of the difficult financial circumstances Mr M has experienced but I can see 
that following him informing NewDay of his difficulties a repayment plan was set up. I can 
also see that Mr M hasnt been charged interest or charges from March 2018 onwards. 
Therefore, in this case, as I do not find that Mr M was provided the credit irresponsibly I do 
not find I can uphold this complaint. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 7 July 2023.
 
Jane Archer
Ombudsman