DRN-2674158
The complaint
Ms M complains PDL Finance Limited (trading as Mr Lender) lent to her irresponsibly.
What happened
Our adjudicator partially upheld Ms Ms complaint. Both Ms M and Mr Lender disagreed with 
the adjudicators opinion. The complaint was then passed to me. 
I issued my provisional decision explaining the reasons why I wasnt upholding Ms Ms 
complaint. A copy of the background to the complaint and my provisional findings follow this 
and form part of this final decision.
What I said in my provisional decision:
Ms M took three instalment loans between October 2018 and October 2019. Ive included
some of the information weve received about these loans in the table below.
Loan Number Loan Amount Number of 
instalmentsDate of loan Actual Repayment Date
1 £200 3 06/10/2018 28/02/2019
2 £200 6 12/04/2019 31/10/2019
3 £750 12 31/10/2019 13/07/2020
Our adjudicator didnt think it was wrong for Mr Lender to have granted loans 1 and 2. But
he thought that loan 3 shouldnt have been lent. He felt there were signs Ms M was
struggling to repay some of her previous loans and that proportionate checks would have
shown she was having problems managing her money.
Ms M didnt appear to disagree with the adjudicators findings about loans 1 and 2. But she
felt that for loan 3, it would be fairer if the loan was removed entirely from her credit file,
rather than just any adverse information, as recommended by the adjudicator.
Mr Lender disagreed with the adjudicators assessment of loan 3. In summary, Mr Lender
said:
the deferral of the first two loans wasnt out of line with any regulations and allowed 
payment flexibility for Ms M, rather than indicating she was struggling to repay either 
loan;
whilst Ms M borrowed a higher sum for loan 3, there was a gap of over a month 
between loans 1 and 2 and the amounts had stayed the same  so, it felt that no 
pattern of lending had developed to suggest Ms M wasnt using loan 3 for its 
intended purpose and
its checks for loan 3 went far enough and it was Ms Ms responsibility to disclose she
was in a debt management plan at the time of the application.
As no agreement has been reached, the case has been passed to me for a final decision.
What Ive provisionally decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about short-term lending - including all the
relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice - on our website.
Mr Lender had to assess the lending to check if Ms M could afford to pay back the amounts
shed borrowed without undue difficulty. It needed to do this in a way which was
proportionate to the circumstances. Mr Lenders checks could have taken into account a
number of different things, such as how much was being lent, the size of the repayments,
and Ms Ms income and expenditure.
With this in mind, I think in the early stages of a lending relationship, less thorough checks
might have been proportionate. But certain factors might suggest Mr Lender should have
done more to establish that any lending was sustainable for Ms M. These factors include:
Ms M having a low income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make 
any loan repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income);
The amounts to be repaid being especially high (reflecting that it could be 
more difficult to meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income);
Ms M having a large number of loans and/or having these loans over a 
long period of time (reflecting the risk that repeated refinancing may signal 
that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, unsustainable);
Ms M coming back for loans shortly after previous borrowing had been 
repaid (also suggestive of the borrowing becoming unsustainable).
There may even come a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself 
clearly demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable for Ms M.
Mr Lender was required to establish whether Ms M could sustainably repay her instalment 
loans  not just whether she technically had enough money to make her repayments. Having
enough money to make the repayments could of course be an indicator that Ms M was able
to repay her loans sustainably. But it doesnt automatically follow that this is the case.
The Financial Conduct Authority (the industry regulator) says in the Consumer Credit
Sourcebook (CONC) that payments are sustainable if they are made without undue
difficulties and in particular, made on time, while meeting other reasonable commitments and
without having to borrow to make them. If a lender realises, or ought reasonably to have
realised, that a borrower wont be able to make their repayments without borrowing further,
then it follows that it should conclude those repayments are unsustainable.
Ive considered all the arguments, evidence and information provided in this context, and
thought about what this means for Ms Ms complaint.
loans 1 and 2
Loan 1 (£200) was due to be repaid through three monthly instalments, with a highest 
repayment of around £107. Ms M declared an income of £2,200 and monthly expenditure for
housing, loans (including short term loans) and other commitments of £1,246.
Loan 2 (£200) was lent around six weeks after loan 1 was repaid and was due to be repaidover six instalments, the highest being around £75. By this point theyd been no change in
the income and expenses declared by Ms M.
Mr Lender also carried out a credit check for each loan which didnt seem to reveal any
significant adverse information.
Considering the level of lending and it being early in the lending relationship, I think the
checks for these two loans went far enough. And based on the checks Mr Lender completed
Im satisfied each loan wouldve seemed affordable and sustainable.
I dont think it had yet reached the point either in the lending relationship, or based on
what Mr Lender knew about Ms M, that meant it needed to verify the information she
declared. So, I dont think that it could or should have known that Ms M may have been
having financial difficulties at the time.
Overall, I agree with the adjudicator that I dont think that Mr Lender was wrong to lend loans
1 and 2.
loan 3
I understand that Ms M didnt pay the first two scheduled repayments of both principal and
interest for loan 1 or the first scheduled repayment of both principal and capital for loan 2.
This was a facility available under the loan agreements, where a consumer could opt to pay
interest only and defer the repayment of capital. Ms M didnt default on the loans or pay any
late fees.
So, whilst I appreciate that Ms M chose this option at the beginning of each loans
repayment cycle, I dont think this was particularly concerning or wouldve suggested to Mr
Lender that she wouldnt be able to repay loan 3s repayments sustainably as a result.
But I do agree with the adjudicator that by this point Mr Lender should have completed
further checks. Loan 3 was lent the same day that loan 2 was repaid. There was a significant
increase in the loan amount (to £750), with the highest repayment of around £161 more than
double that of loan 2 and instalments over twice the term, potentially extending Ms Ms
indebtedness considerably.
Overall, I dont think it was reasonable of Mr Lender to have relied on what Ms M declared.
Instead I think it needed to gain a full understanding of Ms Ms actual financial position to
ensure the loan was affordable and able to be repaid sustainably. This couldve been done
in several ways, such as asking for evidence of outgoings, or as Ive done here, looking at
bank statements. This mightve helped verify information provided and revealed whether
there was any other information that Mr Lender mightve needed to consider about Ms Ms
general financial position.
From what I can see when looking at Ms Ms bank statements before loan 3 was lent, she
was (as the adjudicator has pointed out) borrowing from other short-term lenders. But, the
two loans I can see though seemed to be quite modest and not particularly concerning.
I can also see that Ms M was making payments to a debt management plan (DMP)
managed by a third party. This didnt however appear to be a recent plan set up shortly
before loan 3 as the adjudicator has suggested. I can see payments to the third party going
back as early as May 2018. And it may be that the plan had started some time before then.
I accept that a DMP is likely to be an indicator of a consumer having previous repayment
difficulties. It doesnt necessarily follow though that a lender shouldnt lend. A consumermight be back on track with their finances and able to manage a DMP as well as taking on
further borrowing  assuming that is their overall financial circumstances suggest they can
afford to do so in an affordable and sustainable way.
In this complaint I can see from Ms Ms own credit report she appeared to have significant
financial difficulties in 2014/2015. Its possible the DMP relates to these difficulties. Whilst
these difficulties arent shown in Mr Lenders own credit results, I think had it completed
proportionate checks, it ought to have known about the DMP.
Looking at everything together though, Ive not seen quite enough evidence to suggest Mr
Lender shouldnt have lent loan 3. Ms Ms bank statements dont suggest to me she was
having problems managing her money at the point of loan 3 and unable to affordably and
sustainably repay the instalments.
It is of course possible that, had Ms M continued to borrow from Mr Lender, a point may
have been reached when further lending might not have been sustainable. But considering
Ms M took three loans and these appeared affordable, I dont think Mr Lender was wrong to
have provided them.
As this is the case, Im not intending to uphold Ms Ms complaint about these loans. I
appreciate this will be disappointing for Ms M. But I hope that shell understand why Im
intending to reach these findings.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Both Ms M and Mr Lender didnt provide any further information or comments for me to 
consider after receiving my provisional decision. 
So, I see no reason to depart from the findings I reached in my provisional decision and I still 
dont think Mr Lender was wrong to have provided these loans.
 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained and in my provisional decision Im not upholding Ms Ms 
complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms M to accept or 
reject my decision before 12 April 2021.
 
Robert Walker
Ombudsman