DRN-2255936
The complaint
B, a limited company, complains that Charter Court Financial Services Limited trading as 
Precise Mortgages was unfair not to allow it to switch products on a buy to let mortgage. B is 
represented by its director who Ill refer to as Mr Z. He asks that Precise allows the switch 
without penalty, refunds additional interest and pays compensation for his time spent on this 
complaint.
What happened
In March 2019 B bought a property at auction using a bridging loan from Precise. Precise 
offered B lending through what it calls its refurbishment to let process  a bridging loan 
which would be repaid by a buy to let mortgage after the property was refurbished. B had 
applied for a five-year product, however before taking out the buy to let mortgage it decided 
to change to a two-year product.
The applications for the bridging loan and the mortgage had been made by a broker on Bs 
behalf. Mr Z says the brokers service was unsatisfactory and B ended the relationship. In 
May and June 2019 Mr Z contacted Precise directly to ask it to switch the product. He says 
he was given incorrect information about this, and was then told Precise wouldnt deal with 
him directly. Mr Z says given the high costs of the bridging loan, B had no option except to 
take out the buy to let mortgage with the five-year product.
Our investigator said that as Precise is an intermediary only lender, B did need to make the 
change through a broker. The investigator said while Precise could have handled this better, 
the outcome would have been the same.
B didnt agree, and so the complaint has been passed to me, an ombudsman, to issue a 
decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Precise Mortgages is an intermediary only lender. It doesnt deal directly with customers, 
and it doesnt give advice on products or services. Precise Mortgages only accepts 
applications through intermediaries.
A broker made the application to Precise on Bs behalf. Precise offered B lending through 
what it calls its refurbishment to let process  a bridging loan which would be repaid by a buy 
to let mortgage after the property was refurbished. It says there are a restricted range of 
products available for the buy to let mortgage when using this process. Initially, B applied for 
a five-year product.
Mr Z called Precise in May 2019. The refurbishment was near completion, and he wanted to 
know what other products might be available for the buy to let mortgage. 
Mr Z says there were a number of calls about this, in May and June 2019. I dont have all the 
call recordings, but I have listened to the calls on 16 and 23 May, two more calls in June and 
read Mr Zs statement about what happened. I should say here that where the evidence is 
incomplete, inconclusive or contradictory, I reach my decision on the balance of probabilities 
 in other words, what I consider is most likely to have happened in light of the available 
evidence and the wider circumstances. I have of course read all the comments and evidence 
provided by both parties, and I think I can reach a fair decision based on the available 
evidence. 
On 16 May 2019, Mr Z called Precise about switching products for the buy to let mortgage 
application. He said he couldnt understand why he couldnt do this himself as he would with 
an existing mortgage. Mr Z said he could better decide what products were suitable for B 
than a broker would. Precise said it didnt offer advice to customers, and set out what Bs 
options were. It said its range of products were set out on its website, and B could write to it 
requesting a product with a statement about not having received advice. 
Precise called Mr Z after receiving his letter requesting the product switch. It said the product 
B requested wasnt available to it. It said as this was a refurbishment to let process there 
was a restricted product range. It suggested Mr Z wait for the results of the re-inspection and 
then see what options are available. If the re-inspection report assessed the rent as higher 
than expected, other products might be available. If not, it said Mr Z could then consider 
reducing the loan amount. Or he could make a new application for a standard buy to let with 
more product options: it said this would have to go through a broker. 
There was a re-inspection of the property in mid-June 2019. After reviewing the report, 
Precise said B didnt meet the criteria for a two-year product unless the loan amount was 
reduced. 
Mr Z spoke to Precise after the re-inspection. They discussed products, and reducing the 
loan amount. Precise said Mr Z could look at the website to see what products were 
available. The call handler said Mr Z should send an email asking to switch to another 
product: the implication was that it was possible to switch products this way. This wasnt 
right. However, Precise corrected this promptly and told Mr Z the request would have to be 
made through the broker. 
I understand why Mr Z wanted to deal directly with Precise. But I dont think Precise made 
an error when it said the change had to be requested by an intermediary. Precise only 
accepts applications  and changes to applications  through intermediaries. Precise 
correctly told Mr Z that a new application for a standard buy to let mortgage would have to 
be made through an intermediary. Where I think it made an error is that it didnt tell Mr Z in 
clear terms that switching the product could only be done through an intermediary, until after 
mid-June.
I dont think though the outcome would have been different if Precise had told Mr Z this 
sooner. By the time Mr Z discussed changing the product with Precise, the bridging loan was 
in place and B had a mortgage offer with the five-year product. This could only be changed 
through the intermediary and Bs relationship with the intermediary had broken down.
B was in a difficult position. It couldnt ask for the product switch itself and it couldnt (or 
didnt want to) return to the intermediary. Its likely that going to another broker to re-apply to 
Precise, or to start an application to another lender would have had timing and cost 
implications. However, I think its unlikely this situation would have been different if Precise 
had told Mr Z in clear terms in mid to late May the switch had to be made through the broker. It follows that I dont think its fair and reasonable in the circumstances to require Precise to 
switch the product or pay compensation to B.
My final decision
My decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask B to accept or 
reject my decision before 29 March 2021.
 
Ruth Stevenson
Ombudsman