DRN-4146756
The complaint
Miss B has complained about Collingwood Insurance Company Ltd (CICL). Miss B isnt 
happy that she didnt receive a refund when her motor insurance policy cancelled as she had 
passed her driving test.
Miss Bs representative has advanced the complaint on her behalf but for ease Ive just 
referred to Miss B in this decision.
What happened
Miss B took out a motor insurance policy with CICL. The policy cancelled once she passed 
her test and she was expecting a partial refund in line with the policy. Miss B passed her 
driving test during the eight month of the policy which meant she expected to receive a 10% 
refund under the sliding scale of her policy. But she didnt receive any refund, so she 
complained to CICL about this. 
CICL explained that it had refunded 10% in line with the policy to her broker. However, as 
the broker (which Miss B has also complained about) added a cancellation fee this waived 
any refund owed, in fact Miss B owed a small amount of money to the broker. As Miss B 
remained unhappy she complained to this Service.
Our investigator looked into things for her but didnt uphold her complaint. Although he 
understood why Miss B wasnt happy he was satisfied CICL had acted in line with the policy 
terms and conditions and refunded 10% of the cost of the policy. He accepted that CICL 
could have refunded Miss B directly. But he didnt think it was unreasonable to refund 
through the broker who administered the policy and went on to charge a cancellation fee. 
As Miss B didnt agree the matter has been passed to me for review. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I dont think the complaint should be upheld. I know this will come as a 
disappointment to Miss B, but Ill explain why.
I can understand why Miss B doesnt want to pay a cancellation fee, especially as it was 
always likely that this would be due under the policy if she passed her test. But that isnt a 
matter for CICL as it didnt charge the cancellation fee, the broker did. 
CICL has acted in line with the policy terms and conditions and refunded 10% of the 
premium Miss B paid as she passed her test in the eighth month of the policy. As this was in 
line with the policy I think CICL has acted fairly and so I wont ask it to do anything further. I 
know the broker, who arranged the policy, has charged a cancellation fee (which is being 
considered separately) but I cant hold CICL responsible for this. 
My final decision
It follows, for the reasons given above, that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss B to accept 
or reject my decision before 6 July 2023.
 
Colin Keegan
Ombudsman