DRN-4365245
The complaint
Mr D and Ms J are unhappy with how theyve been treated by Barclays Bank UK PLC in 
relation to their mortgage.
What happened
Mr D and Ms J originally took out a mortgage with a different lender. The mortgage was 
transferred to Barclays and it is responsible for dealing with this complaint.
The main mortgage was taken out in 2003, with two further advances taken in 2004. All 
three sub accounts are on an interest only basis.
In 2019, Mr D and Ms J referred a complaint to the Financial Ombudsman Service, to do 
with the way in which Barclays had treated them when they had experienced financial 
difficulties. The mortgage had a history of arrears and Mr D and Ms J thought that Barclays 
shouldve done more to try to help them get back on track, rather than commence 
possession proceedings.
An investigator here looked into the complaint and thought that Barclays hadnt treated 
Mr D and Ms J fairly. They thought Barclays shouldve given more consideration to the 
proposals put forward by Mr D and Ms J to repay the arrears, rather than commence 
possession proceedings when it did. The investigator recommended that Barclays refund 
fees and charges applied from January 2018 onwards.
It was also agreed that:
Barclays would halt possession proceedings;
Mr D and Ms J would pay £750 a month towards their mortgage account for the next
12 months; and
Mr D and Ms J would clear the arrears balance in August 2022, using Mr Ds
pension.
Subsequent to this, Mr D and Ms J raised new concerns about the way in which Barclays
was treating them. They said that during the Covid-19 pandemic, they had asked Barclays
for a payment holiday (six months) and that Barclays had sent them text messages to
confirm this had been agreed.
Barclays accepted they may have sent such texts but that this was in error. It said it wouldnt
have agreed to provide Mr D and Ms J with a payment holiday, because of their arrears
situation and that they hadnt made payment for several months prior to the pandemic.
Barclays offered Mr and Ms J £100 compensation for the impact of having incorrectly told
them that a payment holiday had been agreed.
Mr D and Ms J were unhappy with this resolution and thought Barclays should honour the
payment holiday that it had said was agreed. They were concerned their arrears balance
had increased, instead of the missed payments being added on to the mortgage balance.
Mr D and Ms J also complained that the interest rate theyd been charged on the mortgage
was too high, because when the mortgage transferred from the original lender, they lost the
flexibility they had when they first took the mortgage out. Barclays thought it had charged
interest fairly.
Mr D and Ms J also said they didnt think Barclays had refunded the fees as it had been
agreed it would, as part of the resolution to the previous complaint. They referred their
concerns to the Financial Ombudsman Service.
An investigator here first issued an assessment setting out what they thought they could and
couldnt look at, in the context of the time limit rules that apply. In summary, they said they:
could consider the complaint about the payment holiday and the refund of fees;
could only consider the interest payments charged in the six years leading up to the
complaint.
Both parties agreed with this. The investigator went on to issue an assessment of the merits
of the complaint we could consider. In summary, they said:
The Financial Conduct Authority had released guidance to lenders about how they
should treat borrowers who were struggling to make their mortgage payments in the
context of the Covid-19 pandemic. Under this guidance, Barclays ought to have
granted Mr D and Ms J a payment holiday for the first three months, regardless of
their arrears position.
However, for borrowers already struggling before the pandemic, lenders werent
required to automatically grant a further payment holiday. Instead, lenders needed to
tailor the assistance they offered borrowers according to their individual 
circumstances.
Where a business provides a consumer with incorrect information, we consider what
the position would be had the correct information been given. Given the position of
Mr D and Ms Js mortgage, the investigator didnt think Barclays wouldve agreed to
the payment holiday for the second three months and so this is what Mr D and Ms J
ought to have been told at the time. As such, the investigator said Barclays should
re-work Mr D and Ms Js mortgage account as if it had agreed a three month 
payment holiday when Mr D and Ms J had first requested this.
The investigator said Mr D and Ms J would need to bear in mind this would mean the
deferred payments would be added to the mortgage balance instead of the arrears
balance, which would (all things being equal) lead to them paying more interest over
the term of the mortgage.
Regarding the concerns about the interest rate, due to the passage of time, Barclays
hadnt been able to provide a copy of the original mortgage offer. Generally it is for a
borrower to contact a lender to request a new interest rate, so if Mr D and Ms J were
unhappy with the rate they were paying given the features of the account, it was their
responsibility to contact Barclays to request a new rate.
The exception to this is where a customer is in financial difficulties, when a lender is 
expected to consider a number of concessions to help, including reducing their interest rate. During the period the complaint relates to, Mr D and Ms J had a long 
history of payment difficulties, including significant periods of time where they werent 
making any payments at all. As such, a lower interest rate wouldnt have meant the 
mortgage was then affordable. Given that lower rates would likely have come with
features such as product fees and early repayment charges, which could have made
their situation worse, it wouldnt have been appropriate for Barclays to proactively
move Mr D and Ms J onto a different rate.
However, Barclays had confirmed that it offered a forbearance rate, which was lower 
than the standard variable rate (SVR) and without any product fees or early 
repayment charge. Barclays said this rate was a short term forbearance solution 
offered for 12 months from when a customer has a plan in place. Given that 
Mr D and Ms J had a plan in place to clear their arrears from May 2021, Barclays 
ought to have offered this rate earlier and should backdate it as though it began in 
May 2021, with the relative overpayments being used to reduce the arrears balance.
In terms of the refund of solicitor fees, Barclays had provided evidence to show it had 
reversed the transactions, so nothing further needed to happen in this respect.
Barclays accepted the findings.
Mr D and Ms J didnt agree with everything the investigator said. In summary, they said that:
They had been asking for an explanation regarding how the refund of fees had been 
applied to their account since August 2021. Their initial expectation was that the fees 
would be refunded to the mortgage current account (along with the other 
compensation).
They thought they had finally been able to work out what had happened and that it 
looked like the refund probably had been applied. However, Barclays communication 
of what would happen had been inadequate and when Mr D had queried the matter 
with Barclays, it hadnt been able to explain clearly what had happened, meaning 
hed needed to spend a considerable amount of time trying to get to the bottom of it.
Regarding the payment holiday, they accepted the recommendation for the first three 
months to be added to the mortgage balance. However, they still thought Barclays 
should have to honour the second three months as well. In addition, Barclays had 
increased the required monthly payment from £750 to £807 per month, which was 
contrary to what had been agreed.
Although they accepted the proposal regarding the forbearance rate, and agreed it 
had been fair that theyd been charged the SVR before the forbearance rate was 
introduced, they thought they may have been charged more than Barclays SVR in 
the relevant period.
The investigator issued another assessment saying their opinion remained the same in
respect of the payment holiday and solicitor fees refund issue. In terms of the interest rate
Mr D and Ms J had been charged, the investigator said that:
Barclays SVR had moved in line with changes to the Bank of England base rate in 
the six years we could consider. As such, this has been fair. Looking at a number of 
Mr D and Ms Js mortgage statements in the relevant period, the interest rate quoted 
matched Barclays SVR rate, so it didnt seem that Mr D and Ms J had been charged 
more than Barclays SVR.Although we couldnt consider the interest charged before the six years leading up to 
the complaint, we could take into account how Barclays managed its SVR before that 
point, because if the SVR had been unfairly increased during that time, it would have 
a knock-on effect to the level of SVR Mr D and Ms J had been charged during the 
period we could potentially award compensation for.
The margin between the Bank of England base rate and Barclays SVR had 
increased between 2007 and 2009 during the global financial crisis. Barclays had 
provided information to explain its decisions to vary the interest rate during this time 
and it had shown that its cost of funds had increased. On this basis, there wasnt any   
unfairness in terms of the interest charged during the period we can look at.
The investigator asked Mr D and Ms J what amount of arrears they had repaid in August
2022.
Mr D and Ms Js response about the arrears repayment wasnt altogether clear, but it looks
like they hadnt made payment towards the arrears at that point. They remained unhappy
with the outcome in respect of the payment holiday and solicitor refund issues and so the
next step was for the case to be escalated to an Ombudsman for review.
After reviewing the case, I asked Barclays to confirm what had happened on the mortgage
accounts since May 2021, to include the required payments, credits, debits and the arrears
position. I asked Barclays for its comments on what Mr D and Ms J had said about the
required monthly payment having been agreed at being £750 but then Barclays having
increased this to £807. I also asked for a recording of the call between Mr D and Barclays
that Mr D has said happened on 23 August 2021, in relation to the solicitor fees issue  plus
all other call recordings relevant to that issue.
Barclays provided account statements showing what had happened on the mortgage
accounts and confirmed the arrears position. It said that Mr D and Ms J hadnt made a
successful payment towards the accounts since February 2022 and that at the point of
providing the information, the arrears stood at £54,684.32.
In relation to the monthly amount required to be paid by Mr D and Ms J from May 2021, it
said that the £750 was based on the contractual monthly payment (CMP) at the time plus
£79.74. Barclays said that Mr D and Ms Js CMP subsequently increased, because the
interest rate on their mortgage increased following increases to the Bank of England base
rate.
Barclays provided a number of call recordings where the issue of the solicitor fees was 
discussed between Mr D and Barclays.
I issued a Provisional Decision (PD) in August 2023. In it, I said the following:
Mr D and Ms Js complaint points can be summarised as follows:
Theyre unhappy with how Barclays treated them in relation to the Covid payment 
holiday issue. They think Barclays should honour the fact that it had told them the 
payment holidays had been agreed and they consider that this issue has significantly 
changed the position in terms of the amount of arrears they needed to pay at August 
2022.Theyre unhappy that Barclays increased the amount they needed to pay each month 
from the £750 that had been agreed as part of the plan in May 2021.
In relation to the refund of solicitor fees issue, they think that Barclays initial 
communication about what would happen shouldve been clearer and that its efforts 
to deal with their subsequent queries werent good enough.
Theyre concerned they may have paid more than Barclays SVR, during the period 
we can look at.
Having considered all of the available evidence and arguments, Im currently minded to
reach the same substantive outcome on the payment holiday issue as that reached by the
investigator. However, I also currently think that Barclays needs to pay more compensation
in relation to that issue and some compensation in relation to the solicitor fees issue. I dont
think Barclays needs to do anything further in relation to the increase to the monthly
payment amount and I dont think it has acted unfairly in relation to the interest rate it
charged during the period of time I can look at.
Before I explain why, I want to set out my role as an Ombudsman. It isnt to address every
single point thats been made to date. Instead, its to decide whats fair and reasonable given
the circumstances of this complaint. And for that reason, Im only going to refer to what I
think are the most salient points when I set out my conclusions and my reasons for reaching
them. But, having read all of the submissions from both sides in full, I will continue to keep in
mind all of the points that have been made, insofar as they relate to this complaint, when
doing that.
The covid-19 payment holiday
Mr D and Ms J are unhappy that Barclays told them it had agreed their requests for payment
holidays in relation to the Covid-19 pandemic, only to then reverse this. They think as
Barclays told them the payment holidays had been agreed, it should honour this.
Barclays says it isnt sure exactly what happened in terms of the text messages
Mr D and Ms J received. It has though accepted that it made some kind of error, resulting in
Mr D and Ms J thinking that payment holidays had been agreed covering a six month period,
when this was not the case.
In this situation, it is necessary to think about wouldve happened if the correct information
had been given. Barclays says it shouldve told Mr D and Ms J that neither request was
being agreed, because they were significantly in arrears before the Covid-19 pandemic
happened. I agree with the investigator that under the relevant FCA guidance, Barclays
should reasonably have agreed to the initial request for a three month payment holiday.
I also agree with the investigator that the same cannot be said for the second three month
period. I consider there wasnt the same onus on Barclays to agree to the second request
and that it was entitled to decline the request, given the extent to which Mr D and Ms J had
already been struggling before the pandemic. I appreciate that Mr D and Ms J feel strongly
that Barclays needs to honour what it told them, but as things stand, I disagree.
Mr D and Ms J have also pointed out in the context of this complaint point, that Barclays
didnt specifically engage with them at that time, to understand their circumstances (in the
context of the pandemic) and to think about options they may have had. Its possible
Barclays ought to have attempted to contact Mr D and Mr J along these lines, however even
if this is the case, I dont think Mr D and Ms J have been materially affected by this.I say this because Mr D and Ms J have described the financial difficulties they faced at the
time and it seems they were unable to make any repayments towards the mortgage,
regardless of whether they did or didnt have a payment arrangement. That being the case, I
cant see how any lack of contact by Barclays at that time can be said to have materially
affected the position they were and are in.
Mr D and Ms J have I think suggested that this issue has impacted upon the arrangement
that was agreed in 2021, in terms of them needing to repay a certain amount of arrears in
May 2022. Given that the payment holiday issue relates to 2020  before the repayment plan
was agreed in 2021, its not clear to me how the two issues are linked. I say this because I
assume the agreement for repayment of arrears in May 2022, would already have factored
in the build-up of arrears during the six months in 2020 when Mr D and Ms J thought they
were in a payment holiday, but werent. So as things stand, I dont think Mr D and Ms J have
been treated unfairly in relation to this point.
However, I currently think that Barclays should pay an additional £100 compensation  so
£200 in total  to fairly reflect the impact of its error giving Mr D and Ms J the impression the
payment holidays had been agreed. I say this because I am satisfied that Barclays error
caused Mr D and Ms J unnecessary upset and I think that £200 is more reflective of this and
in line with our approach to compensation awards.
The monthly payment amount increasing
Mr D and Ms J have said they had an agreement with Barclays that the amount they needed
to pay from May 2021 was fixed at £750 per month.
Barclays says the £750 at outset was based on the CMP at the time, plus £79.74. It says
that after the plan began, the CMP increased due to the interest rate applying to the
mortgage increasing, following increases to the Bank of England base rate.
Ive seen that the case handler here working on Mr D and Ms Js previous complaint wrote to
them (on that complaint) setting out that the £750 was based on the CMP plus £79.74. I
havent seen anything setting out that the £750 would be fixed for the whole 12 months but
equally I havent seen anything setting out that the monthly repayment figure would increase
if the CMP were to increase.
During one of the calls between Mr D and Barclays on 26 June 2021, the Barclays adviser
confirms that the required payment covering all three accounts is £750, with the CMP being
£702. If the required monthly payment was fixed at the CMP plus £79.74, the required
monthly amount wouldve become over £780 at that point. This leads me to believe its likely
that Barclays asked for a monthly repayment of more than £750, at the point that the CMP
exceeded £750.
I think that Barclays could have been clearer with Mr D and Ms J about what would happen if
and when the CMP increased after the plan began. Having said that, unless Mr D and Ms J
have anything in writing to show it was explicitly agreed that the monthly repayment amount
would be fixed at £750 a month, regardless of any changes to the CMP (or if Barclays
confirms this to have been the case), then I dont currently think it was unfair for the figure to
increase where this was due to the CMP increasing. Finally on this point, I would point out
that if the required monthly payment was ever below the CMP, this would result in an
increase in arrears, which is generally undesirable, for obvious reasons.
Refund of solicitor fees
Mr D and Ms J have said that Barclays ought to have been clearer up front about when andhow the solicitor fees would be refunded. Theyve also raised concerns that they had agreed
the solicitor fees would be refunded to the mortgage current account, for them to be able to
put towards mortgage repayments, rather than there being an adjustment to the balance.
Mr D and Ms J have also said that Barclays wasnt able to satisfactorily deal with the
questions they raised about the refund of the fees.
First, I dont think the letter informing Mr D and Ms J about the refund of fees was unclear. I
know Mr D and Ms J think the letter ought to have gone into greater detail about the refund
in terms of how it would be done, where it would be visible and that it might not lead to a
reduction in the balance in the way one might think. However, I dont think the absence of
this kind of detail means the letter was unclear.
I also cant see where it had been agreed that the solicitor fees would be refunded to the
mortgage current account. I think Mr D and Ms J may have assumed this to be the case, but
in the absence of clear evidence showing this had been agreed, I dont think it was
unreasonable or inappropriate for the fees (plus relevant interest) to be automatically
adjusted on the account where the fees were originally charged.
I take from what Mr D and Ms J have said, that since raising the complaint, they do now
think the refund has taken place. Notwithstanding this, Ive seen the 2022 annual statement
for the mortgage account number ending 855 and I can see the entries for the relevant
solicitor fee amounts, each with the description Dr Cap Rev. I can also see that the balance
figure at 1 April 2021 on that statement is approximately £1,142 lower than the balance
figure at 31 March 2021 on the 2021 annual statement. This suggests to me that the
adjustment has taken place as it should.
Having said all of that, I agree with Mr D and Ms J that the way Barclays dealt with their
request for clarification of what had happened with the refund of solicitor fees, was
unsatisfactory. I dont think it was unreasonable for Mr D to seek clarification of what was
happening / had happened in terms of the solicitor fee refund, since it wasnt clear to him.
Ive listened to a recording of the numerous calls that took place between Mr D and
Barclays, where Mr D was seeking clarification. Mr D was given incorrect information at
times and mixed messages at others. I think this caused Mr D and Ms J to experience
unnecessary distress and inconvenience.
Taking everything into account, I currently think that a compensation figure of £250 is
appropriate and in line with our approach to compensation awards.
Interest charged
Mr D and Ms J have indicated that they accepted what the investigator said about the
interest charged on the mortgage. Notwithstanding this, for completeness, other than the
recommendation by the investigator for Barclays to re-work the mortgage account as though
the forbearance rate began in May 2021, I dont currently think there is anything unfair about
the interest Mr D and Ms J have been charged, within the six years that I can consider.
It is not unreasonable that Mr D and Ms J were on the SVR before moving onto the
forbearance rate. And there is no evidence to suggest that Mr D and Ms J were charged
more than Barclays SVR rate, when they were on it. So I dont currently intend to say that
Barclays needs to do anything further in relation to this.
Other matters
The information recently provided by Barclays in relation to the status of the accountsuggests that Mr D and Ms J are significantly in arrears. I dont know how much they are
already engaging with Barclays to try to agree a way forwards, but I encourage them to
engage as much as possible with Barclays about this.
Putting things right
I am provisionally minded to say that Barclays needs to do the following (if not already
done), to put things right:
Adjust the mortgage as though it did agree a payment holiday for the first three 
months.
Adjust the mortgage as though the forbearance rate began in May 2021. The 
additional interest charged in the period between this date and when the forbearance 
rate actually began, should be used to reduce the outstanding arrears.
Pay Mr D and Ms J a total of £450 in compensation for the distress and 
inconvenience caused by its errors in relation to the payment holidays and the refund 
of solicitor fees.
I told both parties to provide any further evidence and/or arguments by 15 September 2023. 
Barclays responded to say that it accepted the PD. It clarified that it hadnt taken the steps 
suggested by the investigator, because Mr D and Ms J hadnt accepted the investigators 
view. It said it would be happy to do those things if Mr D and Ms J accept the final decision. 
Mr D and Ms J initially didnt respond. When contacted by the investigator near to the 
deadline, they said they had no interest in any compensation and all they wanted was open 
dialogue with Barclays. They also said something which suggested they may need a little 
more time to provide a substantive response, so I gave them an additional week within which 
to provide anything further. Nothing further has been provided, so Ive gone on to make my 
final decision based on what I have. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Since Barclays agreed with my PD and that Mr D and Ms J didnt provide a substantive 
response to it, I see no reason to depart from my provisional findings (which form part of this 
final decision). 
Covid-19 payment holiday
I still find that, under the relevant guidance, Barclays ought to have agreed the payment 
holiday request covering the first three months, but not the following three months - given 
Mr D and Ms Js circumstances. I also still consider that Barclays should pay £200 in 
compensation for the impact on Mr D and Ms J of it having incorrectly told them that both 
payment holidays has been agreed, when this was not the case.
The monthly payment amount
I still think that Barclays could have been clearer with Mr D and Ms J about what would 
happen if and when the CMP increased after the plan began. However, Ive not been 
provided with anything showing that it was explicitly agreed the CMP would remain fixed at 
£750 regardless of any change to the interest rate. And as I set out in my PD, if the required monthly payment was ever below the CMP, this would lead to increased arrears, which is 
obviously undesirable. Taking everything into account, I still dont consider that Barclays 
needs to take any kind of action in relation to this issue. 
Refund of solicitor fees
I still find that the evidence shows the refund of fees took place as had been agreed. 
However, I also still consider that the way Barclays dealt with Mr Ds questions about what 
happened caused unnecessary distress and inconvenience and that compensation of £250 
fairly reflects this. 
Interest charged
Other than the timing of when the forbearance rate began, I still dont find there is anything 
unfair about the interest Mr D and Ms J were charged in the six years that I can consider. 
Other matters
In response to the PD, Mr D and Ms J said all they were seeking was open dialogue with 
Barclays. In my PD, I said that I didnt know how much they were engaging with Barclays to 
try to agree a way forwards, but that I encouraged them to engage as much as possible with 
Barclays about this.
If Mr D and Ms J are doing this and think that Barclays isnt acting fairly in relation to their 
current situation, they should raise this with Barclays in the first instance. 
Putting things right
Barclays needs to do the following to put things right:
Adjust the mortgage as though it did agree a payment holiday for the first three 
months.
Adjust the mortgage as though the forbearance rate began in May 2021. The 
additional interest charged in the period between this date and when the forbearance 
rate actually began, should be used to reduce any outstanding arrears.
Pay Mr D and Ms J a total of £450 in compensation for the distress and 
inconvenience caused by its errors in relation to the payment holidays and the refund 
of solicitor fees.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold Mr D and Ms Js complaint about Barclays Bank UK PLC 
and I direct it do what Ive set out above under Putting things right.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr D and Ms J to 
accept or reject my decision before 24 October 2023.
 
Ben Brewer
Ombudsman