DRN-3054699
The complaint
Mr B complains about U K Insurance Limiteds (UKI) settlement of his travel insurance claim. 
My references to UKI include its agents in this matter.
What happened
Mr B has travel insurance, insured by UKI, through his packaged bank account.
In January 2020 Mr B, his partner and dog travelled by car through the Eurotunnel through 
France to Spain. They intended to return by driving through Spain, France and the 
Eurotunnel to the UK in early April 2020. Theyd booked the Eurotunnel return.
On 14 March 2020 the Spanish government announced a national lockdown due to Covid-
19. On 17 March 2020 the French government announced the same. Mr B was concerned 
they wouldnt be able to travel back by car because no hotels would be open along the route. 
On 16 March 2020 he called UKI for advice and he said he was told hed be covered for 
additional accommodation and travel costs.
On 23 March 2020 the Foreign & Commonwealth Office advised British travellers abroad to 
return to the UK immediately.
Mr B phoned UKI again on 28 March 2020 as the policy limit of 90 days was about to expire. 
During the call UKI told him that as soon as the borders were open it would expect him to get 
home taking an alternative route if necessary otherwise his policy would expire. 
Mr B and his partner remained in Spain until the end of May 2021. He claimed on the policy 
for £893.15 for his share of the additional accommodation cost, the cost in amending the 
Eurotunnel booking and the cost of buying face masks. His partner claimed on her own 
insurance policy with another insurer.
Mr B said:
the borders were open for him to return to the UK but there was no available 
overnight accommodation in Spain and France if they had driven back as planned
they were driving a 4x4 vehicle not a campervan and they couldnt sleep in the car for 
the three nights it would take to drive to the Eurotunnel. He said the ferry from Spain 
to the UK had stopped and if he and his partner had got a flight back to the UK it 
would have cost about £600 each and he would have to put his dog into kennels then 
transport her and his car to the UK
he and his partner did cost calculations in deciding what to do. He believed it would 
be cheaper, and given the developing situation safer, to stay in their rented 
accommodation in Spain 
at the end of May 2020 they heard that some hotels were opening and he and his 
partner returned to the UK by driving though Spain, France and taking the Eurotunnel 
train.
UKI assessed the claim under the delayed and missed departure section of the policy and 
paid Mr B £250 which is the policy limit for delay under that section. Subsequently UKI 
thought it paid that settlement in error as it said Mr Bs circumstances didnt fall within any 
section of the policy.
Mr B complained to us. He said UKIs £250 settlement was unfair because:
hed limited the cost to UKI as it would have cost three times the amount he claimed 
if hed flown back and transported his dog and car home 
UKI had wrongly settled the claim as a flight delay, which wasnt his situation
his partners insurer had paid her claim for her share of the costs.
Mr B wants UKI to pay £643.15, the shortfall in his claim costs.
Our investigator said there was no cover for Mr Bs claim under the policy terms. He thought 
that although UKI wrongly told Mr B it would cover the additional costs that wrong 
information hadnt disadvantaged Mr B. He thought the £250 UKI had paid Mr B in error was 
a reasonable amount of compensation for Mr Bs distress and inconvenience due to its 
wrong advice.
Mr B disagrees and wants an ombudsmans decision. In summary he said:
the policy wording said hed be covered for additional accommodation costs
the policy wording is ambiguous so his claim should be covered
hed called UKI to check his cover and shouldnt be penalised for it wrongly telling 
him he would be covered
the bank sells the policy as a premier policy but that wasnt correct.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
My decision is about whether UKIs settlement of the claim was fair and reasonable. Mr B 
would need to make a separate complaint to the bank if he wants to pursue the points hes 
made about the policy being mis-sold.
Industry rules set out by the regulator say an insurer must handle claims promptly and fairly, 
and shouldnt unreasonably reject a claim. I dont think UKIs settlement was unreasonable.
Is there cover under the policy terms?
The policy does cover additional accommodation costs but only in specified listed 
circumstances. I dont think the policy wording is ambiguous about those circumstances. The 
circumstances Mr B found himself in arent covered by the policy terms.
UKI paid Mr B £250 under the Delayed or missed departure (on the day you are travelling). 
section. That says:1. Missed International Departure (outbound or on your return)
We will cover you for reasonable additional accommodation and travel expenses to:
 return you to your home on your return journey
if you fail to arrive at your point of international departure in time to board your pre-
booked aircraft, ship or train as a result of:
 the scheduled public transport or connecting scheduled flight on which you are 
travelling to your point of international departure not running to timetable; or
 the private car in which you are travelling being involved in an accident or breaking 
down.
2. Delayed International Departure (outbound or on your return)
We will cover you for your additional accommodation, travel and refreshment costs if 
you have checked in and your pre-booked aircraft, ship or train is delayed by more 
than four hours beyond the time shown on your travel itinerary at the point of  
international departure.
The policy limit is £1,000 for missed departure and £250 for delayed departure.
The reason Mr B wasnt able to get to his departure point wasnt either of the two reasons 
that are listed as being covered so theres no cover for his claim under the missed departure 
part of the section.
Our investigator wasnt able to find out whether the Eurotunnel train Mr B had booked ran on 
the date he was due to return. But even if it was delayed or cancelled thats not the reason 
why Mr B says he wasnt able to travel. So I think UKI acted over above the cover in the 
policy terms by paying Mr B £250 under the delayed departure part of the section.
The Cutting short your trip (after your trip has started) section also provides cover for  
reasonable additional accommodation and travel costs to enable Mr B to return home early if 
he had to unavoidably cut short his trip in specified circumstances. One of those listed 
circumstances is:  
The Foreign & Commonwealth Office (FCO) advising against All Travel or All but 
essential travel to your destination, providing the advice came into force after your 
departure on your trip.
But Mr B didnt return home early when the FCO advised all British travellers to return, he 
extended his stay abroad. So his circumstances arent covered under that policy section 
either. 
I dont think Mr Bs claim is covered by the policy terms.
Did UKI fairly and reasonably settle the claim?
Ive also considered whether UKI should pay Mr Bs claim on a fair and reasonable basis. 
On 16 March UKI told Mr B hed be covered for additional accommodation and travel costs, 
which is correct if Mr B had cut short his trip but not if Mr B extended his trip as happened.
UKI was clear in its call with Mr B on 28 March 2020 that as soon as borders opened it would expect Mr B to get home for his policy to remain valid and he should look at an 
alternative way of travelling home. By that date the FCO had advised British travellers to 
return to the UK immediately. The borders of the relevant countries were open.
Even if I thought Mr B could reasonably believe UKI had agreed to cover his additional costs 
if he extended his trip I dont think UKI disadvantaged Mr B. I say that because Mr B has 
said he wasnt able to return home earlier than he did because there were no ferries from 
Spain and he, his partner and dog couldnt sleep in the car if they drove back as planned 
and there was no accommodation. 
So even if UKI had been clear that additional accommodation costs wouldnt be covered if 
Mr B extended his trip, from what Mr B told us he wasnt able to return and so he would have 
still incurred the same additional accommodation costs.
Ive also considered whether Mr B would have taken a flight home cutting short the trip if UKI 
had been clear that additional accommodation costs wouldnt be covered if he extended his 
trip. I think its highly unlikely he would have done so. If Mr B had raised that possibility with 
UKI I think its most likely to have told him that in those circumstances his flight cost would 
be covered but not the costs of transporting his dog or car. As Mr B says those costs would 
have been three times the amount he claimed, when he did the cost calculations to decide 
what to do it would still have been cheaper for him to stay in the accommodation in Spain. 
I think its likely he would have still done so particularly as that option avoided the practical 
difficulties of transporting his dog and car separately. So Mr B would have still incurred the 
same additional accommodation costs.
I dont think theres any basis on which I can reasonably say UKI should cover the remainder 
of Mr Bs claim. The cost of face masks wouldnt be covered in any event.
However, Mr B has been distressed and inconvenienced by his loss of expectation  he 
understood UKI had told him it would pay the costs but then refused to pay all his claim. 
I would generally award some compensation from an insurer to reflect the distress and 
inconvenience it caused. In this case UKI has already paid Mr B £250 that it didnt need to 
pay him. I think £250 is a reasonable sum to reflect the distress and inconvenience caused 
by UKIs lack of clear information about cover. As UKI has already paid Mr B that amount it 
doesnt need to do anything further.
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint. Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im 
required to ask Mr B to accept or reject my decision before 30 November 2021.
 
Nicola Sisk
Ombudsman