DRN-1466696
 
The complaint
This complaint is about a regular premium payment protection insurance (PPI) policy sold 
when Mr N took out a credit card. Mr N says Capital One (Europe) plc (Capital One) mis-sold 
him the PPI.  
What happened
Mr N applied for a credit card in 2010. When Mr N called to activate his credit card he took 
out a PPI policy to cover his credit card payments. The policy cost £0.79 per £100 of the 
balance on Mr Ns credit card. A successful claim on the policy wouldve paid 10% of the 
outstanding balance for up to 12 months per claim if Mr N was unable to work due to 
accident or sickness or lost his job.
Our adjudicator didnt think Mr Ns complaint should be upheld because he thought Mr N 
wouldve understood he had a choice in taking the policy and thought it wouldve provided a 
useful benefit.
Mr N disagrees. He says he didnt know he had the policy. 
So the complaint has come to me for a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Weve set out our general approach to 
complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
Mr Ns case.
Ive decided the policy wasnt mis-sold because:
From what we know about how Capital One sold PPI over the phone and the call script the 
sales advisor wouldve been following at the time, I think Mr N wouldve understood the 
policy was optional. And I think Mr N wouldve had PPI applied to his account because he 
chose to take it when asked if he wanted the policy rather than anything else  although I 
can understand why he cant remember this.
From what Ive seen of the call script I dont think Capital One advised Mr N to take PPI. 
What this means is that Capital One didnt recommend PPI to Mr N, it just gave him 
information about PPI (it was up to Mr N to assess his circumstances and decide if the 
product was needed). This information needed to be given in a way that was clear, fair and 
not misleading so he could make an informed choice about buying PPI.
I dont know if Capital One did give all the proper information that was needed. But even if 
Capital One did give all the information Mr N needed to make an informed choice on taking 
out the policy, I think he wouldve still taken the policy because at the time of sale from what 
we know about Capital One policies:He was eligible for the PPI.
 
It doesnt look like he wouldve been caught by any of the main exclusions in the 
terms and conditions of the policy which couldve made it difficult to make a 
successful claim.
 
At the time of the sale Mr N says he was entitled to some sick pay and had savings 
he could use to make his credit card payments if he couldnt work due to accident or 
sickness or if he lost his job. But the policy wouldve paid out on top of any sick pay 
and savings and for potentially longer. So I cant see how knowing this information 
wouldve put him off buying it.
 
Theres nothing to suggest the policy wasnt affordable to Mr N and he could cancel 
the policy if he no longer wanted it. 
 
So I dont think it wouldve made a difference in how the information was given to Mr N on 
the PPI. I think he wouldve still taken out the PPI policy as it was of value to him.
Which means Capital One doesnt have to pay back all of the cost of the PPI to Mr N.
But Capital One has paid back some of the cost of the PPI to Mr N because: 
 
When the policy was sold, Capital One expected to get a high level of commission 
and profit share (more than 50% of the PPI premium) - so it should have told Mr N 
about that. Because Capital One didnt tell Mr N, that was unfair. 
 
To put that right, Capital One has paid back the amount of commission and profit 
share that was above 50% of the PPI premium - and I think that is fair in this case.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
My final decisionThe PPI policy wasnt mis-sold  so Capital One (Europe) plc does not have to pay back all 
of the cost of the PPI to Mr N.
But Capital One Europe plc does have to pay back to Mr N any commission and profit share 
it got that was more than 50% of the PPI premium. I understand it has already done this, so I 
dont award any further compensation. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr N to accept or 
reject my decision before 14 May 2020.
Caroline Davies
Ombudsman