DRN-3428716
The complaint
Mr K and Miss R complain that National Westminster Bank Plc (NatWest) declined to 
refund money which they say they lost as a result of a rogue trader scam. 
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont go into every detail of 
what happened here. But in summary, in July 2021 Mr K and Miss R made a payment of 
£5,000 to a company as a partial payment for some building work on their property. They 
now believe that they sent this payment as a result of a scam  but NatWest do not agree 
and instead think it amounts to a civil dispute. 
In 2021 Mr K and Miss R decided they wanted to extend their property. They looked on a 
trade website and found a contractor, who I will refer to as Business P. They looked at the 
reviews for Business P and carried out some general online searches including looking at 
their social media profile and Companies House. Seeing nothing negative about them online, 
they were persuaded that Business P was a legitimate company. They got in touch with 
Business P and discussed the work they wanted to have done to their property. Discussions 
continued in person, on the phone and over a messaging application and Business P quoted 
a figure of over £50,000 for the completed works. Mr K and Miss R said they didnt receive 
any paperwork about this. 
They made an initial deposit payment from an account held with another bank of £10,000. 
Works began and carried on for around six weeks. Mr K and Miss R said they were then 
asked to make a second payment towards materials of £5,000  which they made from their 
NatWest account. They said after this payment was made, the contractor stopped the work 
and stopped responding to attempted communication. 
Believing this to be a scam, Mr K and Miss R reported the matter to NatWest. They declined 
to refund their losses as they did not agree that Mr K and Miss R had fallen victim to a scam. 
They said that they had tried to recall the funds on a best endeavours basis, but had been 
unable to get a response from the receiving bank around this. The receiving bank did come 
back to express that they had no concerns over the customer or the receiving account. 
Remaining dissatisfied, Mr K and Miss R brought their complaint to our service. One of our 
investigators looked into what happened. They recommended that the complaint was not 
upheld as they agreed with NatWest that it was most likely a civil dispute rather than a scam. 
Mr K and Miss R did not agree, so the case has been passed to me to decide.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In deciding what is fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of a complaint, I am required 
to take into account relevant: law and regulations; regulators rules, guidance and standards; 
codes of practice; and, where appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry 
practice at the time. 
Im very aware that Ive summarised this complaint briefly, in less detail than has been 
provided, and in my own words. No discourtesy is intended by this. Instead, Ive focussed on 
what I think is the heart of the matter here. If theres something Ive not mentioned, it isnt 
because Ive ignored it. I havent. Im satisfied I dont need to comment on every individual 
point or argument to be able to reach what I think is the right outcome. Our rules allow me to 
do this and this simply reflects the informal nature of our service as a free alternative to the 
courts. 
So, having thought very carefully about NatWests actions, Im not intending to uphold Mr K 
and Miss Rs complaint. I do appreciate how disappointing this will be for them, but I dont 
think I can fairly say NatWest should reimburse them. Ill explain why. 
I am sorry to hear of what happened to Mr K and Miss R, and I can understand how 
disappointing it must have been to not have their building works completed by Company P. I 
also understand why Mr K and Miss R feel they have been the victims of a scam. But not all 
cases where individuals have lost money are in fact fraudulent and/or a scam. It is clear the 
agreement Mr K and Miss R entered into did not go as planned and the works ended 
prematurely. However, in order to be satisfied that Mr K and Miss R have been the victim of 
a scam, I would have to be satisfied that Company P were intent on defrauding them and I 
am not satisfied that I can say that is most likely what happened here. I say this because 
there appears to be a number of factors that do not carry the typical hallmarks of these 
particular types of scams. In summary: 
In researching Company P, they appear to still have an active online presence 
including numerous positive reviews with photographs from people purporting to be 
satisfied customers who have had work completed by them. 
Company P are still an active company on Companies House, having been 
incorporated as a private limited company since 2019. 
Company P are also still listed online including on their own website, social media 
accounts and review websites. All the reviews I have seen are positive, with no 
mention of dissatisfaction in general, or scams in particular. 
Mr K and Miss R agreed over £50,000 of works with Company P. Whilst these have 
not been completed in full, it is also true that they did not send the full payment. And 
it is not in dispute that some work was carried out by multiple labourers over a 
number of weeks. This included removal of chimney walls across the home, some 
wiring, and digging out of the ground for the extension. Whilst it is not unheard of for 
rogue traders to do some work, it seems that this work which took place over 
approximately six weeks was in excess of what we might expect a scammer to do in 
such circumstances. 
The beneficiary bank confirmed that they had no concerns over the running of the 
recipient account such that they were concerned it was being used to facilitate 
scams. 
Mr K shared screenshots of messages with Company P, which appeared to show a 
disagreement around payments. It appears this may be when the breakdown in the 
relationship happened, that led to Company P not wishing to do further business with 
Mr K and Miss R. 
So, after taking everything into careful consideration, on balance, whilst the project was not 
completed, I cant safely say this meets the high legal threshold and burden of proof for 
fraud. Rather, this appears to be a case of a disagreement between parties that led to further 
work not being completed. I think it is likely that Company P likely had every intention to 
complete the agreed upon work and then something appears to have gone wrong, and they 
decided they did not wish to complete this project. This may have been down to a 
disagreement over prices, quality of work, timing or any number of other things. But this 
does not mean that a scam has occurred  and I dont think one did here. This being the case, I dont think NatWest have treated Mr K and Miss R unfairly in not pursing this as a 
scam. 
And so I am not asking NatWest to refund the £5,000 payment Mr K and Miss N made, as I 
dont think NatWest have done anything wrong in treating their circumstances as a civil 
dispute. I realise that my decision will be disappointing for Mr K and Miss R and I dont 
underestimate the impact this matter has had on them. But for the reasons Ive explained, I 
dont think I can fairly or reasonably ask NatWest to refund their money.  
My final decision
For the reasons outlined above, I do not uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr K and Miss R 
to accept or reject my decision before 25 July 2023.
 
Katherine Jones
Ombudsman