DRN-4109368
The complaint
Mr and Mrs C complain that Barclays Bank UK PLC has been unable to explain how an 
unauthorised subscription payment was able to leave their account when they didnt sign up 
for this. 
What happened
In September 2022, a transaction for £8.99 to an online magazine subscription debited 
Mr and Mrs Cs account. Mr C discovered that this particular subscription was offered via 
Barclays mobile app linked to the current account, but when he checked his app, there 
wasnt a live subscription to this merchant, and he didnt have the means to cancel it as he 
did for other genuine subscriptions. Mr C is adamant he did not sign up for this subscription. 
Mr C contacted Barclays to dispute the payment on more than one occasion and was first 
directed to the merchant to ask about the subscription. He did so and was advised the 
merchant had no record of him. When liaising with Barclays again, he says he was told 
conflicting information, but it did agree to refund the £8.99 subscription fee and pay £50 
compensation to Mr and Mrs C for failures in its customer service. 
Mr and Mrs C were unhappy about this, as Mr C is specifically seeking an explanation as to 
how the subscription started in the first place. He refutes Barclays comments that he must 
have authorised the subscription, as he had no ability to cancel it within his mobile app. He 
says he wants to prove it wasnt him who signed up for it and that it was a software failure 
from the bank. 
One of our investigators looked into Mr and Mrs Cs complaint. He said he had no evidence 
or plausible explanation as to how a compromise couldve occurred resulting in the £8.99 
subscription payment, however, in any event, Barclays put Mr and Mrs C back in the position 
they wouldve been in had the transaction not occurred. He said he understood Mr Cs desire 
to clear his name, but no-one was accusing him of any wrong-doing, and, overall, he felt the 
£50 compensation offered by Barclays was fair in the circumstances. 
Mr and Mrs C remained unhappy, and so the complaint has been passed to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive reached the same conclusion as our investigator, for broadly the same 
reasons. 
Id firstly like to say that I appreciate Mr Cs comments that this complaint isnt about the 
money for him, its the principle of the matter. I understand he wants to get to the bottom of 
how this happened as hes adamant that neither he, nor Mrs C, signed up for the online 
magazine service. 
Id also like to reassure Mr C, that our investigator has asked Barclays on more than one 
occasion for evidence as to how this subscription was authorised on Mr and Mrs Cs joint 
account, but this wasnt provided by the bank. 
So in the absence of that evidence, Ive had to consider what is a fair and reasonable 
outcome to this complaint, based on the evidence I do have available. 
I know Mr C wants to know exactly how this subscription started. When speaking with the 
merchant, he discovered that it didnt have his details on record, and he wasnt able to 
cancel in his mobile app, suggesting that the subscription wasnt his. I accept this, and I can 
understand why, along with his insistence that he wasnt interested in the services of this 
merchant, that he believes there has been some kind of system issue on the banks part. 
But I simply have no evidence that this was the case. I appreciate that Barclays has 
suggested that there were offers available with its subscription services around the time the 
£8.99 debited Mr and Mrs Cs account, and that it mayve been linked to a genuine 
subscription of a similar nature that Mr C had signed up for, but again, there is no evidence 
to suggest that this is what happened either. 
The explanations put forward from both Barclays and Mr C as to how this was possible are 
only speculative, and as above, I appreciate the reasons why both parties have taken this 
approach. But Im sorry that I wont be able to provide Mr C with the answers that he is 
hoping for in a resolution to this complaint. 
Having said that, in any event Barclays has refunded the £8.99 transaction that Mr C says 
was an unauthorised transaction. This is what the relevant regulations say it must do as a 
Payment Service Provider in the case of an unauthorised transaction. So, Im satisfied its 
taken the appropriate steps to put Mr and Mrs Cs account in the position it wouldve been in 
had this transaction not occurred. I think this is fair and reasonable. 
On the matter of compensation, I appreciate this complaint is more about the matter of
principal, and Mr C has given a detailed account of the customer service failings he 
experienced from Barclays when raising his dispute. I accept that the bank couldve provided 
a better service, including returning Mr Cs calls when it said it would, to keeping Mr C on the 
phone for extended periods and issues with its final response letter reaching him. However, 
when considering the overall circumstances, I find that the £50 its already credited to Mr and 
Mrs Cs account is fair to reflect the impact these issues had on Mr C. So, I wont be asking it 
to increase this.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs C and Mr C to 
accept or reject my decision before 1 December 2023.
 
Lorna Wall
Ombudsman