DRN-3567550
The complaint
Mr H says John Lewis Financial Services Limited has treated him unfairly in relation to 
transactions on his credit card which paid for a package holiday abroad.
What happened
In May 2019 Mr H booked a package holiday with a company Ill call Firm G. He made two 
payments using his John Lewis Financial Services Limited credit card (JLFS for short). He 
paid an initial £400 in May 2019 and a further £6,973 in February 2020. The package was 
part of a larger holiday that Mr H had booked for himself and his wife. In March 2020 Firm G 
cancelled this holiday and offered a credit voucher. Mr H wanted a refund. So after much 
discussion and liaison with other parties Mr H took his claim to JLFS in December 2020.
JLFS looked into the matter and didnt refund Mr H this outstanding amount. But it did pay 
him £50 for the customer service it had provided in dealing with the matter. Mr H, still 
unsatisfied, brought his complaint to this service.
Our Investigator felt JLFS hadnt considered the Package Travel and Linked Travel 
Arrangements Regulations 2018 (PTRs) properly and decided that JLFS should refund Mr 
H the £7,373 he paid. Also that it should make this refund at the time it declined his claim 
and rework his account paying 8% simple on any periods of positive balance that come 
about as a result of the rework of the account.
JLFS accepted this position. But Mr H feels that the interest should be calculated differently 
and that the £50 isnt enough. As Mr H remains unhappy, so this complaint comes to me for 
a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
JLFS has accepted it needs to refund Mr H the cost of the holiday and to rework his credit 
card account from the time it declined his claim and pay 8% on any periods of positive 
balance from then until it settles the claim. As this is the case and both sides agree that the 
holiday amount is to be repaid then I see nothing to be gained by discussing or reanalysing 
on the agreed matters. I think this is fair and reasonable solution and will direct JLFS to do 
so. So now Ill only turn my attention to the issues still contended by Mr H.
When should the refund be attributed to the reworked account?
Mr H argues it should be attributed from 14 days from when Firm G cancelled the holiday 
because thats when the rules state suppliers should refund. The Investigator said from 
when JLFS declined his claim. The refund amount is significant and there is several months 
between the respective dates and hence there would potentially be significant amount of 
difference in the interest applicable.
Mr H has a claim against JLFS under S75 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974 which states:
(1)If the debtor under a debtor-creditor-supplier agreement falling within section 12(b) or (c) 
has, in relation to a transaction financed by the agreement, any claim against the supplier in 
respect of a misrepresentation or breach of contract, he shall have a like claim against the 
creditor, who, with the supplier, shall accordingly be jointly and severally liable to the debtor.
I particularly note that it says he shall have a like claim. So it is clear this legal mechanism 
means that Mr H then can make a like claim to JLFS. And had it assessed his claim properly 
it would have agreed with his claim when it reached its conclusion and informed him of it, 
that is when it issued its decision on the matter. 
S75 does not state that Mr H has the identical retrospective claim to that he has against the 
supplier. I think if that had been the intent of Parliament then it would have said so and 
would have drafted the legislation accordingly. And it would clearly be unfair on JLFS to 
have to redress matters from before when it had opportunity to consider Mr Hs claim and 
decide upon it. So Im not persuaded by Mr Hs arguments on this. Accordingly it should 
refund from the point when it should have got the redress to the claim correct and told Mr H 
of this, namely from when it declined his claim (wrongly).
Calculation of interest
This service can award interest for when complainants have been deprived of their money 
unfairly. And our standard approach for many years has been to award this at a rate of 8% 
simple.
In Mr Hs case this claim is in relation to his credit card account where JLFS have lent him 
the money (and he later pays it back). So its unlike cash losses suffered by consumers 
which get 8% for the entire period of being deprived of their own money. Here hes only been 
deprived of extra lending, so he is only entitled to receive 8% simple on the reworking of his 
account for the periods where the reworking of the account lead to positive balances. 
Positive balances here would be his money rather than credit, and that is why he gets 8% on 
such as hes been deprived of his money when such positive balances occur.
Mr H opines that this is extraordinary and an injustice and that consumer groups and 
websites would be interested in this approach. Such groups have been well aware of this 
approach for a substantial amount of time. This approach has been considered by the 
Courts as well on occasions over the years. So Im not persuaded by what Mr H says on this 
matter either.
£50 for customer service
Mr H thinks this should be higher. I disagree. And I say so because Ive not seen any 
persuasive evidence of significant or substantial impact upon Mr H by what happened here 
in relation to the customer service received. So I see no persuasive reason to alter that 
position.
Putting things right
I direct JLFS to refund Mr H the £7,373 he paid. It should make this refund to his credit card 
account at the time it declined his claim by reworking his account and paying 8% simple on 
any periods of positive balance that come about as a result of the rework of the account. It 
should also explain its workings to Mr H when it confirms settlement to him in writing.My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I uphold the complaint against John Lewis Financial Services 
Limited. And it should redress the matter as Ive described above. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 24 August 2022.
 
Rod Glyn-Thomas
Ombudsman