DRN-3289677
The complaint
This complaint is about a mortgage that, until recently, Mr K held with Charter Court 
Financial Services Limited trading as Precise Mortgages (PM). Hes unhappy that when he 
repaid the mortgage, PMs bank held the funds for ten days pending security checks, and 
that PM didnt do enough, or act quickly enough, to resolve things and keep him 
informed. He believes the events may have been racially-motivated, and says the 
resulting stress has had a lasting physical effect on him.
What happened
The broad circumstances of this complaint are known to Mrs and Mr S and Halifax. Im also 
aware that the investigator issued a comprehensive response to the complaint, which has 
been shared with all parties, and so I dont need to repeat all of the details here. 
Our decisions are published, and its important that I dont include any information that might 
result in Mrs and Mr S being identified. Instead Ill focus on giving the reasons for my 
decision. If I dont mention something, it wont be because Ive ignored it. Itll be because I 
didnt think it was material to the outcome of the complaint. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
If I dont comment on any specific point its not because Ive failed to consider it but because 
I dont think I need to comment on it in order to reach what I think is the right outcome in the 
wider context. My remit is to take an overview and decide whats fair in the round. 
Were not the regulator of financial businesses, and we dont police their internal processes 
or how they operate generally. Thats the job of the Financial Conduct Authority.  We deal 
with individual disputes between businesses and their customers. In doing that, we dont 
replicate the work of the courts. 
Mr K has expressed a preference about the ethnicity of the ombudsman who decided his 
complaint. However, being impartial means we dont take either sides instructions on how 
we investigate a complaint. Mr Ks entitled to have his complaint reviewed by an 
ombudsman, but that is the extent of his entitlement.
The first point I need to make is that the decision to delay releasing the funds for credit to 
Mr Ks mortgage account wasnt made by PM. The decision was made by PMs bank, and 
was entirely at the banks discretion. Insofar as this complaint is against PM, I have no remit 
to consider the fairness or otherwise of the banks actions, including whether they were 
racially motivated. 
I understand Mr K is considering raising a separate complaint against PMs bank; indeed, he 
may already have started that. Nothing I say here should in any way be inferred as 
pre-empting the outcome of such a complaint against PMs bank. I deal solely with how PM 
reacted once it became aware there was a problem. That being the case, the complaint is 
more straightforward than it might first appear. 
I say that because I dont have to decide if PM is at fault; it has admitted it didnt react as 
swiftly or as fully as it should have done to the security enquiries passed by the bank. All that 
leaves me to decide is how PM should fairly compensate Mr K for its failings. 
PM has written off the extra interest that accrued on the mortgage during the days the funds 
were held up; it also offered Mr K £50. Our investigator thought £100 to be more appropriate 
and PM has agreed to pay that sum. In all of the circumstances, I think thats a reasonable 
outcome. Nothing in the available evidence gives me cause to think PMs shortcomings here 
were down to anything other than inefficiency.
I dont know, and wont speculate on, whether Mr K can obtain a remedy from PMs bank 
over the decision to retain the funds in the first place. For PMs part in not resolving matters 
as quickly as it should have, the interest waiver and £100 compensation amount to a fair 
settlement.
Mr K doesnt have to accept my conclusions, and if he doesnt, then neither he nor PM will 
be bound by my final decision. Subject to any time limits or other restrictions a court might 
impose, Mr Ks right to take legal action against PM over the subject matter of this complaint 
wont have been prejudiced by our consideration of it. 
My final decision
I uphold this complaint in part. In full and final settlement, I direct Charter Court Financial 
Services Limited trading as Precise Mortgages to pay Mr K £100. I make no other order or 
award. 
My final decision concludes this services consideration of this complaint, which means Ill 
not be engaging in any further discussion of the merits of it.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr K to accept or 
reject my decision before 3 May 2022. 
Jeff Parrington
Ombudsman