DRN-3142368
The complaint
Mr S complains that HCL Insurance BPO Services Limited (HCL) failed to transfer one of his 
personal pension plans to another financial business (J).
What happened
HCL is the administrator for two of the three personal pension plans Mr S had with provider 
R and which he decided, in or around February 2020, to transfer to J in order to consolidate 
them into one plan. Mr S had been advised by J to do so and he agreed to Js advice. Upon 
receiving a statement from R in August 2020 however, Mr S noticed one plan (ending in 
numbers 6454) had not been transferred to J. Mr S complained to R in October 2020 using a 
web contact form and by letter. He asked R to look into why the transfer hadnt taken place.
R looked into Mr Ss complaint but didnt think itd done anything wrong. It noted that it held 
three policies for him, one at one regional office and two at a different regional office 
administered by HCL. It said its regional office holding the one policy had arranged the 
transfer to J in February 2020. That office confirmed the transfer request it received related 
solely to the one pension it held and that no mention was made of the other two policies. 
R said that HCLs regional office sent out its annual statement for both the policies (the one 
ending 6454 and another ending 9308) it held in August 2020. No transfer request had been 
received for either of these policies. 
R said the two regional offices administered policies from different providers and didnt share 
records. So, it said, the two offices wouldnt have been aware of the policies held by each 
other. It said that as the regional office that did arrange the transfer received no details of the 
other two policies administered by HCL, it couldnt have known Mr S had other policies he 
wanted to transfer. So, R said, there was no request it couldve passed on to HCL for him. 
R said it was now sending him a transfer pack should he still wish to transfer his policies to 
another provider. 
Mr S complained to this service. He said hed authorised the transfer of three separate R 
pensions in the spring of 2020 because he wished to consolidate them into one plan with 
another provider. He said only two of the plans were transferred in the end despite him 
sending all the paperwork for the transfer of the three plans to the same regional office. And 
he said he was unhappy that, as two of those plans werent held there, that office hadnt 
forwarded his paperwork to the correct office for him. He also said his initial complaint letter 
had been ignored. Mr S said he wanted an apology and compensation for the loss in fund 
value. And he said he wanted R to reform its practices so it shared information between 
offices. 
Our investigator looked into Mr Ss complaint but didnt recommend that it was upheld. She 
said shed seen no evidence from Mr S, R or HCL to show a transfer request for the 
pensions had been made. So, she said, she didnt think HCL had acted unfairly by not 
transferring the pensions because itd received no instruction to do so. 
Mr S disagreed with our investigators findings. He said he was disappointed that R hadnt 
taken any responsibility for its mistake. He also said hed been unaware that HCL had been 
administering two of his policies despite all correspondence/documentation being on R 
headed paper. Finally, he said that he was also unhappy that no-one thought, having 
transferred two plans, that he would want the third transferred as well. Mr S said this pension 
continued to perform less favourably than the ones thatd been transferred. 
Our investigator looked at Mr Ss response but wasnt prepared to change her mind. She 
said there was no evidence that either office received any paperwork regarding the transfer. 
She also said she wouldnt expect a business to transfer a pension plan unless it received 
the relevant instruction to do so. 
 
The complaint was referred to me for a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
With regret for the disappointment I know my decision will cause Mr S, I dont think his is a 
complaint that should be upheld. Ill explain why.
Firstly it is worth noting that there seems to be a difference between Mr S and HCL about the 
number of pensions that werent transferred; Mr S has said one of the three werent 
transferred but HCL says both of those it administered werent transferred. I dont need to 
make a conclusive finding of fact on how many pensions werent transferred in order to 
reach a fair and reasonable decision on this complaint. The outcome of this decision, and 
the reasoning within it, are the same regardless of the number of pensions that werent 
transferred. 
A pension is typically transferred between one provider and another using a specific 
electronic transfer system. The system operates by the receiving scheme  in this case 
thats J  sending the ceding scheme (R/HCL) an electronic transfer request. The 
responsibility for ensuring the transfer is requested and completed rests with the receiving 
scheme (J). A pension cant usually be transferred until the receiving scheme makes the 
request for funds via the pension electronic transfer system; paperwork on its own wont 
facilitate the transfer. 
Our investigator asked J if it could provide evidence that it had made an electronic transfer 
request for the two schemes administered by HCL. J told us that it had approached R for 
information on the plans it held for Mr S. It said R told it about the one plan it held and 
administered for Mr S and which was transferred. J said the electronic transfer request it 
made was only for the one plan it knew about. Ive seen a copy of the electronic transfer 
request for the scheme administered by R. No such evidence exists for either of the plans 
administered by HCL. 
In order to fairly conclude that HCL had omitted to action a transfer request I would need to 
see some evidence that it didnt act on the receiving schemes request in a reasonable 
timeframe. Unfortunately for Mr S Ive seen no evidence from him, J, HCL or R to show that 
the transfer request for the two plans administered by HCL was ever made. From the 
information J has provided to us, it seems it approached R and asked it for details of the 
plans it held and, as R only administered the one plan from its regional office and didnt 
share records and information with HCL, it was only able to provide information about the 
one plan it held (and subsequently transferred). 
Without evidence that a transfer request for the two HCL plans was made by J or Mr S I 
cant reasonably conclude that HCL has failed to action the transfer; that wouldnt be fair. I 
have of course considered Mr Ss comment that he completed the necessary paperwork for all three plans held by R and that he sent them all to Rs office in February 2020. I dont 
doubt Mr Ss account of events but unfortunately, in order to uphold this complaint, I would 
need to see some documentary evidence that that request was made. And in order to 
conclude that HCL had acted unreasonably I would need to see that a transfer request  be 
that by paper or electronically - had been received and not actioned. I know that Mr S thinks 
that HCL should be held responsible for the mistake it made but I cant reasonably make it 
responsible for something theres no evidence it did. 
Finally I note that Mr S says he had no idea that HCL were administering two of his pensions 
because all the paperwork he received was on Rs headed notepaper. He also said he was 
unhappy that no-one (by which it is reasonable to think he means someone at HCL or R) 
thought he might want the third, smallest pension, transferred along with the other two. 
I note that neither or these complaints have been made to HCL so it hasnt had a chance to 
look into them. If Mr S wishes to complain about either matter then he should raise a 
complaint with HCL in the first instance so it can first have the opportunity to investigate. 
Only then can Mr S complain about either issue to this service. As a footnote, I agree with 
our investigators generic comment that this service would never expect a pension provider 
to initiate the transfer of a pension without first receiving a specific instruction to do so.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 6 July 2022.
 
Claire Woollerson
Ombudsman