DRN-1747698
 
The complaint
This complaint has been brought by the executors of the late Mrs I. The complaint is about 
the sale of an equity release mortgage to Mrs I and her late husband, Mr I, in 2003 by a 
business which is now part of Nationwide Building Society (I will refer to Nationwide 
throughout for the sake of clarity). The complaint has been brought on behalf of the estate by 
Mrs G, one of Mrs Is executors. Mrs G says the mortgage was mis-sold to her parents.
To settle the complaint Mrs G would like a full investigation to be carried out and an 
assurance that the advice given was correct and that her parents were not taken advantage 
of. Mrs G would also like compensation to be considered.
What happened
In August 2004 Mr and Mrs I had a meeting with a member of Nationwides staff when they 
discussed their financial circumstances, and were given advice about an equity release 
mortgage. 
Mr and Mrs I decided to go ahead with an equity release of £29,000. They intended to repay 
their existing interest-only mortgage of just over £9,300, carry out home improvements, raise 
money to visit their son in America over the next five years and give money to family. Mr and 
Mrs I said they would continue with their endowment policy and give the proceeds to their 
children when the policy matured.
Mr and Mrs I had about £15,000 in savings, £14,000 of which was in National Savings 
Bonds which they confirmed they did not want to cash in. 
Mr and Mrs I decided to go ahead with the equity release and a mortgage offer was issued 
by the lender. After taking advice from their own solicitors, Mr and Mrs I completed their 
equity release mortgage.
I am sorry to note that Mr I passed away in 2013, and Mrs I passed away in 2019. It was 
only after Mrs Is death that Mrs G first became aware of the equity release mortgage. She 
raised a complaint with Nationwide that the mortgage had been mis-sold. Mrs G says that 
her father had suffered from dementia since about 2007, and that both her parents were 
vulnerable. 
Nationwide didnt uphold the complaint, so Mrs G brought it to us. An investigator looked at 
all the evidence, but didnt think the complaint should be upheld.
Mrs G asked for an ombudsman to review the complaint. She says she has her fathers 
medical records which clearly demonstrate his vulnerability at the time of taking out the 
product. 
Mrs G also says that she doesnt feel Nationwide were on her parents side by allowing them 
to take out an equity release mortgage when they only had £9,000 outstanding on their 
mortgage. Mrs G doesnt think this is the correct way for a responsible enterprise such as 
Nationwide to behave.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ill make some general observations before dealing with the specifics of the complaint.
Under our rules we can consider a complaint from a consumer. Mr and Mrs I were 
consumers and so met the definition of an eligible complainant set out in our rules. 
Following Mr Is death, Mrs I became the sole eligible complainant and following her death, 
the eligibility to complain vested in her estate. The rules say that a complaint may be brought 
on behalf of an eligible complainant by a person authorised by the eligible complainant (such 
as a solicitor, accountant or financial adviser), or by  a person authorised by law (such as a 
trustee, guardian or executor). In relation to this particular complaint, the executor, Mrs G, is 
bringing it on behalf of the late Mrs Is estate.
But I must explain that, although Mrs G is representing Mrs Is estate, it is Mrs I who was the 
customer of Nationwide, not Mrs G. The role of the executor is to bring the complaint on the 
estates behalf, in the same way that other consumers might instruct a solicitor or accountant 
to represent them in a complaint. But this does not entitle Mrs G to air her own grievances 
about Nationwide, because she is not the customer in relation to this particular product.
Mr and Mrs I didnt complain about being sold the equity release mortgage during their 
lifetime, so there is no specific complaint from them about it. Given this, I have looked at the 
sale of the mortgage and considered generally whether Nationwide did anything wrong when 
the mortgage was taken out. 
The mortgage advice was given in August 2004, before mortgage regulation came into effect 
on 31 October 2004. The mortgage advice was covered by the Mortgage Code (a voluntary 
code of practice for mortgage lending and advice), and this is confirmed in the 
documentation compiled at the time. It was also covered by the Safe Home Income Plan 
Rules (known as SHIP Rules), which was guidance for the businesses which sold and 
offered equity release mortgages.
Mrs G told Nationwide that Mr I had passed away in 2013, but that hed suffered from 
dementia for about six years before that  so from about 2007. There is nothing in the 
documentation to suggest that the adviser knew, or ought to have known, of any cognitive 
impairment Mr I might have been suffering from in August 2004.
The reasons for Mr and Mrs I taking out the equity release are detailed in the letter of advice 
they received dated 1 September 2004. Mr and Mrs I confirmed to Nationwide that theyd 
discussed taking out the equity release with their beneficiaries. I understand from Mrs G that 
this wasnt the case, but Nationwide was entitled to rely on what Mr and Mrs I had told them 
as being truthful answers to the questions they were asked.
I also note that Nationwide considered what alternatives were available for Mr and Mrs I to 
raise funds other than equity release.
Mr and Mrs I had valid reasons for not wanting to use the funds they held in National 
Savings. They didnt want to move house and release equity that way, and they had plans to 
use the proceeds of their endowment policy to give to their children.
Given this, Im satisfied the recommendation of an equity release mortgage was suitable to 
enable Mr and Mrs I to raise the funds they wanted. The advice given was in compliance 
with both the Mortgage Code and SHIP Rules.In all the circumstances, Im satisfied Nationwide did nothing wrong in selling this equity 
release mortgage. 
I will also explain that it was a requirement of the lender that Mr and Mrs I had legal advice 
from their own independent solicitor. I appreciate this wasnt the family solicitor which Mrs G 
said her parents always used. Generally the lenders will have a list of solicitors who are 
specialists in giving advice about equity release mortgages, local to the borrowers, so Mr 
and Mrs I would have had the choice of using their family solicitor or a solicitor with specialist 
knowledge of the product. 
The solicitor had to complete a form confirming that the way in which the equity release 
mortgage worked had been explained to Mr and Mrs I. And, importantly, if the solicitor 
believed that either Mr or Mrs I were suffering from any cognitive impairment, under the 
SHIP rules the solicitor was under an obligation to tell the lender and stop the transaction 
from going ahead.
So not only was Nationwide unaware of any cognitive impairment affecting Mr or Mrs I, 
neither was the solicitor they instructed, who was specifically tasked with ensuring that both 
Mr and Mrs I fully understood what they were doing.
I appreciate that it must have come as an unwelcome shock to the family to learn that there 
was a large debt owed to the lender after Mrs I passed away. But for all the reasons given 
above, Im satisfied that the product wasnt mis-sold. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask the estate of Mrs I 
to accept or reject my decision before 2 September 2020.
Jan O'Leary
Ombudsman