DRN-4436237
The complaint
Mrs T complained because Santander UK Plc refused to refund her for cash machine 
withdrawals which she said she didnt authorise.
What happened
On 25 April 2023, Mrs T contacted Santander.  She said there were 35 withdrawals on her 
account from 23 November 2022 to 17 April 2023 which she hadnt authorised. The total was 
£4,090.
Mrs T said that she still had her card. She said that her son, who lives with her, has access 
to her card and knows her PIN, but that he hadnt made the withdrawals. Santander told Mrs 
T that all the payments had been made using her genuine card, and correct PIN, and there 
was nothing to indicate the card or PIN had been compromised. Santander also told Mrs T 
that the cash machines used for the disputed transactions were local to her home. So if she 
hadnt made the transactions, it looked as if it would be someone known to Mrs T, ie her son. 
Santander advised her to contact the police.
Mrs T wasnt happy about this. She also said that her statements hadnt been reaching her, 
and shed had to ask on three separate occasions for her statements to be sent out. She 
said not getting the statements meant she hadnt been aware of what was going on, so she 
thought it was Santanders fault. Mrs T complained.
In Santanders final response to Mrs Ts complaint, it said that it could see that Mrs T had 
contacted Santander on 6, 14 and 24 March 2023 asking for statements, saying that she 
hadnt had the normal monthly statements. Santander said it had issued copies of 
statements to Mrs Ts registered address, and suggested she should contact Royal Mail 
about the missing original statements and the missing replacements which Santander had 
also sent.  
Santander said that it had looked to see if Mrs Ts card or PIN had been compromised. The 
disputed withdrawals had all been completed using Mrs Ts genuine card and PIN. Mrs T 
had said she still had the card, and didnt have the PIN written down. Santander pointed out 
that Mrs T had confirmed shed allowed a family member to use the card and had told them 
her PIN. But Mrs T had said he hadnt used the card because of his personal and health 
circumstances. Santander suggested that Mrs T should speak to her local police, and ask 
them to investigate, for example reviewing CCTV.
Mrs T wasnt satisfied and contacted this service.
Our investigator didnt uphold Mrs Ts complaint. He noted that there were undisputed 
transactions in between the disputed ones. This meant that whoever made the disputed 
transactions had taken the card, then returned it, repeatedly. The investigator also said that 
an opportunistic fraudster would maximise their spending, whereas the many disputed 
transactions here were mostly £100 or less. 
Mrs T had told our investigator that she normally kept the card in her safe, and only she 
knew where the key was. But the investigator said that someone known to Mrs T, and who 
had access to the home, might be able to find the key, take the card and later replace it.
The investigator also considered the statements. He accepted that Santander had sent 
them, and said that this again pointed to someone known to Mrs T being responsible. It was 
likely theyd been intercepting the bank statements, both originals and replacements, to stop 
Mrs T discovering the fraud. The investigator said he knew Mrs T didnt believe her son was 
responsible for the disputed transactions, but he was struggling to see how it could be 
anyone else. As Mrs Ts son lives with her, he had the opportunity to access the safe, and 
take and replace the card, and Mrs T had told him her PIN, so he could do shopping when 
she couldnt get out.
Mrs T didnt accept this. She said Santander had lied about when shed first contacted them 
about the statements, as shed phoned them in January not in March. She said there was a 
cash machine nearer than the one used for the transactions. And she said she was fuming 
at what the investigator had said about it being her son. She said that was out of order 
because the investigator didnt know him. She said he would never do that, and he wouldnt 
be able to find the key to the safe. Mrs T said she also thought the card might have been 
cloned. The investigator explained that a magnetic stripe on a card could be cloned but a 
chip in a genuine card couldnt. She said no-one had ever used her card, apart from when 
shed been in hospital. She said she was furious that the investigator had said it was her 
son.
As Mrs T wasnt satisfied, her complaint was referred to me for an ombudsmans decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im sorry that Mrs T is so unhappy about what happened. My role is to look at all the 
evidence, and based on that, to decide whats more likely than not to have happened. 
The technical computer evidence which Ive seen shows that Mrs Ts genuine debit card was 
used for the disputed transactions. Mrs T says that she thinks her debit card may have been 
cloned. Its technically possible for the magnetic stripe on a card to be copied, and cloned 
cards have been used for things like telephone or online transactions where the actual card 
isnt presented. But cloned cards wont work where a card is physically presented  for 
example in a cash machine  because the chip is read. Chip technology is complex and 
sophisticated and there have been no known instances when the chip in the card has been 
successfully copied. Its not generally thought possible to copy the chip on a card, and our 
service hasnt come across any cases where we felt this was a likely explanation of what 
happened. Here, all the disputed transactions were made at a cash machine. So any cloned 
card wouldnt have worked. So I find that the card used for the disputed transactions was 
Mrs Ts genuine card.
Also, the evidence shows that Mrs Ts correct PIN was entered by the person carrying out 
the transactions.
Mrs Ts statements show that there were genuine transactions between the many disputed 
transactions. This means that whoever carried out the transactions would have had to have 
obtained Mrs Ts debit card, which she says she kept locked in her safe, carried out the 
disputed withdrawals, then returned the card to the safe without her knowledge. This 
significantly restricts the number of people who could have carried out the withdrawals, because theyd have had to have had regular access to Mrs Ts home, without arousing 
suspicion. Theyd also have had to have found the safe key. 
I recognise that Mrs T strongly believes that it wasnt her son who carried out the 
withdrawals. And I cant say for certain whether it was or wasnt, because I wasnt there. But 
logically, if Mrs T didnt carry out the transactions herself, it must have been someone who 
had regular access to her home. If Mrs T had anyone else visit her home regularly  for 
example to help her with anything in the home  that might be a possible explanation. But if 
so, theres a logical difficulty with any such person being able to find out Mrs Ts PIN, 
because she said she hadnt written it down and the only person shed given it to was her 
son. 
There are regulations which govern disputed transactions. The relevant regulations here are 
the Payment Services Regulations 2017. In general terms, the bank is liable if the customer 
didnt authorise the payments, and the customer is liable if they did authorise them. 
Importantly, Regulation 72 deals with the customers obligations in relation to security, and 
says that a payment service user must:
..take all reasonable steps to keep safe personalised security credentials relating to a 
payment instrument or and account information service.
Unfortunately, here, Mrs T disclosed her PIN to someone else, meaning her account was at 
risk.
Ive also considered the missing statements. The computer records show that Santander did 
send them. It issued the original monthly statements and the copies when Mrs T requested 
them. It seems unlikely that the postal services didnt deliver any of these many statements, 
until after Mrs T had repeatedly complained. Its much more likely that whoever carried out 
the disputed transactions  who must have had access to her home  also intercepted the 
post so that Mrs T didnt become aware of the fraud. But whether it was the postal service or 
the fraudster whose actions resulted in Mrs T not receiving her statements, the evidence 
shows Santander sent them. So I dont find that Santander was at fault.
The key factors here are that Mrs Ts genuine card was used, and her correct PIN. Mrs T 
says she was careful about her card, and kept it locked in her safe at home. She hadnt 
written down her PIN. And there were undisputed transactions between the disputed ones. 
So I cant see that there can be any other explanation other than that if Mrs T didnt carry out 
the transactions herself, it must have been someone with regular access to her home and 
knowledge of her PIN, who carried out the disputed transactions. So I dont require 
Santander to reimburse her.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs T to accept or 
reject my decision before 8 January 2024.
 
Belinda Knight
Ombudsman