DRN-3251072
The complaint
Mrs H says that she was mis-sold an Additions Account (AA) in 1996 by Barclays Bank UK 
PLC (Barclays).
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here. The facts are not in dispute, so Ill focus on giving the reasons for my decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mrs H says that Barclays forced her to open the AA and pay a monthly fee for it in 1996 
when she didnt want or need it.
Barclays says that Mrs H decided to take out the AA based on information it had provided 
about the product.
Both parties agree that the sale took place in a branch. I wasnt there, so I can only look at 
the evidence available today.
Whilst I dont doubt Mrs Hs honest recollections, I think its more likely than not that her 
memory is mistaken after all these years. I say this for the following reasons.
Barclays has provided evidence that Mrs H had a free account for many years before the 
AA, so she knew these were available.
Fee free bank accounts with overdrafts were widely advertised and available from many 
banks and financial institutions at the time. So I think that if Barclays had told her she had to 
have a fee-paying account for any reason and she hadnt wanted one, I think its more likely 
than not she would have looked elsewhere and found what she wanted.
So, I think its more likely than not that Mrs H knew she had a choice whether to open the AA 
and she chose to do so.
Ive not seen any evidence that Barclays carried out suitability checks with Mrs H looking into 
her circumstances as I would expect to see if this was an advised sale. And this service is 
aware that Barclays sales were generally non-advised at that time.
So, I think its more likely than not that this sale did not involve Barclays providing advice or 
recommendation and hence was information only.
This meant that Barclays was only required to provide Mrs H with enough information to 
make an informed decision about the AA.
And I think it did. 
I say this because both parties agree a discussion took place and within that I think its more 
likely than not that Barclays told Mrs H a lot about the AA as it was trying to sell it to her. 
Barclays has provided evidence that it sent a welcome pack to her with the detail of the 
product straight after the sale. And Mrs H couldve closed the AA at any time but didnt and 
kept it for several years.
And I can see why the AA might have been of interest to Mrs H. Barclays has provided 
evidence that Mrs H used an overdraft while she held the AA. At the time Barclays charged 
£5 a month for an overdraft with a free account. But the fee was waived once Mrs H held the 
AA. And then effectively the overdraft and the rest of the benefits were free.
Mrs H has also referred to Barclays saying that she could only have credit if she opened the 
AA. But Barclays has provided evidence that Mrs H held a Barclaycard while she had her 
free bank account. And Mrs H didnt apply for any other form of credit in the years following 
her opening the AA. So, I think its more likely than not she knew she didnt have to have an 
AA to get credit. 
So, overall, I think its more likely than not that Barclays didnt do anything wrong in the sale 
of the AA to Mrs H in 1996.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold Mrs Hs complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs H to accept or 
reject my decision before 16 August 2022.
 
Richard Hill
Ombudsman