DRN-3566203
The complaint
Miss Y has complained that she is unhappy with the quality of a new car she acquired in 
September 2020, using a hire agreement with PSA Finance UK Limited (PSA). 
What happened
Miss Y acquired a new DS DS3 Crossback Prestige in September 2020, using a hire 
agreement. The term was 36 months and the monthly cost was £296.37. (The initial annual 
mileage allowance was 6,000, but this was increased to 12,000 in August 2021 at Miss Ys 
request because of a change in her circumstances.)
Miss Y told us that the first problem with the car occurred two months later. She said that, 
while driving at a speed of 70mph on a motorway, the car suddenly lost power and the 
speed decreased to 50mph. As a result, she took it back to the supplying dealership, but a 
fault couldnt be found. 
Miss Y went on to say that, in February 2022, while driving at 30mph, the car wouldnt 
accelerate. After restarting the car, she was able to carry on with her journey. But on the 
following day, the car again lost power while she was driving on a busy road. She was able 
to restart the car and continue the short drive to her workplace. The hire agreement included 
roadside assistance, and the RAC attended. The RAC record shows an Engine Control Unit 
fault and the comment Suspect intermittent fault advise customer to book a service and 
have fault checked.
Miss Y again took the car to the dealership, but no fault was identified. However, she told us 
that the dealership also looked at faults with the door handles  which were repaired - and 
the drivers side window, which she said is still present. (She provided video evidence to 
confirm this).
Miss Y then complained to PSA. PSA arranged for an independent inspection report to be 
carried out, and this was completed on 1 March 2022. The examiner noted the mileage as 
19,039. The report states that, as well as inspecting the car, the examiner carried out a road 
test over a distance of around 51 miles, at s peeds  of up to 60mph,  for about  two and a 
half hours.  However,  the examiner  was unable  to replicate  or find fault with the vehicles  
management  systems  or driving  operation.  There  were  two fault codes  recorded  but the 
examiner  said that these did not relate to the engine operation.
PSA said it would not uphold Miss Ys complaint as neither the dealership nor the 
independent examiner could find a fault with the car. 
Miss Y brought her complaint to this service, saying that she wanted to reject the car. She 
said that, because she didnt believe it was safe, she stopped using the car in February 2022 
other than to make one journey which was necessary as she needed to move the car when 
she moved house in May 2022. Miss Y also said that during that journey fault codes 
appeared, but she was unable to get photographic evidence. 
Our investigator looked into Miss Ys complaint and thought it should be upheld. PSA 
disagreed and asked for it to be reviewed by an ombudsman. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive decided to uphold Miss Ys complaint. Ill explain why. 
Because PSA supplied the car under a regulated consumer hire agreement, its responsible 
for a complaint about the quality, and theres an implied term that the car was of satisfactory 
quality. Cars are of satisfactory quality if they are of a standard that a reasonable person 
would expect, taking into account all of the relevant circumstances such as (amongst other 
things) the age and mileage of the car and the price paid. When considering satisfactory 
quality, I also need to look at whether the car is durable  that is, the components within the 
car must be durable and last a reasonable amount of time.
In this case of course, the car was new, and I think any reasonable person would expect it to 
be free of any faults or defects.
Ive taken account of the relevant law, in particular the Consumer Rights Act 2015, (CRA). 
There are certain times, set out in the CRA, when a consumer is entitled to reject goods, in 
this case the car, if they dont conform to contract  a short term right to reject within 30 days 
of taking delivery, or a final right to reject if a repair or replacement hasnt resulted in the car 
subsequently conforming  that is, it then being of satisfactory quality.
I set out above the information that Miss Y provided about the car. None of the faults 
described occurred within the first 30 days after Miss Y took delivery of the car, so the short 
term right to reject under the CRA doesnt apply here. 
PSA sent in copies of the independent report, the original hire agreement and notes of its 
contact with Miss Y. I also have a copy of the note from the RAC callout. Miss Y provided a 
detailed description of the sequence of events.
As Ive explained, the independent report states that the examiner  was unable  to replicate  
or find fault with the vehicles  management  systems  or driving  operation.  There  were  
two fault codes  recorded  but the examiner  said that these did not relate to the engine 
operation.
PSA said there was no evidence of the fault Miss Y has complained about and that it didnt 
think our investigator had taken sufficient account of the independent report compared to 
other evidence in the case (such as the RAC report), bearing in mind the level of expert 
detail it provided about the condition of the car at that time. In summary, PSA said that the 
RAC report made clear that the diagnosis was provisional, and it drew attention to the 
qualifications of the forensic engineer who carried out the independent inspection, saying 
that his opinion would carry a substantial degree of evidential weight.
PSA also pointed out that the vehicle was noted as having a poor external appearance with 
substantial damage noted to various panels and it was also noted that the vehicle was 
overdue a routine service. It also referred to the mileage covered, saying that in June 2021 it 
was asked to provide Miss Y with a quotation for a mileage increase to 12,000 per year, and 
no concerns were raised regarding the quality of the vehicle at that point. PSA said it was 
difficult to reconcile Miss Y exceeding her anticipated mileage to that extent with our 
investigators recommendation that it should compensate her for loss of use. Ive thought carefully about the evidence provided by both parties. I accept that the 
independent report was carried out by a highly qualified engineer and I have given it due 
weight in reaching my decision. 
However, the existence of the RAC report confirms that Miss Y had a problem with the car 
that was enough to require roadside assistance, and the report notes a potential intermittent 
fault, and a fault code related to the Engine Control Unit. As I noted above. Miss Y has 
provided a consistent and detailed account of events, and Ive no reason to doubt what she 
said about the car losing power. Our investigator said in her assessment that she didnt think 
Miss Y would stop using the car (as evidenced by the mileage figures), but continue to pay 
instalments, if she didnt think there was a genuine safety concern, and I agree with this 
point  and I note that PSAs contact notes for February 2002 state Customer currently has 
vehicle but is too scared to drive it in case it breaks down again. I can see from Miss Ys 
testimony that its been difficult for her not to be able to use the car as she needed it for 
work. Indeed she has had to hire a car on two occasions, incurring costs of £378.22 in July 
2022 and £591.40 in September 2022 (for which Miss Y has sent in copies of invoices).
This was a new car, and Miss Y has only driven just over 19,000 miles. I dont think Miss Y 
should reasonably expect to have had this kind of issue after so little time. Taking everything 
into account, I consider it most likely that there is an intermittent fault with the car, that has 
not been able to be replicated because of the limited period of time over which its been 
investigated. And it doesnt seem to me that PSA has done enough to fully investigate what 
might be causing it. 
PSA raised concerns about the external appearance of the car. However I note that the 
independent report stated that The vehicle exterior had a dull and flat appearance 
considered consistent with no paint protection agents being present to the substrate 
surface. PSA also raised the overdue service (by 450 miles) stated in the independent 
report. Miss Y told us that, because of the mileage allowance increase, she believed the next 
service to be due either in June 2022 or at 24,000 miles. PSA has not made further 
comment on that point.
PSA also said it was difficult to reconcile Miss Y exceeding her anticipated mileage to the 
extent she has with our investigators recommendation that it should compensate her for loss 
of use. However, PSA agreed to Miss Ys request to increase the mileage allowance in 
August 2021, before the loss of power occurred for a second and third time, and after she 
had told them of a change in circumstances. So I dont consider the increase in mileage 
affects my conclusions. 
PSA has had an opportunity to repair the car, but the cause of the fault has not been 
identified. So I consider it fair and reasonable that Miss Y should be allowed to reject the car. 
I think it was reasonable for Miss Y to stop using the car in February as she believed it 
unsafe, so PSA should also refund any monthly payments made from February 2022 
onwards. As I noted above, Miss Y has also incurred car hire charges in July and September 
2022. I cannot fairly direct PSA to refund these charges in full, because if everything was 
working as it should Miss Y would have been making the normal monthly payments to PSA 
under the hire agreement. However I consider it fair to require PSA to refund the extra 
amount Miss Y had to pay out  that is, the difference between Miss Ys normal monthly 
payment under the PSA hire agreement and the amount Miss Y had to pay for the car hire 
for the months of July and September 2022.Putting things right
PSA should:
 end the agreement with nothing further to pay.
 collect the car at no further cost to Miss Y.
 refund all monthly payments made by Miss Y from February 2022 onwards, adding 
8% simple interest* per year from the dates of payment to the date the compensation 
is paid.
 refund the difference between Miss Ys normal monthly payment under the PSA hire 
agreement and the amount Miss Y had to pay for the car hire for the months of July 
and September 2022.
 remove any adverse information from Miss Ys credit file in relation to the agreement 
(if any has been added).
*if PSA considers that it is required by HM Revenue & Customs to withhold income tax from 
that interest, it should tell Miss Y how much its taken off. It should also give Miss Y a tax 
deduction certificate if she asks for one, so she can reclaim the tax from HM Revenue & 
Customs if appropriate.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I have decided to uphold Miss Ys complaint. PSA Finance UK 
Limited should compensate Miss Y as Ive described.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss Y to accept 
or reject my decision before 3 November 2022.
 
Jan Ferrari
Ombudsman