DRN-3171246
The complaint
Mr J complained about how Towergate Financial (West) Limited trading as Towergate 
Financial (at the time trading as M2 Financial Ltd) handled the transfer of his defined benefit 
occupational pension to a personal pension.
What happened
In 2007 Mr J was approached by his employer with a view to potentially transferring his 
defined benefit (final salary) occupational pension. The employer offered Mr J an incentive to 
transfer the pension by enhancing its transfer value.
Two transfer value reports were prepared  one was based on Mr J transferring the full 
enhanced transfer value of the pension (£82,797); and one was based on him transferring 
the basic transfer value (£43,230) and taking the enhancement (£39,567) as cash.
In October 2007 Towergates advisor met with Mr J and a Fact Find document was 
completed. This outlined Mr Js financial position and objectives and, of note, recorded that:
Mr J had the abovementioned occupational pension
apart from the State pension and any investments, this occupational pension would be 
Mr Js only retirement income
Mr Js attitude to risk was 3/10
the security of Mr Js occupational pension fund was his number one priority, followed by 
increasing his pension and being able to take a tax free lump payment upon retirement.
Later documentation suggested that at the meeting Mr J was verbally advised to not transfer 
his occupational pension.
Three days after the meeting Mr J wrote to Towergate to say that hed decided to go against 
the advisors advice and that he wanted to transfer the basic part of his occupational pension 
to a new provider. He also said he wanted to take the enhanced amount as cash in order to 
invest in property.
Towergate produced a recommendation report on 28 December 2007. The report said Mr J 
had three options: to transfer his pension away from the occupational scheme and take the 
enhanced payment as a lump sum cash payment (which would be taxable); to transfer his 
pension away from the occupational scheme, with the enhanced amount being included in 
the transfer; or to leave his pension with the existing occupational scheme.
The report explained that while it might be beneficial for someone in Mr Js position to 
transfer away from the occupational scheme, his pension would depend on investment 
returns in the future, which couldnt be guaranteed. On the other hand, the pension Mr J 
would receive from the occupational scheme wasnt dependent upon investment returns. It 
also said a new pension would need to grow by 6.8% each year in order to match the 
benefits of the existing occupational pension; and if it didnt grow by this much Mr J would 
likely be worse off in retirement than he would be if remained in the occupational pension.
In the body of the report Towergate twice said that if Mr J was in any doubt about 
transferring, it recommended that he remain in the occupational scheme. Later, in the 
Recommendation section, Towergate recommended that Mr J not transfer his pension 
away from his occupational scheme. This was because an alternative arrangement was 
unlikely to produce higher retirement benefits given the growth needed and Mr Js attitude to 
risk, and the security of his pension fund was a high priority. Towergate nevertheless said 
that if Mr J wanted to transfer he could do so on an insistent client basis. And it explained 
what Mr J needed to do in this respect.
On 10 January 2008 Mr J signed a declaration saying that hed read and understood the 
report, including the risks of transferring out of his occupational pension.
On 16 January 2008 Towergate produced another recommendation report. It referred back 
to the initial report and said that Mr J had subsequently told it he wished to proceed with the 
transfer on an insistent client basis  as per an undated letter it received on 11 January 
2008. It said that to ensure obligations are fulfilled Towergate needed to reiterate the original 
recommendation to not transfer, before it could provide an alternative option for the transfer 
to proceed. Towergate confirmed the original recommendation (for the same reasons as 
before); and then went on to recommend a particular personal pension. It also said it could 
make the necessary arrangements.
Mr J then proceeded with the transfer.
In 2020 Towergate reviewed the advice Mr J had been given (as part of a wider review 
instructed by the regulator). It noted an area where the process could have been better  
that being an explanation of Mr Js ability to retire on an unreduced pension from his 
previous employer at age 60  but it was satisfied that the information it provided was 
sufficient for Mr J to act on an informed basis and that these issues didnt impact on his 
decision to transfer.
A short time later Mr J complained to Towergate as he was unhappy with its decision 
following the review. Towergate didnt think it had done anything wrong or had treated Mr J 
unfairly.
What I provisionally decided  and why
I issued a provisional decision which explained why I didnt think the complaint should be 
upheld. The relevant parts of my provisional decision are outlined below and form part of my 
final decision.
Suitability of the transfer
Although it wasnt strictly part of the complaint, I concluded that the advice Towergate 
gave Mr J to not transfer his pension was suitable. This was because it seemed from 
what Id seen that if Mr J transferred he would be giving up valuable guaranteed benefits; 
and given his recorded attitude to risk it was unlikely that a private pension would have 
grown sufficiently to make him better off in retirement.
Insistent client rules
In recent years, the regulator has defined an insistent client as:
osomeone who received a personal recommendation (advice) from a business
owho wanted to enter into a transaction that was different from that recommended 
by the business; andowho wanted the business to facilitate the transaction.
Towergate essentially argued thats what happened here ie it advised Mr J to not transfer 
his occupational pension; he wanted to transfer it anyway; and he wanted Towergate to 
facilitate the transfer.
At the time of the advice there was no regulatory advice or guidance in place in respect 
of insistent clients. But there was a Conduct of Business rule (COBS 2.1.1R) which 
required Towergate to act honestly, fairly and professionally in accordance with the best 
interests of its client. 
The advice process
Towergate was allowed to transact business on an insistent client basis. However, in 
doing so its recommendation had to be clear and it needed to ensure that Mr J 
understood the consequences of going against the advisors recommendation. I had 
concerns over various parts of the process.
The first was with the nature of the original meeting when the Fact Find was completed. 
Mr J told us that the advisor told him at the meeting that he should transfer his pension  
contrary to documentation produced after the meeting which suggested he was advised 
to not transfer. There was no recording of what was discussed. However, there was 
some messaging (albeit mixed  see below) in the recommendation reports to the advice 
being to not transfer. So if Mr J was advised at the meeting to transfer, I would have 
expected him to have clarified the difference between the recommendation in the reports 
and the recommendation hed initially been given.
The second concern I had was with Mr Js instructions to Towergate that he wanted to 
ignore its recommendation. During an industry-wide review of pension transfers and opt-
outs in the1990s the regulator suggested that a note in the clients own handwriting 
provided compelling evidence of their insistence to proceed. In respect of the 
handwritten letter Ive referred to above, Mr J told us it was dictated to him by the advisor 
and he wrote what the advisor told him. I didnt know what was discussed. But there 
were two facts that I thought added weight to Mr Js version of events:
othe letter was dated three days after the meeting, before any formal advice had 
actually been given  in my view, it was more likely that such a letter would be 
written after Mr J received the advisors formal recommendation. I thought this 
was supported by the fact that in the report when formal advice was given it said 
that if Mr J wanted to proceed against the advice Towergate needed a signed 
and dated letter identifying why he had chosen to pursue this option.
othe letter contained the precise wording that I would have expected to see ie 
Mr Js confirmation that the decision to transfer was his and that his decision was 
contrary to the recommendation  did Mr J happen to say precisely what needed 
to be said, or was he coached?
On the other hand, the letter wasnt dated the day of the meeting and it contained some 
spelling and punctuation mistakes, both of which could indicate that Mr J wrote the letter 
himself. When we asked Mr J about the date of the letter he said it might have been 
because he wrote an original draft and then re-wrote it a few days later.
Towergate felt Mr J writing the letter before the formal advice was indicative of his 
keenness to transfer. That was a possibility. But I thought the more likely scenario given the precise wording of the letter was that the advisor had some sort of hand in Mr J 
writing it.
I also wasnt necessarily persuaded that a letter dated almost three months before the 
formal advice was given was sufficient to overcome the hurdle of Towergate needing a 
letter from Mr J regarding him proceeding against the advice. And the declaration he 
signed in January 2008 didnt overcome this hurdle either as it wasnt a letter, it wasnt 
written by Mr J and it didnt confirm that Mr J wanted to proceed against the advice 
given.
The final concern I had was in respect of the recommendation reports  I wasnt 
persuaded the recommendation to not transfer was sufficiently clear and not misleading.
In the first report Towergate twice said that if Mr J had any doubts its recommendation 
was that he not transfer. That, in my opinion, wasnt as clear as a straight 
recommendation to not transfer  because if it was read another way it said that if Mr J 
didnt have any doubts the recommendation to not transfer didnt apply. I also thought 
the overall message in the Recommendation section was mixed. It said the 
recommendation was to not transfer; but I thought that recommendation was weakened 
by immediately being followed by a message that essentially said but if you want to 
transfer we can help you and heres what you need to do.
In the second report Towergate referred to receiving confirmation from Mr J following the 
first report that he wished to proceed with the transfer on an insistent client basis. I 
hadnt seen a copy of this confirmation, and when I asked Towergate for a copy it said it 
couldnt identify it. I wasnt therefore persuaded there was such a letter, or that Mr J 
confirmed to Towergate that having received the first report he wanted to proceed on an 
insistent client basis. All I could see that Mr J confirmed  as per the declaration he 
signed on 10 January 2008  was that hed received and understood the first report, and 
he realised hed be giving up secured benefits if he transferred out of his occupational 
pension.
I thought the second report also contained similar mixed messages to the first one. First, 
it said Towergate needed to confirm its original recommendation in order to ensure it 
fulfilled its obligations  which to me sounded like a tick box exercise before moving on 
to the main purpose of the report (ie the transfer of the pension). Second, the 
recommendation was to not transfer because it was unsuitable, but the Recommended 
solution ended by recommending that Mr J transfer his pension into a specific personal 
pension, and by saying if Towergate felt the plan was inappropriate for Mr Js individual 
circumstances it wouldnt recommend it.
The report did nevertheless end by highlighting some risk warnings, in bold, saying that:
ogeneral industry advice was to not transfer out of defined benefit pensions
oMr J had chosen to transfer out despite Towergates advice to the contrary, and
oMr J had been made aware that he may end up worse off if the required growth 
wasnt achieved.
But, overall, I thought the mixed messages in the reports effectively gave Mr J a loaded 
gun and set him up to transfer.
Would Mr J have acted differently?A failure in process or Towergate not treating Mr J fairly wasnt a reason in itself for me 
to uphold the complaint. I needed to consider what effect that had on Mr J  I needed to 
look at what most likely would have happened had the advice process been as clear as I 
thought it should have been.
The advice process took just over four months so I didnt think Mr J was rushed into 
making a decision  he had time to digest the recommendation reports and to make a 
decision. I wasnt persuaded that Mr Js decision to transfer his pension was a result of 
any undue pressure being put on him by Towergate.
There were however two things Mr J said which I thought were important in determining 
the outcome of this complaint. 
After Towergate reviewed the advice in 2020 it wrote to Mr J to confirm its findings. The 
letter referred to Mr J telling Towergate that the cash offer/enhancement was too good 
for him to turn down at the time. I hadnt seen evidence of Mr J saying this to Towergate, 
but Mr J hadnt disputed what it said. I nevertheless thought Mr J was likely to have said 
something along those lines because he said something similar to our investigator  our 
investigator asked him why he went against the advice and Mr J said hed just been 
made redundant and when £20,000 was offered you dont think about the long term.
What Mr J said didnt strike me as unusual  I could see why he might have found the 
payment of an additional lump sum attractive. And with that in mind, given Mr Js overall 
circumstances at the time and the lump sum cash payment that he would receive, I 
thought that even if there werent any flaws in the advice process it was most likely that 
Mr J would have proceeded with the transfer regardless.
Summary
I concluded that there were potential flaws in the advice process in respect of the 
recommendation reports Towergate produced and in Mr Js instructions to Towergate.
But I didnt think these led to Mr J proceeding any differently  I thought given what hed 
said about the cash incentive and him recently being made redundant that he most likely 
would have proceeded with the transfer and taken the cash as a lump sum anyway.
Responses to my provisional decision
I havent received anything further from Towergate.
Mr J disagreed with my provisional decision and made various points. Some points were in 
relation to the advice process eg the handwritten letter, it being the advisors responsibility to 
explain the transfer value reports, being unaware of the early retirement benefits,. Others 
related to the statements hed made about the offer being too good to turn down. He also 
referred to friends who went through the same advice process receiving compensation.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In his response to my provisional decision Mr J referred to Towergates errors and the 
conflicting information that Id highlighted. He felt these had been disregarded as there are no consequences for Towergate. In deciding this type of complaint there are always two 
things that I consider:
1. did the financial business treat the consumer unfairly? and
2. did that lead to the consumer being disadvantaged?
I will only uphold a complaint if the answer to both questions is yes. This is because I dont 
have the power to fine or punish a business just because it got something wrong. So that 
might mean, on occasion, that a business does something wrong and/or treats a consumer 
unfairly but it doesnt have to do anything to put matters right.
As outlined in my provisional decision, I concluded that Towergate treated Mr J unfairly in 
respect of the overall advice process  in that the overall messaging was unclear and 
effectively led Mr J down the path of transferring. There arent any further points that I need 
to consider in this respect so my conclusion remains the same.
The contentious issue as far as Mr J is concerned is my conclusion that he wasnt 
disadvantaged. The critical question for me is deciding this point is what would Mr J most 
likely have done if the advice process had been as clear as I thought it should have been?
In response to my provisional decision Mr J made various points on this issue, eg:
he wasnt aware of the early retirement benefits; they had more value than the enhanced 
transfer being value being offered; and he wouldnt have transferred out of his 
occupational pension had this benefit been explained to him
he confirmed that he told Towergate the cash his employer offered was too good to turn 
down, but that was without any knowledge of the early retirement benefits
he didnt need the money being offered  he had no dependent children; his wife worked 
full-time; his parents would have given him money/support if he needed it; his income 
was sufficient to cover his monthly bills and leave a small amount left over; upon his 
redundancy he immediately had another job lined up.
Overall, Mr J said that he wasnt desperate for an immediate cash payment and although it 
would have been attractive he didnt need it at the detriment of his future financial wellbeing. 
He therefore feels hes shown that he would have acted differently if the overall advice 
process had been fair.
Its not in dispute that Towergate failed to properly explain Mr Js ability to retire early on an 
unreduced pension  this is evident from Towergates review in 2020. And I accept that 
when Mr J told Towergate the offer was too good to turn down he was unaware of the 
potential unreduced pension or Towergates failings in this respect. However, he was aware 
of this when he repeated the sentiment of what he told Towergate to our investigator ie that 
he didnt think about the long-term ramifications when £20,000 was being offered. And while 
he might not have known about the early retirement benefits, despite my conclusion about 
the advice not being abundantly clear, there were warnings in Towergates report sufficient 
enough in my opinion to put Mr J on notice that it was unlikely an alternative arrangement 
would produce higher retirement benefits and that Mr J  would be worse off if the required 
growth wasnt achieved.
I also accept what Mr J has said in that he most likely didnt need to money given his 
financial position at the time and the fact he had a new job. But its plausible to me that he 
(and other consumers) would find the money being offered attractive, and would still take it, 
even when there is no need for it.Having reconsidered this point in light of Mr Js further comments it remains my view that he 
would most likely have proceeded with the transfer and taken the cash as a lump sum, even 
if Towergate had given him full and clear information. I say this because I think what Mr J 
told Towergate and, particularly, our investigator is a more persuasive indicator as to his 
likely intention rather than what hes said in response to my provisional decision.
Summary
It remains my conclusion there were flaws in the advice process and Towergate didnt treat 
Mr J fairly in this respect; but these didnt lead to Mr J proceeding any differently. I therefore 
conclude that there are no grounds to uphold the complaint or to require Towergate to pay 
any compensation for any losses Mr J might have suffered.
In closing, I note Mr Js comments about compensation other people might have received. 
My decision is based on the individual circumstances of this case. Although Im aware of 
other similar complaints, Im not aware of their specific circumstances. While on the outside 
they might seem similar, small differences can have a big impact on the overall outcome. So 
while I take the outcome of other complaints into account they dont set a precedent. In this 
case I think the conclusion Ive reached is fair in all the circumstances of the case for the 
reasons outlined above.
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr J to accept or 
reject my decision before 21 December 2021. 
Paul Daniel
Ombudsman