DRN-3726469
The complaint
Ms S is unhappy with a hire purchase agreement with Close Brothers Limited trading as
Close Brothers Motor Finance (CB).
She says she was told a small final payment would be due at the end of the agreement, but
then found out a larger balloon payment was to be paid if she wanted to keep the car.
When Ms S handed her car back, she was unhappy with charges for excess mileage and
damages.
What happened
Ms S has been represented on this complaint. But to keep things simple, Ill only refer to
Ms S in my decision.
In July 2017 Ms S took a hire purchase agreement with CB to acquire a used car. The
agreement was taken over 49 months, with monthly repayments of £222.72.
Ms S says she spoke to CB in around April 2021. She says she was told the final payment
due around September 2021 would be slightly higher than the normal monthly repayment.
But, she says she was later told a balloon payment was due on the agreement of over
£4,000.
Ms S decided to hand the car back rather than pay the balloon payment. When the car was
collected at the end of May 2021, Ms S says she was unable to go out to the car to look at it
due to a health issue. But she says the person who collected the car told her what good
condition it was in and that there was no damage. She says she was asked to provide a
signature to show the car had been picked up.
CB then told Ms S she owed £1,981.60 for going over her agreed mileage allowance, and
£573.60 for damage to the car. This consisted of:
Rear door dent £67.50
Damage to alloy wheel £40.95
Damage to alloy wheel £40.95
Scratch to front bumper £97.30
Scratch to rear bumper £97.30
Chips on near side front door £114.80
Chips on off side front door £114.80
Ms S was unhappy with this and complained to CB. It issued its final response to the
complaint in June 2021. It said, in summary, that its agents shouldve told Ms S about the
balloon payment on the phone, but didnt. It apologised for this, but explained the balloon
payment had been set out on the agreement so had been charged correctly.
Ms S remained unhappy and referred the complaint to our service. CB then acknowledged
Ms S had complained about the excess mileage and damage charges, but it thought these
were fairly applied.
Our investigator issued an opinion. This explained, in summary, that she thought the excess
mileage charges and balloon payment had been set out on the agreement Ms S signed. She
thought most of the charges for damage had been fairly applied and fell outside of fair wear
and tear. But, she said damage to one of the doors wasnt clear, so CB should remove this
charge.
Ms S responded and said she was told different amounts on the phone for the balloon
payment. She said she hadnt been able to read the agreement when she took it and it had
been rushed through. She said the damages werent noted at the time of collection and
shed been misled into signing something. And she said the damage wasnt present when
the car was collected so it must have happened between the collection and the later
inspection.
CB also responded and provided a clearer photo of the damage to the door. Our investigator
reviewed this. She said this had changed her opinion and she now thought all the damage
charges had been fairly applied. And she said what Ms S told her didnt change her mind.
Ms S remained unhappy, so the case was passed for an ombudsmans decision.
While awaiting a decision, an agreement was made between CB and Ms S to remove the
charges for excess mileage. Ms S still disputes the damage charges  so the case was
passed to me to decide.
I sent CB and Ms S a provisional decision on 13 September 2022. My findings from this 
decision were as follows:
I want to reassure Ms S that Ive carefully considered everything shes said in relation to this
complaint and all of the points shes raised. Where I havent specifically commented on
something below, this is because Im focusing on what I consider to be the key points and
the crux of her complaint.
Ms S complains about a car supplied under a hire purchase agreement. Entering into
consumer credit contracts such as this as a lender is a regulated activity, so Im satisfied I
can consider Ms Ss complaint about CB.
Ms S has complained about various points. Ill consider these in turn. As an agreement has
been reached between Ms S and CB in relation to the excess mileage charges, I dont need
to comment further on this.
Balloon payment
When considering whats fair and reasonable, I take into account relevant regulations, laws
and guidance. Section 56 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974 is relevant to this complaint. This
explains, under certain circumstances, that a finance provider can be held liable for what is
said by a credit broker before a credit agreement is entered into. So, Im satisfied I can
consider what Ms S says she was told about the credit agreement by the dealer here.
Ms S says she was never aware a balloon payment would be due. I need to consider if I
think its likely she was given incorrect information or misled about the finance.
Ive considered what the agreement Ms S entered into says. Ms S has acknowledged the
balloon payment is on the agreement, but says it was buried in the small print. But I dont
agree here. The balloon payment is set out on the front page of the agreement under the
schedule of repayments. I can see this explains a payment of £4,323.75 is due 49 monthsinto the agreement.
Ive very carefully thought about what Ms S says here. She says the appointment was
rushed and she wasnt able to read the agreement. I appreciate theres a lack of evidence to
show what happened when Ms S took the finance here. But, on balance, I havent seen
enough to make me think its most likely she was given incorrect information or misled.
I also need to consider that if a balloon payment wasnt included on her agreement, the
amount wouldve been spread over the term and so the monthly payments wouldve been
higher. Even if I accepted what Ms S says happened here, I havent seen enough to
persuade me that she wouldve taken a different agreement, or that shed have been
financially better off if she did.
It isnt in dispute that CB shouldve told Ms S about the balloon payment when she called.
CB has acknowledged this and apologised. Ive considered if CB needs to do more here.
But, the balloon payment was always due  regardless of what Ms S was told on the phone.
Thinking about whats fair and reasonable, I dont think CB needs to do anything further to
put this right.
Damages
Ive firstly thought about whether Ms S agreed to be held responsible for damage to the car.
The terms of the agreement Ms S entered into say:
You must maintain the Goods in good and reasonable order and condition at your expense.
You are responsible for all loss of or damage to, the Goods, except for any due to fair wear
and tear
So, Im satisfied Ms S agreed to keep the car in good repair and to be held responsible for
any damage outside of fair wear and tear.
When considering the damages here, Ive referred to the British Vehicle Leasing and Rental
Association (BVRLA) guidance on fair wear and tear. I appreciate Ms Ss car was used, but
it was only just over a year old and had covered around 13,000 miles when she got it. So Im
satisfied in this case this guidance is still relevant.
In relation to damage to the wheels, the BVRLA says:
Any damage to the wheel spokes, wheel fascia, or hub of the alloy wheel is not acceptable
Looking at the photos of the wheels from when the car was collected, I can see clear and
obvious damage to both alloys on the spokes. Im satisfied this falls outside of fair wear and
tear.
In relation to dents, the BVRLA says:
Dents of 15mm or less in diameter are acceptable provided there are no more than two per
panel and the paint surface is not broken
Reviewing the photos from when the car was collected, I can see what appears to be two
dents to the near side rear door. And Im satisfied at least one of these is over 15mm. So, I
find this falls outside of fair wear and tear.
In relation to scratches, the BVRLA says:Surface scratches of 25mm or less where the primer or bare metal is not showing are
acceptable, provided they can be polished out
Looking at the photos from when the car was collected, I can see clear and obvious
scratches or scrapes to both bumpers that are well over 25mm. Im satisfied this also falls
outside of fair wear and tear.
In relation to chips, the BVRLA says:
Chips of 3mm or less in diameter are acceptable provided they are not rusted. A maximum
of four chips on any panel, six chips per door edge and eight chips on any forward facing
panel is permitted
From the photos when the car was collected, I can see more than six chips on the near side
front door. And I can see a collection of more than six chips or scratches to the off side front
door. Im satisfied both of these areas fall outside of fair wear and tear.
Ive carefully considered what Ms S says here. She says the car was in great condition with
no marks when it was collected and the damage must have happened afterwards. But, when
considering the damage Ive only considered the photos from when the car was collected 
not the later inspection. So, Im satisfied the damage happened when Ms S had the car.
I appreciate Ms S says she was told the car wasnt damaged and that she thought she was
only signing for its collection. And I know she wanted her representative there when the car
was picked up.
I dont know why the collection agent wouldve noted and photographed the damage to the
car and then told Ms S that there wasnt any. And I understand Ms S wanted someone there
at the time. But, Im satisfied the car was damaged at the point it was collected. So,
whatever happened here, it wouldnt change my opinion that its fair for CB to charge for it.
I gave both parties two weeks to come back with any further comments or evidence. CB 
didnt reply. Ms S came back and said she wasnt happy with the decision and made some 
further points for me to consider.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ms S said in response to my provisional decision that the car wasnt damaged and this was 
a false claim by CB. But, as explained above, Ive seen photos from the time the car was 
collected where the damage can be seen. So, Im still satisfied the damage was present.
Ms S also said she wasnt told about the balloon payment and it wasnt in the contract. But 
the balloon payment was in the contract. So this doesnt change my opinion.
Finally, Ms S also said if I listened to the phone calls with CB I would hear it refuse to allow 
her representative to be present when the car was collected. But, even if this was the case, it 
wouldnt affect whether the damage was there at the time or not. As Ive explained, Im 
satisfied it was. So, either way, this wouldnt change my opinion.
Ive thought about all of the other information about this complaint together with Ms Ss 
response to my provisional decision.. Having done so, I still think agreeing to remove the 
excess mileage charges and apologising to Ms S for the incorrect information is enough to put things right.
My final decision
Close Brothers Limited trading as Close Brothers Motor Finance has apologised to Ms S for
the incorrect information it gave her and it has agreed to remove £1,981.60 for the excess
mileage.
My final decision is that Im satisfied that this is fair and reasonable under the circumstances.
So, I instruct Close Brothers Limited trading as Close Brothers Motor Finance to remove 
£1,981.60 from Ms Ss balance.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms S to accept or 
reject my decision before 27 October 2022.
 
John Bower
Ombudsman