DRN-2646761
The complaint
Miss D complains that Ageas Insurance Limited told her that it was covering both the internal 
and external storm damage she had claimed for her under her landlords buildings insurance 
policy only to later tell her it was covering only the internal damage. 
What happened
Miss D owns a property that she lets to tenants. On 15 July 2020 she contacted Ageas to 
report some damage to the bedroom ceiling and downstairs wall/kitchen as a result of a 
recent storm.
Ageas appointed a loss adjuster to assess the claim who visited property on 24 July 2020. 
On hearing nothing further, Miss D contacted Ageas on 5 August 2020 but was told that due 
to Covid-19, there was a slight backlog in the reports being produced by loss adjusters. 
The report was provided to Ageas on 12 August 2020 and, having heard nothing further, 
Miss D contacted Ageas on 18 August 2020. During the conversation, Ageas confirmed the 
claim was being covered and that itd arrange for its contractors to contact Miss D to carry 
out the works.  Miss D received a letter from the contractors on 21 August 2020 to confirm 
the works were to go ahead and requesting payment of the £100 policy excess, which 
Miss D paid on 24 August 2020.
On hearing nothing, Miss D contacted the contractors again at the start of September 2020. 
It was at this point that Miss D was told by the contractors that only the internal damage to 
her property was being covered.
Miss D contacted Ageas and it confirmed it had only ever been the case that it was covering 
the internal damage to her property.
Miss D complained to Ageas. Ageas looked into her complaint and accepted that it hadnt 
made her aware it was only covering the internal damage. But it maintained its decision that 
the nature of the external damage was such that it wasnt covered by her policy. For the 
shortcomings in its communications and service it offered Miss D compensation of £50 for 
the trouble and upset itd caused her. 
Unhappy with the outcome of Ageas investigation, Miss D complained to this service. Our 
investigator looked into her complaint but didnt think Ageas had treated her unfairly or 
unreasonably in the way itd dealt with her complaint.  
The complaint was passed to me for a decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Its my role to decide whether Ageas has dealt fairly and reasonably with Miss Ds complaint. 
With regret for any upset that it will cause Miss D, I have to say I think it has. Ill explain why. 
Miss Ds complaint was for storm damage. She reported damage to her roof following a 
storm that had allowed water to ingress the property. Damage caused by a storm is covered 
by Miss Ds policy. I cant see that any of the other insured events (flood, fire, theft etc.) 
could be said to have caused the damage so the only possible event that could be said to be 
responsible for the damage Miss D claimed for is storm. 
I can see there was a storm (high winds) in the locality of the property about 10 days before 
Miss D reported the damage to Ageas. But just because a storm occurred doesnt 
automatically mean the claim is covered. It has to be shown that the type of damage itself is 
typically that which a storm could cause. 
Having seen the loss adjusters photographs of the damage and read the comments 
provided about it, I dont think Ageass decision to decline Miss Ds claim for storm damage 
to her roof was an unreasonable one to take. The damage visible, according to the loss 
adjuster, is defective cement flaunching above the lead flashing adjoining the neighbouring 
property. This is a maintenance issue and the cement should be removed and replaced to 
stop the water ingress. From the photographs the cracking looks historic in nature  in other 
words that it has occurred over time rather than being caused by a one-off storm event. I can 
see that damage caused gradually, or by wear and tear, is excluded from cover under the 
policy.
So, I dont think the damage to the roof is of the type that can be caused by a storm. And 
based on the evidence Ive referred to above, I dont think that Ageas decision to decline to 
cover the damage to the roof that Miss D claimed for was unfair. Put simply, it wasnt caused 
by one of the insured events listed in the policy. 
I can see that Miss Ds policy doesnt include the option of additional accidental damage 
cover. But I can also see, notwithstanding that it doesnt, that Ageas has accepted Miss Ds 
claim for internal damage. Its reasonable to assume that it must be considering this damage 
under the storm peril. Its said that once the roof is repaired  thereby preventing any further 
water ingress  it is happy to arrange the internal repair. 
But I can see too that the claims decision wasnt accurately reported to Miss D so that she 
was left with the impression that the payment of her policy excess of £100 was so all the 
damage  both internal and external  shed claimed for would be repaired. Ageas had, upon 
receipt of the loss adjusters report, only approved the internal works but had failed to 
communicate the fact to Miss D. Its contractors simply confirmed to Miss D that the works 
were approved. Miss D took that to mean all the works. 
For the period 18 August 2020 until early September 2020 Miss D was under the impression 
that her whole claim was being met. Whilst its clear from Ageas file that it only ever 
intended to cover the internal damage, it clearly failed to communicate this fact to Miss D. 
From the letters she received and conversations she had, I can see why Miss D thought her 
entire claim was being met and can understand her loss of expectation.
And I think that Ageas couldve kept Miss D better updated  I can see she had to chase it 
on a few occasions to find out what was happening with the claim. 
Where an insurer, through its words or deeds, causes avoidable trouble and upset to a 
consumer in the way it handles their claim, this service can make it pay compensation. But I 
can see here that Ageas has apologised for the service failings she experienced and paid 
her compensation of £50. Taking all the circumstances into account, I think that fairly reflects the trouble and upset caused by Ageas to Miss D and is in line with awards made by this 
service in similar circumstances. Indeed, if this case had passed across my desk without an 
award of compensation having already been offered, Im unlikely to have awarded any more. 
So, it follows that I dont think Miss Ds complaint should be upheld. I think she did receive 
poor service and a loss of expectation in the way Ageas handled her claim but Ageas has 
acknowledged its shortcomings and paid her compensation of £50. I cant fairly and 
reasonably require it to do anymore.  
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss D to accept 
or reject my decision before 16 April 2021.
 
Claire Woollerson
Ombudsman