DRN-2767406
The complaint
Mr S complains, through a legal representative, that esure Insurance Limited mishandled his
motor insurance policy.
What happened
For the year from 23 April 2019, Mr S took out an esure policy for his car.
On 9 July 2019, esure asked Mr S for some documents by midday 16 July 2019, falling
which esure would cancel the policy.
On 17 July Mr S reported that he and a third party had been involved in an accident on the
evening of 16 July 2019. However, esure declined to deal with his claim, saying it had
cancelled the policy with effect from midday 16 July 2019.
Mr S complained to esure that it had unfairly cancelled his policy. By a final response dated
7 April 2020, esure turned down the complaint. Unhappy with that, Mr S brought his
complaint to us a couple of days later.
our investigators opinion
Our investigator didnt recommend that the complaint should be upheld. He didnt think that
esure had acted unfairly given the circumstances. He said that if esure had known that Mr S
had moved to the UK in January 2019, esure wouldnt have offered cover to him.
my provisional decision
After considering all the evidence, I issued a provisional decision on this complaint to Mr S 
and to esure on 23 March 2021. I summarise my findings:
esure wouldnt have insured Mr S if it had known that hed only been in the UK for 
less than a year. But that wasnt one of the reasons for my decision.
I was minded to find that esure had cancelled the policy fairly in line with its terms. 
I wasnt minded to find that esure treated Mr S unfairly by declining to deal with any 
claims arising from the reported accident on the evening of 16 July 2019.
Subject to any further information from Mr S or from esure, my provisional decision was that 
I didnt uphold this complaint. I didnt intend to direct esure Insurance Limited to do any more 
in response to this complaint.
In response to the provisional decision, esure says that it has nothing further to submit.
Mr S disagrees with the provisional decision. His representative says, in summary, that:
He feels penalised because of his limited understanding of English. 
He is a hardworking person and always complied with law.
He relied on an unregulated broker.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
From what its sent us, I accept that esure wouldnt have insured Mr S if it had known that
hed only been in the UK for less than a year. But that isnt one of the reasons for my 
decision.
I accept that Mr S used a broker. But I find that esure didnt know in April 2019 of the
involvement of the broker. The broker was acting on behalf of Mr S rather than on behalf of
esure.
As Mr S wanted the policy to start more or less immediately, there wasnt enough time for
esure to ask for documents such as DVLA details.
Mr S was the policyholder. The policy also covered a named driver.
Like most motor insurance policies, esures policy contained a term that it could cancel the
policy on giving seven days notice. The esure term was as follows:
Our right to cancel your policy
We have the right to cancel your policy at any time by giving you seven days notice
in writing where there is a valid reason for doing so. We will send our cancellation
letter to the latest address we have for you and will set out the reason for cancellation
in our letter.
I will consider whether esure applied that term fairly in Mr Ss case.
It was about two months after Mr S took out the policy that esure realised the involvement of
the broker. I think thats why esure asked for documents to verify the information it had.
Im satisfied that esures letter dated 9 July 2019 was a reasonable request for information.
That included a request for both drivers DVLA details and the brokers details. That request
for information was coupled with a 7-day notice of cancellation.
I find it clear enough that the absence of the information was the reason for the cancellation. 
I accept that it was a valid reason.
I have no reason to doubt Mr Ss statement that he was abroad without access to his emails
until 15 July 2019.
But he mustve received esures email by the morning of 16 July 2019. I say that because at
11.53 that morning Mr S sent an email to esure. It wasnt a blank email. His email sent
esure his DVLA record. But he didnt send esure the named drivers record or any of the
other documents esure had asked for.
Im satisfied that esure emailed Mr S on 16 July 2019 to confirm that it had cancelled the
policy. Its email said that it might reinstate the policy if Mr S provided the documents.And on 17 July 2019, one of Mr Ss representatives sent esure some more documents. But
those documents didnt include the named drivers DVLA details or any details of the broker.
Overall I find that esure had cancelled the policy fairly in line with its terms. And I dont find 
that esure treated Mr S unfairly by declining to deal with any claims arising from the reported 
accident on the evening of 16 July 2019.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. I dont 
direct esure Insurance Limited to do any more in response to this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 20 May 2021. 
Christopher Gilbert
Ombudsman