DRN-3657022
The complaint
Ms H is unhappy with how Bank of Scotland plc rectified an error on her credit card account.
What happened
There were six adjustments (three credits and three corresponding debits) on Ms Hs 
December 2021 statement that she was not expecting, and there was no explanation. When 
she contacted Bank of Scotland she was told a letter explaining the adjustments would be 
sent by the end of January 2022. When nothing arrived Ms H called back, and the bank 
explained there had been an error on her account dating back to 2017 and so she would 
receive a refund plus compensatory interest. Ms H asked for the refund to be paid direct to 
her, she was advised to wait for the explanatory letter. This arrived in March 2022 and 
confirmed the amount that would be credited to her account, she again asked for a cheque 
but was told this was not an option. So she raised a complaint.
Bank of Scotland explained the refund was a result of a rectification project that had 
identified a group of customers had been overcharged interest as their repayments had been 
incorrectly allocated. It said the refund had to be credited to her account to rectify the 
affected plans. It agreed that Ms H had received poor service when she tried to find out what 
was happening on her account. But it felt the £240 already paid fairly recognised the 
inconvenience this had caused. 
Our investigator did not uphold Ms Hs complaint. He said Bank of Scotland had not acted 
unfairly when it credited Ms Hs refund to her card. And it had transferred just under £5,000 
onto a 0% interest rate until March 2024 which was to Ms Hs benefit as it was previously on 
a higher balance transfer rate. Bank of Scotland also agreed any remaining balance would 
then revert to the rate it was on previously of 5.94% for life. This was after Ms H complained 
that if it reverted to an APR of 20% it would be to her financial detriment. He said the £240 
compensation for the poor service was reasonable and in line with what he would have 
awarded.
Unhappy with this assessment Ms H asked for an ombudsmans review. She said, in 
summary, she was financially disadvantaged by Bank of Scotlands actions. She has 
calculated that she will end up paying more interest and therefore a higher monthly minimum 
payment as a result of its adjustments. Plus, historically she paid more each month due to 
the bank overcharging interest which had a detrimental impact on her finances overall. As 
the bank was at fault she should have been able to receive the refund into a bank account of 
her choice. Or she should have been offered a cheque as that was an option.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I am not upholding Ms Hs complaint. I have thought carefully about all of 
the points Ms H raised but in keeping with our role as an informal dispute resolution service, 
and as our rules allow, I will focus on the issues I find to be material to the outcome of this 
complaint.
Ms Hs main issue is that Bank of Scotland wouldnt comply with her request for a payment 
to her current account or a cheque, rather than a credit to her account. I have reviewed the 
banks process documents for the customers who were affected by the same issue as Ms H 
here. This makes clear that customers with open accounts were to receive a credit to their 
account. Only those with closed accounts were sent cheques. So, whilst I accept that this 
frustrates Ms H as some cheques were issued, all active customers received a credit, as she 
did. And the money that was taken from her card has been refunded to it  which I think is 
fair here, even if I can see why Ms H doesnt think the same. So I cant find Bank of Scotland 
acted unfairly or unreasonably  it followed the defined process and treated Ms H as it did all 
customers in her position. And we dont have the remit to review a banks processes or 
policies, that is the role of the regulator.
Ms H also sent in calculations to dispute the Bank of Scotlands approach and to show how 
she has been financially disadvantaged. I reviewed the statement history provided by Bank 
of Scotland and I cant see any errors in how it has calculated Ms Hs balance. Im satisfied it 
has taken the adjustments and refund into account, which of course feeds through to the 
interest charge and payments due. This service is a quick and informal dispute resolution 
service and so were not here to carry out forensic audits or actuarial calculations, or to 
forecast Ms Hs future cost of credit under different scenarios. Instead, our role is to decide 
whats fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of a complaint and, in doing that here, Im 
satisfied that the bank has acted fairly in what its done to put things right for the reasons Ive 
already given.
With regards the level of service Ms H received, I agree that it was not of the standard she is 
entitled to expect. She had to work hard to find out what was happening, and 
communications did not arrive as promised. However I find the payment of £240 already 
made fairly recognises the time she had to spend on this issue and the frustration it caused 
her. 
Finally, Bank of Scotland should ensure the rates are set up on Ms Hs account so any 
remaining balance on her 0% balance transfer plan will, in March 2024, revert to 5.94% for 
life.
 
My final decision
I am not upholding Ms Hs complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms H to accept or 
reject my decision before 12 December 2022.
 
Rebecca Connelley
Ombudsman