DRN-3691606
The complaint
Miss T has complained that Barclays Bank UK PLC hasnt reimbursed her for transactions 
shes since reported as fraudulent.
What happened
Miss T used her Barclays current account and her credit card to invest in cryptocurrency with 
a company based abroad. This complaint concerns the transactions she made from her 
current account, using her debit card. Miss T complains the investment firm used fraudulent 
and unethical tactics and that she was never really trading with it, so wants Barclays to 
reimburse what she spent.
Barclays didnt uphold Miss Ts case. It said that she had traded with a firm that is regulated 
overseas. It said the firm had shown Miss T was using her account with it as intended, and 
was able to trade with the funds she paid in. But that unfortunately overall she had made 
losses. It also showed that she was able to withdraw from the trading account. Miss T 
received some money back through the dispute process, but not all her funds, which 
Barclays considered was the fair outcome.
Miss T brought her complaint to our service as she wanted a full refund. Our investigator 
didnt uphold Miss Ts complaint. She thought Barclays had handled the chargeback element 
of Miss Ts case fairly. And she said Barclays didnt have a requirement to intervene on 
these payments. Miss T disagreed and asked for an ombudsman to review her complaint.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided not to uphold the complaint for these reasons:
To be able to uphold Miss Ts complaint Id need to decide that Barclays was either 
wrong to process Miss Ts payments to the investment firm, or that it didnt do what it 
should have to recover them. 
While Miss T is unhappy with the actions of the investment firm, they are an authorised 
and regulated firm abroad. Which means they have gone through certain steps set by 
that countries regulator and as a result been given authority to trade. So while Miss T 
says they are a fraudulent firm, the fact they are regulated doesnt support this.
This is also evidenced by the fact Miss T was able to withdraw from her investment. 
I accept she expected to make large profits and instead she received back a smaller sum 
than she invested, but she did receive returns. Scam or fraudulent firms may initially give 
very small returns to encourage further investment, but then this stops. That wasnt the 
case here, Miss T withdrew over 45% of what she invested on her current account. 
Miss T says Barclays shouldve stopped her payments to the investment firm. But I dont 
agree this was required. And even if it had contacted her, at the time Miss T was making 
these payments she was confident with the investment. There also wasnt anything 
published about the firm to suggest concerns. And as above, as the firm was regulated, I 
see no reason Barclays wouldve blocked her transaction to prevent her from investing 
with it.
Barclays did attempt to recover Miss Ts payments from the firm, but it wasnt willing to 
reimburse them all. It instead showed Barclays Miss Ts account with it and that she was 
trading the funds she paid in. I cant say Barclays was wrong not to pursue the 
chargeback claim further as under the rules it must follow, Miss T wouldnt have had a 
successful grounds for a claim. And there are no other grounds for recovery in this case.
I understand Miss T is unhappy with the losses she made in this investment and doesnt 
accept the firm isnt fraudulent. But I cant say Barclays has done anything wrong in this 
case.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold Miss Ts complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss T to accept or 
reject my decision before 29 November 2022.
 
Amy Osborne
Ombudsman