DRN-2374883
The complaint
Mr B says Nationwide Building Society (Nationwide) mis-sold him a mortgage payment 
protection insurance (PPI) policy.
What happened
Mr B took out a PPI policy in 1996 when he arranged a mortgage. He paid a monthly amount 
for the policy. The policy wouldve covered his repayments for up to 12 months at a time if 
Mr B was unable to work through accident, sickness or if he was made redundant.
 
Our adjudicator didnt uphold the complaint. Mr B disagreed with the adjudicators opinion, 
so the complaint has been passed to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive read and considered the whole file, but Ill confine my comments to what I think is 
relevant. If I dont comment on any specific point its not because Ive failed to consider it but 
because I dont think I need to comment on it in order to reach what I think is the right 
outcome in the wider context. My remit is to take an overview and decide whats fair in the 
round.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken them into account in deciding Mr Bs case. 
Ive decided not to uphold Mr Bs complaint. I explain why below.
Mr B says he was told he had to have the cover to get the mortgage. Nationwide has said 
that the cover was not a condition of the borrowing. Its maybe not surprising that neither 
Nationwide nor Mr B have any documentation from the sale, considering that it happened 
over 25 years ago. Businesses are not obliged to keep their documentation indefinitely. 
Where there is limited information, Ill make my decision based on what I think more likely 
happened, taking into account the evidence available, what both parties have told me and 
what we know about these types of sale. I must also give some thought to the way the 
passage of time can affect the accuracy of recall from events that happened over 25 years 
ago. It seems to me that having considered all the submissions in this case, I have seen 
insufficient evidence to uphold this aspect of the complaint on Mr Bs testimony alone. So, 
having considered all the submissions I have received in this case and considering how long 
ago the sale was, I think its more likely that Nationwide wouldve made Mr B aware that the 
PPI was optional and that he chose to take it, even though he may not remember that now, 
many years later. 
Nationwide didnt recommend that Mr B take the PPI, so it didnt have to check if it was right 
for him. Instead Nationwide had to provide information that was clear and not misleading so 
that Mr B could decide about the policy for himself. 
Its possible the information Nationwide gave Mr B about the PPI wasnt as clear as it should 
have been. But based on what I know about Mr Bs circumstances and the cost of the policy, 
I dont think better information would have stopped him from buying it.
I say this because Mr B was eligible for the policy, and whilst there were some things the 
policy wouldnt cover, it doesnt look as though any of those things applied to Mr B at the 
time the PPI was taken, such as pre-existing medical conditions or non-standard 
employment terms. 
And I think Mr B could have found the policy useful. I say this because Mr B told us he would 
have had good sick pay from his employer. But the policy could have paid in addition to his 
company sick pay and for longer than his employer would have paid him at his full rate of 
pay. And Mr B told us he had no other means he could have relied on in the event of long-
term ill health, or if he lost his job. So, I think the policy could have been useful to Mr B. 
So, I dont think that Mr B lost out as a result of anything Nationwide might have done wrong. 
This means Nationwide doesnt have to do anything to put things right.
non-disclosure of commission
But I have considered the issue of non-disclosure of commission, including whether the non-
disclosure resulted in an unfair relationship under section 140A of the Consumer Credit Act  
and if so, what fair compensation would be to remedy that unfairness.
Having done so, Ive decided Nationwide should have disclosed the commission it received 
and that Nationwides offer to refund some of the cost of PPI to compensate for the 
unfairness caused is fair. My reasons are set out below.
was there an unfair relationship?
Nationwide didnt tell Mr B about the high levels of commission and profit share paid in this 
case. I dont think Nationwide acted fairly and reasonably in its dealings with Mr B because it 
failed to disclose the high commission and profit share.
Taking into account relevant law and the FCAs rules and guidance, my role as an 
ombudsman in this case is to determine what redress, if any, would represent fair 
compensation for Mr B in order to remedy the unfairness caused by  Nationwide not 
disclosing the high level of commission to him before he purchased the policy.
I think it was fair for Nationwide to calculate compensation in line with the FCAs guidance 
and return some of the money Mr B paid for his PPI policy - I consider this fairly removes the 
source of the unfairness. 
So, I consider that Nationwides offer of payment of an amount equivalent to the commission 
and profit share paid in excess of 50% of the policy costs (plus associated interest where 
applicable) in line with the FCAs guidance to firms is fair in all the circumstances.
If Nationwide has already paid Mr B compensation on this basis, I dont consider it should do 
anything further. 
My final decision
Overall, having considered all the evidence and arguments to decide what is, in my opinion, 
fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of this complaint and for the reasons I have set 
out above, I dont uphold Mr Bs complaint  so I make no award.But because of the non-disclosure of commission and profit share, Ive decided that  
Nationwide Building Society should pay Mr B an amount equivalent to the commission and 
profit share paid in excess of 50% of the policy cost (plus associated interest where 
applicable), if it hasnt already done so. If Nationwide Building Society has already paid 
compensation on this basis, I do not consider that Nationwide Building Society should do 
anything more.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 24 February 2022.
 
Douglas Sayers
Ombudsman