DRN-2791782
The complaint
This complaint is about a credit card protection insurance (PPI) policy taken
out in 1998. Mr V says St Andrews Insurance Plc (St Andrews) mis-sold him PPI.
What happened
The background and circumstances leading up to this complaint, which includes Mr Vs
circumstances at the time of the sale arent disputed. So, I havent repeated all of this 
information here.
Our adjudicator did not uphold the complaint.
Mr V disagreed with the adjudicators opinion. As the complaint couldnt be resolved 
informally, it has been passed to me for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Although I have only included a summary of the complaint, I have read and considered all
the evidence and arguments available to me from the outset, in order to decide what is, in
my opinion, fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of this complaint.
When considering what is fair and reasonable, I am required to take into account relevant: 
law and regulations; regulators rules, guidance and standards; codes of practice; and,
where appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry practice at the time.
Weve set out our general approach to PPI mis-sale complaints on our website and 
published some example final decisions that set out in detail how these relevant 
considerations may apply to PPI sales like Mr Vs. I havent set out that detailed information
here, but Ive taken into account all relevant considerations in deciding Mr Vs complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided not to uphold this complaint and Ive summarised my reasons 
for this conclusion below:
I think St Andrews made it clear that Mr V didnt have to take out the PPI and he 
chose to take it out. I say this because St Andrews has confirmed Mr V took the 
policy out during a phone conversation and its provided a script it says its 
representatives were advised to follow during telephone sales  I think its likely this 
was broadly followed. The wording prompted the representative to ask if Mr V wanted 
the policy, which I think made it clear that the policy was optional.
St Andrews recommended the PPI to Mr V, so it had to check that the PPI was right 
for him. And the evidence about Mr Vs circumstances at the time, shows that the 
policy wasnt fundamentally wrong or unsuitable for him. For example, Mr V was 
eligible for the cover and although he had existing means he still seems to have had 
a need for cover.
There was nothing about Mr Vs employment or occupation which would have made 
it difficult for him to claim. And although Mr V says he had an operation around time 
the policy was taken out, I dont think it was wrong for St Andrews to have 
recommended it. I say this because I havent seen enough to suggest that Mr V 
would have thought he would need to claim for the condition.
Its possible the information St Andrews gave Mr V about the PPI wasnt as clear as 
it shouldve been. But Ive found that he chose to take it out - so it looks like he 
wanted this type of cover. The cover wasnt fundamentally wrong for Mr V as I 
concluded above, or too dissimilar to what he reasonably thought he was buying from 
the information he was given. It also looks like it was affordable  so it seems like it 
would have been useful for him if something went wrong. Because of this I dont think 
Mr V would have declined the cover had St Andrews done anything more.
Overall, I consider that Mr V would have still taken out PPI. I think the policy could provide
a useful benefit in a difficult time, given his circumstances at the time. I also think the policy
was sufficiently close to what its likely he thought he was getting. And in those 
circumstances, I think that he would have taken out the policy in any event.
This means St Andrews doesnt have to do anything to put things right.
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr V to accept or 
reject my decision before 21 February 2022.
 
Terry Woodham
Ombudsman