DRN-2875763
The complaint
Mr B complains that Match the Cash Limited trading as Guarantormyloan.tv (MTC) 
irresponsibly approved a peer to peer fixed sum loan agreement that he couldnt afford.
What happened
In May 2019, Mr B applied for a loan with MTC. The loan was for £4,000 over a 36 month 
term with monthly repayments of around £193. Mr B was required to have a guarantor in 
order for the loan to be approved. His relative agreed to be the guarantor.
Around a year later Mr B complained to MTC that it shouldnt have given him the loan. He 
said that he could never afford the repayments and MTC should have known that at the 
outset. He said that at the time he applied for the loan he was in arrears on other debts and 
had several defaults on his credit file.
MTC didnt think it had done anything wrong. It said it had carried out a thorough income and 
expenditure assessment with Mr B prior to lending which included verifying his income and 
reviewing his bank statement. It said that this showed he had enough disposable income 
each month to be able to afford the loan repayments.
I sent Mr B and MTC my provisional decision on 11 May 2021. I explained why I didnt think 
the complaint should be upheld. The relevant extracts of my provisional findings are copied 
below:
Did MTC complete reasonable and proportionate checks?
As part of the application process MTC asked Mr B about his employment, including what 
his income was. Mr B declared this to be between £1,900 and £2,100 per month. MTC 
verified this by reviewing a copy of Mr Bs bank statement which showed that he did earn 
approximately £2,000 per month.
MTC discussed the details of the loan with Mr B in a phone call. During this call they also 
asked Mr B about his monthly expenditure and existing credit commitments. They also 
asked him to confirm what the purpose of the loan was. Mr B declared the following:
a. All of the household bills and costs were split evenly with his husband. This meant 
Mr Bs monthly outgoings, including his credit commitments was around £1,200 per 
month.
b. The loan was to be used to consolidate his existing credit card debts (Mr B said 
this was two credit card accounts) and he was paying monthly towards a holiday 
which he was due to go on in September 2019. He still had £3,000 left to pay for the 
holiday and wanted to have a more manageable monthly repayment.
c. That he had some historic defaults with other creditors, but he had paid off all 
outstanding balances now.
d. He hadnt had any defaults in the last 4 years.
MTC referred to the bank statement Mr B had provided to verify the expenditure Mr B had 
declared. It also completed a credit check. This would have given it a good understanding of 
what Mr Bs committed expenditure was likely to be and how likely it was that hed provided 
accurate information about his financial circumstances.
Overall, taking into account the size of the borrowing, the repayments and other relevant 
circumstances, I think MTC gathered enough information to have a reasonable level of 
understanding of Mr Bs financial circumstances and how likely he was to sustainably afford 
the borrowing. So I think it carried out reasonable and proportionate checks before lending. 
However, this doesnt automatically mean its lending decision was a fair one.
Did MTC make a fair lending decision?
The information on the credit check that MTC completed did contradict some of what Mr B 
had declared during the call. It does appear that Mr B did have defaults that had been added 
more recently than he declared. There were two defaults within the previous two years. 
However, one of these had been paid off in full recently (within the last month). While what 
Mr B had declared wasnt accurate, I dont think this minor discrepancy ought to have raised 
too many concerns.
This is because one of the defaults had been satisfied and Mr B did declare he had paid off 
all his defaulted accounts recently. So, it was plausible that the other account was paid off 
too, but the credit file hadnt updated yet. The credit check confirmed that other defaults had 
been repaid within the last month. While not all of them had been I think it was reasonable 
for MTC to assume those would be updated as satisfied shortly.
MTC had also asked Mr B whether he had any arrears on existing credit commitments. Mr B 
said he didnt. But MTCs credit check showed this wasnt true. He was in arrears on a credit 
card and had been for a considerable period of time. The outstanding balance was around 
£500.
I do think MTC ought to have asked Mr B some questions about this particularly because he 
had assured them his non-defaulted accounts were up to date. I cant however be sure what 
Mr B would have declared had MTC asked more questions. Ive therefore thought about 
what I think is most likely to have happened.
The vast majority of what Mr B had declared during the application was either verified as 
accurate (his income and some of his expenditure) or seemed reasonable and plausible (his 
other expenditure and the reason for the loan).
However, Mr B has confirmed that some of the information he provided to MTC during the 
call wasnt accurate. For example, he had suggested to MTC that he was already making 
payments towards the holiday, but this doesnt appear to have been accurate as hes later 
told us the repayments werent required to start until much later.
He also told MTC that he split the household costs equally with his husband. However, hes 
later told us this wasnt the case and he paid a much larger share. It seems that some of the 
payments he led MTC to believe were for the holiday were in fact to cover some of the 
household costs. MTC therefore incorrectly assumed its loan would free up some of the 
money Mr B was paying out each month, but that wasnt the case.
Its possible that Mr B genuinely had forgotten about the credit card that was in arrears but in 
any event, I think had MTC asked him about it, I think its more likely than not he would have 
told MTC that hed either paid off the balance (alongside the other defaulted accounts) or 
that he was in an arrangement to pay it off.Given the relatively small outstanding balance on the card, even if MTC had to incorporate a 
reasonable monthly repayment amount, taking into account what Mr B had declared about 
his income and expenditure, it seemed that he could afford to pay back that debt and still 
sustainably meet the repayments for the MTC loan. The figures Mr B had declared (and 
which had been in part verified by his bank statements) showed that after taking into account 
the loan he had around £700 in disposable income each month.
Ive also considered that some of the defaults Mr B had said hed paid off still werent 
showing as satisfied. MTC says it still took into account a regular payment of 1% of the 
outstanding balance of these accounts to ensure Mr B could still afford the loan in case he 
hadnt actually repaid those defaults. I dont think 1% was a reasonable figure to use given 
how long it would take someone to repay a credit commitment back at that rate.
However, even with a more reasonable figure of 3-5% of the outstanding balance each 
month, Mr B still appeared to have plenty of disposable income to meet the new loan 
repayments. So, taking into account all the circumstances, I dont think MTCs decision to 
lend was unfair or unreasonable.
MTC didnt respond to my provisional decision and Mr B didnt agree with it. In summary, he 
said:
At the time of the application he had four defaults showing which had 
received very few, if any, payments towards them since they had defaulted. 
The credit file had been updated two weeks prior to the application so the 
information was up to date. 
MTC only reviewed two weeks worth of bank statements, had they looked at 
a whole month they would have seen he was being charged the maximum 
charges on his current account for being overdrawn. 
The bank statements and credit file would have shown this loan wasnt 
affordable as it was increasing his monthly outgoings, not reducing them. 
The only reason payments were never missed was because he was 
prioritising this debt over others. He didnt want MTC to approach his 
guarantor. 
Between January 2019 and April 2019 his bank statements show he had 
£3,500 more in outgoings than income. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive reached the same conclusion I reached in my provisional decision, and 
for broadly the same reasons. For completeness, Ill address the additional points Mr B has 
raised and explain why these dont change the outcome Ive reached. 
I agree with Mr B that there were four defaults which were showing balances outstanding at 
the time of the application. However, as Ive explained, there were several other defaults 
showing as settled within the last month. Mr B also declared to MTC that he had settled all of 
his defaulted accounts. Given how recently he had settled those other defaults it was very 
likely his credit file wasnt showing MTC an up to date picture of Mr Bs financial 
circumstances, so I can understand why MTC werent too concerned.Having said this, I do think MTC ought to have taken into account sustainable repayments 
towards these outstanding debts anyway when calculating what was affordable. This is 
because it was possible Mr B hadnt paid these off and he hadnt provided anything to 
evidence that they were. But even if MTC had done this, based on what it knew about Mr Bs 
financial circumstances, it appeared he had sufficient disposable income to cover payments 
towards these defaults and the new loan from MTC. 
Mr B says MTC only reviewed two weeks of bank statements. This isnt right. They had sight 
of a full month. While Mr Bs overdraft charges were apparent on those statements, this in 
itself didnt mean he didnt have the disposable income to afford the loan repayments. 
For clarity, I do agree that the reality of the situation was that Mr B couldnt afford the loan. 
However, what I need to decide is whether MTC ought reasonably to have known that or 
have discovered it. I realise this will be disappointing for Mr B, but Im not sufficiently 
persuaded that MTC ought to have known. 
The bank statements MTC saw didnt make it clear that Mr B was struggling financially. 
While he had a history of defaulted accounts on his credit file, it appeared hed recently 
turned a corner as the vast majority had been settled and he assured MTC the rest had been 
cleared too. Mr B also gave incorrect information to MTC about how much his existing 
household commitments were and what his husband was contributing towards these. I dont 
think there was anything showing on the bank statements or anywhere else that ought to 
have alerted MTC to the fact this wasnt true. 
Based on the expenditure figures that Mr B declared and what he said was his household 
contribution, the loan did appear to be affordable to him. This is even if MTC accounted for 
sustainable repayments towards the debts that werent showing as satisfied on his credit file. 
While the monthly bank statement MTC saw did show around £50 of charges being applied, 
the majority of the month Mr B was in a credit balance. And overall it showed that he had 
£600 in surplus income compared to his outgoings that month, this was consistent with what 
he had declared about his expenditure to MTC. 
While Mr B has pointed to the overall financial picture between January and April 2019, this 
isnt what he provided to MTC at the time. Ive seen no reason why MTC ought to have 
requested more than one month of bank statements from Mr B, particularly when the one he 
had already provided appeared to accurately verify the information hed already told them 
about his circumstances. 
I acknowledge Mr B was actually in a much more financially difficult position than this, but as 
I think MTC completed reasonable and proportionate affordability checks and these didnt 
show affordability concerns, I cant reasonably say it did anything wrong when lending to 
him. However, as Ive highlighted already, it does appear Mr B cant actually afford this loan. 
MTC should therefore ensure it engages with Mr B about his payment difficulties and that it 
treats him fairly in relation to his financial difficulty. 
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 19 July 2021.
 
Tero Hiltunen
Ombudsman