DRN-2939928
The complaint
Mr Q complained that Aviva Life & Pensions UK Limited (Aviva) delayed paying his pension 
so that it fell into the following tax year.
What happened
Mr Q said he contacted Aviva in late February 2019 and was sent an options pack in early 
March 2019. He signed and returned the papers which were received by Aviva on 12 March 
and it sent a retirement quote on 14 March. Mr Q signed and returned the papers which 
were received by Aviva on 22 March 2019. Mr Q said he called to chase the payment on 2 
April and was told it had been authorised. Mr Q complained and said he wanted the payment 
before the end of the tax year. Aviva said it would try to escalate payment but made no 
guarantees. Mr Q received the money into his account on 6 April 2019 and HMRC were 
notified on that basis. Mr Q said the delay cost him additional tax he would not otherwise 
have had to pay.
Aviva said it wasnt possible to make the payment any sooner than it did. Its service 
standards allowed up to 10 working days to action requests. At busy times of year, such as 
approaching the tax year end it could take the maximum 10 days. It also said that Mr Q had 
said he was in cash, but he was in a with profits fund. Its letter of 4 April confirmed that his 
instructions had been processed but did not confirm the money would be credited to his 
bank account on or before 5 April. Banks take between 3 and 5 days to clear payment. 
There was no plan or intention to wait until the next tax year to release the payment. Aviva 
was not responsible for the fact he could not claim an income tax rebate.
The investigator said that Aviva had processed Mr Qs claim in accordance with their own 
service standards. There was no evidence that Aviva gave any guarantee that the payment 
would be made by the end of the tax year or that they caused any delay to the claim. The 
investigator didnt uphold the complaint.
Mr Q didnt agree. He said that at no time was he made aware that the payment could be 
made in the next tax year. He wasnt told there was a 10-day period to respond to each step. 
It should have warned him. Had it done this he would have asked for the payment to be 
delayed to the next tax year. He had made a claim from another provider and it was paid 
within a month. The payment had been authorised on 2 April but the HMRC notification was 
printed on 6 April. He thought this showed the form had been pre-dated and resulted in a 
delay of four days. In reality, the payment was made on 4 April and arrived on April 6, a 
Saturday. He had experience with other providers where the date on the P45 showed the 
date of leaving and payment was the same day. He felt their methodology was biased and 
unfair to the customer and he didnt think he had been treated justly or fairly.
The investigator further commented that there was no evidence Mr Q had made Aviva aware 
that he wanted to receive the payment before the end of the tax year, until he phoned on 2 
April by which time the payment was already authorised. There was no evidence that, even if 
he had made Aviva aware, that it guaranteed he would receive payment before the tax year 
end. The P45 was printed using an automated system based on the date it arrived in his 
bank account. The investigator didnt agree that Aviva failed in its duty of care.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
To make an award against Aviva I need to find that it has done something wrong.
I would expect financial institutions such as Aviva to have service standards for the time 
within which a request will be processed. 10 working days is a common working standard. 
This is however a maximum timescale and not a minimum. Unfortunately, at busy times of 
year, such as the tax year end, the full time may be required.
Based on the timeline of events it seems that each step was completed within 10 working 
days. I note in particular that the final signed papers were received by Aviva on Friday 22 
March. 10 working days to send payment would have been by no later than Friday 5 April.  
it seems this was the case as the money was received on 6 April. This unfortunately meant 
that Mr Q didnt receive the payment into his account until after the tax year end. But based 
on the evidence supplied I dont think Aviva made a mistake and it seems to have responded 
within the timescales in its service standard.
I have considered that Mr Q said if he had been aware that it would not be processed by 5 
April, he would have done something different. But I dont have evidence to show that Aviva 
confirmed that it would be processed by that date. I have listened to calls before 5 April 
where Mr Q objects and says he wants payment in this tax year. I note that one agent 
attempts to assist but calls back the following day to say that it isnt possible to cancel the 
existing payment instruction or send a duplicate one. 
I dont have evidence that Aviva gave a commitment that it would be done in time. In fact, on 
one call the agent is very clear that payment in this tax year cannot be guaranteed. So, I 
dont think Aviva confirmed it was possible and Mr Q wasnt acting in reliance on any such 
confirmation from Aviva.
I have considered that Mr Q thinks the approach taken by Aviva is biased and unfair to him. 
But this service cannot tell Aviva how to run its business in terms of timescales for service 
standards or processes for authorisation, payment, and printing P45s. Even if another 
provider has a different approach to such tasks, I cannot direct Aviva to change its 
processes. As it seems that it has complied with its own internal processes, I cant say that it 
has done anything wrong.
I understand Mr Qs frustration and his belief that having made contact in February 2019, 
there was enough time to process his claim before the tax year end. But for the reasons 
given, I dont think Aviva made a mistake and I cant uphold this complaint.
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr Q to accept or 
reject my decision before 10 February 2022.
 
Colette Bewley
Ombudsman