DRN-3102221
The complaint
Mr M complains about the process and the service he received when he voluntarily 
terminated his conditional sale agreement with Clydesdale Financial Services Limited, 
trading as Barclays Partner Finance (BPF). He wants BPF to amend his credit file and to 
pay him compensation.
What happened
Mr M asked BPF about voluntarily terminating (VT) his agreement and he says he asked 
about the impact of this on his credit file. He says BPF told him his credit file would not be 
affected, provided he paid the final balance due within 30 days.
BPF received his instruction to VT the agreement on 20 July 2020 and the car was collected 
on 19 August.
Mr M says the first letter he received after VT was from a debt collection agency and was 
dated 9 September 2020. He phoned to arrange immediate payment. But he later realised 
his credit score had dropped. He complained to BPF about the VT process and about what 
had been recorded on his credit file.
BPF said it had followed its process in passing the debt to a debt collection agency. But it 
said it should have recorded that Mr M had settled his account within 30 days. It said it would 
amend his credit file and it paid him £25 for the distress and inconvenience caused. It said, 
we maybe correctly reporting a missed payment for August 2020 after not receiving a 
payment.
Mr M says the August payment wasnt due and that his credit file still needs to be amended.
Our investigator didnt recommend that the complaint should be upheld. Mr M didnt agree, 
so the complaint was passed to me. 
My provisional decision
I thought the complaint should be upheld and I set out the reasons why in my provisional 
decision dated 9 September 2021. I said:
The conditional sale agreement terms and conditions say that We will terminate your 
Agreement with us upon receipt of your written notice and that, We will tell you how 
much you must pay. Mr M had received assurance from BPF that his credit file 
would not be affected provided he paid the amount due within 30 days.
BPF wrote to Mr M on 10 July 2020 to tell him that, if he decided to VT the 
agreement, he would have to pay £863.51. Mr M completed the instruction to VT and 
BPF received this on 20 July 2020. So, in line with the terms and conditions, the 
agreement was terminated on 20 July 2020.
Mr M didnt receive any further communication from BPF. He received a letter from a 
debt collection agency dated 9 September telling him he owed £863.51. He 
immediately arranged to pay this. I find Mr M paid the amount he owed in the 
required timescale and that his credit file should not have been affected. I dont find 
Mr M was due to pay £225.48 on 8 August because  according to the terms and 
conditions - the agreement had already been terminated. There was a delay in BPF 
collecting the car, but I dont find this means Mr M was obliged to continue with the 
monthly payments. He paid the amount he was told to pay when he was asked to 
pay it.
I think BPF should amend Mr Ms credit file so that it does not reflect a missed 
payment for August 2020. I understand it has already amended his credit file to show 
that the account is settled.
BPF paid Mr M £25 for the distress and inconvenience it caused. This doesnt reflect 
the distress and inconvenience caused by it recording a missed payment. Ive not 
seen evidence to show that Mr M incurred any financial loss because of the impact of 
the missed payment recorded on his credit file. But its clearly been upsetting for him 
for his credit file not to reflect the accurate position. I think BPF should pay Mr M £50 
compensation, in addition to the £25 its already paid.
Neither party responded to my provisional decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As neither party has provided any additional information or evidence in response to my 
provisional decision, I find no reason to depart from my earlier conclusions.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint. Clydesdale Financial Services Limited, 
trading as Barclays Partner Finance, should:
1. Amend Mr Ms credit file to remove the missed payment recorded in August 2020 and to 
ensure the conditional sale agreement is showing as settled.
2. Pay Mr M £50 compensation for the distress and inconvenience caused, in addition to 
what it has already paid.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 10 November 2021.
 
Elizabeth Dawes
Ombudsman