DRN-4334172
The complaint
Mr T complains that Lloyds Bank PLC (Lloyds) wont provide him with data pertaining to a 
£22,500 transaction paid into his account by a third party, which he says he needs to support 
ongoing legal action.
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat everything 
again here. Instead, I will focus on giving the reasons for my decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the conclusions reached by the investigator for the following 
reasons:
I appreciate Mr T considers it is his legal right to be able to obtain more information from 
Lloyds about the transaction, as he says it has not provided information such as the 
faster payment ID. But Lloyds has already explained that the only information it can 
disclose is what has already been provided on Mr Ts statement, which gives the name 
of the payer, the payment reason (settlement) as well as the faster payment reference. 
Lloyds has an obligation under the GDPR regulations to protect the data of different 
parties, and could likely be in breach of its obligations if it were to share further data 
without permission. And given the third party has not consented to further details being 
disclosed, I dont consider Lloyds has acted unreasonably by saying it cannot provide it.
I understand that Mr T has requested Lloyds pay him a significant amount of 
compensation as its lack of transparency has caused him considerable distress. 
However, as Ive set out above, Im not persuaded Lloyds has acted unreasonably in 
these circumstances, so I see no fair or reasonable basis for any award of compensation 
in this case. 
Mr T has also said he believes that Lloyds has violated GDPR regulations as it has 
already shared the TSB account details of the payer. However, given it is not Mr Ts data 
that has been shared without permission, this is not something he would be eligible to 
complain about. 
I understand Mr T feels strongly about his complaint, but Im not persuaded Lloyds has acted 
unfairly, so I wont be asking it to take any further action. 
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I do not uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr T to accept or 
reject my decision before 6 November 2023.
 
Jack Ferris
Ombudsman