DRN-3026045
The complaint
Mr and Mrs Z complains that GE Money Home Lending Limited (GE Money) unfairly turned 
down their claim under the Consumer Credit Act 1974 (CCA).
What happened
Mr and Mrs Z bought timeshare memberships from a business I will call C funded by loans 
from GE Money Consumer Lending Limited (GE Money). The first loan was consolidated 
into the second. The purchases were made in 2006 and 2007. GE Money has said the 
proceeds of the loans werent paid to C, but to a different business, F, that was said to act as 
a stakeholder.
Mr and Mrs Z said that when they took out the timeshare they were told that this was a 
lifetime investment, they were not informed about perpetuity or its meaning and they say 
aggressive sales tactics were used. In summary they say C was guilty of misrepresentation 
and had they known what they had been told wasnt right, they would not have taken out the 
membership in the first place.
In August 2017 Mr and Mrs Z complained to this service and the matter was passed to GE 
Money to allow it to respond. GE Money said that as the sale took place many years before 
the complaint, it believed the complaint had been brought too late under the relevant 
provisions contained in the Limitation Act 1980 (LA). It also noted that the loan proceeds 
had been paid to F and not C, so it didnt think there were the right types of agreements in 
place for the CCA to apply to this complaint.
One of our investigators looked into the complaint and didnt think GE Money needed to do 
anything further. They agreed that the claim under s.75 and s.140A CCA had been brought 
too late, so they didnt think GE Money needed to consider the substance of the claim. They 
also looked at s.140A CCA, but they didnt think that provision applied as the loan predated 
the enactment of that provision.
Mr and Mrs Z responded to explain why they were paying for something that they couldnt 
always utilise and they were unable to sell the products for enough to repay the expensive 
loans they had taken out to repay GE Money.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im not going to tell GE Money to do anything further to resolve the matter 
and Ive explained why below.
Where evidence is incomplete, inconclusive or contradictory, I reach my decision about the 
merits of this complaint on the balance of probabilities  in other words, what I consider is 
most likely to have happened in the light of the available evidence and the wider 
circumstances.
I also have to take account of law and regulations, regulators' rules, guidance and 
standards, and codes of practice and good industry practice, when I make my decision. And 
I want to assure Mr and Mrs Z, if I dont address every point thats been raised, its not 
because I havent thought about it. I have considered everything thats been said and sent to 
us. But, Im going to concentrate in this decision on what I think is relevant and material to 
reaching a fair and reasonable outcome.
My decision is based on the application of time limits as set out in the Limitation Act and this 
requires, I regret to say, some legalese. I have endeavoured to make this as accessible as 
possible, but I do need to refer to the relevant laws. 
Were there the right arrangements in place for Mr and Mrs Z to make a claim under the 
CCA?
Under s.75 CCA, a debtor-creditor-supplier agreement is a precondition to a claim under 
that provision. The same agreement is needed for the timeshare contract to be considered 
under s.140A CCA.] GE Money has said that here there was no such agreement in this 
case, as the supplier of the timeshare was C, but the loan proceeds went to a different 
business, F, so no claim could be brought.
Having considered all of the evidence and law, I dont think the position is as simple as GE 
Money suggests. There is case law that demonstrates that it is possible a court would 
conclude that there were the right arrangements in place that gave rise to Mr and Mrs Zs 
claim under s.75 and s.140A CCA. What is crucial is the relationship between the supplier of 
the service C and the business that took the payment F. But Ive not gone on to make a 
finding on that point as, even if I did think there were the right relationships in place for the 
claim, I think GE Money would have a total defence under the LA.
Was the claim under s.75 CCA brought in time?
Mr and Mrs Z said that C misrepresented to them the nature and benefits of the timeshare 
agreement, so they say GE Money is jointly liable under s.75 CCA. But if GE Money could 
show the claim was brought outside of the time limits set out in the LA, it would be entitled to 
rely on the LA as a defence to answering the claim. I should make it clear however that Im 
not deciding if any right that Mr and Mrs Z may have to bring these claims has expired under 
the LA - thats a matter for the courts. In this decision Im considering if GE Money has acted 
fairly and reasonably in turning down Mr and Mrs Zs claims.
A claim for misrepresentation against the supplier would be brought under s.2(1) of the 
Misrepresentation Act 1967. It was held in Laws v. The Society of Lloyds [2003] EWCA 1887 
that this type of claim is an action founded in tort covered by s.2 LA or an action brought for 
a sum recoverable by statute within s.9 LA. Under both of those provisions, a claimant has a 
period of six years to bring a claim from the date on which the cause of action accrued.
Here Mr and Mrs Z brought a like claim against GE Money under s.75 CCA. That claim was 
brought under the CCA, so would be covered by s.9 LA. Again, it means Mr and Mrs Z had 
six years from the date on which the cause of action accrued to bringing a claim.
The date on which a cause of action accrued is the point in time that everything needed to 
make a legal claim occurred. So, in Mr and Mrs Zs case, thats when they could have 
brought a claim for misrepresentation against the supplier or the like claim against GE 
Money. I think that was the date they entered into the agreement to buy the timeshare, so in 
2006 and March 2007. It was at these times that they entered into an agreement based, they 
say, on the misrepresentations of C. They say, had the misrepresentations not been made, 
they wouldnt have bought the timeshare. And it was on that day that they suffered a loss, as they took out the loan agreement with GE Money..
It follows, therefore, that I think the latest time for a cause of action accrued in March 2007, 
so Mr and Mrs Z had six years from then to bring a claim. But they didnt try to contact GE 
Money about their claim until August 2017, which was outside of the time limits set out in the 
LA. So I think GE Money acted fairly in turning down this misrepresentation claim.
The claim under s.140A CCA
Under this section a court may make an order under section 140B in connection with a credit 
agreement if it decides that the relationship between the lender and the creditor arising out 
of the agreement is unfair. Only a court has the power to make such a determination but I 
think this is relevant law and I have taken it into account.
Our investigator considered whether Mr and Mrs Z could have made a claim under s.140A 
CCA and concluded that they couldnt as that provision didnt apply to their credit agreement. 
S.140A CCA was introduced by the Consumer Credit Act 2006. Schedule 3 of that Act sets 
out to what credit agreements s.140A CCA applies. In short, if a credit agreement had 
completed before 6 April 2008, no claim under s.140A CCA could be brought in respect of 
that credit agreement. GE Money has shown that Mr and Mrs Zs agreement was paid off on 
24 August 2007 so I dont think they are able to make a claim under s.140A.
I appreciate Mr and Mrs Z may say they didnt know about the time limits Ive referred to 
above in the LA, but Im afraid thats not generally accepted as grounds for extending the 
limitation period. 
Overall, I think GE Money fairly considered the things it needed to when it said the claim was 
brought too late. Its ultimately for the courts to decide whether or not any claim that Mr and 
Mrs Z may have against the supplier or GE Money has expired under the LA. But, as far as I 
can see from the information available, any claim that Mr and Mrs Z might have against the 
supplier and/or GE Money has most likely exceeded the time limits set out in the LA . I think 
it is reasonable to take this into account in these circumstances. And I am not persuaded 
that GE Money acted unfairly in declining the claims.
I would add that I have every sympathy with Mr and Mrs Z, but their claim was made too late 
for either GE Money or this service to consider its merits. I recognise this will come as a 
disappointment, but I cannot require a business to compensate a consumer in these 
circumstances.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given, I dont uphold Mr and Mrs Zs complaint against GE Money Home 
Lending Limited.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr Z and Mrs Z to 
accept or reject my decision before 11 April 2022.
 
Ivor Graham
Ombudsman