DRN-3206832
The complaint
Mr S complains esure Insurance Limited havent fairly valued his car when assessing his 
claim under his motor insurance policy. Hes also unhappy with them sharing information 
they shouldnt have with a law firm.
What happened
Mr S was unfortunately involved in an accident in November 2020 and his car was written 
off. esure initially told Mr S hed receive over £2,000 in settlement. But, when the figure was 
offered, it was £1,680, before then being increased back to £2,055 following Mr Ss 
complaint.
On 17 February 2021 Mr S asked about pursuing a personal injury claim. He specifically said 
he didnt want to go forward with the matter at that time, but esure sent his personal details 
to the law firm against his wishes. He complained to esure about this and was told the 
solicitors (who Ill call IM) had removed his details. So, Mr S was distressed to receive further 
contact from IM. Mr S has since been told this was an acknowledgement of his request for 
them to delete his details. 
esure provided a number of responses:
Valuation  they accepted the original offer of £1,680 and explained this is because 
they used the claim date as February 2021, when actually it should have been 
November 2020. They said sorry for this, and confirmed their final offer was £2,055 
which they thought was more than fair given the condition of the car. 
Poor customer service  in this response about the valuation, they apologised for this 
and for some customer service issues. They paid Mr S £150 for this.
Passing Mr Ss details to the solicitors  esure said they accepted they shouldnt 
have passed IM his details, and said sorry for this, paying £50. And, in a later 
response, they explained IMs later email was about removing his personal 
information, but esure accepted it wasnt as clear as it could have been. esure paid 
Mr S a further £75 for the upset hed been caused. Those two responses were sent 
in February 2021. In March 2021 IM contacted Mr S confirming his personal details 
had been deleted by them as far as possible  but some had to be kept for GDPR 
purposes.
Unhappy with these responses, Mr S contacted us and asked us to look into things. He 
mentioned during this he wanted his phone costs to be refunded. He also wanted his policy 
frozen, as he wasnt using it currently. And he was unhappy with the increased premiums 
when his policy was due to renew. He says he understands this is due to his claim not being 
closed, as a result of the personal injury claim ongoing with IM which he thinks is unfair as 
he never said he wanted to make a personal injury claim.
In August 2021 Mr S also let us know esure had again passed his details on to IM.
esure issued a further response saying:
Further contact with IM  they said given theres an existing complaint about this its 
extremely disappointing they contacted IM again. They said theyd contacted IM on 
28 April 2021, and again on 19 July 2021, asking for an update on a personal injury 
claim that Mr S hadnt made. They said theyd spoken to IM and asked them to 
delete the emails.
Freezing the policy  esure said they couldnt do this as there was an existing claim.
Claim not resolved and costs of new policy  they accepted Mr S had been told these 
contacts with IM had delayed the claim, but that wasnt the case. The said the other 
insurer was denying liability, so they were pursuing this. As a result of the claim not 
being resolved, and it currently being registered as a fault claim, Mr Ss No Claims 
Discount (NCD) was reduced in line with the policy terms. They said if the costs are 
recovered, Mr Ss NCD would be reinstated, and theyd reassess the price of his 
renewal would be reassessed.
Overall, the reason for the delay was due to the other insurer. But, they felt they 
could have been updating Mr S more, so for all of these issues, they paid Mr S a 
further £200. And they moved his claim to a new case handler.
Mr S remained unhappy, so we considered his complaint. Ultimately, our Investigator found 
although esure had made multiple errors, the valuation amount, and compensation awarded 
for the other issues, was fair. And regarding the call costs Mr S wanted, our Investigator said 
he needed to evidence hed incurred some costs for this.
As Mr S didnt agree, the complaints been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
A large number of issues have been raised in this complaint, so Ive addressed them under 
separate headings.
Although esure have provided compensation for individual issues as theyve come up, Ill be 
looking holistically at whats happened, to decide if the compensation theyve awarded is fair. 
Ill set this out in my summary section at the end, where Ill also address Mr Ss concerns 
about the call costs.
Valuation
Itll help to explain that its very difficult to value second hand cars and it isnt the role of our 
service to value Mr Ss car. But our general approach is that we look to assess whether the 
insurers offer is reasonable.
To do this, we look at the valuations esure used when calculating their offer. We usually 
expect insurers to get valuations from motor trade guides  which is what esure did. These 
are used for valuing second hand cars. But well also take into account the evidence 
provided by both parties. This might include engineers reports, information provided by 
dealers and adverts, amongst other things.We think trade guides are generally more reliable, mainly because their valuations are based
on research across the country and likely sales figures. The guides also take into account 
regional variations. We dont find adverts particularly persuasive as these are essentially 
asking prices and arent selling prices. Its for this reason that the trade guides are used as 
they provide evidence of likely retail selling prices  and therefore provide us with a fair 
market value for the type of car being assessed.
I can see that initially esure didnt correctly calculate Mr Ss car, as they used the date of 
loss as February 2021, when actually it was November 2020. But, after using the correct 
information, they found one of the guides was significantly lower than the other two. So, as 
Id expect, they discounted that one. Ive seen the valuations esure obtained and can see the 
average of the two relevant guides was £2,055. Ive not been provided with any evidence to 
make me think this offer is wrong, so I think this offer is fair by esure and wont be asking 
them to increase it.
Poor customer service
esure have accepted theyve made mistakes here  with long queue times to speak to 
anyone, and incorrect information being given about the valuation.
Ive not seen anything to make me think this would create an unfair outcome for either party, 
so Ill factor this in at the end of my decision.
Passing Mr Ss details to the solicitors
esure has limited control over what the solicitors IM do or can do  given theyre an entirely 
separate company (albeit one esure work with). So, the limit of esures culpability here is for 
any mistakes theyve made, and whether theyve done all they can to resolve this issue for 
Mr S.
esure have accepted they did make a mistake in passing the details over to IM initially. So, I 
dont need to decide that. I can see Mr S is very concerned esure told him IM had deleted all 
of his details, only to then receive further contact.
I can understand this frustration, as they are contradictory. But I can see esure were relying 
on the information theyd been given by IM. In the circumstances, Im not able to hold esure 
responsible for the incorrect information. Later, IM explained to esure the reason for some of 
the data remaining was because it was on a different system.
Later, IM contacted to Mr S theyd now deleted his details  emailing him and greeting him 
by using his name. Mr S said this was proof IM hadnt deleted his details, and questioned 
why esure had said, for a second time, all his details had been deleted.
esure spoke to IM, who said theyd taken guidance from their General Data Protection 
Regulation (GDPR) experts  who said they must keep records of all requests to prove 
theyve replied. esure said on this basis, IMs position is theyve complied with Mr Ss 
request fully.
Ive seen esure contacted IM on multiple occasions in order to try and rectify their mistake  
and I do think theyve made enough of an effort to resolve this issue for Mr S.
Overall, I think esure have made an error here initially, and passed on information they were 
given by IM later on. Ill factor this in at the end in my summary section.Further contact with IM
These issues were resolved as far as esure were concerned in March 2021. But it transpired 
esure got in touch with IM again in April and July in error.
Again, Ive seen esure and IM discussing this issue at length. esure asked IM to track down 
the emails and delete them. After IM spoke to their IT department, they confirmed to esure 
the two emails had been deleted. 
So, similar to the above section, Im satisfied esure have taken Mr Ss concerns seriously, 
and arranged for the emails with his personal data to be deleted. In response to Mr Ss 
concerns regarding this and issues I cover below, theyve said sorry and paid further 
compensation. Ill come back to this at the end.
Freezing the policy
Mr S has said he was told his policy could be frozen, while the claim was being resolved, as 
he wasnt using it. esure have said theres an existing claim so they cant do this.
Id not usually expect a policy to be frozen as a result of an incident. Mr S has made a valid 
claim under the terms of his policy, but there are issues regarding the liability holding things 
up.
Overall, esure have acted as Id expect so I dont uphold this element of Mr Ss case.
Claim not resolved and costs of new policy
Given esures very poor record of customer service to Mr S in this case, I can understand 
why hed be really frustrated to be told a personal injury claim with IM was holding things up 
 when hes never made a personal injury claim. And I can understand why hed then be 
sceptical to be told this wasnt the reason, the reason was due to the other insurer not 
agreeing on liability.
But, Ive seen esures internal notes. Their contact with IM was in April and July, and I can 
see theyve been in touch with the other insurer on multiple occasions between March and 
August expecting them to settle the issue of liability. I can see esure have explained if the 
other insurer doesnt reply, then itll have to be taken to court.
As esure were contacting the other insurer during the time they were also incorrectly writing 
to IM, and the other insurer hasnt accepted liability, this is the reason the claim hasnt been 
closed off yet. It is though poor, once again, Mr S has been given misleading information.
And this leads in to the cost of his premiums. When theres an open fault claim, this is 
factored into the risk insurers are prepared to accept. An open claim is considered a higher 
risk, and the higher risk a policyholder is, usually the larger premium an insurer will charge. 
In addition, as there is a claim, this would reduce the NCD  which will also affect the risk 
Mr S presents to esure currently. So, I cant reasonably say esure have done anything wrong 
on this point  though Id add Ive not seen what Mr S is being asked to pay specifically. 
esure have also said theyd reassess the premiums once the claim is closed. So, if Mr S 
were to have a complaint about that issue at that time, itd be a new complaint.Summary
esure have paid Mr S £475 in total for all the issues that have been mentioned above. Ive 
seen that Mr S doesnt think the true and full impact on him has really been taken into 
account.
I do think esures service has been very poor almost from the beginning to the point we 
looked into this. Theyve increased his expectations about the valuation, then given him the 
wrong figure because they based the loss on the wrong month  and have repeatedly, and 
inexplicably, continued to share his details with IM when they knew not to do this. Theyve 
also failed to provide updates when they should have done  and just generally have 
provided poor customer service.
Overall though, when I step back and think about things  in each of these situations esure 
have put the actual problem right. They paid the correct valuation, theyve taken every step 
to ensure IM no longer hold Mr Ss details, and theyve moved his claim to a new case 
handler to look after things for him. 
So, taking all of that into account, I do think £475 in compensation is fair for the issues Mr S 
has experienced. I understand this has been paid to Mr S, so no further money is due.
Ive not agreed with Mr S on the last valuation offered by esure  saying thats fair. And I 
think esure have acted correctly with not freezing his policy, nor do I think theyve caused 
delays as a result of the incorrect emails to IM.
Finally, in relation to the call costs Mr S has asked for esure have said they moved to an 03 
number some time ago  and say this number is usually included in mobile plans for free. 
Mr S has been asked for evidence of the costs hes incurred, and in response hes asked for 
the date and time of the calls hes made to esure to track this down. I can see esure have 
since been asked to provide this to Mr S  and he should speak to them directly if he wants 
to claim this. As esure have said theyll refund him any proven costs, then Id expect them to 
do so.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained above, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 19 January 2022.
 
Jon Pearce
Ombudsman