DRN-3844085
The complaint
Mr G complained that he was given unsuitable advice to transfer his defined benefit (DB) 
British Steel Pension Scheme (BSPS), to a type of personal pension plan, in 2017.
Pi Financial Ltd is responsible for answering this complaint and so to keep things consistent, 
Ill refer mainly to Pi Financial.
What happened
In March 2016, Mr Gs former employer announced that it would be examining options to 
restructure its business, including decoupling the BSPS from the company. The consultation 
with members referred to possible outcomes regarding their preserved benefits, which 
included transferring the scheme to the Pension Protection Fund (PPF), or a new defined 
benefit scheme (BSPS2). Alternatively, members were informed they could transfer their 
benefits to a personal pension arrangement.
In May 2017, the Pension Protection Fund (PPF) made the announcement that the terms of 
a Regulated Apportionment Arrangement (RAA) had been agreed. That announcement said 
that, if risk-related qualifying conditions relating to funding and size could be satisfied, a new 
pension scheme sponsored by Mr Gs employer would be set up  the BSPS2.
In October 2017, members of the BSPS were being sent a Time to Choose letter which 
gave them the options to either stay in BSPS and move with it to the PPF, move to BSPS2 
or transfer their BSPS benefits elsewhere. The deadline to make their choices was 
11 December 2017 (and was later extended to 22 December 2017). 
Mr G was concerned about what the announcement by his employer meant for the security 
of his preserved benefits in the BSPS. He was unsure what to do and was referred to Pi 
Financial which is responsible for providing the pension advice. Information gathered about 
his circumstances and objectives at the time of the recommendation were broadly as follows:
Mr G was described as being in good health and at the time of the advice he had 
accrued around 28 years of pension benefits with the BSPS.
He was 50 years old, married with two children, one of whom was dependent. 
Mr G had earned around £35,000 pa. He had joined the new TATA defined 
contribution (DC) pension scheme, which isnt being complained about here.
After all their monthly household expenses, he and Mrs G had some disposable 
income left over. Mr G and Mrs G had existing savings of £6,000. They had a home 
worth £200,000 with a mortgage of £18,000 with five years left to run. They had a 
personal loan which was being paid down and no other major assets or liabilities.
The cash equivalent transfer value (CETV) of Mr Gs BSPS was approximately 
£383,912. The normal retirement age (NRA) was 65.
Pi Financial set out its advice in a suitability report on 13 September 2017. In this it advised 
Mr G to transfer out of the BSPS and invest the funds in a type of personal pension plan. Pi 
Financial said this would allow Mr G to achieve his objectives. Mr G accepted this advice 
and so transferred out. In 2021 Mr G complained to Pi Financial about its advice, saying he 
shouldnt have been advised to transfer out to a personal pension. 
Mr G then referred his complaint to our Service. One of our investigators looked into the 
complaint and said it should be upheld. Pi Financial said it hadnt done anything wrong and 
was acting on the financial objectives Mr G had at the time. 
As the complaint couldnt be resolved informally, its come to me for a final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive also taken into account relevant law and regulations, regulators rules, guidance and 
standards and codes of practice, and what I consider to have been good industry practice at 
the time. This includes the Principles for Business (PRIN) and the Conduct of Business 
Sourcebook (COBS). Where the evidence is incomplete, inconclusive or contradictory, 
I reach my conclusions on the balance of probabilities  that is, what I think is more likely 
than not to have happened based on the available evidence and the wider surrounding 
circumstances.
The applicable rules, regulations and requirements
The below is not a comprehensive list of the rules and regulations which applied at the time 
of the advice, but provides useful context for my assessment of Pi Financial's actions here.
PRIN 6: A firm must pay due regard to the interests of its customers and treat them 
fairly.
PRIN 7: A firm must pay due regard to the information needs of its clients, and 
communicate information to them in a way which is clear, fair and not misleading.
COBS 2.1.1R: A firm must act honestly, fairly and professionally in accordance with 
the best interests of its client (the client's best interests rule).
The provisions in COBS 9 which deal with the obligations when giving a personal 
recommendation and assessing suitability and the provisions in COBS 19 which 
specifically relate to a DB pension transfer.
I have further considered that the regulator, the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA), states in 
COBS 19.1.6 that the starting assumption for a transfer from a DB scheme is that it is 
unsuitable. So, Pi Financial should have only considered a transfer if it could clearly 
demonstrate that the transfer was in Mr Gs best interests. 
Ive used all the information we have to consider whether transferring away from the BSPS 
to a personal pension was in Mr Gs best interests. I have also carefully considered the 
response from Pi Financial.
Having done all this, Im upholding Mr Gs complaint. 
Financial viability Pi Financial referred in its transfer analysis and suitability report to critical yield rates. The 
critical yield is essentially the average annual investment return that would be required on 
the transfer value - from the time of advice until retirement - to provide the same annuity 
benefits as the DB scheme. In this case, Pi Financial used the existing scheme (BSPS) for 
the critical yield comparisons, rather than the new BSPS2. 
The critical yield comparison was a requirement from the regulator at the time when advising 
clients on DB transfers. Its also important to point out that the critical yield comparison is 
only one of a number of different metrics Ive used to compare the different schemes. And in 
my view, these all point one way  that Mr G was probably going to receive lower financial 
benefits in retirement, as a result of transferring to a type of personal pension plan. 
We know BSPS was being stopped. But many weeks before this advice, which was dated 13 
September 2017, BSPS members had been told that if the RAA was approved, they would 
have a choice  to move into a new scheme (BSPS2) or into the PPF with the old scheme. A 
newsletter had also been put on a microsite that had been set up to support BSPS members 
and more details of the BSPS2 had emerged by the time Pi Financial produced its suitability 
report. Its true the situation was dynamic in that some changes were being proposed at that 
very point, but we know a great deal about the timeline because weve seen many similar 
complaints to this one. And I think its also fair to say that despite some uncertainty at the 
time, the BSPS2 critical yields were likely to be between the BSPS and PPF yields, but most 
likely much closer to the existing scheme (BSPS). 
Having said all that, Pi Financial said that the critical yield required to match the benefits at 
the age of 65 in the BSPS, was 7.31% if Mr G took a pension without a tax-free lump sum. If 
taking a tax-free lump sum, the critical yield was 5.39%. Pi Financial said all the critical yield 
rates were, in the view of the adviser, achievable; but it didnt really explain why. In my view, 
this was an exaggeration as Mr G would need his pension growth to exceed these 
percentages year-on-year for a transfer-away to become financially viable. I think this was 
unlikely. I say this with the following in mind.
The advice was given after the regulator gave instructions in Final Guidance FG17/9 as to 
how businesses could calculate future 'discount rates' in loss assessments where a 
complaint about a past pension transfer was being upheld. Prior to October 2017 similar 
rates were published by the Financial Ombudsman Service on our website. Whilst 
businesses weren't required to refer to these rates when giving advice on pension transfers, 
they provide a useful indication of what growth rates would have been considered 
reasonably achievable for a typical investor.
The relevant discount rate closest to when the advice was given which I can refer to was 
published by the Financial Ombudsman Service for the period before 1 October 2017 was 
only 4.2% per year for 14 years to retirement (age 65), which is well below all of the critical 
yield figures Ive referred to above. Ive also kept in mind that the regulator's upper projection 
rate at the time was 8%, the middle projection rate was 5%, and the lower projection rate 
was 2% although these rates hadnt been updated for some time and we were in a period of 
sustained low interest rates and low bond yields. At the time, Pi Financial assessed Mr Gs 
attitude to risk (ATR) as medium. Mr G had also said he wasnt sure hed take a lump-sum 
upon retirement. 
So, when Pi Financial said the critical yields for retiring at the NRA were achievable this 
wasnt credible in my view. This is because to make transferring worthwhile, the expectation 
of the growth in a personal pension would need to exceed the critical yields. And in this 
case, the growth would need to exceed 7.31% each year on average for 14 years if using 
the NRA. So I dont think the adviser should have implied that reaching this growth was achievable without a detailed explanation and evidence to back this up; the discount rate 
and the regulators projections imply reaching this level of growth was unlikely. 
Ive also noted that when using the NRA of 65, Pi Financials own transfer analysis said that 
in order to purchase an annuity to provide benefits of equal value to the estimated benefits 
provided by the existing scheme, the estimated fund required (also known as the capital 
value) was £667,680. Even to purchase an annuity to provide benefits of equal value to the 
estimated benefits provided by the existing scheme, assuming no spouses pension, no 
increases in payment and no guarantee at retirement, the estimated fund required at 65 was 
£390,549. To reiterate, these figures are found in Pi Financials own analysis based on data 
the regulator required businesses to refer to at the time. And because these figures are well 
above Mr Gs CETV, they represent, in my view, a revealing window into the value of the 
guaranteed pension Mr G could be giving up by transferring away, rather than to move into a 
similar DB scheme such as BSPS2. That was what was on offer here.
Mr G had apparently expressed an interest in retiring earlier than the NRA. However, he was 
still only 50 years old and so I think this was still aspirational retirement planning on his part, 
rather than a certainty; I explain a little more about this later. But even so, I dont think the 
adviser really discussed the critical yields at all for an early retirement at the age of 55. I say 
this because I dont think the figures calculated in Pi Financials transfer analysis were 
calculated correctly. For example, the suitability report said the critical yields were more than 
20%. But the actual figures shown in the analysis seem to suggest that the critical yield for a 
retirement at 55 were minus 20%. Clearly if this were the case, there would be a very strong 
case indeed for an early retirement on purely advantageous financial grounds  and this 
wasnt the situation here. 
Ive also noted that the discount rate for retiring at 55 was only 3%, so I think this suggests 
the level of annual growth he could reasonably expect at 55 would be even lower than what 
Ive described for a planned retirement at 65. And of course, the much shorter investment 
period would mean far less chances for Mr Gs funds to iron out the normal peaks and 
troughs of investing. In short, the investment risks were higher.
However, Pi Financial wasnt  and still isnt  really using the critical yields to defend the 
complaint. Its defence revolves more around the flexibility Mr G might achieve by transferring 
away. But overall, there would be little point in transferring from a DB scheme just to receive 
benefits in retirement of a broadly similar financial value to such a scheme. In this case 
however, I think that matching let alone exceeding the critical yields at 65 was unlikely. And 
for retiring at 55, the critical yield figures produced were clearly wrong and the issue wasnt 
really discussed in any detail.
Elsewhere in its transfer analysis, Pi Financial also made mention of the PPF, which it 
described as a compensation scheme providing a safety net for pension schemes when 
the sponsoring employer becomes insolvent. Pi Financial said the critical yields to match the 
benefits available through the PPF at age 65 were lower. But these yields related to the 
reduced benefits available with the PPF and Pi Financial itself says Mr G wouldnt have 
wanted to transfer to this scheme. Its also important to remember here that the effect of 
charges and fees associated with a personal pension such as the one being recommended 
to Mr G, would have further reduced the likely growth. 
I therefore think its fair to say that from a financial comparison perspective, Pi Financials 
own figures, shown in its suitability report and transfer analysis documents, showed that 
transferring to a personal pension plan would mean Mr G would likely receive lower pension 
benefits in the longer term, when compared against the BSPS. Ive also considered some projections Pi Financial used to help show that if he transferred 
out to a personal plan, the funds could last Mr G well into retirement. I think its fair to say 
these were certainly not comparing like-with-like. What Pi Financial was showing Mr G were 
comparisons with plans which lacked the guarantees and benefits of a DB scheme. They 
relied on investment risk which I think was too high, factored in over many years and based 
on past performance. Some of the scenarios also showed Mr G running out of funds in his 
70s whereas his DB scheme was guaranteed for life.
Of course, according to Pi Financial, its recommendation that he should transfer out to a 
personal pension was not wholly based on the financial comparisons with his current 
scheme alone. Rather, Pi Financial said Mr G also had other reasons to transfer away, so 
Ive thought about all the other considerations which might have meant a transfer was 
suitable for him, despite providing the overall lower benefits mentioned earlier. 
Ive considered these below. 
Other needs and objectives
I have used all the documents we still have from the advice sessions to summarise the 
following objectives Pi Financial says its recommendations were based on. The fact-find for 
example notes Mr Gs objectives were:
Wanting to improve death benefits from his pension for his wife and children
Wanting flexible income as he was considering a possible reduced role from age 55
Looking to access some benefits from age 55 to bridge the gap until he received his 
state pension at age 67
I have therefore considered these issues in turn. 
Death benefits 
Death benefits are an emotive subject and of course when asked, most people would like 
their loved ones to be taken care of when they die. The BSPS2 contained certain benefits 
payable to a spouse if Mr G died. It also made provision for support to a child in full-time 
education. Mr G was married and so in my view this represented a good benefit. 
But I think the adviser told Mr G that hed be able to pass on the whole value of a personal 
pension if he died, potentially tax-free, to anyone he nominated. The adviser also recorded 
that Mr G wanted his children to benefit in the event of his death as well as his wife, and it 
was also recorded that Mrs G hadnt been too well recently. 
In my view, all this needed a careful explanation which I dont think Mr G was given.
Overall, I think the death benefits of the DB scheme were substantially underplayed. Mrs Gs 
health, concerning as Im sure it will have been, wasnt really the issue and as far as I know, 
there was no expectation that her life might be cut short. If Mr G died before retiring from the 
DB scheme, Mrs G would have received a lump-sum related to her husbands lifetime 
pension contributions. This was a significant sum and it would have far outstripped their 
outstanding mortgage and the personal loan they were paying down. And whilst never 
unwelcome Im sure, there were no other obvious requirements for Mrs G to need cash over 
a reliable income. Ive also noted that whilst she had a pension of her own, the chances are 
that it was moderate in value.More suited to Mrs G in my view, was that the death benefits in retirement under BSPS2 
included at least half of Mr Gs annual pension for the rest of Mrs Gs life, if her husband pre-
deceased her. Significant indexation guarantees were included so I think Mrs G would have 
been reassured she had some protection against inflation when her own pension wasnt 
large.
Im also sure that Mr G would have genuinely wanted his two children to receive something if 
he passed away prematurely. But when he did transfer (as recommended) he apportioned 
98% of the death benefits in the personal plan to be paid to Mrs G and 1% each to his two 
children. No doubt he wanted Mrs G to be the custodian of the funds, but to me this doesnt 
show that he wanted to substantially alter who his death benefits were being paid to  it was 
still Mrs G who was the beneficiary of his funds should Mr G die.
Also, whilst I appreciate that potentially tax-free lump-sum death benefits in a personal plan 
felt important - and Mr G might have thought it was a good idea to transfer the BSPS to a 
personal pension because of this - the priority here was to advise him about what was best 
for his retirement provisions. A pension is primarily designed to provide income in retirement. 
And I dont think Pi Financial explored to what extent Mr G was prepared to accept a 
different retirement income in exchange for different death benefits. Mr G was only 50 years 
old and in good health. So, an obvious drawback with a personal plans death benefits is that 
the amount left to pass on  to anyone  may be substantially reduced as the pensioner 
starts to withdraw his or her retirement income. To this end, if Mr G had lived a long life there 
could be nothing left at all in his personal pension plan. In contrast, his DB pension was for 
life and the spouses pension was for life.
Although Ive questioned the ability to forecast an early retirement whilst still only 50, theres 
no real doubt that retiring at around 55 was at least discussed  Pi Financials defence of 
this complaint is effectively predicated on this. The adviser should have therefore additionally 
known that a healthy male retiring in his mid would likely have many years ahead in which 
he would be drawing down his pension funds thus leaving very little left to pass on to 
anyone.
Also, at 50 years old, a modest term life insurance policy may have still been a reasonably 
affordable product for Mr G if he really did insist on leaving a lump-sum (rather than an 
annual pension) legacy for Mrs G, or indeed anyone else such as their two children. It also 
doesnt appear that Pi Financial took into account the fact that Mr G could have nominated a 
beneficiary, such as his children or wife, of any funds remaining in his other (TATA) DC 
scheme. I accept that at the time this DC pension was in its infancy, but both he and his 
employer were making significant contributions every month, thus adding to the total. 
Therefore, to this end, Mr G already had plenty of options ensuring part of his whole pension 
wouldnt die with him.
So I dont think different death benefits available through a transfer to a personal pension 
justified the advice to transfer away to a personal pension plan. I think this objective, listed 
as it was in the suitability report, was no more than a generic comment and not meaningful 
to Mr Gs situation. 
Flexibility in his pension arrangements going forward
Ive taken into account that Mr G approached Pi Financial for advice because of the 
uncertainties he faced with the BSPS. He clearly didnt want to enter the PPF. 
However, I think its important to specifically focus for a moment here on Mr Gs 
comparatively young age by pension standards. As Ive said, he was only 50 and in good 
health and Mrs G was quite a bit younger. The evidence Ive seen here is that Mr G had only referred to the possibility of retiring at 55, which was clearly aspirational rather than definite. 
In fact, he himself was dubious as to whether he could achieve this with the financial 
resources he had. They had two children, one of which was still only 16 and financially 
dependent. Although the older child was 21, Mr and Mrs G were still clearly financially 
supporting them in their career ambitions going forward. Ive noted Mr and Mrs Gs mortgage 
was also still being paid down although they were clearly making good progress in 
eliminating it completely. Put another way, I think Mr and Mrs G still had some of lifes 
uncertainties to navigate in the years ahead.
In my view, this underscores that any formal retirement plans, viewed from the age of just 
50, were still subject to refinement and change. The adviser should have known this. There 
was still over 14 years left to when Mr G would be actually contemplating retiring if using his 
NRA of 65. And even if I did use the age of 55, theres simply no way he should have been 
advised to irreversibly move away from a DB scheme just yet. Doing so involved an 
investment risk and would likely mean lower overall financial benefits at retirement. Whilst 
Im sure, like most people, Mr G probably wanted to stop working as early as possible, I think 
what he told the adviser should have been treated as general retirement aspirations on his 
part. In reality, what I think Mr G wanted was to retire as early as possible and bridge the 
income gap until reaching his state pension age. He speculated that he might need around 
£2,200 per month, but he also said this might be more than he needed if his older sons 
career took off. So, again, there was still some uncertainty about his retirement hopes.
By comparison Pi Financials analysis was, in my view, quite bland as it didnt really 
incapsulate what Mr Gs circumstances were. It said that if retiring at 65, Mr G could expect 
an annual pension of around £20,480 with the existing DB scheme. As Ive said earlier, I 
think the retirement figures quoted for an age 55 retirement contained some errors in this 
case, so I cant rely on the ones quoted - and Mr G would have seen actuarial reductions if 
retiring early. However, it certainly isnt unreasonable to say that by retirement, Mr G could 
have built up a meaningful DC fund in his new pension after he and his employer had been 
contributing for quite a few years. We know Mrs G also had her own deferred DB pension. 
However, I dont think all these things were considered enough, with a view to keeping his 
DB scheme rather than just transferring out.
Actually, I dont think theres anything showing Mr Gs overall pension entitlements wouldnt 
have met his and Mrs Gs anticipated requirements, without any need to transfer away from 
the DB scheme. The £20,480 were BSPS figures, but that doesnt really matter because 
current members were being given similar estimates about the new scheme (BSPS2) at 
around the very time this advice was being sought. I dont think Pi Financial adequately 
explained these things to Mr G as its advice simply focussed on him transferring away and 
into a personal pension arrangement to obtain flexibility which I dont think he needed.
I therefore think Mr Gs circumstances here were much more aligned to him transferring to 
BSPS2 and retiring from that when he felt he was ready to do so. All the evidence pointed to 
him still being able to potentially retire earlier than 65 if he felt he really needed to. Doing this 
from the position of BSPS2 was possible  there would have been an actuarial reduction 
involved, depending on his age at the time. But because he also had a smaller second DC 
pension, and Mrs G had a small pension, this supported that general strategy in my view, 
even if he may have had to work a little beyond 55. 
As an alternative, I think the adviser could have also looked at various scenarios which 
incorporated retiring early from the BSPS2 with accurate annual pension figures at certain 
ages. It should have additionally taken into account his DC pension and also Mrs Gs 
circumstances. This would have allowed Mr G to assess whether retiring early  and if so, 
when  was possible. But retiring completely at 55 is relatively young in my experience, so 
there may have even been the opportunity for the adviser to tell Mr G that his hopes were unrealistic at 55 with his resources. But thats not to say he might not have been able to 
achieve a retirement quite close to his preferred age and still remain in a DB scheme. 
However, I think this was quickly discounted by the adviser who focussed solely on him 
stopping working at the comparatively young age of 55.
Concerns over financial stability of the DB scheme 
I can understand that when Mr G met with Pi Financial he may have been concerned about 
the overall financial stability of the BSPS pension. Lots of his former colleagues at the time 
were considering transferring out of the scheme and he may have worried that his pension 
could end up in the PPF. If the scheme did end up moving to the PPF, I think the adviser 
should have explained that this was not as concerning as Mr G thought. He was still unlikely 
to match, let alone exceed, the benefits available to him through the PPF if he transferred 
out to a personal pension plan. I dont think that this was properly explained to him. So, I 
dont think that these concerns should have led to Pi Financials recommendation to Mr G to 
transfer out of the DB scheme altogether.
Ive also seen no evidence that Mr G had either the capacity or desire to exercise control 
over his funds. With his DB scheme, Mr G was being offered the opportunity to transfer to 
the new BSPS2. Its true there were some differences in this scheme when compared to the 
original BSPS, but it remained a DB scheme nonetheless and was run for him by trustees. I 
think he would have found the complexity, scale and responsibility of managing around 
£383,000 of transferred funds to be onerous in the years ahead. What Ive seen tends to 
show Mr G would have required ongoing financial advice and support, all of which would 
cost him money which his DB scheme didnt require from him.
Suitability of investments 
Pi Financial recommended that Mr G invest his funds in a personal pension. As Im 
upholding the complaint on the grounds that a transfer out of the DB scheme wasnt suitable 
for Mr G and I dont think he wouldve insisted on transferring out of the scheme if clear 
advice had been given to him, it follows that I dont need to consider the suitability of the 
investment recommendation. This is because he should have been advised not to transfer 
and so the investment in the new funds wouldnt have arisen if suitable advice had been 
given. 
Ive also considered that anything Mr G has done with his transferred funds since the 
transfer has only been made possible by Pi Financials unsuitable advice.
Summary
I dont think the advice given to Mr G was suitable. 
Pi Financial ought to have advised him against transferring out of his DB scheme. He was 
giving up a guaranteed, risk-free and increasing income within the BSPS2 and by 
transferring to a personal pension, the evidence shows he was likely to obtain lower 
retirement benefits as a result of transferring. 
I also dont think there were any other particular reasons which would justify the transfer and 
outweigh this. Better death benefits were cited as being a rationale for transferring. But as 
Ive shown, I think the benefits in the BSPS2 were much more suited to Mr Gs situation and 
if he really wanted to pass on a financial legacy to someone, he had plenty of other options 
which the adviser seems not to have discussed.Pi Financial entered into this advice by assuming Mr Gs mention of an early retirement at 55 
was completely fixed. However, the implication that Mr G was certain to retire early wasnt 
borne out by the evidence and he was still only 50 years old. The adviser focussed wholly on 
transferring away, instead of assessing whether Mr G might meet his broad retirement 
objectives by becoming a member of BSPS2. He could have also joined that scheme and 
waited until his plans were clearer before irreversibly transferring to a personal plan.
So, I dont think it was in Mr Gs best interests for him to transfer his DB scheme to a 
personal pension when he had the opportunity of opting into the BSPS2. I also don't think 
that it was in his interest to accept the reduction in benefits he would have faced by the 
scheme entering the PPF. Doing this wouldn't be offset by the more favourable reduction for 
early retirement. By opting into the BSPS2, Mr G would have retained the ability to transfer 
out of the scheme nearer to his retirement age if he really needed to. The annual indexation 
of his pension when in payment was also more advantageous under the BSPS2. 
On this basis, I think Pi Financial should have advised Mr G to opt into the BSPS2.
I have considered, given the circumstances of the time, whether Mr G would have 
transferred to a personal pension in any event. I accept that Pi Financial disclosed some of 
the risks of transferring to Mr G, and provided him with a certain amount of information. But 
ultimately it advised Mr G to transfer out, and I think Mr G relied on that advice.
Im not persuaded that Mr G would have insisted on transferring out of the DB scheme, 
against Pi Financials advice. I say this because Mr G was an inexperienced investor and 
this pension accounted for most of his retirement provision at the time. So, if Pi Financial had 
provided him with clear advice against transferring out of the DB scheme, explaining why it 
wasnt in his best interests, I think he would have accepted that advice. In my view, this is 
what should have happened.
In light of the above, I think Pi Financial should compensate Mr G for the unsuitable advice, 
using the regulator's defined benefits pension transfer redress methodology. 
Putting things right
A fair and reasonable outcome would be for the business to put Mr G, as far as possible, into 
the position he would now be in but for Pi Financials unsuitable advice. As Ive said, 
anything Mr G has done with his transferred funds since the transfer has only been made 
possible by Pi Financials unsuitable advice.
I consider Mr G would have most likely opted to join the BSPS2, rather than transfer to the 
personal pension if he'd been given suitable advice and compensation should be based on 
his normal retirement age of 65, as per the usual assumptions in the FCA's guidance. Pi 
Financial should use the benefits offered by BSPS2 for comparison purposes.
Pi Financial must therefore undertake a redress calculation in line with the rules for 
calculating redress for non-compliant pension transfer advice, as detailed in policy statement 
PS22/13 and set out in the regulators handbook in DISP App 4: 
https://www.handbook.fca.org.uk/handbook/DISP/App/4/?view=chapter. 
Pi Financial should use the FCAs BSPS-specific redress calculator to calculate the redress. 
A copy of the BSPS calculator output should be sent to Mr G and our Service upon 
completion of the calculation.This calculation should be carried out using the most recent financial assumptions in line 
with DISP App 4. In accordance with the regulators expectations, this should be undertaken 
or submitted to an appropriate provider promptly following receipt of notification of Mr Gs 
acceptance of my final decision.
If the redress calculation demonstrates a loss, as explained in policy statement PS22/13 and 
set out in DISP App 4, Pi Financial should:
calculate and offer Mr G redress as a cash lump sum payment,
explain to Mr G before starting the redress calculation that:
- their redress will be calculated on the basis that it will be invested prudently 
(in line with the cautious investment return assumption used in the 
calculation), and
- a straightforward way to invest their redress prudently is to use it to augment 
their DC pension
offer to calculate how much of any redress Mr G receives could be augmented rather 
than receiving it all as a cash lump sum,
if Mr G accepts Pi Financials offer to calculate how much of their redress could be 
augmented, request the necessary information and not charge Mr G for the 
calculation, even if he ultimately decides not to have any of their redress augmented, 
and
take a prudent approach when calculating how much redress could be augmented, 
given the inherent uncertainty around Mr Gs end of year tax position.
Redress paid to Mr G as a cash lump sum will be treated as income for tax purposes. So, in 
line with DISP App 4, Pi Financial may make a notional deduction to cash lump sum 
payments to take account of tax that consumers would otherwise pay on income from their 
pension. Typically, 25% of the loss could have been taken as tax-free cash and 75% would 
have been taxed according to Mr Gs likely income tax rate in retirement  presumed to be 
20%. So making a notional deduction of 15% overall from the loss adequately reflects this. 
Where I uphold a complaint, I can award fair compensation of up to £160,000, plus any 
interest and/or costs that I consider are appropriate. Where I consider that fair compensation 
requires payment of an amount that might exceed £160,000, I may recommend that the 
business pays the balance.
This pension at the time represented nearly all of Mr Gs retirement provision. I believe the 
uncertainty and worrying impact of this unsuitable advice caused him significant distress and 
inconvenience. I therefore also order Pi Financial Ltd to pay an additional £300 to Mr G.
My final decision
Determination and money award: I am upholding this complaint and I now direct Pi Financial 
Ltd to pay Mr G the compensation amount as set out in the steps above, up to a maximum of 
£160,000.Recommendation: If the compensation amount exceeds £160,000, I also recommend that Pi 
Financial Ltd pays Mr G the balance. I would additionally recommend any interest calculated 
as set out above on this balance to be paid to Mr G.
If Mr G accepts my final decision, the money award becomes binding Pi Financial Ltd.
My recommendation would not be binding. Further, its unlikely that Mr G can accept my 
decision and go to court to ask for the balance. Mr G may want to consider getting 
independent legal advice before deciding whether to accept any final decision.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision before 3 October 2023.
 
Michael Campbell
Ombudsman