DRN-3539439
The complaint
Ms J and Mr Ps complaint is about a travel insurance policy with U K Insurance Limited 
(UKI).
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here. The facts are not in dispute, so Ill focus on giving my reasons for my decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the conclusions reached by the investigator for these reasons:
Ms J and Mr P were originally due to return to the UK on 8 March 2021. But they both 
suffered injuries during the trip, which meant that they couldnt return home as 
originally planned. They finally returned on 28 April 2021.
Ms J had an appointment with a doctor on 11 March 2021, who administered 
injections for pain management and recommended physiotherapy. An appointment 
was planned for the next day. But Ms J didnt attend the appointment as UKI hadnt 
yet authorised it.
UKI says it didnt receive the medical report, despite several chasers, until 19 March 
2021. UKI says it needed this to review the treatment plan before it could authorise 
further treatment. I dont think UKI did anything wrong here. Im also satisfied that 
UKI explained to Ms J and Mr P why it needed the report, and that it took reasonable 
steps to chase for it.
UKI reviewed the medical report on 20 March 2021 and authorised the treatment. But 
UKI has accepted it made some mistakes after this point which meant Ms Js 
treatment didnt start until 30 March 2021. Ms J and Mr P are unhappy with the delay 
between 11 and 30 March 2021, which they say was due to UKIs mistakes. But as I 
explained above, I dont think UKI is responsible for the delays before it received the 
medical report.
Ms J and Mr Ps main concern is about Mr Ps loss of earnings due to the above 
delay in Ms J receiving treatment and subsequently returning home. But there is no 
cover for loss of earnings under the policy terms. This is also not something our 
service would normally recommend an insurer to pay. 
UKI has paid Ms J and Mr P £350 in compensation for the mistakes it made after it 
received the medical report, as above, and the impact of them. I can also see that 
while UKI was waiting for the medical report, UKI paid for Ms J and Mr P to stay at an 
all-inclusive accommodation. And it continued to do so until they were fit to fly home. 
Ms J and Mr P had previously stayed at self-catering accommodation but UKI paid 
for all-inclusive as it acknowledged their injuries meant theyd struggle to carry 
shopping. UKI also repatriated them in business class due to the injuries.
Having considered everything, Im not persuaded that it would be fair or reasonable 
for me to ask UKI to go outside the policy terms in the circumstances of this 
complaint and pay for Mr Ps potential loss of earnings. I think what UKI has done in 
the overall circumstances of this complaint is fair and reasonable.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold Ms J and Mr Ps complaint about U K Insurance 
Limited.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms J and Mr P to 
accept or reject my decision before 6 October 2022.
 
Renja Anderson
Ombudsman