DRN-2829063
The complaint
Mr B complains that a van acquired with finance from Mallard Leasing Limited wasnt of 
satisfactory quality.   
What happened
In January 2019 Mr B was supplied with a van ad entered into a finance agreement with 
Mallard Leasing. At the point of supply the van was 8 years old and had covered 105,246 
miles. 
Mr B experienced issues within the first few days including an oil leak. He contacted the 
supplying dealer and the car was returned for repair in May 2019.
The supplying dealer repaired the oil leak. However, shortly after getting the van back, Mr B 
experienced further issue sand the engine went bang.
Mr B contacted Mallard Leasing, who arranged an independent inspection of the van. The 
report concluded that the noise coming from the engine was most likely engine bearing wear 
and said this couldnt have been present at the point of supply. 
Based on the findings of the inspection, Mallard leasing rejected Mr Bs complaint. Mr B 
wasnt happy with the response and brought his complaint to this service. He says the van 
had problems from the start and he doesnt think the oil leak was repaired properly.
Mr B has since paid for a new engine for the van. He wants the cost of repairs refunded.
Our investigator upheld the complaint. He thought there was an issue with the oil and that 
the repairs hadnt been successful. He said Mallard leasing should refund the cost of repairs.
Mallard Leasing didnt agree. It said the agreement wasnt covered by the CRA 2015 
because Mr B had purchased the van for use ion his business. It also relied on the 
independent inspection which it said concluded that the fault wasnt present at the point of 
supply.   
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Because Mallard Leasing supplied the van under a hire purchase agreement, theres an 
implied term that it is of satisfactory quality. Cars and vans are of satisfactory quality if they 
are of a standard that a reasonable person would regard as acceptable, taking into account 
factors such as the age and mileage of the car and the price paid. I would expect a second-
hand van, such as that supplied to Mr B, to have a degree of wear and tear and to require 
repairs more often than a brand new vehicle. So, in order to uphold this complaint, I would 
need to be satisfied that there was an inherent fault with the van, as opposed to a fault due 
to general wear and tear.
Under the CRA 2015, where a fault occurs in the first 6 months, theres a presumption that 
the fault was present or developing at the point of supply, unless the business can show 
otherwise. The business is allowed one opportunity to repair the fault. If the repair isnt 
successful, the consumer is allowed to reject the vehicle. After 6 months the burden of proof 
is reversed and its up to the consumer to show that the van wasnt of satisfactory quality at 
the point of supply. 
In this case, Mr B reported an oil leak within the first 6 months. I can see that the supplying 
dealer carried out a repair in May 2019. Following the repair, Mr B experienced further 
issues.
Mr B and Mallard Leasing disagree about whether the van had a point of supply fault. In 
order to reach a decision, I need to look at all the available evidence and determine, on the 
balance of probabilities, whether the van was of satisfactory quality at the point of supply.
Ive looked at the independent report. This says the engine noise is caused by engine 
bearing wear, which the inspector says is consistent with wear and tear rather than a 
manufacturing defect. It also says that engine bearing wear can be accelerated by the car 
being driven with insufficient oil which results in oil cavitation. The independent report 
concluded that the engine noise could not have been present at the point of supply because 
the van couldnt be driven in this condition.
 Ive also taken into account the previous MOT information. Although the MOT carried out 
just before the point of supply doesnt mention an oil leak, the MOT prior to this in June 2018 
mentions an oil leak as an advisory. The February 2020 MOT also mentions an oil leak. Its 
not disputed that the van was returned to the supplying dealer with an oil leak in May 2019. 
This is relevant, because one of the causes of engine bearing wear noted in the inspection 
report is insufficient oil.
The independent report doesnt address the previous oil leak which was repaired by the 
supplying dealer. But it does say that engine bearing wear can be caused by insufficient oil. I 
dont think the inspector has considered whether the previous oil leak caused or contributed 
to the engine bearing. This causes me to question the reliability of the inspectors conclusion 
that the fault wasnt present at the point of supply. Because whilst it may be correct to say 
that the engine noise wasnt present at the point of supply, this doesnt mean that the 
underlying issue leading to the worn engine bearing and engine noise  being low oil/an oil 
leak  wasnt present at the point of supply.
Based on what Ive seen, I dont think the inspection report is enough to rebut the 
presumption that the fault was present at the point of supply. The evidence suggest that the 
oil leak was present at the point of supply and on the balance of probability the oil leak 
caused or contributed to the worn bearing. Looking at the available information, I dont think 
the supplying dealer attempt at repairing the oil leak was successful, because within 3 
months of the repair the van suffered a serious fault caused by insufficient oil. Theres 
nothing to suggest that Mr Bs driving style contributed to the fault and the inspector hasnt 
supported this assertion with any evidence about how Mr B drove the van.
Based on everything Ive seen, Im of the view that the van wasnt of satisfactory quality at 
the point of supply, and that the supplying dealer attempt at repair wasnt successful. 
Putting things right
Under the relevant legislation, Mr B is allowed to reject the van. However, hes explained 
that he doesnt want to do this because hes since paid for a new engine himself and the van 
is performing as expected without any issues. Given that Mr B has had the repairs carried out, I think the fairest way to resolve the complaint is to ask Mallard leasing to refund the 
cost of repairs in the sum of £2484.87.
Its clear that Mr B has been caused significant inconvenience by the issues hes 
experienced with the van. Hes had to return the van for repairs which turned out to be 
unsuccessful and was without the use of a vehicle during this time, which was around 3 
weeks. Because of this, I think its fair to ask Mallard Leasing to pay conpensation for 
distress and inconvenience. 
Jurisdiction
Id also like to comment briefly on a jurisdiction point raised by Mallard Leasing. It hasnt said 
whether or not it accepts the investigators view on jurisdiction. Ive considered jurisdiction 
and I agree with the investigator that Mr Bs use of the van isnt relevant here. The hire 
purchase agreement in this case was for a sum below £25,000. This makes Mr B an eligible 
consumer under the Supply of Goods Act 1982. The exclusion relating to business purposes 
doesnt apply as it would otherwise do under the CRA 2015. Therefore Im satisfied that the 
complaint is within the jurisdiction of this service. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold the complaint. Mallard Leasing Limited must:
Refund the cost of repair £2484.87 plus 8% simple interest from the date of payment to the 
date of settlement
Pay compensation of £250 to Mr B for distress and inconvenience  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 26 July 2021.
 
Emma Davy
Ombudsman