DRN-3298338
The complaint
Ms H and Mr K complain about the settlement theyve been paid by Mapfre Asistencia, 
Compania Internacional De Seguros y Reaseguros, S.A. for a curtailment claim they made 
on a travel insurance policy.
What happened
In 2019, Ms H and Mr K booked a multi-centre backpacking holiday. They booked an 
outbound flight from the UK; some internal flights; car hire and a campervan. They didnt 
book a return flight to the UK, as they wanted their arrangements to be flexible. They 
planned to travel for around seven months. They took out a travel insurance policy through a 
broker on 16 February 2020 and cover started under the policy on 2 March 2020.
Ms H and Mr K flew abroad as planned on 2 March 2020, to a country Ill call A. However, on 
11 March 2020, the World Health Organisation declared Covid-19 to be a pandemic. And on 
17 March 2020, the Foreign, Commonwealth & Development Office (FCDO) advised against 
all but essential travel abroad. On the same day, Ms H began to suffer from breathing 
difficulties. She was required to self-isolate in a rented property while she waited for results 
of a Covid-19 test. This meant Ms H and Mr K werent able to make full use of their rental 
car. On 20 March 2020, Ms H received a negative test result and so she and Mr K booked a 
flight back to the UK, which left A on 27 March 2020. In the meantime, on 23 March 2020, 
the FCDO advised all UK nationals abroad to return to the UK.
Ms H and Mr K had incurred significant costs in cutting short their trip by booking a return 
flight and had had to cancel the internal flights theyd booked, together with the cost of the 
camper van. Theyd also incurred costs for the accommodation theyd booked for the 
purposes of Ms Hs self-isolation. So they made a claim on their travel insurance policy. 
They received full refunds for two of the internal flights from the airline. But they were offered 
a credit voucher by the airline for one internal flight, so they claimed for the cost of this flight. 
The travel agent through which the campervan had been booked had ceased trading, so Ms 
H and Mr K couldnt recover their loss through it and therefore, they claimed for this cost. As 
Ms H and Mr K had only been able to make use of two days of their car hire booking, they 
also claimed for a proportionate refund of these costs. 
Mapfre partly settled Ms H and Mr Ks claim. It fully settled the costs of the accommodation 
Ms H and Mr K had had to book while Ms H self-isolated while waiting for her Covid-19 test 
results. It said that if Ms H and Mr K could provide evidence from the car hire company that 
Ms H and Mr K hadnt received any refund for the unused portion of their rental, it would 
reconsider this element of their claim. Mapfre didnt agree to settle the cost of Ms H and Mr 
Ks return flight, as it said theyd always have had to pay for a return flight, regardless of 
cutting short their trip. And it concluded that as Ms H and Mr Ks airline had offered them a 
credit voucher for the cost of their internal flight, theyd been able to recover this cost. It 
considered that Ms H and Mr K should try and recover the campervan costs through an 
industry body and so declined to pay this cost. Mapfre acknowledged it hadnt handled the 
claim as well as it shouldve done though and paid them £150 compensation.
Ms H and Mr K were unhappy with Mapfres decision and they asked us to look into their 
complaint. While the complaint was waiting to be assessed, the industry body refunded the 
cost of Ms H and Mr Ks cancelled campervan.
Our investigator thought this complaint should be partly upheld. He felt itd been fair for 
Mapfre to turn down the claim for Ms H and Mr Ks return flight. Thats because this was a 
cost theyd always have had to incur and so he didnt think it was covered by the policy 
terms. And he felt itd been reasonable for Mapfre to require a letter from the car hire 
company to show that Ms H and Mr K hadnt received a refund of their costs before it 
assessed this part of the claim further. He considered that £150 was fair compensation for 
the delays in Mapfres assessment of the claim. 
However, he thought that Mapfre should cover the cost of Ms H and Mr Ks internal flight. 
Thats because he noted that the airline didnt operate from the UK and so he felt the terms 
of the voucher were overly restrictive.
Mapfre accepted the investigators recommendation.
Ms H and Mr K disagreed with the investigators findings. They felt that Mapfre should cover 
the cost of their return flight, as the policy didnt state that theyd needed to have booked a 
return flight or that it only covered lost expenses. They also felt that £150 compensation was 
an insult.
The complaints been passed to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, whilst Im sorry to disappoint Ms H and Mr K, I think Mapfres current offer 
of settlement is fair and reasonable and Ill explain why.
The relevant regulators rules say that insurers must handle claims promptly and fairly. And 
they mustnt turn down claims unreasonably. So Ive considered, amongst other things, the 
terms of Ms H and Mr Ks policy and the circumstances of their claim, to decide whether 
Mapfre treated them fairly.
Ive first looked at the terms and conditions of Ms H and Mr Ks policy, as these form the 
basis of their contract with Mapfre. As the outstanding costs Ms H and Mr K are claiming for 
follow the cutting short of their trip, both through Ms Hs self-isolation and through their early 
return to the UK, I think it was appropriate for Mapfre to consider the claim under the 
Cancelling and cutting short your holiday section of the policy. This provides the following 
cover:
What you are covered for
If you have to cancel or cut short your trip because of one of the reasons listed below we will 
pay up to the amount shown in the table of benefits on pages 5 and 6 for:
 Unused travel and accommodation expenses that you have paid or have agreed to 
pay under a contract and which you cannot get back, including any local prepaid 
excursions, tours or activities, if it is necessary and you cannot avoid cancelling or cutting 
short your trip; and
 Reasonable extra travel costs if it is necessary and you cannot avoid cutting short your trip. (Emphasis added).
The policy states that Mapfre will cover curtailment claims if the FCDO advises against all 
but essential travel to a policyholders destination while theyre away. In this case, theres no 
doubt that Ms H and Mr K returned to the UK after the FCDO had advised all UK nationals 
abroad to return home and after it had advised against all but essential travel.
However, I also think the policy makes it clear that Mapfre will only cover a policyholders 
unused, irrecoverable transport and accommodation costs and reasonable extra travel costs. 
So Ive gone on to explore whether I think the costs Ms H and Mr K claimed fell within the 
scope of cover.
The car hire costs
Ms H and Mr K have consistently told us that they were only able to make use of their rental 
car for two days of their pre-paid hire period due to the situation they found themselves in. 
Therefore, they feel Mapfre should pay a pro-rata settlement for their unused expenses. To 
date, theyve provided Mapfre with an invoice which shows the car hire costs they paid. But 
before it considers this aspect of the claim further, Mapfre has told Ms H and Mr K that it 
requires evidence from the car hire company that it didnt refund any of the costs Ms H and 
Mr K paid.
It's a general principle of insurance that its for a policyholder to show they have a valid claim 
on their policy and provide evidence of their loss. And the policy says that Mapfre will only 
cover costs a policyholder cant get back. So I dont think its unreasonable for Mapfre to 
require such evidence from the car hire company before it further considers this element of 
Ms H and Mr Ks claim. It remains open to Ms H and Mr K to obtain such evidence from the 
car hire company and to pass this onto Mapfre for its consideration. 
The return flight costs
Its clear that Ms H and Mr K paid a significant amount of money for their return flight and 
potentially more than theyd have had to have paid had their trip gone to plan. Theres also 
no dispute that Ms H and Mr K were realistically left with no choice but to cut their trip short 
following the change in FCDO advice and the travel restrictions which were being imposed 
by many other countries. I sympathise with their position, especially as theyve said that 
Mapfre led them to believe that this cost would be covered.
But in my view, as Ive set out above, I think the contract clearly states that Mapfre will only 
pay for unused travel expenses or extra travel costs. In this case, Ms H and Mr K hadnt 
booked a return flight before they travelled. So irrespective of Covid-19, they would always 
have needed to pay for a return flight at some point during their planned trip. The return flight 
they booked following the change in FCDO advice wasnt unused  they travelled on this 
flight on 27 March 2020. And I dont think it was unfair for Mapfre to conclude that the return 
flight wasnt an extra travel cost as Ms H and Mr K didnt have any existing return travel 
plans in place at the time they booked their return flight. The terms of Ms H and Mr Ks policy 
doesnt cover any difference between standard travel fares and those charged in situations 
such as these either. 
Ive also thought about Ms H and Mr Ks testimony that they were told this flight would be 
covered. But given the change in FCDO advice and the situation, I think Ms H and Mr K 
would likely always have had to decide to cut their trip short and return to the UK. This 
means I dont think any potential misinformation they were given by Mapfre caused them to 
lose out.This means then that I dont think Ms H and Mr K have suffered a loss for their return flight to 
the UK which is covered by the terms of their policy. And as such, I find it was fair and 
reasonable for Mapfre to turn down this part of the claim.
The internal flight
Mapfre originally declined to cover the cost of Ms H and Mr Ks internal flight, as it 
considered theyd recovered their full ticket costs through the credit voucher the airline had 
offered. In some cases, I may conclude that a credit voucher is a fair form of recovery.
However, in these particular circumstances, given the relevant airline didnt have a UK-base 
and therefore, the flights available to Ms H and Mr K were necessarily limited, our 
investigator thought the terms of the voucher were overly restrictive. And Mapfre has now 
agreed to cover the cost of this particular flight. I think this is a fair and reasonable position 
for Mapfre to now take and I was pleased to see it agreed with our investigator on this point.
Compensation
Its clear Ms H and Mr K feel strongly that Mapfres handling of their claim has caused them 
significant distress and inconvenience and Ive thought about this. Mapfre acknowledges that 
it didnt handle the claim as well as it shouldve done and so its paid Ms H and Mr K 
compensation of £150. 
I can see that it took Mapfre around six months to progress to its initial settlement of Ms H 
and Mr Ks claim. Even taking into account the disruption caused to insurers by Covid-19, I 
think this was an unreasonable period of delay and I dont doubt it added to Ms H and Mr Ks 
frustration. But unfortunately, the making of most, if not all, insurance claims will generally 
put a policyholder to some inconvenience and upset, on top of the inevitable upset caused 
by the event giving rise to the claim. And I dont think Mapfre can be held responsible for the 
delays in Ms H and Mr K being able to recover their campervan costs from the regulatory 
body. I think it was contractually entitled to be satisfied that Ms H and Mr K couldnt recover 
these costs before it further assessed them.
So overall, while I acknowledge Ms H and Mr K dont feel £150 compensation is sufficient, in 
my view, its a fair award to reflect the delays in Mapfres handling of the claim. This means 
Im not directing Mapfre to pay any more compensation.
Summary
In summary, I think Mapfre is entitled to evidence from the car hire company before it agrees 
to further consider the claim for the unused car hire costs. Im satisfied it was fair for Mapfre 
to turn down the claim for the costs of Ms H and Mr Ks return flight. I find that the 
compensation Mapfre has already paid them is fair. But Im persuaded that its fair and 
reasonable for Mapfre to settle the costs of Ms H and Mr Ks internal flight, together with 
interest at an annual rate of 8% simple.My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above, my final decision is that Mapfres offer of settlement is fair 
and reasonable.
I direct Mapfre Asistencia, Compania Internacional De Seguros y Reaseguros, S.A. to settle 
Ms H and Mr Ks claim for their internal flight, in line with the policy terms and conditions and 
together with interest at an annual rate of 8% simple from the date of claim until the date of 
settlement.
If Mapfre considers that its required by HM Revenue & Customs to take off income tax from 
that interest it should tell Ms H and Mr K how much it has taken off. It should also give them 
a certificate showing this if they ask for one, so they can reclaim the tax from HM Revenue & 
Customs if appropriate.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms H and Mr K to 
accept or reject my decision before 19 May 2022.
 
Lisa Barham
Ombudsman