DRN-3910800
The complaint
Mr C says Advanced Payment Solutions Limited, trading as Cashplus, asked an excessive
number of security questions after asking him to call a telephone number he did not 
recognise.
What happened
Cashplus emailed Mr C and asked him to call on a certain number to discuss his overdraft
facility. Mr C was concerned as Cashplus had not contacted him like this before; he did not
recognise the number it gave and he felt he was asked for a lot of personal information when
he called, and could not be passed to a manager as he requested without answering all the
security questions. He asks that Cashplus communicate with customers in a way that makes
them feel more secure.
Cashplus said it had made no error. Mr C could have checked the number it gave him on its
website. Its security process requires customers to answer a minimum of three questions
before a call can proceed, and cannot be passed to a manager without doing so.
Our investigator upheld Mr Cs complaint. She found that Cashplus had asked Mr C for his
card number, date of birth, address, email and mobile. And as she felt it was likely Mr C
would have answered the first three questions correctly she thought further questions were
not necessary, and she understood why Mr C began to feel concerned. She recommended
Cashplus pay £50 compensation for the distress and inconvenience he suffered.
Cashplus disagreed with this assessment. It said asking for the card number was not a
security question  it is used to locate the account; three security questions are then the
minimum asked, and an advisor may ask more depending on how a customer responds to
the questions. In this case Mr C refused to answer sufficient questions. Cashplus also
committed to send a copy of the call recording but has not done so. However, it pointed out
that is up to Cashplus to set its security parameters so this ought not change the
assessment. 
I reached a different conclusion to the investigator so I issued a provisional decision. An 
extract follows and forms part of this final decision. I asked for any comments or new 
evidence by 19 January 2023.
Extract from my provisional decision
I understand that Mr C was unsure about the authenticity of the communication from 
Cashplus, but he could have checked the number given in the email on its website  or 
called the usual number he was familiar with and checked it that way. I also understand he 
then felt he was being asked for a lot of personal information when he called and this made 
him suspicious  but what I have to decide in order to reach a fair outcome is whether 
Cashplus did anything wrong.
And I have seen no evidence that it did. Mr C is asking for Cashplus not to communicate as
it did, but it followed the process it uses for all other customers in the same circumstances
and so, I find, treated Mr C fairly and without error. I accept Mr C does not feel the
communication was as it should be to make customers feel safe, but we do not have the
power to review a banks processes, systems or policies  that is the role of the regulator,
the Financial Conduct Authority.
I havent been able to listen to the call. I would urge that Cashplus provides it for
completeness  or confirms that it is unable to. However, I am minded to agree with
Cashplus point that the actual call recording will not change the outcome of this complaint. I
say this as I agree that its reasonable it flexes the number of security questions it asks
based on how a call is progressing, and that its reasonable it would only transfer a call to
manager once security is passed as it has told us that is its policy. I can see from the contact
notes from the call that it was ended midway through the security checks as Mr C did not
wish to answer more questions. So I think its most likely that the call recording would not
evidence any failings on the part of Cashplus.
I accept that the email and subsequent call caused Mr C a level of unease, but I have found
no evidence that this was down to anything Cashplus did wrong and therefore I cannot fairly
award any compensation.
Cashplus responded to say it could not locate the call and had nothing to add. Mr C did not 
respond.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Where the evidence is incomplete (as some of it is here) I have reached my decision based 
on the balance of probabilities, so based on what I think is most likely given the available 
evidence and the wider circumstances.
As neither party sent in any comments or new information I have no reason to change the 
findings or outcome I set out in my provisional decision.
It follows I do not find Cashplus did anything wrong.
My final decision
I am not upholding Mr Cs complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 17 February 2023.
 
Rebecca Connelley
Ombudsman