DRN-2127497
The complaint
Mr R complains that Tesco Underwriting Limited cancelled his motor insurance policy and 
wont deal with his claim following the theft of his car. 
What happened
Mr R took out a policy, provided proof of his No Claims Discount (NCD), and then went 
abroad. Tesco wrote and emailed him asking for further documents to validate the policy, but 
Mr R didnt respond. Tesco then cancelled the policy after giving seven-days notice. Mr Rs 
car was later stolen. Tesco considered whether it should deal with the claim due to Mr Rs 
circumstances. But it declined to do this as it said one of the documents Mr R had provided 
wasnt genuine. 
Our investigator didnt recommend that the complaint should be upheld. She thought Tesco 
was entitled to ask Mr R for information to validate his policy. She thought it had made 
reasonable attempts to contact him. And she thought it had cancelled the policy according to 
its terms and conditions. She saw evidence that one of the documents Mr R submitted to 
Tesco wasnt genuine. So she thought it had reasonably decided not to reinstate the policy 
and not to deal with the claim. 
Mr R replied that all his family had been away and so Tescos correspondence wasnt 
attended to. He said their return to UK was delayed due to a serious accident and the 
pandemic. He said the family didnt have internet access abroad. He said hed paid the 
premium in full and thought Tesco could have charged an additional premium as he hadnt 
replied. He said he hadnt provided incorrect or fabricated information.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr R has asked for consideration to be given to the effects of a serious accident abroad and 
the pandemic in delaying his return to UK and so preventing him from attending to Tescos 
correspondence. 
Mr Rs policy started in November 2019 and he was then asked for proof of his No Claims 
Discount (NCD). Tesco then wrote and emailed to him on 14 and 21 February asking for 
further validation documents. But Mr R said hed left the country on 12 February thinking his 
policy was in order as it had been running for three months. 
I can understand that Mr Rs return to UK was delayed due to circumstances outside of his 
control. But I think Tesco was entitled to ask for information from him at any point during the 
policy. Mr R had unfortunately not made arrangements for his post to be attended to and he 
was outside email contact. But I cant reasonably hold Tesco responsible for this. 
I think Tesco made reasonable attempts to contact Mr R. And, when Mr R didnt respond, I 
think it was entitled to cancel the policy after giving seven days notice. This is in keeping 
with the policy terms and conditions. 
I also think Tesco reasonably considered whether it should make allowances for Mr Rs 
exceptional circumstances and cover the claim. But it had concerns about the proofs of NCD 
provided by Mr R when he first took out the policy. Mr Rs insurer at the time has said that it 
didnt issue the NCD proof for 2019 that was submitted to Tesco. And so I cant say that it 
was unreasonable for Tesco to then decide not to reinstate the policy and not to cover the 
claim. 
Our investigator has already advised Mr R that if he has concerns about what the previous 
insurer, or his broker, has told Tesco and us, he should complain to them directly. Im unable 
to consider their actions here as they are separate businesses to Tesco. If hes unhappy with 
their responses, he can then bring his complaint to us.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision before 17 February 2021.
 
Phillip Berechree
Ombudsman