DRN-4102759
The complaint
Mr B and Miss W have a mortgage with Landmark Mortgages Limited (Landmark). They 
say they only recently realised their mortgage was an interest only mortgage basis, they 
think the mortgage was mis-sold and they felt like mortgage prisoners because they cant 
afford to switch to a product with a lower interest rate.
What happened
In 2006, Mr B and Miss W took out a 25-year repayment mortgage with Northern Rock for 
£110,000 plus fees. The interest rate on their mortgage was fixed for two years. After that 
their mortgage moved to a standard variable rate (SVR).
In 2007, the mortgage was converted to an interest only mortgage. Although it appears Mr B 
and Miss W thought this would be a temporary measure at the time, they didnt ask for the 
mortgage to be switched back to a repayment mortgage.
In 2016, Mr B and Miss Ws mortgage was taken over by Landmark.
In June 2022, Mr B and Miss W complained to Landmark saying theyd only recently become 
aware that their mortgage was repayable on an interest only basis, they thought the 
mortgage was mis-sold and they felt like mortgage prisoners because they cant afford to 
switch to a product with a lower interest rate. So they say they are trapped paying the 
mortgage they are.
Landmark said it hadnt done anything wrong and it thought Mr B and Miss W were out of 
time to complain about some of the issued raised.
Mr B and Miss W complained to the Financial Ombudsman Service in August 2022. 
Our investigator said we couldnt look into Mr B and Miss Ws complaint that the mortgage 
was mis-sold. He said theyd used a broker to get the mortgage in 2006. So the broker was 
responsible for the sale. 
Our investigator also said that our rules on time limits meant that that we could only consider 
whether Mr B and Miss W had been made aware that their mortgage was repayable on an 
interest only mortgage from August 2016 onwards. Likewise, we could also only consider 
whether Mr B and Miss W were mortgage prisoners and Landmarks response to that from 
August 2016 onwards.
Mr B and Miss W accepted those jurisdiction points.
After our investigator had looked into the aspects of Mr B and Miss Ws complaint he could 
consider, he said he didnt think Landmark had done anything wrong.
Mr B and Miss W remained unhappy and asked for their complaint to be reviewed by an 
ombudsman, so it has been passed to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I dont think Mr B and Miss Ws complaint should be upheld. Ill explain why.
Mr B and Miss W say that theyd only recently become aware that their mortgage was 
repayable on an interest only basis. As our investigator said, I can only consider this aspect 
of their complaint from August 2016 onwards. However, I do think its worth mentioning here 
that Ive been provided with a copy of a document they signed (dated October 2007) that 
transferred the mortgage from a repayment to an interest only mortgage. This sets out the 
reasons for the switch at the time.
Ive considered the annual statements Mr B and Miss W were sent from 2016 onwards. They 
make it clear that Mr B and Miss Ws mortgage was an interest only mortgage. They contain 
the following wording:
This is an interest only mortgage. Your mortgage payments do not include the costs of any 
savings plan or other investment you may have arranged to build up a lump sum to repay 
the amount you borrowed. It is important to check regularly that your savings plan or other 
investment is on track to repay this mortgage at the end of the term.
I think Landmark could reasonably expect Mr B and Miss W to read the mortgage 
statements they were sent and act on them if they didnt think something was right with their 
mortgage. 
In the circumstances, it wouldnt be fair and reasonable for me to say that Landmark was 
responsible for Mr B and Miss W saying that theyd only recently realised that their mortgage 
was an interest only mortgage.
Ive also considered Mr B and Miss Ws complaint that theyre unable to re-mortgage with 
Landmark or another lender so they consider themselves to be mortgage prisoners. 
As our investigator said, I can consider this aspect of their complaint from August 2016 
onwards.
Mr B and Miss Ws mortgage was taken out in 2006. The mortgage offer said that the 
interest rate was fixed for two years. After that the interest rate would revert to the Northern 
Rock Standard Variable Rate (SVR). As set out above, the mortgage was converted to an 
interest only mortgage in 2007. Landmark says Mr B and Miss W didnt speak to it about 
moving the mortgage back to a repayment mortgage after that.
So by August 2016 Mr B and Miss Ws mortgage was on Landmarks SVR and had been for 
some time. 
Landmark has provided the Financial Ombudsman Service with detailed information about 
the reasons why it varied its SVR in the way that it did. The information it has given us is 
commercially sensitive, so Ive considered it in confidence. Ive considered that information 
in line with Mr B and Miss Ws 2006 mortgage offer, relevant law and regulations. Ive also 
considered whether Landmark acted fairly overall. Having done so, Im satisfied Landmark 
varied the SVR in line with the mortgage terms and conditions and that Landmark exercised 
those terms fairly.
That means that overall Im satisfied that Mr B and Miss W werent overcharged interest on their mortgage since August 2016. I appreciate that Landmark is a closed book lender  
meaning it doesnt offer new mortgages or new interest rate products to existing customers. 
Mr B and Miss W feel theyve been disadvantaged by that. But I dont think it would be fair to 
expect Landmark to offer a lower fixed interest rate when it isnt taking on new business. Nor 
do I think Landmark did anything wrong by not offering Mr B and Miss W a new (lower) 
interest rate  especially as Mr B and Miss W didnt ask for one. There is no regulatory 
requirement for Landmark to offer consumers a lower interest rate and nothing in the 
mortgage offers or the mortgage terms say that Mr B and Miss W were entitled to another 
interest rate after their initial fixed interest rate expired.
Im also conscious that Landmark is not preventing Mr B and Miss W from moving to a new 
lender  for example, Mr B and Miss W would not be required to pay an early repayment 
charge if they got a mortgage with another lender. 
Mr B and Miss W have told us that theyve been unable to re-mortgage on affordability 
grounds and are looking to sell their property. They havent shared the detail of their plans 
with us or told us what they did exactly to try to re-mortgage with another lender. I can see 
that Landmark has made its borrowers aware that they can get regulated mortgage advice 
without any cost to them. So Im satisfied Landmark has done what I would expect it to do to 
assist Mr B and Miss W. If Mr B and Miss W get regulated mortgage advice they will be able 
to consider their options and their ability to move their mortgage elsewhere.
I appreciate that Mr B and Miss W are likely to be disappointed by this decision. But for the 
reasons set out above, I dont uphold this complaint.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss W and Mr B 
to accept or reject my decision before 11 August 2023.
 
Laura Forster
Ombudsman