DRN-2764159
The complaint
 Mr K brings this complaint as executor of the estate of his father, Mr S.
Mr K is unhappy that Lloyds Bank plc (Lloyds ) applied charges to Mr Ss business account 
when he was no longer running a business and was suffering from dementia.
What happened
Mr S had a business account with Lloyds. Mr S died in March 2020, and Mr K complained to 
Lloyds about the charges that had been applied to Mr Ss business account. 
Mr K said that his fathers business stopped operating around 20 years ago. He thought that 
Lloyds shouldve been monitoring the account and shouldve seen that there was no 
business activity, and therefore shouldnt have applied charges for a business account.
Mr K said that Mr S had suffered from dementia for 10 years, and that hed spoken to Lloyds 
about his fathers health on the phone at some point in the last few years, and also when he 
went into a branch. He said he had power of attorney for his father but had been told he had 
to come into a branch with his father.
Lloyds reviewed the account and said that there had been activity on the account up to April 
2020. The signature on account had been updated in 2013, and there had been payments 
out of the account by way of cheque and faster payments. It acknowledged that the credits 
to the account had been Mr Ss pension but said that it did not monitor the use of business 
accounts unless there was a concern, or it was contacted about this. It thought there had 
been ample opportunity to close the account since 2013 and noted that statements had been 
sent to Mr Ss address throughout this time showing the charges. It didnt uphold Mr Ks 
complaint. 
 
Mr K was unhappy with this and brought the case to our service.
Our investigator sympathised with the difficult time Mr K had endured, with both parents 
being ill, but agreed with Lloyds that the account had been in active use. He thought that it 
had been up to Mr S to tell Lloyds about any change to his business situation. He reviewed 
the account records and couldnt see any record of Mr K contacting Lloyds about Mr Ss 
health, or a power of attorney. He didnt uphold Mr Ks complaint.
Mr K was unhappy with this, so the case has come to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I can see that Mr K has had a difficult time dealing with his parents illness when he returned 
to the UK from Australia in 2017 and I can understand that this will have been stressful for 
him. He has been dealing with his fathers estate following his death and is unhappy to see 
that his father was paying bank charges on a business account that wasnt being used as 
such. In order to consider Mr Ks complaint, I have reviewed all the information provided 
about Mr Ss account. 
I can see from the information provided by Lloyds that Mr Ss signature was updated in 2013 
and there were payments made from the account until April 2020, with Mr Ss pension also 
being paid into that account. I can also see that cheques were written on the account up to 
February 2017. So, it is clear that the account was being used. 
I have considered whether this usage shouldve given Lloyds any cause for concern. Mr K 
has commented that some payments were made by or with the help of others in the course 
of managing Mr Ss affairs due to Mr Ss incapacity, but I havent seen anything to suggest 
that Lloyds shouldve been aware of this. So, I cant see that the account activity should 
have caused Lloyds to take steps to monitor the account.
I can see that overall the activity on the account was limited, which wouldve indicated that 
that it wasnt being used as a business account but, as Ive said, I cant see that there was 
any activity that should have prompted Lloyds to monitor the account. Lloyds say that they 
dont monitor business accounts unless they are contacted or have a cause for concern. I 
also note that Lloyds business account terms require customers to tell the bank about any 
changes, and this is what it would expect from its customers. Mr S hadnt told Lloyds that his 
business was no longer operating. So, in following its usual processes, Lloyds wasnt 
treating Mr S differently to its other customers or treating him unfairly.
 
I can see that Mr K thinks Lloyds processes should involve better monitoring, but it is not for 
this service to comment on a businesss general processes. Our role is to determine whether 
the business acted fairly in the circumstances of this case.  
Looking at what happened here, Lloyds says that the last contact it had with Mr S was in 
2014, which from what I can see, was when a new standing order was set up on the 
account.  If Mr S, or anyone authorised to act on his behalf had told Lloyds that the business 
had ceased operating, or provided information about Mr Ss health, I wouldve expected 
Lloyds to review whether the account remained suitable for him, and to follow its usual 
processes in relation to management of the account. As Ive already said, Mr S hadnt given 
Lloyds any information, and I understand that his health may have been a factor in this, but I 
cant hold Lloyds responsible if it wasnt aware of this. The evidence Ive seen regarding the 
information provided to Lloyds by Mr K is conflicting, so I have to decide what is likely to 
have happened based on the available evidence.
Lloyds contact notes dont refer to any discussions with Mr K about Mr Ss business or 
health, and I can see that the first contact from Mr K on its records is on 24 April 2020 when 
Mr K informed it of Mr Ss death.
Mr K says that he contacted Lloyds at some point by phone and told it that it shouldnt be 
charging for a business account and that Mr S had dementia. He says that he was told he 
had to bring his father into a branch in order to make any changes.  Mr K also says that he 
had a power of attorney for Mr S from 2017 and that he took this into a branch but received 
no help from Lloyds.
I have looked into Lloyds processes in these circumstances to see what they would normally 
have done if a third party contacted them with concerns about a customer. Based on this, my 
understanding is that Lloyds wouldve checked whether Mr K had authority to act on behalf 
of Mr S, and wouldve wanted to record any power of attorney on its systems and to obtain a 
signed mandate in relation to this. I cant see that Lloyds wouldve necessarily required Mr S 
to come into a branch. And regardless of the availability of evidence of authority, Lloyds would also have recorded what Mr K said on the account and confirmed to him that it was 
doing so. 
In the light of this, and the absence of a record of either the conversations with Lloyds that 
Mr K has referred to, I cant fairly say that what Ive seen shows that its more likely than not 
that that Lloyds was notified of Mr Ss circumstances. 
 
In the light of this, I cant fairly say that Lloyds shouldve reviewed the account, or that Lloyds 
had any reason to stop charging the fees that it was entitled to charge under its terms and 
conditions.
 
In summary, I think Lloyds was entitled to apply charges in line with its terms and conditions, 
and I cant see that it had received information to suggest that this wasnt appropriate. 
Accordingly, I am not going to ask it to refund the charges. I know Mr K will be disappointed 
with this, and I can understand that it will feel unfair given his fathers circumstances. But as I 
have not found that Lloyds did anything wrong, I cant fairly require it to refund the charges 
as Mr K asks.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr K on behalf of 
the estate of Mr S to accept or reject my decision before 6 July 2021.
 
Rosemary Campbell
Ombudsman