DRN-2242074
The complaint
Mr W and Mrs W complain that Bank of Scotland plc (trading at the time of sale as Halifax) 
mis-sold them a mortgage payment protection insurance (MPPI) policy.
What happened
Mr W and Mrs W bought a regular premium MPPI policy in March 1995 alongside a 
mortgage. The policy covered Mr W and Mrs W against unemployment, accidents and 
sickness.
Mr W and Mrs W say if Halifax had given clearer advice, they dont feel they would have 
agreed to have the MPPI policy. They add if Halifax had given them an option to have the 
policy, they would have declined it. In addition, they say that due to their circumstances and 
other means they wouldnt have needed the policy. They say they were mis-sold the MPPI 
policy.
Our adjudicator didnt uphold Mr W and Mrs Ws complaint. As they dont agree with the 
adjudicators opinion, the complaint has been passed to me, an ombudsman, to make a 
decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding Mr W and Mrs Ws case.
Ive looked at all of the information provided by both parties and decided not to uphold        
Mr W and Mrs Ws complaint because of the following reasons:
Mr W and Mrs W say they werent given an option to have the MPPI policy.
I acknowledge what Mr W and Mrs W have said about this. I cant be sure exactly 
what was discussed between Mr W and Mrs W and Halifax when the policy was sold. 
Im also mindful that the sale took place many years ago, and that detailed 
recollections of what happened can fade over time.
Halifax hasnt provided much documentation from the time the policy was sold. Thats 
not surprising either given the time thats passed, and its similar to some other cases 
Ive seen. 
Without anything else to support what Mr W and Mrs W have told me and based on 
what I know of sales conducted by Halifax during that time, I cant safely conclude 
that Halifax didnt make them aware of the policy or that it was optional and that they 
chose to have it. 
Moving on, Halifax has said it recommended the MPPI to Mr W and Mrs W and so, 
as this puts additional responsibilities on the business, I will proceed that this was the 
case. So, as it did recommend the policy to Mr W and Mrs W, it had to ensure during 
the sale that the policy was suitable for them. 
After reviewing the very limited information, it doesnt look as if the MPPI policy was 
unsuitable for Mr W and Mrs W based on what Ive seen of their circumstances at the 
time. Mr W and Mrs W both say they wouldve had generous sick pay entitlements 
but cannot recall what this would have been. In addition, they say Mr W wouldve had 
around £60,000 in savings. Our service asked for further information about this but 
understandably due to the amount of time that has passed they have been unable to 
provide supporting evidence. Mr W and Mrs W have said they didnt need the policy 
because they had enough in savings if needed so I have thought about this.
Mr W and Mrs W say they would have had more savings than the amount they asked 
to borrow with their mortgage. So, I think its reasonable to conclude that they wanted 
to keep hold of their savings. When I consider this alongside the cost of the policy 
and the benefit it potentially provided, I agree with our adjudicator, that they would 
have found value in having the cover on their mortgage. I am persuaded the benefit 
would have been of use to Mr W and Mrs W during a difficult time. I think, on 
balance, they would have found the cover provided of use to them in a time of need. I 
also couldnt find any other reason such as a significant or limiting term that would 
make the policy unsuitable for them either.
Halifax has provided some information about the costs relating to the MPPI policy 
that Mr W and Mrs W took out but even though it has provided information detailing 
how much it cost and the benefits, I cannot be sure that the costs were disclosed to 
Mr W and Mrs W in a clear and fair way at the time of sale. That said, even if they 
were disclosed clearly, I dont think Mr W and Mrs W would have done anything 
different and decided against having the policy for the reasons that I have already 
given for the policy being suitable.
Its possible Halifax didnt point out the main things the policy didnt cover. But its 
unlikely Mr W and Mrs W wouldve been affected by any of these.
In conclusion, although I know it will come as a disappointment, I do not uphold Mr W 
and Mrs Ws complaint.
My final decision
I do not uphold Mr W and Mrs Ws complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W and Mrs W 
to accept or reject my decision before 8 January 2021.
 
Mark Richardson
Ombudsman