DRN-3735530
The complaint
Mr S complains that MBNA Limited unfairly rejected his claim under the Consumer Credit 
Act 1974 (CCA) in respect of the purchase of timeshare points. The timeshare was 
acquired jointly by Mr and Mrs S, but the claim is made by Mr S alone as the credit card 
account holder and for simplicity I will refer to Mr S as the owner in this decision. Mr S is 
represented by firm of solicitors, which I will refer to as L here
What happened
In September 2001 Mr S purchased timeshare points from a company I will call C. It cost 
£26,587 of which £5,727 was due by 14 October. Of this sum £800 was paid by means of Mr 
Ss credit card with MBNA. P has said this was an upgrade from an earlier points purchase.
In September 2021 August 2020 L made a claim against MBNA on behalf of Mr and Mrs S 
for problems they said they had encountered with the timeshare. L set out a list of issues, 
but for the purposes of brevity I will summarise as follows:
The products were misrepresented.
They were told if they upgraded for more points, they would be given exclusive 
membership with access to cheaper holidays and higher quality accommodation and 
be able to book during peak times. This was not true.
They were told they would have to pay reduced maintenance fees, but they were 
forced to pay increasing sums to cover maintenance costs.
They were told that they would have specific rights to certain resorts and this proved 
to be untrue.
The resorts they used proved to be variable in quality with some being poor and 
others relatively good.
They were pressurised into buy the points
L sought a sum of £30,000 to cover the costs incurred by Mr and Mrs S. MBNA rejected the 
claim and said there was insufficient information about the purchase and in any event the 
claim had been brought too late as the account had been closed in May 2009.under the 
provisions set out in the Limitation Act 1980 (LA). P disagreed and said Mr S had spoken to 
a Mr W at MBNA who had confirmed the account was closed in 2020. MBNA says is has not 
record of this or of a Mr W.
L brought a complaint to this service and argued that the timeshare was misrepresented by 
C for much the same reasons they had set out in the claim to MBNA. It provided a copy of a 
phone bill which it said showed Mr S had called MBNA in 2021.
It argued that the complaint was not subject to a 6-year time limit, but rather it was 12 years.
It referenced recent legal decision including Patel v Patel. It also said MBNA had not given 
proper consideration to s 32 LA and it referred to two recent decisions by this service.
The complaint was considered by one of our investigators who didnt recommend it be 
upheld. She concluded that the complaint was in time for our service to consider it. However, 
she believed the claim was out of time.
L didnt agree and said our investigator should have taken a less technical view looking at 
the complaint holistically. It also said she had failed to consider s 14 LA which would have 
allowed the limitation period to be longer. It argued that Mr S did not have sufficient 
information in September to conclude he had grounds to make a claim. It said Mr S relied on 
s 32 which dealt with situations where one party had concealed a plaintiffs right of action.
I issued a provisional decision which reads as follows:
Under the rules that govern how I assess complaints, I must take account of law and 
regulations, regulators' rules, guidance and standards, and codes of practice and good 
industry practice, when I make my decision.
I also focus on what I think is material and relevant to reach a fair and reasonable outcome. 
So although I have read everything that has been supplied to me, I may not address every 
point that has been raised.
Can we consider the complaint under DISP 2.8.2(2)?
Our rules say that we cant consider a complaint if a consumer refers it to us more than:
(a) six years after the event complained of; or (if later)
(b) three years from the date on which the complainant became aware (or ought reasonably 
to have become aware) that he had cause for complaint
unless:
the failure to comply with the time limits was as a result of exceptional circumstances.
When assessing and declining a claim under the Consumer Credit Act, a business is 
exercising its rights and duties under a regulated credit agreement. A consumer may then 
complain if they feel that a business has failed to fulfil its obligations under this credit 
agreement, because they havent received satisfactory compensation for their claim.
So in this case, it follows that the event complained of is MBNAs decision in December 
2021 to decline the claim you made regarding the timeshare, rather than the sale itself. He 
then complained in March 2022, which is well within the six-year time limit specified in the 
rules.
Because of this, I think we can look at this complaint, as it has been brought within the time 
limits set under DISP 2.8.2(2). So, I will now go on to consider your complaint, which is that 
MBNA would not look into the claim under the Limitation Act.
S 75
Under s.75, MBNA is jointly and severally liable with the supplier of the goods or services for 
any breach of contract or misrepresentation by the supplier. This means, Mr S has a like 
claim against MBNA just as he would have against the supplier. So, if his claim against the supplier of the timeshare has likely expired under the Limitation Act, then that is something 
MBNA could take into account when it considers his claims against it.
The claim under s.75 CCA
Mr S said that C misrepresented the nature of the membership to him when he bought it. 
However, under s.9 LA, Mr S had to make that claim within six years of when he entered into 
the timeshare and credit agreements  which was in September 2001  because that is 
when they say they lost out having relied on false statement of fact.
As they first made a claim to MBNA in or around September 2021, that fell outside of the 
time limit set out in the LA.
The claim under s.140A CCA
While only a court has the power to make a determination under s.140A CCA, as it is 
relevant law, I have to consider it when deciding what is a fair and reasonable outcome.
Much like a claim under s.75 CCA, the LA also applies to claims under s.140A CCA. Under 
s.9 LA Mr S had to make his claim within six years of when the loan ended  which 
according to MBNA 2009. But as the claim was made in or around September 2021, it was 
made outside of the time limit that applies.
L say that the account wasnt closed until 2020, but all they have produced is a record of 
phone calls, one of which was allegedly to MBNA. That does not demonstrate the account 
was still open. MBNA has explained that it took over this business in 2016 but it has supplied 
internal records which show it being closed in 2009. I have no reason to doubt that.
Could limitation be extended?
The LA provides for extensions of the time limits in certain circumstances. L refers to s 32 as 
one basis for extending the time limit. I have considered the facts of this complaint and I do 
not think the lime limits I have set out above can be extended under any of the provisions of 
the LA.
L argues that an unfair relationship with the timeshare provider continued beyond September 
2001 and, as the credit card account from MBNA had been used to fund the timeshare 
purchase, time for the purposes of the LA did not start to run until the relationship had been 
brought to an end.
I am satisfied s.9 LA applies to this claim, not s.8 LA, as Mr S is making a claim for sums 
recoverable by statute
S.140A CCA looks at the fairness of the relationship between a debtor and creditor arising 
out of the credit agreement (taken together with any related agreement). But once Mr S 
cleared the £800 sum in full, the agreement between him and MBNA ended. As it was only 
the relationship between Mr S and MBNA that could be found unfair, limitation started to run 
when the credit agreement ended.
Section 32
Typically s.32 applies to fraudulent misrepresentation but it does extend to concealment. In 
cases where that has been alleged, it can extend the time the consumer has to raise a claim. 
However, it is more likely that if the consumer has raised a number of issues with the 
product (over and above commission) in their claim/complaint and those issues could have been discoverable earlier, we would typically say the consumer had discovered or ought to 
have been able to discover that something had gone wrong and if that was in excess of 6 
years before claim, we would not find that s.32 extends time.
Conclusion
For the reasons set out above, I currently think MBNA acted fairly in turning down Mr Ss 
claim under s.75 as it was brought too late. As such I do not consider it necessary to 
consider the merits of the claim.
L responded and said that Mr and Mrs S only became aware of they could complain much 
later that 2010 when they entered into the agreement. T said that no reasoning had been 
provided why the 2010 date was the starting point for six year time limit. It also said the 
finance was not a loan, but a credit agreement which had not ended. It supplied a copy of a 
credit card statement from November 2009.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I asked both MBNA and T for more details regarding the credit card account used to pay C. 
T provided copies of credit card statements from 2009 and 2014. These carried different 
account numbers and I sought further clarification. T said that there was one account, but 
the card number had changed with the issue of a new card. It referred to a letter from MBNA 
in September 2021 which referred to card number 3006 (previously 4486). It said that this 
showed that MBNA recognised this was one account. It is worth noting that the letter stated 
that account 3006 was closed in May 2009.
I put this to MBNA which said that card 3006 was a Mastercard account and card 4486 was 
a Visa account. It had looked at its records which went back to 2010 and there were no 
transactions with C for the Visa account. MBNA said the Mastercard account was opened in 
November 1995 and closed before the bank had migrated on to its new parent company 
system. Its records, which it sent to me, shows that the Visa account was opened in 
September 2002 and closed in May 2020.
I shared this with T and it replied saying that it didnt follow the explanation and said it had 
provided evidence that the two accounts were in fact one. 
Having reviewed the evidence provided by both parties I have concluded that there were two 
accounts. MBNA has supplied its internal records which clearly show two accounts for Mr S 
and while it sent a letter which on the face of it connected the two I am not persuaded this 
was accurate. I fear the writer may have accidentally conflated two separate accounts. The 
detailed internal records show two separate accounts and the one which Mr S used to make 
the payment to S was closed in 2009.
On the other point raised by T there is little I can add to my provisional decision. It has said 
that Mr S didnt know and had no reason to be aware of the basis of his complaint in 2001.
Mr S says that C misrepresented the nature of the timeshare membership to him when he 
bought it. However, under s.2 of the LA (the applicable section for misrepresentation, see 
Green v Eadie & Ors [2011] EWHC B24 (Ch) [2012] Ch 363), Mr S had to make this claim 
within six years of when he acquired the points and made the credit card payment.  This is 
because that is when he says he lost out, having relied on false statements of fact. Mr S 
purchased the points at the time of sale (September 2001) but did not raise his claim under s.75 CCA until September 2021  which means he was outside the time limits set out in the 
LA. As a result, MBNA is entitled to rely on the LA as a complete defence to this claim. And 
for that reason, I cannot say it acted unfairly when arguing that this claim had been made too 
late.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S and Mrs S to 
accept or reject my decision before 5 January 2023.
 
Ivor Graham
Ombudsman