DRN-2792503
The complaint
Miss L says AXA France IARD (AXA) mis-sold her a payment protection insurance (PPI) 
policy. 
What happened
Miss L bought the policy in 1997 at the same time as taking out a store card. Our adjudicator 
didnt uphold the complaint. 
Miss L disagreed with the adjudicators opinion so the complaint has been passed to me. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Where the evidence is incomplete, inconclusive or contradictory (as some of it is here), I 
reach my conclusions on the balance of probabilities  that is, what I think is most likely to 
have happened in light of the available evidence and the wider surrounding circumstances. 
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding Miss Ls case. 
Ive decided not to uphold Miss Ls complaint and Ive set out my reasons below. 
The credit agreement Miss L signed was completed to show that she wanted the PPI. 
So I think she wouldve realised she had a choice about buying the cover. From what 
Ive seen, I think AXA made Miss L aware the PPI was optional and she chose to buy 
it. 
AXA didnt recommend the PPI to Miss L so it didnt have to check if it was suitable 
for her. Ive noted what Miss L has said about the relationship between her earnings 
and state benefits. But as AXA didnt recommend the policy it didnt have to ask 
about any other means Miss L might have had to cover her repayments.
Its possible the information AXA gave Miss L about the PPI wasnt as clear as it 
should have been. The application form Miss L completed suggests she was 
employed when she took out the policy, but Miss L has told me she thinks she was 
self-employed at the time. But even if Miss L was self-employed, it wouldnt have 
been any more difficult for her to claim the policys unemployment benefit than it 
wouldve been for someone who was employed. 
The policy was also competitively priced and had a reasonable benefit. As Miss L 
couldve benefited from the full extent of the cover I dont think better information 
about the policy wouldve stopped her buying it. 
My final decision
My decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss L to accept or 
reject my decision before 18 November 2021.
 
Caroline Stirling
Ombudsman