DRN-1515606
 
The complaint
Mr and Mrs S complained about U K Insurance Limited. They arent happy that it wouldnt 
pay the full cost of their ski pass following a claim under their travel insurance policy. 
What happened
Mr and Mrs S had to cancel their skiing holiday as Mr S had a serious illness. The majority of 
the claim was settled but there remained a dispute about the cost of their ski passes. Mr and 
Mrs S wanted their full costs paid while UKI had only offered a part payment.
As Mr and Mrs S were away for over a week they needed a ski pass for the duration of the 
holiday. And it worked out significantly cheaper to buy a years pass as opposed to a two-
week pass or two weekly passes. But UKI only offered a pro-rata payment which meant that 
the amount offered was less than the cost of the weekly pass. So Mr and Mrs S complained 
to UKI and then this service.
Our investigator looked into things for them and upheld their complaint. He thought the fair 
and reasonable thing to do was to pay Mr and Mrs Ss ski pass costs in full. This was 
because Mr and Mrs S had researched the position before going on holiday and realised that 
it was far cheaper to buy a season pass than it was to buy a seven-day pass, never mind a 
two-week pass. And our investigator didnt think it was fair to penalise them for being 
sensible when they purchased the ski passes. 
As UKI didnt agree the matter has been passed to me for review.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Having done so I think the complaint 
should be upheld. Ill explain why. 
As the majority of the claim has been dealt with and both sides are happy the only issue left 
to consider is whether UKI should pay the full cost of the ski passes or not.
I can understand UKIs position. As the ski pass was capable of being used for a full ski 
season it worked out the daily rate and paid Mr and Mrs S a pro-rata payment for the 14 
days they couldnt use. 
In effect UKI has treated the seasonal pass as something that Mr and Mrs S intended to use 
all year round. I dont think this was an unreasonable starting position. But that isnt what Mr 
and Mrs S were planning to do, indeed they werent able to use the passes again as Mr S 
had major surgery. And it appears that UKI accepts this point. 
UKI has provided a copy of its system notes that show it checked online for information 
about ski passes at the ski resort. And it found that buying a seasonal pass was the cheapest option available. This position was also verified by our investigator.
UKI would have had to pay more under this claim if Mr and Mrs S paid for two weekly 
passes, in fact the amount it offered doesnt even cover one weeks pass. And Im satisfied 
that Mr and Mrs S only intended to use the ski pass as part of this holiday, plus it was 
nearing the end of the season in any event.  
So, as UKI accepts that getting a seasonal ski pass was the cheapest option, and Mr and 
Mrs S couldnt use it at any other point in time, I think the fair and reasonable thing to do is to 
refund the full season ski pass costs. Ultimately, I dont think it would be fair for Mr and Mrs 
S to be out of pocket just because they tried to mitigate their costs. And so UKI should pay 
the costs Mr and Mrs S incurred for their ski passes.
My final decision
It follows, for the reasons given above, that I uphold this complaint. I require U K Insurance 
Limited to pay Mr and Mrs S full seasonal ski passes costs. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs S and Mr S to 
accept or reject my decision before 18 June 2020.
Colin Keegan
Ombudsman