DRN-3235605
The complaint
Miss F complains that Ageas Insurance Limited (Ageas) avoided her car insurance policy 
and refused to pay out on her claim following the theft of her car.
What happened
Miss Fs car was stolen in July 2021 and so she made a claim on her car insurance policy. 
Miss F says that Ageas didnt pay out on the claim and cancelled her policy because she 
didnt declare some information when she renewed the policy. Miss F doesnt think this is 
fair.
Ageas responded to Miss Fs complaint. It explained that the policy was initially taken out on 
21 February 2020 via an intermediary. The policy provided cover for Miss F and a named 
driver for social domestic and pleasure purposes. The policy was renewed on 21 February 
2021. Ageas explained that when the theft of Miss Fs car was reported, it carried out the 
normal checks it would do in those circumstances and found the following:
There was a claim made on 15 June 2018 which Miss F didnt declare when she took 
out the policy.
In November 2020, Miss F had a different car insurance policy cancelled  and this 
should have been declared at renewal.
There was an undisclosed claim relating to the named driver on Miss Fs policy.
Miss F had said that shed use the car for 3,000 miles per year. However, this 
mileage was exceeded, and the actual mileage was more than Ageas would cover 
under the policy.
Ageas said it wouldnt have covered Miss F if it had known about these things and so it 
avoided Miss Fs policy from the point of renewal, as this is when Miss F ought to have 
declared the points listed above. It issued a refund of the premiums Miss F paid. And treated 
the policy as though it hadnt been in place. Because of this, it said it wouldnt cover Miss F 
for the theft of her car.
Miss F wasnt happy with this. She told this service that she didnt feel she had made a 
misrepresentation for the following reasons:
Incident from June 2018. Miss Fs personal and work car were hit and set on fire by 
children who were joy riding. Miss F says she reported the incident to her insurers, 
but she didnt make a claim for the small amount of damage to her personal car. Miss 
F says that her work dealt with her work car, and so she didnt know they had put in a 
claim.
Cancelled policy in November 2020. Miss F says she took out a policy to cover 
herself on her sons car  her son was a named driver on the policy. Miss F says the 
policy was cancelled because her son had points on his license. She adds that she 
remembers arguing the cancellation fees with the business but doesnt feel she had a 
policy at this time because it was cancelled.
On 23 July 2020, Miss Fs ex-partner had an incident which Miss F didnt declare. 
Miss F says she wasnt with her ex-partner at the time and so she didnt know about 
the incident. And she didnt think to remove her ex-partner from the policy when it 
renewed.
Incorrect mileage stated. Miss F wasnt aware that shed driven the car as much as 
she did  and because she had a work car and her ex-partner also had other 
vehicles, she didnt think shed use her car that much when she took out the cover. 
Miss F says she doesnt think she was asked any questions about mileage when she 
renewed the cover.
In addition to the above, Miss F says that she lives with anxiety and depression. On top of 
this, she became unwell in December 2020, and an operation on 10 February 2021. She 
was discharged from hospital the following day and went back to work in mid-March.
Our investigator looked into things for Miss F, but they didnt uphold her complaint. They 
found that Miss F had made a misrepresentation when her policy renewed by not declaring 
the mileage was more than the 3,000 she thought shed use the car for. The investigator was 
satisfied that Ageas wouldnt have provided cover for Miss F if it had been notified about the 
true mileage and so they said that under the rules that apply to insurers, Ageas acted 
reasonably when it avoided Miss Fs policy  so she wasnt covered for the theft of her car.
Miss F was unhappy with the investigators opinion. She explained that she was very unwell 
when the policy renewed. And she has described in detail how her anxiety and depression 
has affected her over the years. She explained that she has also suffered with long term 
illness which has further impacted her on a daily basis.
Ageas also responded to our investigator to say that the mileage wasnt the only reason it 
avoided the policy. It added that it would have avoided Miss Fs policy on the undisclosed 
cancellation alone too.  
Because Miss F didnt agree with our investigator, the complaint has been passed to me to 
make a decision on the matter.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. 
The relevant law in this case is The Consumer Insurance (Disclosure and Representations) 
Act 2012 (CIDRA). This requires consumers to take reasonable care not to make a 
misrepresentation when taking out a consumer insurance contract (a policy). The standard 
of care is that of a reasonable consumer. 
And if a consumer fails to do this, the insurer has certain remedies provided the 
misrepresentation is - what CIDRA describes as - a qualifying misrepresentation. For it to be 
a qualifying misrepresentation the insurer has to show it would have offered the policy on 
different terms or not at all if the consumer hadnt made the misrepresentation. CIDRA sets out a number of considerations for deciding whether the consumer failed to take 
reasonable care. And the remedy available to the insurer under CIDRA depends on whether 
the qualifying misrepresentation was deliberate or reckless, or careless.
While Ageas found Miss F didnt disclose several pieces of information, the reason they feel 
she failed to take reasonable care to not make a misrepresentation was because she didnt 
declare how many miles she intended to drive the car in a year, and she didnt declare that 
shed had a previous policy cancelled. 
So firstly, I need to check if Miss F was asked clear questions when the policy was renewed. 
Ive looked at the renewal notice that was sent to Miss F on 5 February 2021. It states:
Please check through the Statement of Information enclosed to ensure all details are 
correct and the level of cover meets your current needs. If there are any discrepancies 
please contact us on our dedicated renewals number below.
Towards the top of the Statement of Information if says:
WARNING: Please take reasonable care to answer all the questions honestly and to the 
best of your knowledge. If you do not your policy may be cancelled, or treated as if it never 
existed, or your claim may not be fully paid.
Further down the document, it shows the annual mileage as having been stated as 3,000 
miles, and below states see cover details for mileage restriction on policy.
Further down the document is states:
Have you or any driver ever had: Insurance cancelled or declared void (treated as if it 
never existed)? to which the answer had been predetermined based on the answers given 
when the policy was first taken out which was No.
Looking at this, I think it was clear that the information Ageas had about Miss F was that she 
declared shed use the car for 3,000 miles a year and that she hadnt previously had a policy 
cancelled. 
I dont think it is in dispute here that Miss F had in fact used her car for far more than 3,000 
miles in the previous year  her MOT from March 2020 shows 44,637 miles and the MOT 
from April 2021 shows 54,733 miles. And Miss F has explained that she was aware that the 
policy for her sons car had been cancelled in November 2020. 
Miss F didnt contact Ageas to notify them that either of these points werent accurate. So, 
Im satisfied that Miss F did make misrepresentations when her policy was renewed. 
I now need to decide if it was fair of Ageas to avoid Miss Fs policy based on these 
misrepresentations  so it wouldnt have insured Miss F if she had declared these things to it 
at renewal. 
Looking at the underwriting information Ageas has sent to me, I can see that it states that if 
the car was being driven for more than 7,500 miles per year, then it would decline to offer 
insurance. 
Miss Fs last MOT from April 2021 (shortly after the policy renewed) showed that shed 
driven the car for 10,099 miles in that year. And the MOT prior to this showed shed driven 
6,872 miles in that year. The average mileage in these two years was 8,486, which is above the 7,500 miles Ageas were prepared to insure any of its customers with this type of policy. 
Based on this, Im satisfied that Ageas acted fairly when it avoided Miss Fs policy.
Even if I dont take the average mileage into account, and just consider the year prior to 
renewal  Miss F has said herself that the car wasnt used much from when the policy 
renewed, up until the next MOT (possibly beyond) where the mileage was recorded  so its 
likely that the majority of the 10,099 miles was made up prior to the policy being renewed. 
Miss F had driven over three times more miles than she declared she would have in that 
policy year, and more than the maximum Ageas would have covered her for. I appreciate 
Miss F says that she wasnt aware that shed driven the car that much, but it was her 
responsibility to know this, and to provide accurate information to Ageas about how much 
she intended to drive  and I dont think she has done this. If Miss F had declared to Ageas 
her true mileage in the previous policy year, it would have declined to renew the policy 
because it wouldnt offer any of its customers a policy with that level of annual mileage. 
Ive also looked to see what Ageas would have done in the knowledge that Miss F had a 
policy cancelled. But the information Ageas has sent me doesnt say it would have declined 
the insurance  rather it would have referred this, which I presume would be a further 
investigation by the underwriters. Given the other issues Ive mentioned with the undisclosed 
fault claim, and the undisclosed claim for the named driver, I think it likely Ageas would have 
declined to offer her a policy once it had been referred to underwriting.
Ive taken on board Miss Fs comments, in that she was unwell when the policy renewed. So, 
she didnt think to make the changes to it. Clearly, she has been through a very difficult time. 
And I have no doubt that life has been very challenging for her and was only made worse by 
becoming unwell and having to have an operation. Ive thought carefully about these things, 
and while I empathise with Miss Fs situation, I have to take a step back and be fair to both 
parties. I dont think that Ageas acted unfairly or unreasonably when it avoided Miss Fs 
policy. 
I appreciate that Miss F says she didnt deliberately misrepresent information to Ageas, and 
Im minded agreeing with this. But I do think the misrepresentation was a careless one. The 
statement of information that Miss F was sent at renewal was clear about the level of 
mileage Miss F had declared. And it was clear that if any of the information on that document 
wasnt correct or accurate, then the policy could be treated as if it didnt exist, resulting in an 
unpaid claim  which is what has happened here. Even if Miss F was too unwell to notify 
Ageas of the inaccuracy at the time the policy renewed, she could and should have done this 
as soon as she got better, but she didnt do this. 
It follows that I dont think Ageas has done anything wrong when it avoided Miss Fs policy. 
And so I wont be asking Ageas to consider Miss Fs claim for the theft of her car. 
Looking at the information available to me, it appears that Ageas has treated the 
misrepresentation as being a careless one, which means that it has now refunded the 
premiums Miss F paid from renewal  which is what I would have expected it to do it these 
circumstances.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold Miss Fs complaint. Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss F to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 April 2022.
 
Sophie Wilkinson
Ombudsman