DRN-2826690
The complaint
Mr E is unhappy that Allianz Insurance Plc (trading as Pet Plan) has declined his pet 
insurance claim.
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here. The facts are not in dispute, so Ill focus on giving my reasons for my decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the conclusions reached by the investigator for these reasons:
Allianz gave Mr E free pet insurance cover for his dog for the period of 5 August 2020 
to 1 September 2020. Mr Es dog had treatment on 21 August 2020 which, at a cost 
of £50.84, fell below the policy excess so he wasnt reimbursed. I agree this is fair 
and in line with the terms and conditions of the policy. 
The dog also had treatment which took place on 2 September 2020 at a cost of £180. 
Mr E said this should be reimbursed because the diagnosis was well before the end 
date of the policy. The policy documentation states that, in terms of veterinary fees, 
Allianz will pay Up to £4,000 for the cost of veterinary treatment your pet has 
received during the period of cover to treat injury or illness. And veterinary treatment 
is defined as Any examination, consultation, advice, diagnostic procedure, surgery 
and nursing carried out by a vet, a veterinary nurse.. Furthermore, the policy says 
it wont pay Any costs for treating an injury or illness after the last day of the period 
of cover. Im satisfied that Allianz made it clear it wouldnt pay for any treatment after 
1 September 2020, regardless of the date of diagnosis. 
Mr E also said he couldnt get an appointment before 2 September 2020 because of 
Covid-19. The treatment appears to have been arranged on 28 August 2020 for 2 
September 2020. This isnt a significant amount of time, especially considering there 
was a weekend between these dates. But, more importantly, the vet said it was 
operating as normal other than having more limited staff. So I dont think its fair to 
say the delays were a result of Covid-19. And it wouldnt be fair or reasonable to 
expect Allianz to pay for treatment outside of the period of cover simply because an 
appointment for a surgical procedure wasnt available in less than five days.  
I also note the policy says If an injury or illness is covered by this four week policy 
and you want us to continue to provide cover for it after this insurance end, you need 
to start an annual policy with us before this free cover ends, ensuring there is no 
break in cover. So I think Mr E had a clear opportunity to continue with the cover for 
this illness. And this would most likely have resulted in the claim being paid. 
For these reasons, I dont uphold this complaint.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I dont uphold this complaint against Allianz Insurance Plc 
(trading as Pet Plan). 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr E to accept or 
reject my decision before 24 June 2021.
 
Melanie Roberts
Ombudsman