DRN-3771592
The complaint
Mr C is a sole trader. He complains that Accelerant Insurance Limited unfairly avoided his 
Farm Combined insurance policy and declined his claim. 
Mr C is represented on this complaint. For ease of reading, Ive referred to the comments by 
Mr Cs representative as those of Mr C. 
What happened
There was a fire at Mr Cs farm which damaged one of the buildings. Because of this, Mr C
claim on his Farm Combined insurance policy for the damage caused by the fire. Accelerant
reviewed the claim and discovered that Mr C rented out a unit in the building which caught
fire. The business Mr C rented the unit to stored animals used for parties, events, and
therapy.
Accelerant said that if Mr C had told them exotic animals were being stored in the building,
which required heat lamps and pads then it wouldnt have provided cover. Because of this
Accelerant avoided the policy and declined the claim.
Mr C didnt think this was fair and complained. He said hed told Accelerant that an events
company used the building for storage. He also said the business who used the building to
store the animals took them to schools, care homes and parties so thought describing them
as an events company was a fair presentation of the risk. Mr C also thought it wasnt fair to
refer to the animals as exotic as most of the animals stored were insects and other animals
usually kept as pets. As Mr C wasnt satisfied with Accelerant avoiding the policy, he brought
the complaint to our service.
Our investigator reviewed the complaint and didnt recommend it be upheld. He found that
Accelerant had been fair in saying Mr C hadnt provided a fair presentation of the risk when
taking out the policy. He also found that if Accelerant had known what was being stored in
the building then it wouldnt have offered cover.  
I issued a provisional decision on this complaint on 2 September 2022 where I said:
When Mr C bought their policy, he had a responsibility  under the Insurance Act 2015 (the
Act)  to make a fair presentation of the risk. And for Accelerant to take any action at all it
needs to show Mr C didnt do this and that he made whats known as a qualifying breach.
Under the Act a qualifying breach is a breach for which the insurer has a remedy against the
customer because they would either not have sold them the policy, or would have done so
on different terms.
Accelerant said Mr C bought their policy through a broker who filled in an online
questionnaire on a portal. This information was then put into the statement of fact which says
under the Agricultural Buildings section:
Are the farm buildings occupied solely by you in connection with your
business?
Next to this is says Yes. Accelerant said the broker Mr C used also let them know when
taking out the policy that one of the buildings was rented to an Events Company for
storage.
During the claim Accelerant discovered the building was rented to a company who
stored exotic animals there. I understand that Mr C doesnt count the animals being any
different to animals youd expect to see on a farm and therefore should be counted as stock.
However, from looking at the list of animals stored I can see there was a Giant Tortoise,
Meerkats, Armadillo, Skunks, Kinkajou, Snakes, Scorpion, Tarantula and various birds
among the list. Im therefore not persuaded Accelerant are being unreasonable in
categorising them as exotic animals. And while they may be taken to an event, Im satisfied
Accelerant have acted fairly and reasonably when saying Mr C didnt give a fair presentation
of the risk by declaring the building as being used as storage by an events company.
For Accelerant to take any action at all though it needs to show it would have either not
insured Mr C, or done so, but on different terms. Accelerant has provided evidence which
shows it wouldnt have insured Mr C if theyd known what was being stored in the building.
Im therefore satisfied that Accelerant has shown Mr C has made what is known as a
qualifying breach.
The remedies available to Accelerant depend on whether a qualifying breach is either
deliberate or reckless, or, neither deliberate nor reckless. Accelerant havent said whether it
thinks Mr Cs breach is deliberate or reckless, or, neither deliberate nor reckless. However
Accelerant has avoided the policy and said its refunded the premium to Mr C. This is the
remedy for when a qualifying breach is neither deliberate nor reckless. Im satisfied thats a
fair and reasonable outcome in the circumstances and therefore Accelerant need to refund
Mr C the premium if not already done so.
Mr C provided a detailed response. In summary, he said the response in the statement of 
fact about whether the farm buildings were solely occupied by him was correct, he also 
raised other errors on the statement of fact which he said Accelerant hadnt corrected. He 
also said hed provided sufficient information to Accelerant to put it on notice to ask further 
questions about what his tenant was using the building for. He also disagreed that 
Accelerant wouldnt have provided cover if it had known what animals were being stored and 
referred to other policies where cover had been provided. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive reviewed Mr Cs response and its not persuaded me to depart from my provisional 
decision. Ill explain why below.
When Mr C let Accelerant know that one of his units was rented out, he told them it was 
used by an events company for storage. However, Im not satisfied that was a fair 
presentation of the risk for the reasons in my provisional decision which Ive copied above. 
I understand Mr C believes that he provided enough information about the risk he wanted to 
cover, and that Accelerant should have asked further questions about what was being 
stored. Ive considered this but Im not persuaded Accelerant did anything wrong by not 
asking further questions in this particular case. 
I say that because Accelerant said that from the information given, it thought the unit was 
being used to store apparatus, tools or otherwise for the use at parties, weddings, corporate events etc. When considering that Accelerant had been told the unit was being used for 
storage by an events company, Im not persuaded the interpretation of this to mean tools 
and apparatus used for parties, weddings and corporate events was unreasonable or that it 
meant Accelerant needed to ask further questions to know what was being stored. I 
therefore dont agree with Mr Cs point that he had given sufficient information to put 
Accelerant on notice to ask further questions in this particular situation. 
Ive also considered the point about Accelerant accepting other policies with risks similar to 
Mr Cs. The information provided by Mr C refers to other policies which are branded the 
same as Mr Cs but its not clear if the insurer is Accelerant. In any event, Accelerant has 
provided a signed witness statement by one of its lead underwriters which says it wouldnt 
have covered Mr C had it known what was being stored. Im therefore not persuaded 
Accelerant would have covered Mr C if itd known the unit was being used to store exotic 
animals and it is therefore entitled to avoid his policy.
As Accelerant is entitled to avoid Mr Cs policy, it follows that it also acted fairly and 
reasonably in declining his claim as there was no policy in force. 
I recognise this isnt the answer Mr C was hoping for, given the impact of the fire. However, it 
remains that I think Accelerant acted reasonably in avoiding Mr Cs policy and declining his 
claim. 
My final decision
For the reasons explained above, and in my provisional decision, my final decision is that 
Accelerant Insurance Limited acted fairly and reasonably in avoiding the policy and declining 
the claim but needs to refund the premium if not already done so. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 22 November 2022.
 
Alex Newman
Ombudsman