DRN-3028981
complaint
This complaint is about a credit card payment protection insurance (PPI) policy taken out in 
2002. Mr A says Bank of Scotland Plc (BoS) mis-sold him PPI.
background
The background and circumstances leading up to this complaint, which includes Mr As 
circumstances at the time of the sale as well as the PPI policy benefits, limitations and 
exclusions of cover, arent disputed. So I havent repeated all of this information here.
Our adjudicator did not uphold the mis-sale complaint.
Mr As representative disagreed with the adjudicators opinion  they didnt raise any new or 
additional points but repeated the same complaint points and arguments theyd previously 
made. 
As the complaint couldnt be resolved informally, it has been passed to me for a final 
decision.
my findings
Although I have only included a summary of the complaint, I have read and considered all 
the evidence and arguments available to me from the outset, in order to decide what is, in 
my opinion, fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of this complaint. 
When considering what is fair and reasonable, I am required to take into account relevant: 
law and regulations; regulators rules, guidance and standards; codes of practice; and, 
where appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry practice at the time. 
Weve set out our general approach to PPI mis-sale complaints on our website and 
published some example final decisions that set out in detail how these relevant 
considerations may apply to PPI sales like Mr As. I havent set out that detailed information 
here but Ive taken into account all relevant considerations in deciding Mr As complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided not to uphold the mis-sale complaint. Ive also considered the 
issue of non-disclosure of commission. And Ive decided BoS didnt need to tell Mr A about 
the commission it received - so BoS doesnt need to pay back any of the commission Mr A 
paid for the PPI. But in any event BoS has offered to pay back some of the cost of the PPI, 
so I dont think it needs to do anything more. Ive summarised my reasons for each of these 
conclusions below. 
 
In summary, my reasons for not upholding the mis-sale part of this complaint are:
I think BoS made it clear that Mr A didnt have to take out the PPI and he chose to take it 
out. I say this because Ive seen a copy of the credit agreement for the card. There was 
a separate section for PPI that had to be signed in if the PPI was required. Mr A has 
signed in that section to request the policy.
BoS recommended the PPI to Mr A so it had to check that the PPI was right for him. And 
the evidence about Mr As circumstances at the time, shows that the policy wasnt 
fundamentally wrong or unsuitable for him. Mr A didnt respond to further requests about 
his circumstances at the time, but we know from his application form that he was 
working. So it appears that Mr A was eligible for the cover and had limited means to fall 
back on, so he had a need for cover. 
There was nothing about Mr As employment or occupation which would have made it 
difficult for him to claim. Although Mr A says he had a medical condition some time 
before the policy was taken out, I dont think it was wrong for BoS to have recommended 
it. I say this because Mr A has told us he had joint pain in 1994 but he hasnt said that it 
wasnt successfully treated at that time, such that it was causing him ongoing difficulties 
in 2002. 
Its possible the information BoS gave Mr A about the PPI wasnt as clear as it should 
have been. But Ive found that he chose to take it out - so it looks like he wanted this type 
of cover. The cover wasnt fundamentally wrong for Mr A as I concluded above, or too 
dissimilar to what he reasonably thought he was buying from the information he was 
given. It also looks like it was affordable  so it seems like it would have been useful for 
him if something went wrong. Because of this I dont think Mr A would have declined the 
cover had BoS done anything more.
While the policy contained limitations on claims relating to back and mental health 
conditions, in light of Mr As circumstances at the time of sale and despite its limitations 
and exclusions, the policy wasnt fundamentally wrong or unsuitable for him. So I think 
he would have still thought he had some good reasons to take the policy out.
Overall, I consider that Mr A would have still taken out PPI. I think the policy could provide a 
useful benefit in a difficult time, given his circumstances at the time. I also think the policy 
was sufficiently close to what its likely he thought he was getting. And in those 
circumstances, I think that he would have taken out the policy in any event.
Mr As representative has raised a number of what I consider to be general complaint points, 
which it says apply to all PPI complaints. These general points include: a claim that the 
Financial Ombudsman Service is not correctly applying the regulators rules and guidance 
for handling PPI complaints; these policies represented poor value because of the number of 
significant exclusions and limitations of cover coupled with the low claims ratio; and the duty 
of utmost good faith meant BoS should have disclosed the poor value and explained the 
significance of the limitations and exclusions and the impact it had on the chances of making 
a claim.
But Mr As representative has not said how these points apply to the specific facts and 
circumstances of Mr As individual complaint  just that they apply to all PPI complaints.
I have thought about these things and how they might apply in Mr As particular case. But 
these points dont persuade me to alter my conclusions about what is fair and reasonable in 
all the circumstances of the complaint  for the reasons Ive set out above I dont uphold the 
mis-sale element of this complaint. 
This means BoS doesnt have to pay back all of the cost of the PPI to Mr A.
non-disclosure of commission
As I said above, Ive also considered the issue of non-disclosure of commission, including whether the non-disclosure resulted in an unfair relationship under section 140A of the 
Consumer Credit Act  and if so, what fair compensation would be to remedy that 
unfairness.
Having done so Ive decided BoS didnt need to disclose the commission it received  but in 
any event BoS has offered to pay back some of the cost of PPI, so theres nothing more it 
needs to do. My reasons are set out below.
was there an unfair relationship?
Mr As representative has made a number of representations about this part of the complaint 
including the impact of the Plevin1 judgment and sections 140A and 140B of the Consumer 
Credit Act on his complaint.
In summary they have said Mr A should get back all the money he paid for the policy 
because: BoS failed to tell Mr A about the high commission and profit-share rates paid, the 
low claims ratio and the restrictions and exclusions on cover. Because they say that meant 
the policy was poor value, I should find that Mr A wouldnt have taken out the policy had they 
known about the level of commission and he should receive a refund of all the premiums he 
paid.
But in this case, BoS has told us that the commission for Mr As PPI was less than half of 
what he paid for each premium. Weve looked at how BoS has worked this out and based on 
what weve seen, Im satisfied that the commission in Mr As case was less than half the cost 
of the PPI.
As thats the case, taking into account:
- the effect of section 140A and B of the Consumer Credit Act;
- The Supreme Court judgment in Plevin and the conclusion in that case; and
- The FCAs rules and guidance for handling complaints about the non-disclosure of 
commission and profit share - introduced in light of the Supreme Court judgment in 
Plevin - which requires a business to presume that the failure to disclose commission 
gave rise to an unfair relationship where the business expected commission and 
profit share to be more than 50% of the cost of the policy
I dont think BoS needed to tell Mr A about the commission. So it follows that I dont think the 
non-disclosure created an unfair relationship - I dont think BoS treated Mr A unfairly. 
This means BoS doesnt need to pay Mr A back any of the commission he paid for the PPI. 
But in any event BoS has offered to give back to Mr A some of the cost of the PPI to 
compensate Mr A as if it had treated him unfairly. So I dont think it needs to do anything 
more.
my decision
Overall, having considered all the evidence and arguments to decide what is, in my opinion, 
fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of this complaint and for the reasons I have set 
out above, I do not uphold the mis-sale element of Mr As complaint or make any award in 
favour of him for this part of the complaint.
1 Plevin v Paragon Personal Finance Limited [2014] UKSC 61 in which the Supreme Court concluded 
that the non-disclosure of commission could lead to an unfair relationshipAnd because Ive decided that Bank of Scotland Plc didnt need to disclose the commission 
it received, it doesnt need to pay back any of the commission Mr A paid for the PPI. But 
Bank of Scotland Plc has offered to pay back some of the cost of the PPI to Mr A. Bank of 
Scotland Plc should now make arrangements to pay Mr A if it hasnt done so already.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, I am required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision before 2 November 2021. 
Carole Clark
Ombudsman