DRN-3022308
The complaint
Mr F complains about the price Trading 212 UK Limited used when selling some of his 
shares. 
What happened
Mr F feels Trading 212 failed to get him the best price when he was selling his shares. Hes 
seen websites that show the share price was higher than he received at the time of the sale.
In response to this complaint, Trading 212 showed Mr F some data that said the price theyd 
got for the shares was correct at the time the trade was executed. They noted that the data 
Mr F was looking at was delayed, and he needed to be careful he was looking at the right 
price when trying to compare figures. 
Mr F brought the complaint to us, but our investigator didnt uphold the complaint. He said 
hed found data that showed the price Trading 212 sold at was the lowest available that day, 
but reflected the time at which Mr F gave his instruction. He noted the price had been 
different at other times of the day, but this didnt mean the price Mr F got was wrong.
Mr F asked for the matter to be reviewed. He said he felt Trading 212 shouldnt have made 
the sale at the price they did, as it was lower than the advertised price, and lower than they 
could have got if theyd waited. He asked for the complaint to be reviewed. 
So the case has come to me for a decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I can appreciate why Mr F feels hes lost out here. He gave his instruction to Trading 212 
early in the day, so had probably been looking at the previous days closing price. As our 
investigator noted, there was large drop in the price between the stock exchange closing and 
reopening. The price then bounced back, later in the day.
Trading 212 arent responsible for that change in price. It reflects the nature of stock trading, 
where prices can fluctuate throughout the day. 
Ive seen Trading 212 referred to their terms and conditions, which explained this would be a 
feature of their service. So I find its reasonable that they havent felt responsible for the 
difference its made to Mr F. 
Ive noted Mr F feels Trading 212 could have got a better sale price for him if theyd not done 
the trade when they did. But I wouldnt expect them to delay the sale just because there was 
that chance. They wouldnt necessarily have known at the time that the price would rise later 
in the day. 
It was enough for Trading 212 to process Mr Fs instruction  sell the shares  as efficiently 
as they could. The time it took looks reasonable, and the price they got matches what their 
data shows was achievable at the time. So I find theres been nothing unfair or unreasonable 
in the service in this case. 
My final decision
Ive decided not to uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr F to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 November 2021.
 
Paul Mellor
Ombudsman