DRN-3430396
The complaint
Mr M and X complain that they were not told by Lloyds Bank PLC (Lloyds) about a fee 
waiver option on their Platinum Account (PA) until 2021 when it was removed, and they say 
they lost out as a result.
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here. The facts are not in dispute, so Ill focus on giving my reasons for my decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr M and X have had an account with Lloyds for very many years. They converted the 
account to a fee-paying PA at some point after it became available in 2001. The exact year 
is not clear as Lloyds records do not go back that far. Any bank is only required to keep 
records for six years so Lloyds hasnt done anything wrong in this respect.
Mr M and X say that Lloyds has never told them that the PA fee would be waived if they had 
at least £3500 in their account (later raised to £4000). If they had known this, they say they 
would have transferred some savings into the account to avoid the fees. So, they want all 
their fees for the PA re-imbursed.
Lloyds says all PA customers were given full information about the PA at the time of sale 
including about the fee waiver.
I was not present in the communication between the parties all those years ago, so I can 
only look at the evidence available today.
In my view I think its more likely than not that Mr M and X were told at the time of the sale 
that the fee waiver was available. 
I say this because this service has copies of the welcome pack from the years the PA has 
been sold with the fee waiver and the waiver itself is mentioned prominently in the literature 
as one of the selling points of the account.
In addition, Im not aware of any other examples or any pattern of Lloyds not informing 
customers about the fee waiver.
So, although I know Mr M and X will be disappointed, the evidence available to me indicates 
that its more likely than not that Lloyds did not fail to inform them about the fee waiver.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold Mr M and Xs complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M and X to 
accept or reject my decision before 28 June 2022.
 
Richard Hill
Ombudsman