DRN-4319790
The complaint
Miss B has complained that Domestic & General Insurance Plc (D&G) declined her claim 
for a replacement fridge-freezer under her home appliance insurance policy.
For the avoidance of doubt, the term D&G includes reference to its agents and 
representatives in this decision letter. 
What happened
Miss Bs fridge-freezer developed a fault in early 2023. Miss B understood that she had 
cover under a home insurance policy with D&G at the relevant time. Shed initially taken out 
a plan with D&G in December 2019. As the fridge-freezer was still within the relevant 
warranty period, the manufacturers engineer attended Miss Bs home, assessed the 
appliance as unrepairable and confirmed that a replacement was required. 
Miss B then telephoned D&G and its representative confirmed that it would collect the fridge 
freezer to be replaced. D&G subsequently informed Miss B that her policy had been 
cancelled in December 2020. It transpired that D&G had sent correspondence to her 
parents address and her father had accidently cancelled the policy believing that it was for 
his wife. Miss B complained to D&G however it maintained its stance.
Miss B then referred the matter to this service. She felt that D&G had breached GDPR as
well as having cancelled the policy incorrectly. She wanted D&G to replace the fridge freezer 
and compensate her for the distress caused. In the circumstances, Miss B referred her 
complaint to this service. The relevant investigator initially didnt uphold Miss Bs complaint. 
However, having received further information from Miss B, he subsequently upheld the 
complaint as he considered that Miss B had provided relevant details when she set up her 
policy and that D&G should have done more before cancelling Miss Bs policy.
The investigator recommended that D&G proceed to arrange a replacement fridge freezer 
and to pay £150 to Miss B in compensation for the inconvenience caused. D&G didnt agree 
with the investigators revised view. In the circumstances, the matter has been forwarded to 
me to make a final decision in my role as Ombudsman.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The issue for me to determine here is whether D&G acted in a fair and reasonable manner in 
cancelling Miss Bs policy and then declining her claim for a replacement fridge freezer. I 
dont consider that it did act fairly and reasonably in all respects, and Ill explain why.
Miss B said that shed cancelled cover for a separate appliance in June 2021, but not cover 
for her fridge freezer. When she queried the issue with D&G, it said that her 'husband' had 
cancelled the policy. It transpired that D&G had sent correspondence to Miss Bs parents 
address and her father had cancelled the policy, believing it was his wifes. In any event, she 
said that the policy couldnt have been cancelled by her husband, as she was the policy 
holder, and her husband was not living with her at the time. She said that correspondence 
had been sent to her parents address which started this whole mess in the first place. Miss 
B said that D&G kept making the same administrative error by continuing to send letters to 
the wrong address, although shed brought it to D&Gs attention in April 2023.
Miss B said that when she purchased the policy, the address she provided to D&G was her 
own address and that all correspondences should have come to this address in the first 
instance. She didnt think that D&G should have assumed that her bank billing address was 
the address where the fridge freezer was located. During security verification, Miss B felt that 
D&G should have been alerted to an issue, as the name of the policy holder given by her 
father was different to Miss Bs initials which shed provided on setting up the policy. She 
said that D&G was well aware that the information given by her father didnt match the 
address on the system and noted this on four occasions in a telephone call. Miss B also said 
that, to her knowledge, she had continued to pay her direct debit for the fridge freezer.
Miss Bs new policy didn't fully cover her for the damaged item whereas her old policy stated 
she would receive a like for like replacement if the fridge wasnt repairable. Miss B said shed 
been forced to use a mini fridge for her young family and that she was very much dependent 
on a fridge, particularly due to her childrens age and health issues, which meant additional 
fridge space was needed. Miss B said that this had caused inconvenience and a lot of 
unnecessary stress.
Finally, Miss B said that the fact that letters had been sent incorrectly by D&G to her parents 
address, this demonstrated incompetence and flawed administration, as well as breach of 
GDPR. Miss B felt that the customer service shed received had been poor and very 
disappointing. She felt that D&G have made a complete mess of my policy and are not 
taking responsibility for it.
I now turn to what D&G have said about the matter. It said that it had sent a letter to Miss B 
at the parents address, and that shed advised this to be a correct address. In its final 
response letter, D&G said that it had received a phone call from her husband. It also said 
that security checks were confirmed with him, and hed advised he was authorised to speak 
on his wifes behalf and so it was correct in cancelling the plan. D&G said that its policy was 
that a husband/wife/partner/spouse could cancel the plan if they passed the security checks, 
lived at the same address and could confirm authority to act on behalf of the plan holder.
D&Gs position was that following cancellation of the policy, no claim could be made on that 
policy. On the date of cancellation, Miss Bs father confirmed that he was speaking on behalf 
of Miss B as she doesnt speak very good English, and it could hear her in the background 
it accepted Miss Bs father as her representative. It had no reason to believe this was untrue.
It agreed that its representative had acknowledged that the policy was at a different address, 
but continued to cancel the agreement as the customer is stating they never agreed to take 
the policy out. As such, I said that Miss Bs father had been able to verify the policy details 
and pass security in line with its cancellation process. It acknowledged that its systems did 
show Miss Bs initial on the front screen.
As to the relevant address, D&G explained that Miss B had informed its agent that her credit 
card was registered at her parents address. As such D&G said that the policy was set up as 
this billing address, which it said was standard practice across the industry and said that it 
couldnt change this. As it received no communication from Miss B to tell it that shed moved 
out of her parents address at the time the policy had been set up, the policy remained at the 
billing address. It added that when purchase was online, the correspondence will always go 
to the billing address as this verifies that card and prevents potentially fraudulent activity. D&G said that when the original policy was set up, the documents were emailed to Miss B, 
showing the correspondence address as her parents address and the appliance address 
underneath. It said it had no other reason to suspect that there had been an error. If there 
was a problem with the address, it questioned why Miss B didnt raise the issue with D&G at 
the time. In summary, D&G considered that it had cancelled the policy correctly.
Ive carefully considered all available evidence as well as the above submissions made by 
the parties. I can see that the cancellation of the policy in December 2020 took place in 
the context of some unfortunate confusion. Miss B was absolutely clear that she hadnt 
cancelled and had not intended to cancel the cover for her fridge freezer. I take on board 
that her claim was made over two years after the cancellation. As such, it would usually 
be expected that a policy holder would have queried the lack of information from D&G 
each year and checked exactly what direct debits were leaving her account. 
Nevertheless, it appears that some of the confusion arose as Miss B had insured more 
than one item with D&G. Whilst this is a finely balanced determination, on the balance of 
probabilities, Im satisfied that Miss B believed that her policy remained in force.
Turning to the cancellation event, I cant say that D&G acted in an unfair manner initially in 
setting up a policy to, and corresponding at, the billing address where the relevant credit 
card was registered. I understand that this verifies the card at the relevant address and 
prevents potentially fraudulent activity. I also recognise that some of the confusion was due 
to Miss Bs arrangements at dual addresses. Finally, I accept that D&G emailed the policy 
documents to Miss B at inception of her policy, and that she hadnt raised an issue at that 
time regarding the address appearing on the policy.
Nevertheless, at the date of cancellation. I dont consider that D&G acted in a fair and 
reasonable manner. I consider that there were two discrepancies which should have alerted 
D&G that there was an issue with security clearance, before it cancelled the policy. I 
consider that this should have triggered further action and checking further information.
The first discrepancy was that Miss Bs father had referred to his wifes name in the relevant 
telephone call with D&G. This was different to Miss Bs name. D&G had acknowledged that it 
had a record of Miss Bs initials, and this should therefore have raised a concern. The 
second discrepancy was the dual addresses. Whilst D&G raised this discrepancy more than 
once during the telephone call, it didnt further explore the potential issue before cancelling 
the policy. In the circumstances, I cant say that D&G had fairly and reasonably cancelled 
Miss Bs policy.
In the circumstances, if the manufacturer still hasnt replaced the fridge freezer which it 
deemed to be unrepairable, then I consider that D&G should now arrange for Miss B to be 
provided with a replacement in accordance with the policy terms and conditions, being an 
item of a same or similar make and technical specification. I also consider that D&G should 
pay Miss B £150 in compensation for the distress and inconvenience caused.
My final decision
 For the reasons given above, I uphold Miss Bs complaint and I require Domestic & General 
Insurance Plc to do the following in response to her complaint.
- To arrange for Miss B to be provided with a replacement fridge freezer in accordance 
with the policy terms and conditions, being an item of a same or similar make and 
technical specification.
To pay Miss B £150 in compensation for the distress and inconvenience causedUnder the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss B to accept 
or reject my decision before 10 November 2023.
 
Claire Jones
Ombudsman