DRN-3044655
The complaint
Mrs K has complained that Royal & Sun Alliance Insurance Plc (RSA) declined her claim 
and cancelled her home insurance policy on the basis of fraud.
What happened
Mrs Ks home was subject to malicious damage, so she contacted RSA to make a claim, 
which RSA accepted. Mrs K employed her own builders to carry out the work as she wanted 
other building work to be completed at the same time.
The builder charged Mrs K VAT. When she tried to claim this back from the insurer, the 
builder admitted he wasnt VAT registered, but he refused to return the money paid to cover 
the VAT.
Mrs K sent RSA an invoice showing the builders VAT details. When RSA tried to validate 
those details, it was unable to do so. RSA investigated further and found that Mrs K had 
altered the invoice and a quote she had submitted. Mrs K told RSA that she had altered the 
documents. RSA voided the policy on the basis of fraud and told Mrs K that she had to repay 
all of the money that RSA had already paid towards her building works.
Mrs K complained to RSA. When RSA replied, it maintained its decision to void the policy 
and to require Mrs K to repay the money.
So Mrs K complained to this service. Our investigator upheld the complaint. She said she 
didnt think it was fair for RSA to require all of the money to be repaid as Mrs K had been 
conned by her builder. As a result, Mrs K had tried to cover her losses. However, she 
thought it was fair for RSA to decline the claim and terminate the policy.
As RSA did not agree, the complaint has been referred to me.
 
I issued my provisional decision on 11 August 2021. In my provisional decision, I explained 
the reasons why I was planning not to uphold the complaint. I said:
When Mrs K provided RSA with receipts and invoices so that she could be reimbursed for 
the building costs that formed part of her insurance claim, RSA concluded that there was 
evidence of fraud. When it queried the invoices and receipts, Mrs K admitted that she had 
altered them. As a result, RSA decided Mrs K had breached the fraud condition of her policy. 
So, RSA said it couldnt consider the claim, Mrs K had to repay the money RSA had already 
paid towards the claim, it voided the policy and said it might share the information with fraud 
prevention agencies.
When noting that a policyholder has breached the fraud condition of their policy, RSA needs 
to show it was more likely than not that the policyholder was dishonestly attempting to gain 
something they were not entitled to. So, Ive considered the information RSA used to make 
its decision, to decide whether this was reasonable.
There were a number of elements to RSAs concerns about this claim. When Mrs K provided 
an invoice for the building work, RSA replied and said that what she had provided wasnt a 
VAT invoice. RSA explained what was required to get the VAT reimbursed. Mrs K told RSA 
that the builder had confirmed he wasnt VAT registered, which she said was puzzling as he 
had charged her VAT. RSA confirmed that the builder should only be charging VAT if he was 
registered and that Mrs K would need to take this up with the builder.
Mrs K then provided RSA with an invoice that included the builders VAT details. When RSA 
tried to check the companys VAT details, these couldnt be verified. RSA investigated 
further and found that other parts of the invoice seemed to include incorrect information, 
such as the address and VAT number, and it wasnt possible to contact the builder. Mrs K 
was also unable to provide any email exchanges between her and the builder and couldnt 
provide the repair quotation or proof of payments.
RSA also looked at the properties embedded in the invoice document itself. From this, RSA 
identified the dates on which the document was created and modified and the company IT 
system used to do this. That company was the same as Mrs Ks employer.
Mrs K initially told RSA the invoice she had submitted was provided by the builder. However, 
Mrs K later told RSA that she had altered the invoice, as the builder had charged her VAT 
when he shouldnt have and she was attempting, through RSA, to get the money back.
Mrs K also submitted a quote for £279 for a repair to the bath. RSA checked the amount with 
the company that had provided the quote. The company said its quote was for £149 and 
provided RSA with a copy of the written quote. RSA contacted Mrs K and asked her to 
provide all written communication between her and the bath company. Mrs K replied and 
said that she had already done this. Mrs K later sent RSA an email admitting she had 
increased the quote amount. She said she had been the victim of a crime, in that the overall 
insurance claim was the result of someone damaging her home, and that she had acted in 
haste and stupidly thought that an extra £100 would fix [her] worries.
Ive thought about this carefully. Mrs K submitted two documents that would have meant 
RSA paid her more than it should have as part of settling the claim. For the bath, Mrs K had 
increased the quote amount by £130. For the builders quote, Mrs K provided an invoice that 
included a range of details that couldnt be verified, including the VAT details and listed a 
figure of £3,060 for VAT. RSA investigated and found evidence that Mrs K had altered both 
of these documents to increase the amount payable as part of the claim. Mrs K accepted 
that this was the case.
Mrs K explained that she altered the documents because she was under financial pressure 
both because of her personal circumstances and because she had put a lot of money into 
renovating her home. The original builder had damaged her home, which was what led to 
the insurance claim, and the second builder had then charged her more than he should have 
because he wasnt registered for VAT.
I accept that Mrs K was experiencing a number of difficulties. However, RSA was only 
required to pay genuine costs that formed part of the claim. Mrs K admitted that she 
increased the bathroom quote because of her financial difficulties. Mrs K also knew that RSA 
would only repay the VAT where the builder was VAT registered. Following this advice, Mrs 
K altered a document that then appeared to show the builders VAT details. This meant that 
in both those instances, Mrs K provided documents that she had altered which would have 
led to RSA paying more to settle the claim than it would have otherwise. So, I think it was 
reasonable for RSA to decide that Mrs K had breached the fraud condition in the policy.As a result, RSA stopped considering the claim, voided the policy and required Mrs K to 
refund the amount already paid out as part of the claim. Im aware that Mrs K has said that 
she accepts that it was wrong to submit these documents and that there should be 
consequences. However, her main concern was the impact of having to repay the money 
RSA had already paid out for the claim, which was about £48,000. I can understand that 
having to repay this money would have a significant impact on Mrs K. However, where a 
claim is found to include fraud, it is standard that the whole claim will then fail, including the 
parts that have already been settled in some way. Ive thought about this carefully, including 
Mrs Ks personal circumstances, and havent seen anything that causes me to think that 
RSA should have departed from its normal practice of requiring reimbursement of what it 
had already paid out for the claim. So, I think RSA was reasonable in the action it took when 
it identified fraud, including requiring the money to be repaid.
So, thinking about all of the above, although Im aware that this will disappoint Mrs K and I 
understand her concerns about the money, I dont currently intend to uphold this complaint 
or require RSA to do anything further.
I asked both parties to send me any more information or evidence they wanted me to look at 
by 10 September 2021.
Mrs K didnt reply.
RSA said it had nothing further to add.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive found no reason to change what I said in my provisional decision. My 
view remains the same as previously explained and for the same reasons. As a result, I 
dont uphold this complaint or require RSA to do anything further.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above and in my provisional decision, my final decision is that the 
complaint is not upheld.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs K to accept or 
reject my decision before 11 October 2021.
 
Louise O'Sullivan
Ombudsman