DRN-3480184
The complaint
Ms P has complained about AWP P&C SA. She isnt happy about the way it dealt with a 
claim under her home emergency insurance policy.
Other companies have been involved in this complaint, but as AWP P&C SA are 
responsible for it, Ive just referred to AWP in this decision.
What happened
Ms P made a claim under her home emergency insurance policy after she had a leak from 
her roof. AWP sent a roofer to have a look at the damage, but it turned down the claim. This 
was because scaffolding was required which it said wasnt covered. As Ms P wasnt happy 
about this she complained to AWP and then this Service.
Our investigator looked into things for Ms P and eventually upheld her complaint. She asked 
AWP for its business file and response to Ms Ps complaint but as it failed to respond she 
proceeded to view the case on the evidence that was available from Ms P and upheld it. She 
highlighted there wasnt a clause that said the claim was excluded as scaffolding was 
required and thought AWP should pay the claim subject to the policy limit of £1,000. And she 
thought it should pay Ms P £150 compensation for the clear stress and inconvenience 
caused.
As AWP still didnt respond the matter has been passed to me for review. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I agree that the complaint should be upheld. Ill explain why.
This case is complicated by the fact that AWP havent responded to the investigator or 
provided any evidence in support of its position. So I have had to proceed on the available 
evidence that has been provided by Ms P. And having considered this I agree the fair and 
reasonable thing to do, in the particular circumstances of this case is for AWP to pay the 
claim up to the policy limit.
I say this as AWP appears to be relying on a clause in the policy in relation to the potential 
need for scaffolding to decline the claim. But as our investigator has highlighted the policy 
doesnt refer to scaffolding. AWP have also said this claim may have been more suitable for 
Ms Ps home insurance policy as it felt scaffolding was required.
While I accept it may have been appropriate to make a claim under any home insurance 
policy and AWPs exclusion says You are not covered for any permanent repairs that should 
more specifically relate to a home insurance claim. But, I think Ms P had a reasonable 
expectation that her home emergency policy would provide cover in these circumstances. 
Ms P had a hole in her ceiling and wanted it fixed, even on a temporary basis, and I think it 
was fair to expect her home emergency policy to cover the claim even if she got a full 
permanent repair done at a later stage.
The policy says it covers arranging attendance and paying call out and emergency repair 
costs following damage to the roof if it is no longer watertight. And as AWP hasnt provided 
me with any evidence as to why scaffolding was required or that a temporary emergency 
repair couldnt have been undertaken without the need for scaffolding I agree Ms Ps claim 
should be met. The policy is limited to £1,000 for call out, labour and material costs in any 
event so it seems fair for AWP to pay Ms P the cost of repair in line with this. Adding simple 
interest for the time she has been without this money in line with our usual approach.
Furthermore, I agree Ms P should be paid £150 compensation for the clear stress and 
inconvenience all this has caused her, especially having to make alternative arrangements 
at a particularly worrying time when she had a reasonable expectation that her home 
emergency policy would provide cover. 
My final decision
It follows, for the reasons given above, that I uphold this complaint. I require AWP P&C SA 
to;
pay Ms Ps costs incurred in making good the leak to her roof up to the policy 
limit and pay 8% simple interest from the date of claim until the date of 
settlement; and
pay £150 compensation.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms P to accept or 
reject my decision before 22 June 2022.
 
Colin Keegan
Ombudsman