DRN-3137792
The complaint
Mrs B complains through her representative, Mr D, about how Canaccord Genuity Wealth 
Limited have managed her investment portfolio. She has concerns with how the portfolio has 
performed when compared to a selection of indices and believes they have misunderstood 
her attitude to risk. For ease of reading, I will only refer to Mrs B.
What happened
Mrs B was a client of a firm (B1) that was taken over by Canaccord. She moved to their 
discretionary service in 2015 having previously been an execution-only client. Her 
circumstances had changed, and she was looking to move back to the UK from abroad and 
wanted to generate income from her capital. It was agreed that her portfolio worth around 
£390,000 would be managed on a medium risk basis and benchmarked against the WMA 
Income index.
Mrs B complained to Canaccord in 2020. They didnt uphold the complaint as they thought 
the portfolio was set up to provide the income that Mrs B wanted. This meant that it had 
exposure to equities which could be volatile but had a better chance of producing the returns 
she wanted compared to more predictable investments such as fixed-interest securities. 
They appreciated that the portfolio had underperformed the benchmark Mrs B had used  
the FTSE Private Investors Income Index  but explained that it had performed in line with 
their model portfolio for someone with her risk level. They accepted that theyd incorrectly 
recorded her investment experience as high but said that it wouldnt have affected how her 
portfolio had been managed. They noted that recent performance had been affected by the 
ongoing pandemic but thought that once the income shed taken from the portfolio was taken 
into account, shed seen a return of over 10% on her portfolio.
Mrs B didnt accept their findings and brought her complaint to this service where it was 
considered by one of our investigators. The investigator noted that Mrs B had invested 
£400,000 with Canaccord, had £80,000 in cash savings and a pension which paid her 
£6,000 per annum. She was retired, had recently been through a divorce and owned her 
home abroad with no mortgage but was planning to move back to the UK. The money shed 
invested was to be used to generate income to support her through retirement as she had an 
income shortfall.
He appreciated that Mrs B needed to take some risk with her capital in order to generate the 
income she required. But given her circumstances, she had very little capacity to recover 
from any significant losses. Therefore, he thought that shed been exposed to too much risk 
and recommended that the complaint be upheld.
Canaccord didnt agree and said, in summary:
They strongly disagreed with the assessment that the medium risk discretionary 
portfolio wasnt suitable for Mrs B and didnt think that shed been financially 
disadvantaged in any way. Ultimately, her portfolio had achieved its objective of 
providing the income needed to cover her expenses.
Market fluctuations are part of the nature of investments and the loss in value of Mrs 
Bs portfolio was most likely triggered by the extraordinary market fluctuations during 
the Covid 19 pandemic. Mrs B transferred her portfolio in July 2020 before it had the 
chance to fully recover from the market downturn. If they were asked to compensate 
Mrs B, she would benefit from a rebound in her portfolio value and also the 
compensation, which didnt make sense.
The benchmark chosen by Mrs B wasnt appropriate. The portfolio should be 
compared to the benchmark specified as stated in (COBS 6.1ZA.8 / Articles 47(2) 
and (3) of the MiFID Org Regulation 2017/565): a specification of any benchmark 
against which the performance of the client portfolio will be compared. In Mrs Bs 
case the benchmark stated in the application form from 2015 was the WMA Income 
Index, but a change of benchmark must be possible in case it ceases to exist or if 
the firm changed hands. 
The investigator had said that the risk level chosen for Mrs B was too high and her 
risk profile should have been in between, in the sense that she was prepared to 
take a small level of risk to attain her investment objectives. When she signed up to 
the discretionary service in 2015 there were 3 risk levels available: low, medium and 
high. At the time she signed up to a medium risk account and was provided with the 
client agreement and the attached circumstances letter which outlined her 
individual circumstances and justified why the portfolio was considered to be 
appropriate.
There was no regulatory stipulation regarding how much of their savings clients 
needed to hold in cash or a maximum they could invest. The industry standard was 
to hold 3 months worth of expenditure in emergency cash. They also believed Mrs 
Bs total wealth - including the value of her property - should be considered, not just 
the amount in her bank account, investment income and pension. 
The investment portfolio was diversified, investing in a number of different asset 
classes. For example, the portfolio summary dated 29 June 2015 showed that it 
included 41.31% in fixed income, which would surely be considered a safer option.
In May 2016, the predecessor firm introduced a different, more differentiated risk 
scale of 1-9 and Mrs Bs medium risk was reclassified as risk 5 which was the risk 
level she still had when she decided to transfer out in 2020. The 2017 risk 
assessment where Mrs B scored 34 confirmed that level.
The investigator had misunderstood what theyd said about capital reliance. They 
didnt say that Mrs B wasnt reliant on her capital, theyd said that she was not 
reliant on maintaining the value of the capital invested. That meant her portfolio 
didnt need to consistently have the same value, but instead was about maintaining 
a certain level after withdrawals, fees and charges which in their view, theyd 
achieved. The lowest value was in March 2020 when the pandemic first hit, but even 
then, Mrs Bs portfolio was still worth over £330,000. 
The investigator had expressed the view that Mrs B wouldve invested differently and 
it wasnt possible to say precisely what she would have done differently. But based 
on the information theyd gathered from Mrs B, they didnt believe she had the 
knowledge or experience to make decisions about investing in fixed rate bonds or 
tracker funds, hence why she was on their discretionary service. 
It was incorrect that all gains and losses were crystallised on 30 July 2020, the 
transfer out was In Specie, so there was no need to sell and re-purchase the assets and no loss or gain was crystalised.
Mrs B also disagreed with some aspects of the investigators opinion and said, in summary:
She didnt believe that any significance should be given to the amount of cash she 
held at the time she moved to the discretionary service, as that was during the early 
part of her divorce when assets were being transferred.
She disagreed with the redress that had been proposed. A significant element of the 
FTSE UK PII index consists of fixed interest securities, and she didnt see the logic of 
not applying purely that index in respect of the whole portfolio let alone of dividing the 
portfolio and introducing the Bank of England fixed interest database to one half. 
The benchmark suggested assumed re-investment of income, which did not happen 
in her case. She thought this hid or distorted the actual fall in the portfolio value by 
deducting actual income values from a theoretical capital calculation. She also 
thought that the introduction of the fixed interest index further confused the resulting 
calculation, and the result would not be a fair comparison of like for like and was 
therefore not realistic.
The investigator wasnt persuaded to change his opinion. He noted the points that had been 
raised but still thought that the risk level chosen for Mrs B was too high. He also explained 
that the benchmark that hed chosen to calculate redress was in line with this services usual 
approach and shouldnt be taken to mean that it was the specific investment that should 
have been made. 
There was no agreement, so the complaint has been passed to me to make a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im of the opinion that this complaint should be upheld, I will now explain 
why. Id like to acknowledge that both parties have raised numerous points in their 
arguments, but Ive focused my decision on what I consider to be the key issues. Our rules 
allow me to do this, and it simply reflects the informal nature of our service. Im satisfied I 
dont need to comment on every single point to arrive at what I consider to be a fair and 
reasonable outcome.
At the heart of this complaint is the question of whether or not Mrs B should have exposed 
her capital to a medium level of risk. With that in mind Ive thought about her circumstances 
at the time she entered into the discretionary service. 
From what Ive seen shed had a very significant change in her circumstances  shed been 
through a divorce and was moving back to the UK from abroad. She was retired and was 
receiving pension income of £6,000 and was taking an income of around £16,500 from her 
existing investments. She had cash deposits of £80,000 and investments valued at £390,000 
- half of which shed received from her ex-husband as part of a divorce settlement. 
It was noted that she had little direct knowledge of the stockmarket and wanted B1 to 
manage her portfolio on her discretionary basis going forward. She needed to use £200,000 
of her existing funds to purchase a property in the UK and planned to replace the funds 
when her property abroad had been sold. Her aim was to use the portfolio to produce an 
income to supplement her pension  in line with the income she was receiving at the time. Her expenditure wasnt recorded but it was noted that her current level of income was 
sufficient to meet her requirements. And she didnt want a significant fall in income, but any 
fluctuations wouldnt cause her any hardship as it wasnt required to meet any financial 
liabilities.
The suitability letter from 2015 said that Mrs B had requested that her investments were 
placed at a medium level of risk, at the time there were three levels available - low, medium 
and high. But I cant see how this was assessed and I must be mindful of the previous 
statement that she had little direct knowledge of the stockmarket. 
Canaccord had a responsibility to ensure that the portfolio was suitable for Mrs B - in terms 
of her attitude to risk and an assessment of whether she had the necessary experience and 
knowledge in order to understand the risks involved. Mrs B had some experience - the 
makeup of her holdings prior to receiving her ex-husbands portfolio shows an asset split of 
around 45% equities, 41% fixed income, 12% alternatives and 2% cash. 
I can also see that she was sent a letter with warnings that B1 were concerned that she 
didnt have experience of exchange traded funds, bonds, gilts, collective investments and 
structured products. The letter went on to say that B1 would deal in those products but she 
should note that they may not be appropriate for her, and she may not have the ability to 
properly assess the risks associated with these products. 
Mrs B clearly had a need for income and in order to produce this income, there needed to be 
an element of risk. But given what she said about her limited knowledge and what we know 
about her change in circumstances, I dont think the limited warnings she was given were 
sufficient to make her aware of the potential significant risks of exposing the majority of her 
capital - nearly 83% - to a medium level of risk, compared to a holding a lower risk portfolio 
with lower potential returns. 
The lack of any specific expenditure figure makes it difficult to assess what level of income 
Mrs B required from her portfolio. What I have seen is that she was looking to keep her 
income at or around the same level shed been used to, but she could afford to live off a 
reduced level of income. I think this is an important point - if she could afford to live off a 
reduced income then the question could be asked if it was necessary to take a medium level 
of risk to provide income which arguably she didnt need. If she could survive on a lower 
level of income then she could take less risk with her money and potentially ensure her 
capital lasted longer. 
It's important to note that Mrs B wasnt able to make up any losses on her portfolio. While it 
was noted that she didnt have any specific plans for her capital, I dont think its 
unreasonable to suggest that she needed her capital to continue providing income for the 
rest of her life. Therefore, any large falls in the level of her capital would have a fairly serious 
impact on her lifestyle. 
By 2017 Ive seen that the makeup of Mrs Bs portfolio was 61% equities, 25% fixed income, 
8% alternatives and 6% cash. On balance, I consider this to be too risky for Mrs Bs 
circumstances. I think that putting Mrs B in a position where nearly 70% of her holdings were 
dependent on risk-based assets was inappropriate. I appreciate that she needed to take 
some risk in order to achieve the income she required, but I dont think she was advised of 
the potential for a less risky portfolio to meet her needs and therefore wasnt in an informed 
position. And I think that on balance, if she had been, then she would have taken the lower 
risk option. Therefore, I agree with the investigators proposed method of redress and think 
that fair redress would be to compare the performance of her portfolio to a benchmark which 
reflects a lower risk approach.Ive considered the concerns both parties have raised with the proposed method of redress. 
However, Im not persuaded that it isnt fair. I think Mrs B was in a position where she could 
take a small risk to her capital. The average rate for the fixed rate bonds would be a fair 
measure for someone who wanted to achieve a reasonable return without any risk to their 
capital. The FTSE WMA Stock Market Income Total Return Index is a mix of diversified 
indices representing different asset classes, mainly UK equities and government bonds. It 
would be a fair measure for someone who was prepared to take some risk to get a higher 
return. As I think Mrs Bs could have taken a small amount of risk, I think a combination of 
both these benchmarks would broadly reflect the kind of return she could have obtained from 
investments suited to her objectives and risk attitude.
Putting things right
Fair compensation
In assessing what would be fair compensation, I consider that my aim should be to put 
Mrs B as close to the position she would probably now be in if she had not been given 
unsuitable advice.
I take the view that Mrs B would have invested differently. It is not possible to say 
precisely what she would have done differently. But I am satisfied that what I have set out 
below is fair and reasonable given Mrs B's circumstances and objectives when she 
invested.
What must Canaccord do?
To compensate Mrs B fairly, Canaccord must:
Compare the performance of Mrs B's investment with that of the benchmark shown 
below and pay the difference between the fair value and the actual value of the 
investments. If the actual value is greater than the fair value, no compensation is 
payable.
Canaccord should also pay interest as set out below.
Income tax may be payable on any interest awarded.
Portfolio 
nameStatus Benchmark From ("start 
date")To ("end 
date")Additional 
interest
Discretionary 
PortfolioTransferred For half the 
investment: 
FTSE UK 
Private 
Investors 
Income Total 
Return Index; 
for the other 
half: average 
rate from fixed 
rate bondsDate of 
investmentDate 
transferred8% simple per 
year on any 
loss from the 
end date to the 
date of 
settlement
Actual valueThis means the actual amount paid from the investment at the end date.
Fair value
This is what the investment would have been worth at the end date had it produced a 
return using the benchmark.
To arrive at the fair value when using the fixed rate bonds as the benchmark, Canaccord 
should use the monthly average rate for one-year fixed-rate bonds as published by the 
Bank of England. The rate for each month is that shown as at the end of the previous 
month. Those rates should be applied to the investment on an annually compounded 
basis.
Any additional sum paid into the investment should be added to the fair value calculation 
from the point in time when it was actually paid in.
Any withdrawal from the portfolio should be deducted from the fair value calculation at the 
point it was actually paid so it ceases to accrue any return in the calculation from that point 
on. If there is a large number of regular payments, to keep calculations simpler, Ill accept 
if Canaccord totals all those payments and deducts that figure at the end to determine the 
fair value instead of deducting periodically.
Why is this remedy suitable?
I have decided on this method of compensation because:
Mrs B wanted Income with some growth with a small risk to her capital.
The average rate for the fixed rate bonds would be a fair measure for someone who 
wanted to achieve a reasonable return without risk to her capital.
The FTSE UK Private Investors Income total return index (prior to 1 March 2017, 
the FTSE WMA Stock Market Income total return index) is a mix of diversified 
indices representing different asset classes, mainly UK equities and government 
bonds. It would be a fair measure for someone who was prepared to take some risk 
to get a higher return.
I consider that Mrs B's risk profile was in between, in the sense that she was prepared to 
take a small level of risk to attain her investment objectives. So, the 50/50 combination 
would reasonably put Mrs B into that position. It does not mean that Mrs B would have 
invested 50% of her money in a fixed rate bond and 50% in some kind of index tracker 
fund. Rather, I consider this a reasonable compromise that broadly reflects the sort of 
return Mrs B could have obtained from investments suited to her objective and risk 
attitude.
My final decision
I uphold the complaint. My decision is that Canaccord Genuity Wealth Limited should pay 
the amount calculated as set out above. Canaccord Genuity Wealth Limited should 
provide details of its calculation to Mrs B in a clear, simple format. Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs B to accept or 
reject my decision before 30 December 2022.
 
Marc Purnell
Ombudsman