DRN-3705220
The complaint
Mrs G is unhappy with the information Scottish Widows Limited (Scottish Widows) gave her 
about her pension, and the service she received when speaking to them over the phone.
What happened
In March 2022, Mrs G made a formal complaint to Scottish Widows about the information 
and service she received when speaking to them about her retirement options.
In summary, she said she called Scottish Widows several times from 28 February 2022 
onwards and says she was told that from her 55th birthday she would be able to take 25% of 
her fund as tax-free cash and leave the rest invested. And she says she received a letter 
saying the same.
Mrs G decided to go ahead with this option and called Scottish Widows to discuss. However, 
when she did so, she was told this wasnt possible and that different options were available 
to her than what shed been told previously.  She has questioned why she was sent generic 
information about her pension, rather than specific information which applied to her and her 
policy. She has also said she was confused by what Scottish Widows were telling her.
Mrs G has said she has now closed her account with Scottish Widows due to them 
misleading her and not giving her any other options. And she feels Scottish Widows 
employees should receive better training and give correct information to customers. She also 
feels they should give customers information specific to them, rather than generic 
information.
She would like to be compensated for the calls she had to make, and because she had to 
lose her account due to the lack of options available to her with the policy. She is unhappy 
with the £25 compensation offered by Scottish Widows and has said the cheque for this and 
the covering letter had her name spelt incorrectly.
Scottish Widows looked into Mrs Gs complaint. Whilst it accepted it had provided some poor 
service over the phone, it didnt think it had done anything wrong regarding the information 
given to Mrs G about her retirement options. It said it located a call where Mrs G spoke to a 
colleague on 4 March. At the start of the call, Mrs G says she was unhappy because she 
was transferred to the current staff member without them being given any details by the 
previous staff member of why she was calling.
Scottish Widows cannot locate the previous call Mrs G referred to. However, they accept it 
was likely this call did happen.
Scottish Widows also located another call with a different member of staff on 19 April. Mrs G 
has said the call was cut off and this was done deliberately by the staff member because 
they didnt want to speak to her. Scottish Widows accept the call was likely cut off, but they 
dont believe the staff member did this deliberately. Rather, they think its more likely the call 
ended due to a technical issue. They say their notes indicate the staff member tried to call 
Mrs G back, but her line was engaged so they were not able to reach her. 
They also say there was a second call the same day where the complaint was logged, and 
Mrs Gs retirement options were explained to her again.
Scottish Widows have offered £25 for the call handling errors made but they dont accept 
they told Mrs G any incorrect information about her retirement options. They say they 
explained to her that she could not take 25% tax-free cash and leave the rest invested, 
because her fund was worth less than £10,000 at that time. They say this is correct, and in 
line with the terms and conditions of the pension policy. If Mrs G wanted to take 25% tax-free 
cash, she would also have to take a minimum additional payment of £1,000 (which would be 
subject to tax) and she could leave the remainder beyond that invested.
Dissatisfied by this, Mrs G brought her complaint to this service. One of our investigators 
looked into her concerns but didnt agree that Scottish Widows had done anything wrong. 
She thought that Scottish Widows had, on balance, given Mrs G correct information about 
her pension. And the £25 compensation offered was sufficient for the call handling errors. 
Mrs G didnt agree so the matter has been referred to me for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I have reached the same conclusions as the investigator and for broadly the 
same reasons. 
When considering what is fair and reasonable, I have taken into account relevant law and
regulations; regulators rules, guidance and codes of practice; and what I consider to have
been good industry practice at the time.
Where the evidence is incomplete, inconclusive, or contradictory (as some of it is here),
I reach my decision on the balance of probabilities  in other words, what I consider is most
likely to have happened in the light of the available evidence and the wider circumstances.
It is my role to fairly and reasonably decide if the business has done anything wrong in
respect of the individual circumstances of the complaint made and  if I find that the
business has done something wrong  award compensation for any material loss or distress
and inconvenience suffered by the complainant as a result of this.
The parties to this complaint have provided detailed submissions to support their position
and I am grateful to them for doing so. I have considered these submissions in their entirety.
However, I trust that they will not take the fact that my decision focuses on what I consider to
be the central issues as a discourtesy. The purpose of this decision is not to address every
point raised in detail, but to set out my findings and reasons for reaching them.
The crux of Mrs Gs complaint is that she says she was provided with incorrect information 
about her retirement options on numerous occasions by Scottish Widows. Ive considered 
everything that Mrs G has said along with reviewing evidence provided by the business, 
including the notes and recordings of the calls between Mrs G and Scottish Widows. 
The first call where retirement options were discussed took place on 4 March 2022. As 
outlined above, Scottish Widows have been able to locate the second part of the call 
recording, but not the first. So, I cant say for definite exactly what was discussed on the first 
part of the call, before Mrs G was transferred.However, I dont think the first part of the call is material to the complaint. I say this because 
on the second part of the call, the staff member explains to Mrs G that the first step of the 
process is that they will need to send retirement options information out for her to review. 
The staff member arranges for this to be posted and emailed to her and nothing further is 
discussed. Given this, I dont consider it likely that Mrs G was given incorrect information 
during the missing part of the call. But, even if Im wrong about this, it was explained to 
Mrs G on the second part of the call that information about her options would be sent to her 
and she should review this before making her decision.
Mrs G called again on 14 March and explained she had not yet received the retirement 
options information despite this being sent by post and email. She referred to closing her 
account, seeming to imply at this time to Scottish Widows that she wished to withdraw all of 
the funds from her pension plan.
During this call, the staff member arranges for the documentation to be sent again via email 
and that they stay on the phone with Mrs G until she confirms she has received it. The staff 
member tells Mrs G should call back once she has decided which retirement option she 
would like to take.
On 17 March Mrs G called Scottish Widows and said she still hadnt received the retirement 
options information. The staff member confirms its been posted and explains they cant 
process Mrs Gs preferred option until shes been able to review this information. They also 
confirm to Mrs G that 25% of her fund would be tax-free and the remaining 75% would be 
taxed.
Mrs G called Scottish Widows again on 24 March. This time she said she wanted to close 
her pension, suggesting she wanted to withdraw the whole fund in one go as a lump sum. 
Its noted that the staff member could see the retirement options information had been sent 
to Mrs G and they confirmed 25% of the fund would not be subject to tax.
On this call Mrs G asks about the remainder of the fund and it is confirmed to her that she 
cannot take only 25% tax-free  she would need to take another amount in addition to the 
tax-free amount of at least £1,000. Its noted that Mrs G accepts this and says she will call 
back when she is ready to proceed.
I recognise that Mrs G has different recollections about what happened during these calls, 
and I dont doubt that she believes her recollection to be accurate. However, Ive not seen 
sufficient evidence that persuades me that she was treated unfairly by Scottish Widows. 
Ive been provided with the notes and the call recordings, and I find them to be persuasive 
evidence of what was said at the time, since they were made at the time the conversations 
took place. And Im unable to agree that they suggest Mrs G was repeatedly given incorrect 
information or given incorrect information at all during these calls.
Ive also reviewed the documentation Mrs G received about her retirement options, to decide 
whether this was also correct as well as clear, fair and not misleading. And Im satisfied that 
it was. 
Mrs G has questioned why most of the information that was provided to her is general, rather 
than specific to her particular policy and circumstances. Scottish Widows have explained 
that due to the number of customers retiring at any one time, its not possible to send 
completely specific information to every customer. I think this is reasonable and importantly, 
I cant agree that the information being general in nature means it was incorrect, or wasnt 
relevant at all to Mrs G.Having reviewed the retirement options information provided to Mrs G, I cant see any errors 
in this. It also doesnt give any guarantees, but instead says each of the options may be 
possible.
In particular, I note that in the Key Information About Your Retirement Options letter it says 
under the flexible access to your pension savings option 
Please be aware that your plan only gives you an income drawdown option if your total 
fund value is more than £10,000 before taking benefits. However, you may still be able to 
choose drawdown if you transfer your retirement savings to another provider.
So, the documentation did make Mrs G aware that only taking 25% tax-free cash and 
leaving the rest invested would not be an available option if her fund was worth under 
£10,000 (which it was at that time). And Scottish Widows have explained that this is in 
accordance with the terms and conditions of Mrs Gs plan. 
I appreciate that Mrs G is unhappy that she hasnt been able to access her pension with 
Scottish Widows in the way she wanted. But this is simply not an option available with her 
plan. And Im not persuaded in the circumstances of this complaint that this meant that 
Scottish Widows forced her to withdraw all of her benefits.
Scottish Widows, as a product provider, is required to give certain information about options 
in retirement, but it cannot advise her what option to take. So in the circumstances of this 
complaint, I am satisfied Scottish Widows provided Mrs G with the information that was 
required, and that she was free to decide how she wanted to take her pension benefits. 
Therefore, I cant agree Scottish Widows gave Mrs G incorrect information about her 
retirement options, either in the documentation or over the phone. So, Im not asking 
Scottish Widows to do anything further in this regard.
Regarding the call handling issues, Scottish Widows accept their mistakes here  this isnt 
disputed between the parties. And while I have no wish to underplay the frustration this 
caused; I find Scottish Widows offer of £25 compensation, to be fair and reasonable in the 
circumstances of this complaint. 
I appreciate this is not what Mrs G was hoping for, but Im not going to ask Scottish Widows 
to increase its offer further. I recognise Mrs Gs strength of feeling about this and I know that 
she will be disappointed. But Ive considered all her points very carefully. However, it follows 
from the above that I am not upholding Mrs Gs complaint. 
From my understanding, Mrs G has not provided her account details so Scottish Widows 
could pay her this compensation directly. Scottish Widows therefore sent her a cheque, but 
the name on the cheque was incorrect. Since this is the case, if Mrs G has not cashed the 
cheque, I expect Scottish Widows to re-issue it to her to resolve the complaint.
My final decision
For the reasons explained, I do not uphold this complaint. 
Scottish Widows Limited has already accepted that it made a mistake and it made Mrs G an 
offer to settle the complaint. I think this offer is fair in the circumstances. Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs G to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 April 2023.
 
Jennifer Wood
Ombudsman