DRN-1140945
 
The complaint
Mr A complains that Ambant Limited should refund a fee for cancellation of his motor 
insurance policy.
What happened
The Financial Ombudsman Service deals with a consumer complaint against one regulated 
financial firm at a time. In our final decision we name that firm, but we dont name any other 
party.
Mr A used a price comparison or aggregator website. Through an appointed representative 
of Ambant, he took out a policy underwritten by an insurance company. He agreed to pay 
the annual premium of about £182.00 by instalments.
Mr A later cancelled the policy. in addition to the insurers charge of £2.64 for the time on 
cover, the appointed representative charged him a cancellation fee of £60.00. Mr A 
complained about that charge.
The appointed representative sent a final response dated 18 July 2019. Mr A brought his 
complaint to us in August 2019.
Our investigator didnt recommend that the complaint should be upheld. He thought that 
when Mr A took out the policy the appointed representative took reasonable steps to bring 
the cancellation fee to his attention. The investigator was satisfied that the appointed 
representative charged the cancellation fee in line with its terms. 
Mr A disagreed with the investigators opinion. He asked for an ombudsman to review the 
complaint. He says, in summary, that:
The insurance company and the appointed representative sent contradictory 
correspondences. No correspondence was sent through the post.
The document from the insurer did not stipulate a hefty cancellation charge.
He did not see such charge during his application at all.
The appointed representative later said it didnt have to call him to emphasise the 
charge.
The hefty cancelation penalty charge is an equivalent of over 6 months car insurance 
cover, which is a direct exploitation.
He made a Statutory Off-Road Notification for the car after 21 days of insurance 
cover.
He did not have any dealing with Ambant Limited at all.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
From a screenshot of the aggregators website, I find that there was a clear statement that 
after the 14-day cooling-off period - there would be a £60.00 fee for cancellation of the 
policy. 
From a screenshot of the appointed representatives website, I find that there was a clear 
statement that before buying the policy Mr A should read its terms of business through a link.
Ive seen a welcome letter dated 6 May 2019 to Mr A. it was on the letterhead of the 
appointed representative including a footer identifying it as an appointed representative of 
Amabnt Limited.
The welcome letter lists its attachments. The attachments include the insurance companys 
product information. That information included the following:
Youre able to cancel your policy at any time. To do so, you need to get in contact with the 
insurance adviser who sold you the policy. Your adviser may charge you for this.
How much money you get back will depend on how long youve had the policy for and 
whether a claim has been, or may be made 
Mr A has quoted the product information several times. He is correct that it doesnt say the 
appointed representative would charge £60.00.
But the welcome letter attachments also included the appointed representatives terms of 
business including the fee of £60.00 for cancellation after the cooling- off period. The terms 
included the following:
If you decide to cancel your private carpolicy after the 14 day cooling off period, a charge 
of £60 is applied
The charges stated above are in addition to any charge made by the insurer... 
I don't think the appointed representative had to telephone Mr A or to do any more to explain 
the terms about cancellation.
The 14-day cooling-off period expired on about 26 May 2019.
Something mustve changed so that Mr A no longer wanted to insure the car. Mr A sent an 
email to the appointed representative on 2 June 2019 asking to cancel his policy. 
The appointed representative replied on 4 June 2019 asking Mr A to telephone to cancel the 
policy. I don't think that response was unreasonable or unfairly delayed the cancellation for 
Mr A. He called the following day and cancelled his policy.
After he complained the appointed representatives final response email didnt contain the 
company name and details as it shouldve done. But I don't think this misled Mr A.
Keeping in mind the screenshots, the terms of business and the welcome letter I dont find 
that Ambant Limited treated Mr A unfairly. I dont find it fair and reasonable to direct Ambant 
Limited to rebate its cancellation fee or to do any more in response to this complaint.My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, my final decision is that I dont direct Ambant Limited to do 
any more in response to this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision before 27 August 2020.
 
Christopher Gilbert
Ombudsman