DRN-3744541
The complaint
This complaints about an interest-only mortgage that Mr F holds with Bank of Scotland plc 
trading as Halifax. Mr F suffered a life-changing brain injury in 2019, and his sons, whom Ill 
refer to as Mr F1 and Mr F2, have been granted power to manage his affairs by an order 
from the Court of Protection (COP). Theyre unhappy that Halifax has continued to charge 
interest on the mortgage since Mr F lost capacity, and with all the problems Halifax has 
caused them over registration of the COP order, and its communication with them.
What happened
By way of a provisional decision dated 6 September 2022, I set out my provisional 
conclusions on this complaint. The following is an extract from the provisional decision.
The broad circumstances of this complaint are known to Mr F1, Mr F2 and Halifax, 
and not in dispute. So I dont need to repeat all of the details here. 
Our decisions are published, and its important that I dont include any information 
that might result in Mr F, Mr F1 and/or Mr F2 being identified. Instead Ill give a brief 
summary of the main points, rounding the figures where appropriate, and then focus 
on giving the reasons for my decision. If I dont mention something, it wont be 
because Ive ignored it. Itll be because I didnt think it was material to the outcome of 
the complaint. 
The mortgage started in 1984, with an initial term of 25 years, which means that 
subject to any changes that may have happened subsequently, it was originally due 
to run until 2009. However, the mortgage was still running in 2019 when Mr F 
suffered a serious brain injury that left him without capacity, and unable to manage 
his affairs or live in his home. Mr F1 and Mr F2 applied to the COP for power to 
manage Mr Fs affairs, and in January 2021, such power was granted. However, the 
scope of the COPs order didnt allow Mr F1 and Mr F2 to sell the mortgaged 
property.
Over the course of 2021, Mr F1 and Mr F2 experienced numerous difficulties in trying 
to deal with Halifax regarding the future of the mortgage and its recognition of the 
COP order. They complained about the time all of this took, the demands Halifax was 
making of both of them, and argued that Halifax should have stopped charging 
mortgage interest after Mr F lost capacity. Halifax mostly rejected the complaints, so 
Mr F1 and Mr F2 brought the matter to us. 
Our investigator upheld the complaint and recommended Halifax refund the interest 
charged since November 2019, stop charging interest in future, and pay 
compensation of £500 to Mr F1 and Mr F2 for the time, trouble, and upset it caused 
them over the way it handled everything.
Halifax asked for the complaint to be reviewed by an ombudsman. It readily accepted 
it should pay the £500 compensation, but didnt agree that the mortgage should 
become, in effect, interest-free. Meantime, whilst the case has been with us, Mr F1 
and Mr F2 have applied to the COP for an expanded order giving them power to sell 
the mortgaged property.
What Ive provisionally decided - and why
Ill start with some general observations. Were not the regulator of financial 
businesses, and we dont police their internal processes or how they operate 
generally. Thats the job of the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA). We deal with 
individual disputes between businesses and their customers. In doing that, we dont 
replicate the work of the courts. 
Were impartial, and we dont take either sides instructions on how we investigate a 
complaint. We conduct our investigations and reach our conclusions without 
interference from anyone else. But in doing so, we have to work within the rules of 
the ombudsman service, and the remit those rules give us.
Under our rules, we can consider a complaint from a consumer. Here, Mr F is the 
consumer and therefore the eligible complainant as set out in our rules. 
Our rules say that a complaint may be brought on behalf of an eligible complainant 
by a person or persons authorised by the eligible complainant or authorised by law. 
In this respect, by virtue of the COP order, Mr F1 and Mr F2 are authorised by law to 
bring the complaint on behalf of Mr F1.
But I must explain that, although Mr F1 and Mr F2 represent Mr F, it is Mr F who is 
Halifaxs customer. Its Mr F1 and Mr F2s role is to bring the complaint on Mr Fs 
behalf, in the same way that other consumers might instruct a solicitor or accountant 
to represent them in a complaint. But this does not entitle them to air their own 
grievances about Halifax, or complain about how they have been treated, because 
they are not Halifaxs customers; their role is limited to putting forward Mr Fs 
complaint.
When they referred the complaint to us, Mr F1 and Mr F2 added a comment to the 
effect that due to his ongoing vulnerability, there should be an examination of the 
interest rate that Mr F had been tied to for the preceding ten years. We could look 
into that, but not as part of this complaint. Thats because it wasnt one of the issues 
raised with Halifax before the referral to this service. 
Our rules only allow us to look into something if the business has had the opportunity 
to deal with it first. If Mr F1 and Mr F2 wish to pursue a complaint about the rate(s) of 
interest Halifax has charged on Mr Fs mortgage historically, they should let the 
investigator know. He can then set up a separate complaint, and refer it to Halifax to 
look into first. If Mr F1 and Mr F2 then tell us they arent happy with the response 
from Halifax, well begin our consideration of it. Here, however, Im confined to two 
issues, which are:
whether it is fair for Halifax to have continued charging interest on the mortgage 
since Mr F lost capacity; and
whether Mr F (not Mr F1 and Mr F2) has experienced distress and inconvenience 
as a consequence of how Halifax has handled the COP order and dealt with 
matter generally since it was first told of Mr Fs situation.
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Having done so, Ive reached a 
different conclusion from the investigator. By issuing this provisional decision, Im 
giving both parties the opportunity to comment before I finalise my decision.On the first issue, Im aware from correspondence received from Mr F1 and Mr F2 
that other creditors have stopped charging interest on unsecured debt owed by Mr F. 
However, what those creditors have done has no bearing on what Halifax should 
fairly do. Here, my starting point is that the underlying mortgage contract allows 
Halifax to charge interest. What I then have to decide is whether its duty to treat 
customers fairly requires it to stop doing so because Mr F no longer has capacity to 
manage his financial affairs.
Its an onerous test, and rightly so, because it is also a highly sensitive subject, 
particularly for Mr F1 and Mr F2. But when I view it dispassionately, as Im required to 
do, I cant fairly conclude that Halifax should not be allowed to continue to apply 
interest to the mortgage in accordance with the contract terms. Mr F may no longer 
have capacity to manage his financial affairs, but Mr F1 and Mr F2 do, by virtue of 
the power granted to them by the COP. 
When they applied for the order from the COP, Mr F1 and Mr F2 werent just asking 
to take over the capacity to manage Mr Fs affairs, they were also asking to take over 
the responsibility and duties that involved. What had previously been Mr Fs 
responsibility to pay interest on the mortgage became their responsibility. Interest is 
contractually due until such time as the mortgage debt is repaid; realistically, that 
means, until the mortgaged property is sold.
If the initial COP order didnt grant Mr F1 and Mr F2 the power to sell the mortgaged 
property, then that wasnt Halifaxs fault, and its not down to Halifax to mitigate the 
position by ceasing to charge interest. Its down to Mr F1 and Mr F2 to remedy the 
position by reverting to the COP to obtain the power they need, a process Im 
advised they started earlier this year. I understand thats a daunting exercise, and 
that it can take a long time for the COP to issue an expanded order. But expecting 
Halifax to forego interest that is rightfully and contractually owed, isnt a proportionate 
measure. If anything, it could be seen as reducing the incentive for Mr F1 and Mr F2 
to remedy the situation. 
Im not for one moment suggesting they might be less motivated to obtain the 
expanded COP order, but if I were to order Halifax to do what theyre asking, the 
mortgage debt would become static at its November 2019 level, and remain there for 
an open-ended period whilst the property that secures it might possibly have 
increased in value in the same period, and continue to do so going forward. Thats 
what I mean by it not being a proportionate measure.
I now turn to the second element of the complaint; to do with how Halifax has dealt 
with Mr F1 and Mr F2 since they started trying to address their fathers situation. Its 
not something on which I need to make a finding; by common consent, Halifax had 
made life more difficult for Mr F1 and Mr F2 that it needed to be, the issues with the 
COP notwithstanding. That Halifax accepts this to be the case is demonstrated by its 
agreement to pay the compensation of £500 our investigator recommended. It had 
previously paid £250 to Mr F1 and said it would pay the same amount to Mr F2 on 
being provided with his bank account details.
Again, at first glance, that might seem a fair resolution, but as Ive already explained 
earlier, I cant consider how and to what extent Mr F1 and Mr F2 were affected by 
Halifaxs admitted shortcomings. Meanwhile  and I dont mean this unkindly  
theres nothing in the evidence to indicate that Mr F is aware of what has happened, 
so I cant in all fairness award compensation to him. If Halifax remains willing to pay £250 to Mr F 2, in addition to the £250 already paid to 
Mr F1, then assuming he accepts it, a settlement can be reached directly between 
the parties. But I cant order that to happen because its outside my remit to tell a 
business to pay compensation to someone who is not an eligible complainant.
I gave the parties two weeks to respond to the provisional decision; both have done so. 
Halifax has confirmed it will pay £250 to Mr F2; meanwhile Mr F1 has replied on behalf of 
Mr F by telephoning our investigator. The following is a summary of the points he made:
Whilst conceding the point that interest can be charged generally, Mr F1 reiterated his 
unhappiness at the rate Halifax is charging, which is likely to go up. He also wants to 
start a new complaint that Halifax chased Mr F for the debt for many years after the term 
ended;
The compensation Halifax paid was for mis-handling the COP order only, not for 
subsequent failings; also, he didnt understand why a payment should be made to Mr F2, 
when he hadnt done anything on the complaint;
The COP can take up to six months to issue a revised order, meanwhile theyre at the 
mercy of Halifax to charge what it wishes; and
Credit card providers in the same banking group had cancelled interest.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive considered afresh everything that both parties have said and provided. Having done so, 
I wont be departing from my provisional conclusion. Ill explain why.
Ive explained in the provisional decision that if Mr F1 and Mr F2 want to complain about the 
rate of interest, thatll have to be a separate complaint for Halifax to consider first before we 
can get involved. The same applies to Halifax chasing the outstanding debt after the 
mortgage term expired. Our investigator can explain the next steps in that regard; neither 
issues is a matter for this final decision.
Ive also explained in the provisional decision why, on the question of compensation, I have 
no power to consider the impact on Mr F1 and/or Mr F2. Nonetheless, for completeness Ill 
restate that I cant order compensation be paid to them for being inconvenienced by anything 
Halifax has done wrong. As to whether Mr F2 is deserving of compensation to the extent 
Mr F1 might be, that really is a private matter between them.
Ive also explained in the provisional decision that the actions of credit card providers  even 
those in the same banking group  arent relevant here. Credit card debts are unsecured, 
whereas a mortgage is secured by an asset which, in the normal course of events, the 
borrower has a reasonable expectation will rise in value.
In short, Mr F1s response to the provisional decision doesnt raise any new points that 
hadnt already been covered in the provisional decision.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. My final decision concludes this 
services consideration of this complaint, which means Ill not be engaging in any further 
consideration or discussion of the merits of it. Ill leave it to Mr F1 and/or Mr F2 to contact 
Halifax directly regarding the further payment of £250. Its not a matter for this service.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr F to accept or 
reject my decision before 7 November 2022. 
Jeff Parrington
Ombudsman