DRN-4333106
The complaint
Mr P has complained Starling Bank Limited wont refund transactions he didnt make.
What happened
Whilst on a night out in July 2022, Mr Ps phone was stolen. The following morning he 
reported this and a few days later got sent a replacement device. He realised lots of money 
had been taken out of his Starling account. His debit card details had been extensively used, 
as well as online transfers made, including transfers overseas. An overdraft was also applied 
for, although Starling rejected this. Mr Ps savings in another account (with a provider Ill call 
M) was also transferred to his Starling account and spent.
Starling confirmed that all the transactions were properly authenticated using the device 
registered to Mr P. They didnt see how an unknown third party would know Mr Ps password 
to access his bank app. 
Upset with this outcome, Mr P brought his complaint to our service.
Our investigator reviewed the transaction evidence. She was also able to get confirmation of 
a replacement mobile device being delivered to Mr P on 3 August, after which he was able to 
successfully re-authenticate himself as registering the device. However she found it odd how 
a third party could know Mr Ps passwords to access his Starling account. She wouldnt ask 
Starling to refund Mr P.
Still disappointed, Mr P has asked an ombudsman to consider his complaint.
I completed a provisional decision on 7 August 2023 upholding Mr Ps complaint. 
Mr P accepted this outcome. No response was received from Starling.
I now have all I need to complete a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive reached the same outcome as I did in my provisional decision. What 
follows explains my thinking.
Where there is a dispute about what happened, I have based my decision on the balance of 
probabilities. In other words, on what I consider is most likely to have happened in the light 
of the evidence. 
When considering what is fair and reasonable, Im required to take into account: relevant law 
and regulations; regulators rules, guidance and standards; codes of practice; and, where 
appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry practice at the relevant time.
The regulations which are relevant to Mr Ps complaint are the Payment Services 
Regulations 2017 (PSRs). These primarily require banks to refund customers if they didnt 
make or authorise payments themselves. Other factors do apply but nothing else specific in 
Mr Ps case.
The PSRs also require financial institutions to provide evidence that they relied upon in 
rejecting any claim about disputed transactions. Whilst Starling has been able to provide 
information on the individual transactions, there was limited other evidence which could 
indicate, for example, IP addresses in use during the period of the disputed transactions.
So to help me decide what happened, Ive looked at the evidence of the transactions as well 
as what Starling and Mr P have confirmed to us. Specifically I can see:
Mr P has told us his phone went missing during the evening of 27 July 2022 (or early 
morning of 28 July) after a night out with friends. He and they tried to look for his 
phone but without success.
What followed was many transactions Mr P has said he didnt make. These were 
made using his phone and app with Apple Pay, online transfers, an application for a 
£5,000 overdraft in the early hours as well as a purchase for an Apple laptop sent to 
an address which wasnt Mr Ps.
Mr Ps app with M was accessed and the contents of that account  minus the 
penalty charge  was then transferred into his Starling account. This was then spent 
on transfers.
Mr P was able to get refunds of Uber transactions direct from them as they accepted 
these were not him. A couple of online transactions also failed, and the money was 
re-credited back into his account.
Mr P has said that hes looking for £7,058 to be refunded by Starling.
Mr P tried to register an old phone with Starling to access his account. This was on 29 July 
but failed as there was a lack of audio provision. Theres evidence to show Mr P was 
provided with a new phone through his mothers insurance policy and he got this on 
3 August. He was immediately able to access his account.
Unfortunately Mr P had not notified Starling prior to 3 August that hed lost his phone. This 
was because hed thought his account would be secure, particularly as he still had his 
physical debit card which he continued to use during the period of the disputed transactions.
I have considered whether Starling can hold Mr P responsible because theres no simple 
explanation for how the payments were made without his involvement as our investigator 
has suggested. However the test under the PSRs isnt whether I can exactly pinpoint how 
the fraud happened but whether these were authorised by Mr P. There is no evidence facial 
recognition was used to authenticate any transactions, which Mr P had enabled on his 
accounts. And I believe there are various scenarios which explain how his password could 
have been known  particularly if Mr Ps phone had been targeted by fraudsters during the 
evening. I also note that the password was changed after the fraudsters initially accessed 
Mr Ps account which shows they tried to limit Mr Ps ability to access his own account.
Ive also considered the nature of the disputed transactions. These clearly follow the type of 
transactions we see when fraud is being committed. An overdraft was applied for in the early 
hours of the morning. Whilst this application failed the credit checks that Starling undertook, 
this application was very out of character for Mr P, as were the rest of the transactions that followed. New payees were set up, with large amounts being sent to these individuals. An 
app enabling worldwide transfers was used to send money abroad. An account was set up in 
Mr Ps name, but failed ID checks. Various purchases were made including high-value 
electronic equipment. This was sent to addresses that werent Mr Ps. Whilst we need to be 
careful about saying certain payment patterns look like fraud, in this case Im in no doubt 
what happened here matches fraud-related activity.
Mr Ps account with M was accessed and money transferred. This money had been saved 
by Mr Ps mother for his future. I can see no reason why Mr P would spend this himself. 
I have considered Mr P may have authorised these transactions but if this were the case, 
hed have to have committed extensive and varied first party fraud and I dont see any 
reasons for him doing this.
I note Mr P is concerned that at no stage when these transactions were being made did 
Starling intervene or wonder what was going on. I share his concerns. These transactions 
were out of character for this account. I believe there was plenty of opportunity for Starling to 
identify that something unusual was happening. However this hasnt impacted the decision 
Im making as Ive decided Mr P didnt authorise the disputed transactions.
Putting things right
Based on the evidence, Im satisfied Mr P didnt authorise these transactions. Starling will 
need to refund the disputed transactions in full. As Mr P has been without a large amount of 
money for a long period, Starling will also need to add 8% simple interest to the amounts 
from the date his account was debited until the date of settlement.
I know Mr P will also have concerns about his financial loss with M. The money transferred 
from his account with M and then spent from his account with Starling is to be refunded by 
Starling. He should also make M aware of the outcome of this complaint which will clarify 
that what happened was not his fault. They should consider whether they will reinvest his 
funds along with the conditions that apply to that type of savings. If this becomes an issue, 
Mr P can pursue a complaint against M.
My final decision
For the reasons given, my final decision is to instruct Starling Bank Limited to:
Refund £7,058 to Mr P; and
Add 8% simple interest to the debited amounts from the dates of debit until the date 
of settlement.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision before 6 October 2023.
 
Sandra Quinn
Ombudsman