DRN-4084636
The complaint
Mr B complains that Oplo CF Ltd trading as 1st Stop Car Finance irresponsibly granted him 
a hire purchase agreement he couldnt afford to repay and that it didnt treat him fairly when 
he experienced financial difficulties. 
What happened
In August 2017, Mr B acquired a used car financed by a hire purchase agreement from Oplo. 
Mr B was required to make 59 monthly repayments of around £292, with a final optional 
payment of around £467 if he wanted to own the car at the end of the agreement. The total 
repayable under the agreement was around £17,701.
Mr B says that Oplo didnt complete adequate affordability checks. He says if it had, it would 
have seen the agreement wasnt affordable and that his credit file showed he had 
experienced issues with previous financial agreements. Oplo didnt agree. It said that it 
carried out a thorough assessment which included a credit check, verifying Mr Bs income 
and asking about his expenses. 
Mr B also said that when he experienced financial difficulties and contacted Oplo about this it 
didnt provide him with the support it should have. Oplo said that it gave Mr B reasonable 
opportunity to reach an agreement before the recovery of his vehicle was instructed.
Our investigator didnt recommend the complaint be upheld. She thought Oplo didnt act 
unfairly or unreasonably by approving the finance agreement. And she thought that it hadnt 
done anything wrong by taking the actions it did after Mr B experienced financial difficulties.
Mr B said that more stringent checks should have taken place before the lending was 
provided and that these would have shown the lending was unaffordable. He said had he 
received an offer to settle at the time he would have taken this but accepted his situation at 
home may have meant he didnt receive this. He said Oplo said there was nothing it could do 
to help, and any suggestions made didnt help as he couldnt afford the repayment plans. 
Mr B said his main concern was that the agreement was unaffordable from the point it was 
provided, and that he thought the amount of interest charged was too high.
 
The case has been passed to me for a final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Oplo will be familiar with all the rules, regulations and good industry practice we consider 
when looking at a complaint concerning unaffordable and irresponsible lending. So, I dont 
consider it necessary to set all of this out in this decision. Information about our approach to 
these complaints is set out on our website. 
The credit check Oplo completed showed Mr B had around £6,595 of defaulted accounts 
and while these appeared mainly to be historic - with one defaulted record within 36 months 
and none within the 12 months of his application - I think these should have raised concerns. 
Additional to this Mr B had two active judgements on his credit file. I think this ought to have 
indicated that Mr B was likely to be struggling financially. It therefore would have been 
proportionate for Oplo to have got a more thorough understanding of Mr Bs financial 
circumstances before lending.
Oplo verified Mr Bs income through his payslip. The income it recorded was around £1,270 
based on the year-to-date calculation although I note Mr Bs payslip for the month prior to 
the agreement showed an income of around £1,435. Mr B has said that he was living with 
parents at the time and on the income and expenses form amounts were included for TV 
services, phones and socialising as well as his credit commitments and costs of running the 
car. Given the adverse information recorded in Mr Bs credit check, I think that it would have 
been reasonable to verify his expenses. One of the ways that Oplo could have done this was 
by reviewing bank statements. In the absence of anything else, Ive reviewed three months 
of statements which I think give a good indication of what Oplo would likely have found out 
had it completed proportionate checks. 
These show that Mr Bs regular committed monthly expenditure at the time was around 
£750. In calculating this figure, Ive included costs for travel, food, media services, insurance 
and other regular outgoings including repayments on a loan. I note Mr B was making 
payments to a family member, but these werent regular, so I do not find it reasonable to 
include these. Mr B also had defaulted accounts although his statements do not show that 
he was making regular payments towards these. Taking these figures into account, it 
appears to show the agreement was affordable to Mr B. For this reason, Im not persuaded 
that Oplo acted unfairly in approving the finance. 
Mr B has also complained that when he contacted Oplo about his financial difficulties it didnt 
support him and he was forced to surrender his vehicle resulting in a large outstanding 
amount when he was close to being able to return the car with no further costs. I have 
looked through the contact notes from the time and can see that Mr Bs direct debit payment 
was returned in September 2018 and Oplo attempted to contact him about this. As Mr B 
wasnt engaging with Oplo at this time the process of repossession was started. 
Mr B then made contact and discussion took place about how he could stop the 
repossession and the options available to him. Mr Bs arrears were then cleared but in 
February 2019 Mr B contacted Oplo to say he had lost his job. His account was put on hold 
for Mr B to then provide an update on his benefits and the options available to him in regard 
to the car were provided. Oplo then tried to contact Mr B on several occasions over the next 
few months to determine how Mr B wished to proceed but as contact wasnt established and 
a way forward agreed, Oplo took further actions, and the car was repossessed. 
So, while I understand this was a difficult time for Mr B and he feels that more could have 
been done to support him, as Oplo did try to make contact and provided him with the options 
available I find it did try to assist Mr B and when an agreed way forward hadnt been 
established, I cant say it was wrong to take further action. 
Oplo did offer Mr B an opportunity to settle his agreement by paying 50% in a lump sum. 
Given I do not find that Oplo has done anything wrong in the action it took, and it did try to 
work with Mr B, I find this reasonable and Oplo has confirmed this offer is still available to 
Mr B.
Mr B has also complained about the interest rate that was being charged. The interest rate 
and the total amount of interest payable was clearly set out in the agreement and so Mr B had the information available to him to make an informed decision. I note Mr Bs comment 
that the total amount of interest exceeded the amount of credit provided. While there is a 
price cap on short term lending such that the total interest, fees and charges shouldn't be 
capable of coming to more than the amount borrowed, this isnt applicable to hire purchase 
agreements. As the rate of interest was clearly set out and Mr B agreed to this, I do not find I 
can say that Oplo did anything wrong in this regard. 
My final decision
Oplo CF Ltd trading as 1st Stop Car Finance has confirmed that the 50% settlement offer is 
still available to Mr B. So, my decision is that Oplo CF Ltd trading as 1st Stop Car Finance 
should accept a settlement of 50% of the outstanding balance as it has offered.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 25 May 2023.
 
Jane Archer
Ombudsman