DRN-3583603
The complaint
Mrs B complains that Nationwide Building Society credited the wrong amount to her account 
when she deposited some cash.
What happened
In May 2021, Mrs B went into a branch of Nationwide to deposit some cash. She says that 
she took £2,000 to pay in. When she handed the cash over, the cashier she spoke to 
recorded that she deposited £2,000 and then Mrs B left the branch. Shortly after this, the 
cashier called Mrs B and said shed recorded the wrong amount and that Mrs B had actually 
given her £1,100.
Mrs B wasnt happy about this. She didnt believe that the money had been counted 
correctly, as she knew that she took £2,000 into the branch and the cashier had counted it 
by hand as the counting machine wasnt working. She wasnt happy with how the cashier 
spoke to her either.
So Mrs B raised a complaint and Nationwide investigated this. It found that the notes were 
counted by a machine rather than by hand and the amount counted was £1,100. They didnt 
think that the cashier has been intentionally rude to Mrs B, but accepted that receiving a call 
like this would have been a shock. So it paid Mrs B £150 to compensate her for the mistake.
Mrs B didnt agree and brought her complaint to us. The investigator that looked at it felt that 
the correct amount had been paid into the account and that the amount Nationwide paid 
Mrs B was fair for the impact this had. Mrs B disagreed and wanted a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I can see why Mrs B is concerned and unhappy about what happened here. She went into a 
branch to pay some cash in and was told that £2,000 had been paid in  only to be later told 
that this was incorrect. So its only reasonable to be worried and concerned about what 
might have led to a mistake like this.
Mrs B is sure she paid in £2,000 and has told us why shes sure of this, providing evidence 
of that amount being entered in a paying-in book. Nationwide says that this was a mistake by 
the cashier in entering this amount. Instead, it says Mrs B only paid in £1,100 and has 
provided evidence to support this. That means I have two competing versions of events and 
contradictory evidence. Where this is the case, I have to look at all the evidence thats 
available to me and decide whats more likely than not to have happened on balance.
Its not in dispute that the cashier recorded the amount paid in as £2,000. But Nationwide 
has provided a detailed statement from the cashier and the records from the machine which 
counted the cash. Its also supplied the details of its internal investigation into what 
happened.
The cashier says they made a mistake when keying in the amount. That is supported by the 
details of Nationwides own internal investigation, which revealed that there was a 
discrepancy between what the cashier had recorded and what the machine actually counted. 
This discrepancy was shown in the amounts counted by the machine, which showed the 
different notes paid in and the overall amount. That added up to £1,100.
So overall, I find Nationwides version of events persuasive. I know that Mrs B will disagree 
and she has suggested that the branch or cashier may have taken the difference between 
the two amounts here. But, given that the cashier was the person to call Mrs B about the 
mistake and owned up to this, I dont think thats likely here  especially where its supported 
by the other evidence from Nationwide.
Mrs B feels that Nationwide should be able to provide CCTV of what happened on that day. 
Nationwide has confirmed this is no longer available but says it reviewed this. It said that it 
showed that the money wasnt hand counted and that it was counted by a machine instead. 
While its unhelpful thats now unavailable  Im satisfied I have enough evidence here to still 
reach a decision here.
Thats not to say Ive ignored what Mrs B has said, Ive carefully considered it given what 
happened here. But in making an impartial decision on the available evidence, Im satisfied 
that its more likely than not that Nationwide made a mistake when it told Mrs B that £2,000 
had been paid in and recorded this. Instead the evidence here satisfies me that its more 
likely £1,100 was paid in, as the records show. So I wont be asking Nationwide to pay Mrs B 
the £900 she wants.
Turning now to the call, I dont think that the cashier was rude. But I do think that this would 
have been a confusing and upsetting call to have received. Nationwide has paid Mrs B £150 
for that, which I think is fair for the impact this had. This means that there isnt any more Ill 
be telling Nationwide that it needs to do here.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs B to accept or 
reject my decision before 18 August 2022.
 
James Staples
Ombudsman