DRN-4175520
The complaint
Mr T is unhappy that Royal & Sun Alliance Insurance Limited (RSA) declined a claim he 
made under his home insurance policy.
Mr T has a representative assisting him with this case. Any references to Mr T include his 
representative.
RSA appointed agents when dealing with Mr Ts claim. RSA accepts responsibility for these 
agents. So, any references to RSA include its agents too. 
What happened
Mr T purchased a home insurance policy with RSA, with his policy covering the period of 
16 October 2022 to 15 October 2023. The policy provided cover for various risks.
In November 2022, Mr T has explained that half of the gable wall at his property had 
collapsed and fell in poor weather. So, he made a claim under his policy for the loss he 
suffered.
RSA appointed an agent, who Ill name B, to visit Mr Ts property and review the damage. B 
provided a report, based on what it observed at the address. And following this, RSA 
declined to cover Mr Ts claim. 
RSA questioned whether there were storm conditions present at the time the gable wall 
came down. And said that even if there were storm conditions, the loss wasnt covered by 
the insurance policy anyway. It said this was because it didnt consider the weather 
conditions had caused the loss at Mr Ts property. Rather, the relevant part of the gable wall 
had collapsed due to wear and tear  which wasnt covered by the policy.
Mr T didnt agree that RSAs declinature of his claim was fair. So, he raised a complaint with 
RSA about the matter.
RSA considered Mr Ts complaint and maintained its position. RSA said that Mr Ts policy 
covered certain events, such as storm damage. But it considered that the damage to Mr Ts 
property was due to wall ties that had corroded over time, rather than because of any of the 
events listed in Mr Ts policy. RSA said bad weather had simply highlighted wear and tear 
issues, which the policy didnt provide cover for.
Mr T didnt agree this was fair. So, he referred his complaint to this service for an 
independent review.
Our investigator considered this complaint and didnt think it should be upheld. They thought 
RSA had acted fairly in declining the claim, in line with the terms and conditions of Mr Ts 
policy.
Mr T didnt agree. He said hed seen no evidence of wear and tear; this being the corroded 
wall ties. And so, Mr T wanted the matter referred to an ombudsman to decide.
As Mr T didnt agree, this case has been referred to me to decide.
I issued a provisional decision on this complaint. In this I said:
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im not intending on upholding this complaint. So, I dont intend on requiring 
RSA to do anything differently here.
I appreciate this will be a disappointment to Mr T. But Id like to reassure the parties that I 
have considered all information and evidence provided to me when coming to my intended 
decision. Ive explained my intended decision below.
When considering complaints such as this, I need to consider the relevant law, rules and 
industry guidelines. The relevant rules, set up by the Financial Conduct Authority, say that 
an insurer must deal with a claim promptly and fairly, and not unreasonably decline it. So, 
Ive thought about whether RSA acted in line with these requirements when it declined to 
settle Mr Ts claim.
Ive also reviewed Mr Ts policy documentation, to see what cover this provides. And I can 
see it does provide cover for Mr Ts buildings. But, as is usual with insurance policies of this 
nature, it doesnt provide cover for every scenario. Instead, the policy provides cover for 
damage, if its caused by one of the events listed in the policy. If the damage isnt caused by 
a listed event  it isnt covered, and the policy wont respond.
The events listed in the policy include damage caused by situations such as storm, theft or 
flood. RSA has said that the loss wasnt caused by an insured event  but rather was 
because of maintenance issues, and general wear and tear. So, Ive needed to decide 
whether RSA acted reasonably in noting the damage claimed for isnt covered by any of 
those events listed. And namely, that it isnt covered by the storm peril.
When looking at complaints about storm damage we consider the following three questions:
Has it been proven, on balance, that there were storm conditions on or around the 
date the problem occurred?
Is the nature of the damage consistent with storm damage?
Were the prevailing weather conditions the dominant or main cause of the damage?
If the answer to all of the above questions is yes, the claim would be covered. But if the 
answer to any of the above questions is no then the claim wouldnt be successful. So, Ive 
considered these questions when coming to my decision.Mr Ts policy defines what a storm is. It explains this is:
a period of violent weather defined as;
Wind speeds with gusts of at least 48 knots (55mph), equivalent to storm force 10 of 
the Beaufort Scale, or
Torrential rainfall at a rate of at least 25mm per hour, or
Snow to a depth of at least one foot (30 cms) in 24 hours, or
Hail of such intensity that it causes damage to hard surfaces or breaks glass.
I considered the weather conditions around the time of the loss, by reviewing weather 
reports. Having done so, Im aware the weather conditions surrounding the loss didnt meet 
the above threshold. Because of this, Im satisfied the answer to this question is no. As this 
means the answer to one of the above questions is no, Im currently satisfied RSA acted 
fairly in declining Mr Ts claim under the storm peril of the policy. It isnt covered under this. 
As there was no storm  the answer to the last two questions doesnt change the outcome of 
this complaint. But, for completeness, Ive reviewed the reports provided by both parties, as 
well as the pictures and videos supplied. And Im more persuded by RSAs position that the 
weather highlighted an issue with the wall, as opposed to caused the problem.
I say this because RSAs appointed representative provided details on why it considered 
there was a wear and tear issue that caused the wall to collapse. This being the wall ties 
having corroded. When this service asked further about this, RSA said it was possible to tell 
the wall ties were corroded due to the colours of the wall ties at the ends, which had rusted 
away and were a brown rusty colour. It said the wall was only tied together with these walls 
ties. So, this had to be the reason for the collapse.
Mr T has provided a video of the wall ties. And this video appears consistent with what RSA 
have said about the corrosion being present. Mr Ts contractor hasnt provided any detail of 
the condition of wall ties where the damage occurred, other then to say they snapped with 
the force of the collapse, given the weather. In the absence of storm conditions, it seems 
reasonable that RSA interpreted that the corroded wall ties caused the collapse, or at least 
that wear and tear was the cause of the loss.
Given that the weather wasnt in line with the storm definiton within the policy, and the 
evidence that suggests the relevant wall ties had worn, I dont consider RSA acted unfairly in 
noting that poor weather highlighted an already present problem, as opposed to a storm 
causing the loss itself. So, I dont consider RSA acted unfairly in this regard either.
Given the above, I think RSA acted reasonably in saying Mr Ts claim wasnt covered under 
the storm section of the policy. So, I dont intend on requiring RSA to do anything more here.
Ive also checked the remainder of the insured perils in Mr Ts policy, to see if there were any 
other perils relevant to his loss. But Im satisfied there arent. 
And, Im aware there is a general exclusion in the policy, which excludes loss caused by, or 
resulting from wear and tear, depreciation, corrosion..or anything which happens 
gradually. As above, Im persuaded by the evidence RSA has provided, that the damage to 
the wall was because of wear and tear. As I dont think RSA acted unfairly in concluding the 
damage wasnt covered by storm, or any other peril under the policy, I dont intend on 
requiring it to do anything differently.
Neither party responsed to my provisional decision.What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided not to uphold this complaint.
There hasnt been any further comments or evidence from either party, to alter my findings 
on this complaint, or the reasoning for it. And so, my decision remains the same as that in 
my provisional decision, and for the same reasons.
My final decision
Given the above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. So, I dont require 
Royal & Sun Alliance Insurance Limited (RSA) to do anything differently.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr T to accept or 
reject my decision before 5 July 2023.
 
Rachel Woods
Ombudsman