DRN-4339134
The complaint
Mr S, who is represented by a third party, complains that Everyday Lending Limited, trading 
as GeorgeBanco.com (George Banco), was irresponsible in its lending to him.
What happened
Mr S was provided with three fixed sum loan agreements, each of them taken as a guarantor 
loan. Loan 1 was taken out in October 2015 for £4,000 with monthly payments of £150.35 
over 60 months; Loan 2 was taken out in February 2017 for £6,300 with monthly payments 
of £236.79 over 60 months. Loan 3 was taken out in November 2020 for £7,500 with monthly 
payments of £295.94 over 60 months. 
Mr S says at the time of each lending agreement he was in financial difficulty and that 
adequate checks would have shown that the loans werent affordable.
George Banco said that for each of the three loans it had carried out credit checks and relied 
on information Mr S provided about his financial circumstances when making each 
application. Based on that, George Banco said each of the loans was affordable.
Our investigator thought the evidence collected showed that Mr S was likely to have been 
struggling financially at the time he took out each of the three loans so they shouldnt have 
been granted. 
In my provisional decision dated 24 August 2023 I explained why I was intending only to 
uphold the first loan. I set out an extract below:
Loan 1  October 2015
Mr S said hed taken out this loan for debt consolidation. Before granting the finance, Ive 
seen that George Banco carried out a credit check as well as relying on the information Mr S 
set out in his application. The credit check showed that Mr S was already owing credit of 
around £4,500. Given that he was on a relatively low income of around £1,300 per month 
this was a significant amount of debt to be managing. 
Ive also seen that George Banco used statistical data to allow £175 for cost of living 
expenses and £350 for housing costs. So its fair to say that sustainable monthly repayments 
towards these debts would take up a significant proportion of Mr Ss income. This is 
something George Banco was aware of, having factored it in to the reduction in Mr Ss 
monthly outgoings that taking the loan would create. This meant that George Banco was 
able to increase the amount of disposable income it thought Mr S would be likely to have for 
the purpose of its calculations. Taking everything into account, I think it would have been 
proportionate for George Banco to have got a more thorough understanding of Mr Ss 
financial circumstances before granting him this first loan. 
Even allowing for the fact that Mr S was using the loan for debt consolidation, his credit 
check shows an ongoing substantial debt commitment. I say this having noted that Mr S was 
holding at least four credit cards with an outstanding balance as well as owing money to a 
telecoms company under a credit agreement. And for the credit card with the largest 
balance, being around £2,200, Mr S appeared to have gone over his credit limit on four 
occasions in the previous five months. On another card he had gone over his allowed credit 
limit four months earlier. Ive also kept in mind that a key factor in the affordability of the new 
lending was the assumption by George Banco that Mr S would use all the loan to pay off his 
existing credit commitments, without going on to incur further debt. Its quite possible that 
Mr S could have decided to use some or all of the loan funds for other uses, should he have 
wished to. This would have further increased his level of debt with a likelihood that he would 
be left with no or very little disposable income each month.  
It follows that I think the extent of Mr Ss existing credit commitments showed there was a 
real risk that this lending would lead to a worsening of Mr Ss financial circumstances. Ive 
also kept in mind that Mr S was committing to making these payments for over a five year 
period at a relatively high interest rate. 
It follows that I agree this loan was not sustainably affordable to Mr S. 
Loans 2 and 3  February 2017 and November 2020. 
For loan 2, which was for £6,300, I note that Mr S said the main purpose was to help with 
moving costs. I think its likely though that at least some of the funds that would be left after 
hed settled his existing loan, would be used for consolidation or other purposes. Loan 3, 
which also appears to have been taken out by way of top up, was for £7,500. For both loans, 
I think its also worth noting that on his application Mr S said his monthly income had 
increased, to £2,300. 
At the time of taking out Loan 2 Mr S still owed around £2,600 in existing credit by way of 
new credit cards hed taken out. This was separate to the loan repayments hed be making 
for the next five years. He had also been exceeding the balance on one of his credit cards 
on several occasions prior to Loan 2 being agreed. And by the time he took out Loan 3 his 
borrowing on credit cards had increased to around £7,000. 
I think it would have been proportionate for George Banco to have verified Mr Ss income in 
some way for each of these two loans, given that according to his application, it had 
increased significantly. And given that Mr S was likely to be increasing his overall level of 
debt by taking each loan, I think it would have been proportionate for George Banco to have 
taken steps to find out more about Mr Ss income and committed expenditure, such as his 
living costs. 
Our investigator asked Mr S and those representing him for some further details and 
evidence about his financial circumstances at the relevant time. This was to help us 
understand what, if anything, George Banco might have found out if it completed reasonable 
and proportionate checks. However, Mr S hasnt provided sufficient information to help us 
determine whether or not George Banco made a fair lending decision for loans 2 and 3. So, 
whilst I have concerns about the checks that were caried out for these loans, Im not able to 
making a finding that George Banco acted unfairly when granting them. 
It follows that from all the evidence and information Ive seen, Im currently satisfied that for  
Loan 1 Mr S was continuing to struggle with difficult financial circumstances. It follows that I 
think George Banco shouldnt have considered this loan as being sustainably affordable for 
Mr S and did not act reasonably in approving it. But I dont currently consider that George Banco acted unfairly in granting Loans 2 and 3. 
Both Mr S and George Banco should feel free to provide me with any further evidence or 
information by the date stated above. 
Neither Mr S, those representing him or George Banco have responded to my provisional 
decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Given that I have not provided with any further evidence or information to consider, I shall be 
making a decision to partially uphold this complaint on the same basis as my provisional 
decision. That  means I am upholding this complaint for Loan 1, but I dont currently consider 
that George Banco needs to do anything more for Loans 2 and 3. 
The following redress therefore applies. 
Putting things right  what George Banco needs to do
Having thought about everything, Im currently minded to conclude that, for Loan 1 only, 
George Banco should put things right for Mr S by:
Refunding all interest, fees and charges Mr S paid on the loan;
Adding interest at 8% per year simple on any refunded payments from the date they 
were made to the date of settlement.* 
If any capital balance remains outstanding, then George Banco should attempt to 
arrange an affordable and suitable payment plan with Mr S. 
Once the outstanding balance has been repaid, remove all adverse information it has 
recorded about this loan from Mr Ss credit file.
*HM Revenue & Customs requires George Banco to take off tax from this interest.
George Banco must give Mr S a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if he asks for 
one.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint for Loan 1 (but not Loans 2 and 3) and 
require Everyday Lending Limited, trading as GeorgeBanco.com, to take the actions set out 
above in settlement of this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 6 October 2023.
 
Michael Goldberg
Ombudsman