DRN-4020455
The complaint
Ms A complains about Nationwide Building Society.
She says that Nationwide mis-sold her two payment protection insurance (PPI) policies 
taken out alongside loans in January and July 2003.
What happened
Ms A complained to Nationwide about the PPI policies, but it didnt uphold her complaint. 
She then brought her complaint to this Service.
Our Adjudicator considered the complaint but didnt think it should be upheld. Ms A remained 
unhappy, so the complaint has been passed to me to make a final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding Ms As complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided not to uphold Ms As complaint. I know this will be 
disappointing for her, so Ill explain why.
Ms A says that she was not made aware of the PPI policies that she was sold by Nationwide 
 and that she wasnt aware of the cost of the PPI policies either. But Nationwide has 
provided the credit agreements for both loans to this Service. 
On these I can see that the PPI is set out under the heading optional credit insurance. This 
shows the costs of the PPI policies  and that they were separate, optional products to the 
loans themselves. Ms A has signed both credit agreements. So I think that Nationwide did 
make it clear that Ms A had a choice in taking out the policies, and what they cost  and that 
she chose to take out the PPI, although I understand she may not remember as the sales 
took place so long ago.
Nationwide didnt recommend the PPI to Ms A  that is to say it didnt provide advice about 
the suitability of the PPI policies for Ms A. It wasnt a service it provided at the time. Instead, 
it needed to provide Ms A with enough information to decide if the policy was right for her.
Some of the information Nationwide provided to Ms A may not have been a clear as it 
shouldve been but Ms A doesnt appear to have been affected by any of the main things the 
policies didnt cover  and based on what I know about Ms As circumstances it looks like the 
policies couldve been useful to her if she had needed to make a claim. So, I dont think 
better information wouldve stopped her from taking out the PPI. 
I understand that Ms A says that her mother or brother could have helped her with her 
repayments if she needed them to  but while I know that family are often keen to help out 
where they can, this cant always be relied on, and ultimately the repayments were Ms As 
responsibility.
As Ive explained above, I do think that Nationwide made the costs of the policies clear to 
Ms A  the monthly cost, interest payable, and the total cost were all set out on the 
paperwork that she signed. So, I think that she wouldve known how much she was paying 
for the PPI. I can also see that the PPI policies offered a proportionate refund if she had 
cancelled the policies early. I think that this would have been important to Ms A as it seems 
like she often refinanced her loans and settled them before the full term.
Ive taken into account all of Ms As comments, but these points dont change my conclusion.
It follows that I dont uphold this complaint.
Other considerations 
The Supreme Court decided a case that involved the commission on a PPI policy  Plevin v 
Paragon Personal Finance. And the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA)  who make the 
rules for financial businesses  introduced some new rules and guidance for businesses to 
follow when theyre looking at PPI complaints. This means businesses will sometimes need 
to give consumers back some of the commission paid on certain PPI policies. 
But this only applies to credit agreements taken out on or after 6 April 2007, or agreements 
taken out before then which were still running on 6 April 2008. From the information Ive 
seen, Ms As loans dont fit into these dates - so Nationwide doesnt have to refund any of 
the commission she paid on the PPI policy.
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms A to accept or 
reject my decision before 17 April 2023.
 
Claire Pugh
Ombudsman