DRN-4219744
The complaint
Mr S complains that Revolut Ltd didnt do enough to protect him from the financial harm 
caused by an investment scam company, or to help him recover the money once hed 
reported the scam to it.
What happened
The detailed background to this complaint is well known to both parties. So, Ill only provide
a brief overview of some of the key events here.
In May 2021 Mr S came across an advertisement for an opportunity to invest in 
cryptocurrency with a company Ill refer to as L. The opportunity was endorsed by two well-
known celebrities, and he had seen similar adverts before, so he believed it was genuine.
He clicked on the advertisement and was required to input his contact details. He then 
googled L and couldnt see any bad reviews, noting website featured about us, legal, 
financial, support, and, contact us sections, and had photographs of stock trades 
showcasing currency values. He sent a copy of his photo ID and a utility bill as proof of 
address and received an email confirming his registration had been successful. 
He then received a phone call from someone claiming to be a broker working for L, who said 
hed be his account manager. The broker explained how the trading would work and 
instructed Mr S to first purchase cryptocurrency through a cryptocurrency exchange 
company and then load the cryptocurrency onto an online wallet.  He was told hed need to 
pay a start-up fee and so he made the initial payment from another of his bank accounts.
The broker told him hed been trading for several years, and Mr S thought the broker 
seemed knowledgeable and professional. He also emailed Mr S several case studies of 
success stories.
Between 3 August 2021 and 12 August 2021, Mr S made three payments totalling 
£10,599.82 to a cryptocurrency exchange company account in his own name using a debit 
card attached to his Revolut account. When he saw profits on his trading account, he 
contacted broker to ask if he could make a withdrawal. The broker said they would need his 
IBAN number, and it would have to go through Bitcoin, which would take over a month. He 
also said hed have to open another e-wallet to avoid transferring a large amount into his 
bank account. He was then told to pay reflection fees and that if he didnt pay within 24-48 
hours, he would get further charges and might not be able to access to his funds. 
At this point Mr S realised hed been scammed and contacted Revolut. He complained that it 
failed to intervene or question any of the payments and that it might have prevented his loss 
if it had asked probing questions to understand the true context of the payments.
But Revolut refused to refund any of the money hed lost. It reminded Mr S of the need to do 
thorough due diligence on any companies and entities he was planning to send money to, 
including checking online forums. It also said it provides information to its customers on how 
to avoid scams including checking the investment company is on the Financial Conduct 
Authority (FCA) register.
It said Mr Ss claim was investigated as a fraud chargeback and it was concluded the 
payments were authorized via 3DS authorisation, so a chargeback wouldnt have been 
successful as there was no fraudulent activity.
Mr S complained to this service with the assistance of a representative. They said Revolut 
should have intervened as Mr S made three payments to a new payee linked to 
cryptocurrency that totalled £10,599.82 within the space of 9 days. The representative 
explained that Mr S opened the account for the purpose of the scam, and it ought to have 
identified that hed deposited a large amount of funds into his account and then sent it 
straight out again, which should have been a red flag. They argued Revoluts systems 
should have been triggered on 3 August 2021 when Mr S added a new payee and sent a 
payment for £529.55. 
The representative said that Revolut ought to have contacted Mr S asked why he was 
making the payments, how he found out about the company, whether hed researched the 
company, whether hed checked the FCA register, whether hed been promised unrealistic 
returns and whether hed tried to make any withdrawals, and with this information it could 
have identified he was the victim of a scam and prevented his loss. 
Revolut commented that the payments were made to a cryptocurrency exchange platform, 
meaning that no fraud occurred from the Revolut account. And it said the account was newly 
created, so there were no historical transactions, and the payments were to a legitimate 
cryptocurrency merchant.
Our investigator didnt think the complaint should be upheld. She explained Revolut could 
only have processed chargeback claims against the cryptocurrency exchange company Mr 
S paid and she didnt think he had any reasonable prospect of success because it had 
provided the service it was required to provide.
However, she thought Revolut should have intervened when he made the payment of 
£5,299.55 on 3 August 2021 because it was unusual for the account. She said the account 
was newly opened and the payment was of high value and not in line with the account 
opening reason given. So, she thought Revolut ought to have provided a warning which 
covered the risks of cryptocurrency scams.
But she didnt think an intervention from Revolut would have made a difference to the 
outcome and that Mr S would have gone ahead with the payment even if he was warned 
about the potential for a scam. She thought this because he had a discussion with Bank R in 
May 2021 when he told it about his cryptocurrency investment dealings. On that occasion, 
Bank R provided a detailed warning about cryptocurrency scams and told him he was being 
scammed and it wouldnt allow any further payments to the beneficiary. Mr S then 
transferred the money to an account he held with W, and from there he made payments to 
the same beneficiary details which Bank R warned him were most likely a scam. Ultimately 
those funds were then lost to the scam.
Our investigator explained there were further interactions with the other Bank R in July 2021, 
when Mr S denied he was making the payments for an investment, so she didnt think hed 
have listened to a scam warning from Revolut. She also considered whether Revolut should 
have intervene when he made the later payments but, considering hed already made a 
payment of £5,299.55, she didnt think it needed to intervene. Finally, she explained that Mr 
S wasnt entitled to compensation from Revolut because it wasnt responsible for his loss.Mr S has asked for his complaint to be reviewed by an Ombudsman arguing he wouldnt 
have gone ahead with the payments if Revolut had told him he was being scammed. And he 
thinks Revolut ought to refund 50% of his loss because it missed an opportunity to intervene. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive reached the same conclusion as our investigator. And for largely the 
same reasons. Im sorry to hear that Mr S has been the victim of a cruel scam. I know he 
feels strongly about this complaint, and this will come as a disappointment to him, so Ill 
explain why. 
Im satisfied Mr S authorised the payments for the purposes of the of the Payment Services 
Regulations 2017 (the Regulations), in force at the time. So, although he didnt intend the 
money to go to scammers, under the Regulations, and under the terms and conditions of his 
bank account, Mr S is presumed liable for the loss in the first instance.
Not every complaint referred to us and categorised as an investment scam is in fact a scam. 
Some cases simply involve high-risk unregulated investments that resulted in disappointing 
returns or losses. Some of these investments may have been promoted using sales methods 
that were arguably unethical and/or misleading. However, while customers who lost out may 
understandably regard such acts or omissions as fraudulent, they do not necessarily meet 
the high legal threshold or burden of proof for fraud, i.e. dishonestly making a false 
representation and/or failing to disclose information with the intention of making a gain for 
himself or of causing loss to another or exposing another to the risk of loss (Fraud Act 2006). 
Ive carefully considered the circumstances, and I am persuaded the broker was operating 
as part of a scam. But, although Mr S didnt intend his money to go to scammers, he did 
authorise the disputed payments. Revolut is expected to process payments and withdrawals 
that a customer authorises it to make, but where the customer has been the victim of a 
scam, it may sometimes be fair and reasonable for the bank to reimburse them even though 
they authorised the payment.
Prevention
Ive thought about whether Revolut could have done more to prevent the scam from 
occurring altogether. Buying cryptocurrency is a legitimate activity and from the evidence Ive 
seen, the payments were made to a genuine cryptocurrency exchange company. However, 
Revolut had an obligation to be alert to fraud and scams and these payments were part of a 
wider scam, so I need to consider whether it ought to have intervened to warn Mr S when he 
tried to make the payments. If there are unusual or suspicious payments on an account, Id 
expect Revolut to intervene with a view to protecting Mr S from financial harm due to fraud. 
The payments didnt flag as suspicious on Revoluts systems. Ive considered the nature of 
the payments in the context of whether they were unusual or uncharacteristic of how Mr S 
normally ran his account and I agree with our investigator that the payment he made on 5 
August 2021 should have triggered an intervention because it was a large payment to a 
cryptocurrency exchange company, which was out of character for the account.
Based on what Mr S said during interactions in branch with Bank R in July 2021, I have 
doubts as to whether hed have been completely open in his responses, but as this was a 
payment to a cryptocurrency exchange company, I would expect Revolut to have asked some robust questions about the purpose of the payment and to have given a clear and 
effective scam warning. 
However, I dont think this would have made a difference to Mr Ss decision to go ahead with 
the payment. This is because Ive listened to the call he had with Bank R on 11 May 2021, 
when the call handler said she thought the investment was a scam and she refused to 
process the payment. She told him the investment had the hallmarks of a scam and that he 
wouldnt be able to make any further payments from the account. She also told him about 
the tactics used by scammers and advised him to do more checks to avoid losing his money. 
But Mr S ignored the advice and paid the funds into the account he held with W and then 
transferred it to the same beneficiary account Bank R had warned him about, which was a 
cryptocurrency exchange company, where it was lost to a scam. 
Based on what actually happened when a similar intervention took place and the fact Mr S 
clearly trusted the broker and believed the investment was genuine, Im satisfied that, even if 
Revolut had given Mr S a scam warning on 15 August 2021, it wouldnt have made any 
difference to his decision to go ahead with that or subsequent payments. So even though it 
missed an opportunity to intervene, this wasnt in circumstances which could have prevented 
his loss.
Chargeback
Ive thought about whether Revolut could have done more to recover Mr Ss payments when 
he reported the scam to it. Chargeback is a voluntary scheme run by Visa whereby it will 
ultimately arbitrate on a dispute between the merchant and customer if it cannot be resolved 
between them after two presentments. Such arbitration is subject to the rules of the scheme 
 so there are limited grounds on which a chargeback can succeed. Our role in such cases 
is not to second-guess Visas arbitration decision or scheme rules, but to determine whether 
the regulated card issuer (i.e. Revolut) acted fairly and reasonably when presenting (or 
choosing not to present) a chargeback on behalf of its cardholder (Mr S).
Mr Ss own testimony supports that he used cryptocurrency exchanges to facilitate the 
transfers. Its only possible to make a chargeback claim to the merchant that received the 
disputed payments. Its most likely that the cryptocurrency exchanges would have been able 
to evidence theyd done what was asked of them. That is, in exchange for Mr Ss payments, 
they converted and sent an amount of cryptocurrency to the wallet address provided. So, 
any chargeback was destined fail, therefore Im satisfied that Revoluts decision not to raise 
a chargeback request against either of the cryptocurrency exchange companies was fair.
Im sorry to hear Mr S has lost money and the effect this has had on him. But for the reasons 
Ive explained, I dont think Revolut is to blame for this and so I cant fairly tell it to do 
anything further to resolve this complaint.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive outlined above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 10 November 2023.
 
Carolyn Bonnell
Ombudsman