DRN-3838844
The complaint
Ms M complains Aviva Life and Pensions UK Ltd (Aviva) misinformed her of the timescales 
for making a contribution to her pension policy. As a result of this, her contribution was not 
made in the intended tax-year. She feels shes missed out on fully utilising her tax allowance 
as a consequence of Avivas actions. Ms M wants Aviva to backdate her premium to the 
point it was made.
What happened
I set out the background to this complaint in my earlier provisional decision, for clarity, I 
repeat it here.
Ms M held a personal pension plan with Aviva. She regularly made single contributions near 
the end of each tax year. Ms M states that she telephoned Aviva to understand what the 
timescales were, to ensure the payment she made would be received within the correct tax 
year. Ms M states that Aviva advised her that as long as the payment was received before 
the end of any financial year, it would be applied to her pension within that financial year.
Ms M made an online payment to Aviva on Saturday 4 April 2020 on the understanding it 
would count for the 2019/20 tax year. As the new tax year didnt start until the Monday, Ms M 
thought she had made the payment within the timescales that had been earlier set out to her 
by Aviva. Ms M received an email from Aviva the same day confirming they had received her 
pension payment. 
Ms M was then surprised to learn Aviva had recorded the payment she made on 4 April as 
having been made on 6 April. That meant theyd included it within the subsequent 2020/21 
tax year rather than the previous one as she intended. Unhappy with that news, Ms M then 
complained to Aviva.
Aviva investigated Ms Ms concerns and rejected her complaint. They stated that the tax 
year used, is the tax year in which your units were purchased. As the financial markets were 
closed on the Saturday when Ms M made her payment, they were only able to make the 
appropriate purchases for her on the Monday. That meant her contribution was treated as 
having been paid in the new tax year.
Dissatisfied, Ms M brought her complaint to this service.
The complaint was considered by one of our investigators. He did not think the complaint 
should be upheld and agreed with Avivas findings. He did not feel the submission of a 
payment was the same as the date it was considered to have been received. He considered 
that it was generally accepted that banking hours do not include the weekend.
Ms M disagreed with his findings. She told our Investigator:
She complied with the information she was provided by Avivas own Call Centre staff. 
She explained she was never advised payments must be submitted by the last business 
day to count for that tax year.
She had received an email from Aviva stating they had received her payment on 4 April, 
so, within the correct tax year.
Referring to Avivas website, she doesnt believe there is either now, or was at the time 
any prominent information advising customers of the necessary deadlines.
She has never received any proactive correspondence from Aviva about their cut-off 
dates.
Our investigator was not persuaded to change his view as he did not believe Ms M had 
submitted any new information hed not already considered.
Ms M asked the investigator to pass the case to an Ombudsman to review that decision. 
After carefully considering both sets of arguments, I issued a provisional decision explaining 
that I wasnt planning on upholding Ms Ms complaint.
After receiving my provisional decision, Aviva contacted this service to confirm they 
accepted the decision and had no further comment to make.
Ms M however explained she did not agree with the provisional decision. Ms M provided a 
detailed explanation why. Ive summarised Ms Ms points in far less detail than the her and 
Ive done so using my own words. Im not going to respond to every single point made by Ms 
M. No discourtesy is intended by this. Instead, Ive focussed on what I think are the key 
issues here. Our rules allow me to do this. This simply reflects the informal nature of our 
service as a free alternative to the courts. If theres something Ive not mentioned, it isnt 
because Ive ignored it. I havent. Im satisfied I dont need to comment on every individual 
argument to be able to reach what I think is the right outcome.
Ms M reiterated she was told by Aviva that payments are applied against the tax year 
within which they receive the monies. Ms M said that it was reasonable for her to rely on 
the information supplied by the Avivas call centre. 
Ms M feels Avivas staff were ill informed and giving out incorrect information. She also 
believes Aviva have refused to make the telephone call available, having denied its 
existence. She explained they have provided other information about what was 
discussed on the call so, must have a record of it.
Ms M also finds it unusual Aviva are unable to produce material that may have been 
shared with customers at the time, believing most financial services firms keep records 
of all marketing material.Ms M didnt feel it was accurate to state that Aviva were only able to make the respective 
unit purchases into her pension on the Monday.
She went on to state, the advice on the timing of payment from the HMRC manual 
aligned entirely with her position. The manual regards payments as having been 
received on the date they are received. She said it wasnt in dispute Aviva received the 
payment on 4 April.
Ms M explained the statement within the provisional decision around banking hours was 
(i) inaccurate, as many banks are open at the weekend, and banking facilities are 
available 24/7]; and (ii) inconsistent later points in the statement. 
Ms M felt the fact a large volume of payments were made on 4 April was further 
evidence of the misleading information Aviva routinely provides.
Ms M said that shed placed business with other providers recently, and theyd all 
provided details of tax year end deadlines. She felt that Aviva werent following industry 
practice.
She went on to say Aviva explained they were unable to invest as markets were closed. 
She didnt feel this was the same as funds being unavailable. She explained the funds 
were available, and banking systems can readily be available to apply funds to the cash 
accounts of individuals outside of stock market hours.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In my provisional decision I said that whilst I fully appreciated this may not be the response 
Ms M was hoping for, I didnt believe Aviva had acted unfairly in its dealings with her. I went 
on to explain why below.
In considering whether Aviva provided Ms M with the necessary information to help her 
make an informed decision on the timing of her payment, this service asked what information 
was made available to Ms M at the time of the payment. Aviva were not able to provide 
screen grabs of their website from the time of the transaction. In addition, they were not able 
to confirm whether an on-screen warning existed to forewarn clients of their contribution cut-
off times that would ensure they arrived in time for the tax year end. They have however said 
this information was given to their Call Centre teams who shared this information with clients 
as and when they telephoned in. 
Ms M states that she was told by Aviva that as long as the payment was made in the tax 
year, it would count for that current year. Unfortunately, Aviva explained they were not able 
to locate the call Ms M says she made to their Call Centre. Whilst I do not doubt those 
discussions took place, I am therefore not able to determine what was and wasnt explained to her around the cut off times for when payments must be made to ensure theyre received 
by the tax year end.  
In my provisional decision, I said that I think it is important at this point to make the 
distinction between when a payment is physically received by a provider and the point at 
which it is invested; thats because more often than not, they can be different. Avivas 
position here is they do not view the premium as having been made until the monies are 
committed to an underlying investment. Thats why they view the payment as being made in 
the new tax year.
I also said, in helping shape my decision, I referred to the HM Revenue and Customs 
(HMRC) Pensions Tax Manual (see section PTM041000  Contributions: essential 
principles). This document, amongst other things, sets out the rules for how HMRC 
determine the point when a contribution is treated as having been received by a registered 
pension scheme.
HMRCs rules state the date of payment of the contribution, depends on what method is 
used to pay it. As you might expect, they give several scenarios:
Debit/credit card  the date on which details are received by the scheme administrator.
Faster Payment  online banking payments complete near-instantly but they are not 
always guaranteed to do so, users should take account of their banks terms under which 
they payment is made. The use of electronic means to make payments is evolving and it 
is not possible for this manual to cover them all.
Their manual goes on to provide some guidance where its accepted that contributions made 
on 6 April can be treated as though they were made earlier. Ms M states she made her 
payment by online banking, Faster Payment.
I explained that I had contacted Aviva as part of my considerations to understand what 
happened to Ms Ms monies when she made the payment to them. I felt it important to 
understand whether the contribution was paid directly into her own individual pot on the 
Saturday pending the investment on Monday when the markets opened, or, whether the 
contribution was pooled with other investors monies and only attributed to her plan when the 
units were purchased on the Monday when the markets opened.
Aviva explained they received a large batch payment from their bankers on Saturday 4 April, 
this included both Ms Ms and the funds of many other customers. Those monies were then 
held in a suspense account and only credited to Ms Ms plan after the respective units in her 
fund had been purchased several days later. The units in her fund were purchased on 17 
April but, Aviva backdated the unit price to that of Monday 6 April so Ms M was not 
disadvantaged. Aviva said the small delay in attributing the units to her plan was because of 
the Easter holidays. Therefore, whilst the payment was made on Saturday, it didnt arrive in 
the pension until Monday, which was the new tax year.
All financial services organisations have a cut off time that sets out when a premium will be 
invested if it is received after a set time. Thats because theyre constrained by stock market 
opening hours. As Ms M made her payment on the Saturday at which point, markets were closed, the earliest it could have been invested into her plan was the following Monday, on 
the 6th April which fell into the new 2020/21 tax year. There were no business days 
remaining in the 2019/20 tax year when Ms M submitted her payment. I think its fair to say 
that its widely known and accepted that banking business hours do not typically include the 
weekends.
Its important to understand what information Ms M had in her possession in helping shape 
her decision around the timing of her contributions. 
Avivas website and their terms and conditions make clear that if the markets are shut at the 
point a contribution is received, the funds will be applied to the next point a valuation is 
undertaken. In this instance, as the markets were shut on the Saturday when the payment 
was made, the next available date was Monday. 
Aviva have explained they do not send customers a reminder about using their annual 
pension allowances or when cut off times are for premiums. I note that Ms M does not have 
a Financial Adviser attached to this plan and appears to make the decisions herself but, its 
important to recognise that Aviva isnt a financial adviser so its not their responsibility to 
provide prompts to consumers. However, in her complaint to this service, Ms M did make 
reference to some communications shed received from Aviva covering a subsequent tax 
year. She submitted two Click Through Form  make a single contribution screen shots to 
this service and also an email dated 8 March 2021. The screen shots provided the following 
warning:
Please note, We will not action your one-off payment instruction until we have received your 
payment and the funds are available in our account.
The email dated 8 March 2021 stated:
Just remember, the value of your pension can go down as well as up and you could end up 
with less than you put in. If you'd like to make a payment, you'll need to make it by 25 March 
2021 to allow for it to be received through the banking system for the 2020/21 tax year.
In my provisional decision, I said I believed the screen shots provide sufficient clarity that 
cleared funds would need to be in Avivas bank account before the money would count as 
being received. The email makes the situation clearer, as it gives the latest likely date a 
payment could be made for it count that tax year. We do however need to recognise that 
literature doesnt cover the tax year in question that relates to the complaint Ms M is making.
Ms M has told this service that as an Additional Rate taxpayer, the premium was to make 
use of her carry forward allowance. Whilst I fully appreciate its difficult to establish what 
headroom and available budget a consumer may have until very late in the tax year, by 
leaving such an important transaction to the last weekend of the tax year, this didnt provide 
any margin of error for either Aviva or Ms M to put things right if there was a problem. 
In my provisional decision I concluded by saying we need to remember this isnt a bank 
account and as such, whilst making payments into the plan may appear instantaneous, the 
reality is such that its heavily dependent upon the timing of when the payment is actually made that determines the date of credit. It therefore followed, that I did not support Ms Ms 
complaint as I did not believe Aviva had done anything wrong for the reasons set out above.
My provisional decision did not state Ms M should check other sources of information to 
validate what shed been told by the Aviva call centre. In addition, Aviva have not refused to 
provide the telephone call Ms M states she made to them. As the provisional decision notes, 
Aviva have no record of the call being made to them. I was therefore not able to determine 
what was and wasnt explained to Ms M around the cut off times for when payments must be 
made to ensure theyre received by the tax year end.
In her response to my provisional decision, Ms M agreed that she doesnt believe the actual 
timing of when the units were ultimately purchased has any bearing on this decision; Aviva 
have made no secret of the administrative delays they encountered at the time but, back 
dated the unit price to the correct Monday so consumers werent impacted financially. The 
crux of the issue at the heart of this complaint is when the payment was received into the 
pension. As Ive already noted, Aviva have confirmed funds were held in suspense, pooled 
with other clients before they were attributed to Ms Ms plan. That meant her pension didnt 
receive the monies until the Monday, within the new tax year. Allied to this, as Aviva work on 
a forward pricing basis, they wouldnt have been able to purchase units in the pension until 
the Monday, given it was the first working day at which the markets were opened following 
the contribution. Aviva treat the point when units are purchased, as the date of investment.
Its my view, the HMRC rules do allow Aviva to do this. The HMRC rules that Ive already 
referred to above, do state that in order to avoid disputes in this area, some pension 
providers make arrangements so payments made near to a tax year are held over outside 
the scheme until the following tax year. 
Whilst I fully appreciate its difficult knowing what available headroom may be available when 
determining what payments can be made in to a pension to ensure what available headroom 
is available, leaving such an important decision to the Saturday of the end of the tax year, 
did not leave any margin for error. 
After reviewing the information that Ms M submitted, and after carefully considering all her 
further comments in respect of this complaint, I have reached the same conclusion as I did in 
my provisional decision. I appreciate Ms M feels very strongly but, she hasnt provided any 
new or additional information to that which she has already provided to this service. So, as 
there is no new information to consider it follows that I have reached the same conclusions 
for the same reasons as I did in my provisional decision, the details of which I have set out 
above. I therefore dont think Aviva needs to do anything to put things right. 
My final decision
I do not uphold Ms Ms complaint for the reasons set out above and I do not require Aviva 
Life and Pensions UK Ltd to take any action.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms M to accept or 
reject my decision before 2 January 2023.
 
Simon FoxOmbudsman