DRN-3033108
The complaint
Mr K has complained that Loans 2 Go Limited was irresponsible in lending to him.
What happened
Loans 2 Go provided Mr K with the following loans:
Date taken Amount Term Monthly 
repaymentAmount 
received
Loan 1 04/10/2018 £250 18 months £56.64 Paid in full
Loan 2 14/12/2018 £250 18 months £56.64 Paid in full
Loan 3 29/01/2019 £300 18 months £68.75 Paid in full
Mr K complained that Loans 2 Go hadnt properly checked he could afford the loans.
Loans 2 Go looked into his complaint and didnt uphold it. It said the checks had been 
properly carried out and it thought the loans were sustainable. Mr K referred his complaint to 
us. 
Our adjudicator didnt uphold Mr Ks complaint. As Mr K disagreed, the complaint has been 
passed to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about unaffordable/irresponsible lending - 
including all of the relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice - on our website. 
Having carefully thought about everything, I think that there are two overarching questions 
that I need to answer in order to fairly and reasonably decide Mr Ks complaint. These two 
questions are:
1. Did Loans 2 Go complete reasonable and proportionate checks to satisfy itself that Mr K 
would be able to repay the loans without experiencing significant adverse consequences?
If so, did it make a fair lending decision?
If not, would those checks have shown that Mr K wouldve been able to do so?
2. Did Loans 2 Go act unfairly or unreasonably in some other way?
The rules and regulations in place at the time required Loans 2 Go to carry out a reasonable 
and proportionate assessment of Mr Ks ability to make the repayments due for each loan. 
This assessment is sometimes referred to as an affordability assessment or affordability 
check.
The checks had to be borrower-focused  so Loans 2 Go had to think about whether 
repaying the loan would be sustainable. In practice this meant that the business had to 
ensure that making the repayments on the loan wouldnt cause Mr K undue difficulty or 
significant adverse consequences. That means he should have been able to meet 
repayments out of normal income without having to borrow to meet the repayments, without 
failing to make any other payment he had a contractual or statutory obligation to make and 
without the repayments having a significant adverse impact on his financial situation.
In other words, it wasnt enough for Loans 2 Go to simply think about the likelihood of it 
getting its money back, it had to consider the impact of the loan repayments on Mr K. 
Checks also had to be proportionate to the specific circumstances of the loan application.
In general, what constitutes a proportionate affordability check will be dependent upon a 
number of factors including  but not limited to  the particular circumstances of the 
consumer (e.g. their financial history, current situation and outlook, and any indications of 
vulnerability or financial difficulty) and the amount/type/cost of credit they are seeking. Even 
for the same customer, a proportionate check could look different for different applications.
In light of this, I think that a reasonable and proportionate check ought generally to have 
been more thorough:
the lower a consumers income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make 
any loan repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income);
the higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income); 
the greater the number and frequency of loans, and the longer the period of time 
during which a customer has been given loans (reflecting the risk that repeated 
refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, 
unsustainable).
Ive carefully considered all of the arguments, evidence and information provided in this 
context and what this all means for Mr Ks complaint.
Loan 1
Mr K told Loans 2 Go when he applied for the loan that his monthly income was £1,500 and 
he had no fixed expenses. To verify that, Loans 2 Go carried out a credit search and verified 
his income online. Loans 2 Go said it found that Mr K had a minimum monthly income of 
£965.12 and it calculated that he had living costs and credit commitments of £758.38. It said 
it added a buffer of 10% to his expenditure. On those figures he would have had a 
disposable income of £18.57 after making the new loan repayment of £56.64 to Loans 2 Go.Loan 2 Gos credit search showed that Mr K was near his overdraft limit on five current 
accounts but had kept up with all his payments. There was no record of defaults or missed 
payments. I can understand why Loans 2 Go thought this was satisfactory. But as Mr K was 
taking out a loan for an 18 month period and hed have very little income left for any 
unexpected expenses without further borrowing, I think Loans 2 Go should have done more 
to verify what Mr K had told it about his financial situation. So I dont think Loans 2 Gos 
checks went far enough. 
Although Ive concluded that Loans 2 Go should have carried out further checks for the loan, 
Im not sure what it would have seen if it had done so. Mr K has provided some bank 
statements from around the time he applied for the loan but the ones Ive seen dont throw 
any light on his earnings or financial commitments. Im not suggesting here that these are 
the checks that Loans 2 Go should necessarily have done. But I think looking at these might 
have given a good indication of Mr Ks financial situation around the time he applied for this 
loan. However, I cant say with any certainty that Loans 2 Go would have uncovered 
information showing the loan would be unaffordable for Mr K. So, it would be unfair of me to 
uphold this part of Mr Ks complaint.
Mr K repaid this loan in full in the same month that he took it out.
Loan 2
Mr K told Loans 2 Go when he applied for the loan that his monthly income was still £1,500 
and his monthly commitments were £50. Loans 2 Go carried out another credit search and 
verified his income. Loans 2 Go said it found that Mr K had a minimum monthly income of 
£991.62 and it calculated that he had living costs and credit commitments of £784.88. It said 
it added a buffer of 10% to his expenditure. On those figures he would have had a 
disposable income of £71.62 after making the new loan repayment of £56.64 to Loans 2 Go.
Loan 2 Gos credit search showed a similar picture as for Loan 1 except that hed taken out 
a few short term loans and repaid them in full. Loans 2 Go was also aware of the fact that 
Mr K had repaid Loan 1 in full. He also repaid this loan in full shortly after taking it out.
For the same reason as above I think Loans 2 Go should have carried out further checks for 
this loan. But again I cant say with any certainty what those checks might have uncovered, 
so Im not able to uphold this part of the complaint. 
Loan 3
This time Mr K told Loans 2 Go that his monthly income was still £1,500 and his monthly 
commitments were £100. Loans 2 Go carried out another credit search and verified his 
income. Loans 2 Go said it found that Mr K had a minimum monthly income of £1,236.15 
and it calculated that he had living costs and credit commitments of £1,017.48. It said it 
added a buffer of 10% to his expenditure. On those figures he would have had a disposable 
income of £48.36 after making the new loan repayment of £68.57 to Loans 2 Go.
Loan 2 Gos credit search showed a similar picture as for the earlier loans except that hed 
taken out a few more short term loans and repaid them in full. Loans 2 Go was also aware 
of the fact that Mr K had repaid both his earlier loans in full. 
Mr K also provided Loans 2 Go with some recent statements for one of his bank accounts. 
These didnt provide a clear picture of Mr Ks overall financial situation. In view of his 
increased need for short term loans and because of the fact that the loan would be 
repayable over 18 months, I think Loans 2 Go should have done more to verify what Mr K 
had told it about his finances. But thats not enough of a reason on its own for me to be able 
uphold this complaint. Thats because I havent seen enough overall to make me think that even if Loans 2 Go had done more in-depth checks it should have realised that the loan 
wasnt likely to be sustainably affordable for Mr K and so it shouldnt have provided it.
Ive also thought about whether Loans 2 Go acted unfairly in some other way and I havent 
seen any evidence that it did.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I do not uphold Mr Ks complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr K to accept or 
reject my decision before 3 March 2022.
 
Elizabeth Grant
Ombudsman