DRN-1861817
The complaint
Mr R complains that Inter Partner Assistance SA declined his claim against his travel 
insurance policy after he became ill whilst abroad. He also complains that it provided poor 
service. Mr Rs daughter-in-law, Mrs R, is helping him to bring his complaint. Reference to 
IPA includes reference to its agents. 
What happened
Mr R has travel insurance as a benefit of his credit card account. He booked a trip abroad 
from 4 October 2019 to 25 October 2019. On 21 October 2019, he was admitted to hospital 
abroad. The notes of the treating hospital show that Mr R had pneumonia with type 1 
respiratory failure, atrial flutter, ischaemic heart disease and hypertension. Mr R received 
treatment in relation to pneumonia and his heart.   
Mr Rs son contacted IPA on the same day that Mr R was admitted to hospital. On              
24 October 2019, IPA told Mr Rs son that cover was confirmed.  On 31 October 2019, IPA     
told Mr Rs son that the claim was declined. It relied on an exclusion in the policy relating to 
pre-existing conditions. It said that in February 2019, Mr R had been treated in hospital for 
pneumonia and that the policy doesnt provide cover for pre-existing medical conditions. 
Mr R was discharged from hospital and arranged flights home for himself and his son, as he 
wasnt well enough to travel alone. 
Mr R complained to IPA. It said that it acted correctly in declining the claim but that it 
shouldnt have confirmed cover. It offered Mr R compensation of £300 in relation to his 
distress and inconvenience as a result of its poor service. 
Mr R didnt accept what IPA said and pursued his complaint. He says that he was clear of 
pneumonia by early summer 2019 and the pneumonia he had in October 2019 was entirely 
unrelated to the earlier incidence, so isnt a pre-existing medical condition. Mr R says that he 
was no more likely to become unwell than anyone else his age. He says that its not fair to 
treat unrelated and unconnected illnesses as pre-existing medical conditions. He says that 
reliance on the exclusion changes the nature of the policy. 
Mr R wants IPA to reimburse his medical and flight costs which are over £36,000. He also 
wants it to reconsider its exclusion relating to pre-existing medical conditions, so that its 
reasonable and fair.
One of our investigators looked at what had happened. He didnt think that IPA had acted 
unfairly in relying on the exclusion in the policy. The investigator said that IPAs offer of 
compensation of £300 in relation to its error in authorising the claim was fair. 
Mr R didnt agree with the investigator. Mrs R responded on his behalf and said, in summary:
Mr Rs pneumonia wasnt a pre-existing condition. 
Unless IPA has evidence to the contrary, the two instances of pneumonia should be 
treated as quite separate and unrelated. 
This is a technical medical issue and this service should get expert medical evidence. 
Mrs R, on Mr Rs behalf, asked that the complaint be considered by an ombudsman, so it 
was passed to me.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im conscious that Ive condensed what I dont doubt was a very worrying time into a short 
narrative. That reflects our service that, wherever possible, aims to be informal. But Im 
satisfied that Ive captured the essence of what happened. 
This service isnt the regulator and cant direct IPA generally about how it conducts its 
business, so I have no power to ask it to reconsider the terms of its policy. I can consider 
whether IPA acted within the policy terms and conditions and fairly in declining Mr Rs claim. 
the relevant policy terms and conditions
The starting point is the terms and conditions of the policy, the relevant part of which says as 
follows:
GENERAL EXCLUSIONS TO CARD TRAVEL INSURANCE
[]
You will not be paid for claims directly or indirectly as a result of:
[]
11) Pre-existing medical conditions known to You, when You apply for Your Card and 
any Cards on Your Account, or prior to booking Your Trip, whichever is the most 
recent, for which You:
a) have attended a hospital as an in-patient during the last 12 months;
 
has the claim been declined unfairly?
The relevant rules and industry guidance say that IPA has a responsibility to handle claims 
promptly and fairly and it shouldnt reject a claim unreasonably.
Im not upholding Mr Rs complaint because I dont think that IPA treated him unfairly. I say 
that because:
Mr Rs policy isnt designed to cover pre-existing conditions; other policies exist to 
cover such matters. Thats why the terms and conditions of Mr Rs policy effectively 
rule out cover for many pre-existing conditions. In general terms, insurers can decide 
what they will and wont cover. IPA is an insurer and cant provide medical services or advice; thats the role of 
medically qualified persons. Its common industry practice for insurers to rely on the 
view of doctors (and similar experts) and thats what IPA did here. My role isnt to 
substitute the medical judgement of any of the medical professionals involved in the 
case with my own. But I do weigh up all the medical evidence Ive been provided with 
to decide whether I think IPA handled the claim fairly and reasonably.
This service doesnt commission its own medical evidence: its for the parties to 
provide the evidence they want us to consider. 
The notes from Mr Rs treatment abroad in October 2019 show that he had multiple 
diagnoses; pneumonia with type 1 respiratory failure; atrial flutter, ischaemic heart 
disease and hypertension. He was treated as an inpatient for pneumonia and a rapid 
heartbeat during his time in hospital abroad. 
Mr Rs GP notes show that in February/March 2019, he was diagnosed with 
pneumonia and atrial flutter. Mr R also had longstanding coronary heart disease (also 
known as ischemic heart disease) and hypertension. Hed been treated in hospital as 
an inpatient for pneumonia and atrial flutter during the 12 months before he travelled.  
IPAs medical practitioner looked at the available medical information and said that 
Mr Rs related condition was pneumonia in March 2019 and his indirectly related 
conditions were ongoing myocardial infarction/ischemic heart disease and atrial 
flutter. That was on the basis that Mr R had received in patient treatment for 
pneumonia and atrial flutter and the other conditions were diagnosed and known to 
Mr R before he travelled.
I dont think that IPA treated Mr R unfairly in relying on the analysis of its medical 
practitioner and deciding that Mr R had attended hospital within the previous 12 
months in relation to pneumonia and atrial flutter. So, I dont think it was 
unreasonable for IPA to conclude that these conditions fell within the exclusion Ive 
outlined above and that there was no cover available under this policy for them
IPA didnt communicate its decision to Mr R in clear terms. In its final response, IPA 
referred only to pneumonia, which isnt the full picture. But that doesnt alter the 
outcome here: IPA was entitled to decline Mr Rs claim under the terms of the policy. 
In addition, IPA initially made an error in confirming cover when it shouldnt have 
done so. Based on what Ive seen, that didnt lead to Mr R suffering any financial 
loss: Ive seen nothing to indicate that he would have acted differently if hed been 
aware of the true position at the outset. But Mr R was no doubt disappointed and 
distressed to learn of IPAs mistake. IPA has offered compensation of £300 in 
relation to that, which I think is fair.My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold Mr Rs complaint. If he wishes to accept the offer of 
compensation of £300 previously offered by IPA, he should contact it direct. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision before 16 December 2020.
 
Louise Povey
Ombudsman