DRN-4421027
The complaint
Mr W complains that Trading 212 UK Limited didnt carry out his instructions to pay money 
into nominated credit cards. As a result, he has suffered losses. His accounts with Trading 
212 UK Limited were closed. He would like compensation for his losses and inconvenience.
What happened
Mr W had three accounts with Trading 212. An ISA, a GIA (general investment account) and 
a CFD account.
Mr W had seven credit cards which he used to pay funds into his trading accounts and to 
pay funds out of his trading accounts.
Mr W wanted to withdraw £29,000 and instructed Trading 212 to pay specific amounts into 
specific nominated credit cards.
Trading 212 paid the wrong amounts into the credit cards linked to the accounts. This 
resulted in losses and fees being incurred by Mr W.
Mr W decided to remove his credit cards from the account and keep only one card linked to 
the account in order to avoid the same mistake happening again. He requested that Trading 
212 carry this out. Trading 212 asked Mr W for ID information and copies of credit card 
statements that showed Mr W had used the credit cards on Trading 212 platform. Mr W 
didnt think Trading 212 were entitled to ask him for this information just to remove the cards 
from the account.
Mr W provided some of the statements but didnt provide the ID.
Trading 212 asked Mr W to provide more credit card statements going back 18 months and 
a selfie with his ID document. Mr W said he wouldnt be able to access all that information 
and didnt see why the selfie was needed.
Trading 212 blocked Mr Ws account and wouldnt allow him to trade. Mr W has said that as 
a result of the block he has lost money.
On 11 October 2021 Trading 212 informed Mr W that they were closing his accounts giving 
him 30 days notice. Mr W was upset as this meant he would incur greater capital gains tax 
liability and losses because he would have to sell his shares to close the account regardless 
of whether this was an advantageous time or not.
There was a delay in the transfer of his funds to his account with a bank I will refer to as 
bank B and the ISA transfer.
Mr W complained to our service. One of the investigators looked into the complaint she 
thought Trading 212 hadnt done anything wrong and they were complying with their legal 
and regulatory obligations.
Mr W was unhappy with the investigators view he didnt think she had understood the 
complaint and asked for an ombudsmans decision.
As there was no agreement the matter has come to me to decide.
In my provisional decision I said:
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr W has made many comments and submissions- In order to decide this case, I am 
required to do so with a minimum of formality. While I may not comment on everything 
raised, Ive thoroughly read and considered all the evidence and arguments from both sides. 
My outcome focuses on the relevant key issues, and on what I consider fair and reasonable 
in all the circumstances of the case.
Im very aware that Ive summarised the events in this complaint in far less detail than the 
parties and Ive done so using my own words. No discourtesy is intended by me in taking 
this approach. Instead, Ive focussed on what I think are the key issues here. Our rules allow 
me to do this. This simply reflects the informal nature of our service as a free alternative to 
the courts. If theres something Ive not mentioned, it isnt because Ive ignored it. Im 
satisfied I dont need to comment on every individual argument to be able to reach what I 
think is the right outcome. I do stress however that Ive considered everything that Mr W and 
Trading 212 have said before reaching my decision.
Mr W has requested that an ombudsman call him before issuing a decision. I appreciate 
Mr W wanted a call, but I can see he made lots of submissions, and am satisfied I can reach 
a fair outcome with the information I have on the file.
Withdrawal request  wrong cards
Mr W made a withdrawal request and specified five cards he wanted specific amounts paid 
into. Trading 212 made different payments to different cards which hadnt been requested by 
Mr W.
Mr W requested the following payments be made:
£12,000 to card ending 8958
£7,000 to card ending 2180
£3,910 to card ending 9487
£2,360 to card ending 0333
£2,400 to card ending 1158
But instead, the payments were processed to:
£12,000 went to card ending 2180- £5,000 extra went to this card
£7,000 went to card ending 8958  Payment was short by £5,000
£3,910 went to card 9487- correct payment
£2,360 went to card 9487- - £2,360 extra went to this card.£2,400 went to card 0333- £40 extra went to this card
No payment was made to card ending 1158
Mr W said that he made the payment requests using Trading 212 system. He has also said 
that a particular card cant be seen as an option for a payment if it hasnt previously been 
used to pay into the Trading 212 account.
It is clear from the information provided that Trading 212 didnt follow Mr Ws instructions 
when they refunded payments to his credit cards
Trading 212 have relied on terms which say:
You acknowledge that by default, the withdrawal of any portion of the Free Funds will be 
executed via the same method and to the same source as the one we originally received the 
funds from. There are certain situations where an exception might be made for a withdrawal 
to be executed to a payment method different from the one used for a deposit, but those are 
subject to approval by Us. You will be required to provide Us with all evidence requested by 
Us that the new payment method is in your name.
Mr W disagrees that the term quoted provides Trading 212 with the justification to do what 
they did. Mr W said he had been told by Trading 212 that it was complying with its regulatory 
obligations by randomising the payments.
I have considered if Trading 212 acted fairly when it processed the payments differently to 
Mr Ws instructions.
Trading 212 have said that they couldnt follow Mr Ws instructions because the amounts 
were over those available for the cards selected. I would have expected if that was the case 
the card wouldnt appear as a potential payment option in the drop down. Mr W has certainly 
said that was his understanding. But in any case, even if Trading 212s systems couldnt 
identify which cards were available for payments, Trading 212 should not have taken it upon 
themselves to decide which card to make the refund to without consulting Mr W.
So, having looked at the information provided Im not satisfied that Trading 212 acted fairly 
here. Even if I accept that they were not able to refund to the cards that Mr W requested the 
refund to, I would have expected Trading 212 to contact Mr W and tell him they could not 
follow his instructions and request further amended instructions from him. I therefore think 
Trading 212 should pay Mr W £300 for the inconvenience caused by them not following his 
instructions. He had to contact companies and move money around.
Mr W has said as a result he has incurred charges. I asked Mr W to provide evidence of the 
charges he incurred. Mr W has sent this service copies of his credit card statements for that 
time. From looking at the statements I can see that he was refunded interest for the cards 
where there was overpayments.
I have looked at all the statements provided by Mr W. Mr W told us that he incurred losses 
and fees as a result of Trading 212 not following his instructions. I can see Mr W ensured 
that his payments were made on time in order not to incur extra charges and fees. This is 
what I would have expected him to do. I appreciate Mr W worked hard to mitigate his losses. 
So, from what I can see from the evidence Mr W has provided this service, he did not suffer 
a financial loss as a result of Trading 212 changing his payments. So, although I accept that 
Trading 212 acted unfairly by changing Mr Ws payment instructions, Im satisfied Mr W 
didnt incur any losses in the form of interest charges on his credit cards because the 
payments went to the wrong cards.Removal of credit cards
Due to the card payments not being correctly carried out Mr W decided to remove all his 
cards from the Trading account and leave just one card linked to the account. I can see that 
Mr W would want to remove his existing cards in order to avoid this happening again and he 
requested this. Trading 212 asked for ID and for statements for the cards.
Mr W provided some statements but no ID.
Mr W has said that Trading 212 shouldnt have asked him for so much information in order to 
remove the cards from his account. I know Mr W was frustrated but following the request for 
transfer Trading 212 reviewed Mr Ws accounts. I think Trading 212 were entitled to ask for 
the information they needed in order to complete the review of his account and I dont think 
they acted unfairly in requesting the information.
Restriction of the account
Following the requests for transfer, Trading 212 conducted a review of Mr Ws accounts and 
restricted the use of his accounts. Trading 212 blocked Mr Ws use of his account and 
requested he provide copies of account statements and ID.
Ill start by setting out some context for the review of Mr Ws accounts. UK legislation places 
extensive obligations on regulated financial businesses. Financial institutions must establish 
the purpose and intended nature of transactions as well as the origin of funds, and there 
may be penalties if they dont. This applies to both new and existing relationships. These 
obligations override all other obligations. I am satisfied Trading 212 were complying with 
these obligations when they reviewed Mr Ws accounts.
Trading 212 has to have in place security measures and procedures in order to try to 
safeguard its customers accounts and ensure it complies with its legal and regulatory 
obligations. And its not for this service to interfere with these processes. This is a matter for 
Trading 212.
I can see that in blocking the account Trading 212 were following an internal process which 
they carried out in order to comply with their legal and regulatory obligations. This was a 
legitimate exercise so I cant say Trading 212 was unfair although I do accept that this had a 
substantial impact on Mr W.
I have seen the communications between Mr W and Trading 212. I know Mr W thought the 
timeframe for providing the information was not realistic. But I also see that Mr W mentioned 
he wasnt going to provide ID documents as requested so I cant hold Trading 212 liable for 
that. 
Closure of the account  30 days notice
On 11 October 2021 Trading 212 decided to close the accounts giving 30 days notice. 
During that period, Trading 212 amended his account to prevent him from purchasing any 
new assets or positions. He was restricted, solely, to selling his existing holdings and 
withdrawing his funds. This is in line with the terms and conditions of the accounts which 
Mr W agreed to. So, I am satisfied these restrictions were fair. I acknowledge that Mr W says 
as a result of not being able to hold his assets or positions until a favourable time he has 
suffered losses.
As the investigator explained its generally for financial institutions to decide whether or not 
they want to provide, or to continue to provide, facilities to any particular customer. Unless theres a good reason to do so, this service wont usually say that a financial institution must 
keep a customer or require it to compensate a customer who has had their account closed.
Mr W was given notice in line with the account terms. I know Mr W may have wanted to 
know the reason for the closure, Trading 212 arent obliged to give him a specific reason so I 
cant say theyve acted unfairly in not providing him with a reason.
Despite Mr Ws accounts being set to close on 8 November 2021 I can see that Trading 212 
gave him an extra five days to manage his ISA transfer and to help minimise his trading 
losses. Im satisfied they acted fairly here.
Delay in withdrawal of funds
Mr W has said there was a delay in the withdrawal of his funds, and he had to wait for his 
funds to be transferred to his nominated account. I have considered if Trading 212 caused 
the delay to the payment, and Im satisfied that they didnt. I wont be asking them to pay 
compensation.
FCA
Mr W has said he consulted the FCA in order to check if Trading 212 were entitled to ask 
him for photographic ID in order to remove the cards from his accounts. I appreciate that as 
far as Mr W was concerned, he was merely asking for his cards to be removed however 
Trading 212 were carrying out a review of his accounts and were asking for information that 
they were entitled to, in order to comply with their legal and regulatory obligations. So, 
although Mr W is concerned that Trading 212 were not entitled to ask him for the information 
requested to merely remove his cards from the account, Im satisfied Trading 212 were 
entitled to ask him for the information that they did so that they could carry out their review 
and comply with their legal and regulatory obligations.
Mr W then contacted the ICO to check whether the request for a selfie with ID was 
reasonable and he says he was told not to provide one. I cant comment on the conversation 
Mr W had with the ICO. However, I am satisfied that Trading 212 were not acting unfairly 
when they asked Mr W to provide his ID.
Trading losses
Mr W has said that as a result of the block and subsequent closure of the account he hasnt 
been able to trade freely and as a result he has suffered losses including an increase in his 
capital gains tax liability.
Mr W has requested that this service request information from Trading 212 regarding the 
fees and losses he incurred on his CFD account. He estimates his losses to be around 
£5,000 because he was unable to sell his positions at a time of his choosing.
I appreciate this whole situation has been very frustrating for Mr W. As I have set out, I am 
satisfied that Trading 212 were entitled to review, block and close his accounts so I cant 
hold them liable for the losses Mr W has incurred as they acted appropriately in what they 
did.
Points lost
Mr W has said he lost about £100 of convertible points from the loyalty scheme on one of his 
cards because of the way Trading 212 returned the money. Mr W hasnt been able to 
evidence this loss so Im not able to consider if hes entitled to this amount.In my provisional decision I thought Trading 212 UK Limited should pay Mr W £300 for the 
failure to follow his instructions.
Responses to my provisional decision
Trading 212 said they had no further comments to my provisional decision.
Mr W provided a number of detailed comments to my provisional decision. Which I will 
outline below. In addition, Mr W requested on a number of occasions that an ombudsman 
call him before issuing a final decision. I appreciate Mr W wanted a call, but I can see he has 
made a lot of submissions over the course of this case as well as further submissions in 
response to my provisional decision. Having considered all these submissions in detail I am 
satisfied I can reach a fair outcome with the information I have on file.
Mr W keeps saying that only through a phone call will I be able to understand the complaint, 
the implication is I havent understood the complaint so far. I would like to reassure Mr W 
that I have understood his complaint and that it isnt necessary for me to call him in order to 
decide this case fairly.
I appreciate that Mr W is unhappy that I havent considered it appropriate to award him all 
his losses, but I have tried to explain why in my provisional decision. I am concerned that 
Mr W will always think that I havent understood the issues in his case if he doesnt get all 
the compensation he believes he is entitled to. However, I am considering the evidence from 
both parties when I decide this case and Im satisfied the file is sufficient for me to make a 
fair decision. Mr W has had ample time to submit further information and he has always 
been told that its unlikely an ombudsman would call him and to submit anything else he 
wishes to put forward for consideration.  
Mr W has made the following submissions which I have summarised below. I appreciate 
Mr W has gone into a lot of detail in his submissions and I am summarising them below, 
however no discourtesy is intended by this approach. I am simply focusing on the key 
issues, and I am reflecting the informal nature of the service we provide as an alternative to 
court. Im satisfied I dont need to comment on every individual argument put forward by 
Mr W in response to my provisional decision to be able to reach what I think is the right 
outcome. I do stress however that Ive considered everything that Mr W and Trading 212 
have said before reaching my final decision.
Mr W has said that he considers the following points are incorrect in my provisional decision.
1. Mr W says he did provide his ID- but he accepts he refused to give a selfie of himself 
holding his driving licence to his face. He says this is a key reason why I denied part 
of his complaint. He says Trading 212 had his licence, selfie and proof of address 
and he went through credit checks as they checked his identity.
2. Trade restrictions and CFD account. Mr W says he wasnt able to sell his CFD 
positions. He was told he would have to sell all the positions for it to work but he 
couldnt sell his positions in any of his accounts. Mr W says this all needs to be 
looked at again because the CFD account wasnt mentioned in the outcome and its 
a huge amount of money lost because they wouldnt allow him to sell.
3. Refunds of interest and fees  Mr W says he lost £400 across all accounts in fees 
from the unauthorised payments. He says he spent weeks trying to get money 
moved around accounts because of Trading 212 not following his instructions. Mr W 
says he doesnt think it fair that they get away with causing all that stress and issues 
they caused. He was also stripped of rewards points.4. Delay in withdrawal  which Mr W says cant be because of lack of ID because 
trading 212 had the ID for weeks. They sold Mr Ws positions and held £250,000 for 
weeks without a reason. Mr W says they never did get the selfie with the ID next to 
his face that Trading 212 insisted on. Mr W says they already had everything they 
needed, and Mr W believes this was Trading 212 using stalling tactics.
5. Reasons for closure- Mr W says he has done nothing wrong. He believes when 
Trading 212 closed his account they acted illegally and then to cover it up they 
terminated his accounts causing a big loss to Mr W..
6. Mr W insists that not being able to sell his positions and on the CFD account and the 
consequent loss of £5,000 was another error of Trading 212.  He says their 
restrictions stopped him selling his positions despite the terms and conditions stating 
he would be able to.
I thank Mr W for all his submissions. Now both parties have had a chance to comment on my 
provisional decision, I can go ahead and issue my final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In relation to my provisional decision Mr W has highlighted a number of concerns which Ill 
now address below.
Firstly, I will deal with the issue of the ID documents. Im happy to accept that Mr W had 
provided Trading 212 with his Identification document and a selfie. However, Mr W is aware 
that Trading 212 requested that he provide a photo of himself holding his driving licence up 
to his face. Mr W refused to do this. So, I am satisfied that Mr W didnt comply with Trading 
212s request even though he may think this request unnecessary and ridiculous.
It isnt for me to say that Trading 212 were unreasonable in requesting this specific ID from 
him and I cant say that they should have made do with the other forms of ID that Mr W had 
already provided. So, I am satisfied that Mr Ws failure to provide the ID as requested by 
Trading 212 led to delays in the review of his accounts and prolonged the block on his 
accounts.  Ive said Trading 212 were entitled to review his accounts and ask for the 
information they asked for in order to comply with their legal and regulatory obligations. I 
also think its not for Mr W to say that Trading 212 shouldnt have delayed his withdrawals 
because they had the ID they needed for weeks. Mr W refused to provide the ID in the form 
that Trading 212 needed it, so I cant say that any delays are the responsibility of Trading 
212.
In my provisional decision I explained that I thought Trading 212 were entitled to close the 
account giving 30 days notice and I didnt think they acted unfairly in closing Mr Ws 
account.  And they did so in line with the terms and conditions of the accounts.Therefore, I 
disagree that Trading 212 closed his accounts illegally. I appreciate Mr W says he suffered 
big losses as a result of the closure of his accounts. I know Mr W wasnt able to sell his 
positions when he wanted to. 
Having said that Trading 212 gave him five days to help minimise his trading losses. I know 
Mr W will disagree with me, but I dont think Trading 212 acted unfairly when they closed his 
accounts, and I dont think Mr W should be compensated by Trading 212 for the losses he 
inevitable suffered as a result of his accounts closing at a time not of his choosing. This 
includes the £5,000 losses he incurred on his CFD account and any other losses.Mr W says he has lost £400 from all the accounts as a result of Trading 212 not following his 
instructions. He says they have got away with causing extra work and stress. Firstly, I asked 
for evidence of the extra interest and the points lost and Mr W wasnt able to provide any 
evidence of loss so Im not able to compensate him for this. I have taken into account that 
Mr W had extra stress and extra work caused because of Trading 212 unilaterally changing 
his instructions. I have awarded Mr W £300 compensation for this inconvenience. So, I 
disagree that Trading 212 got away with causing him extra work and stress. I havent seen 
anything to convince me to change this amount.
Mr W has said he should have been able to sell his positions during the 30 days notice to 
close period. He has pointed to emails exchanges that show that he was having difficulty 
doing so. He says the restrictions imposed on him meant he wasnt able to sell his positions. 
I am aware of that email exchange. During that email exchange Mr W wanted to use faster 
payments which was not open to him, I can also see that Trading 212 confirmed that there 
were no technical issues on the platform. I appreciate that Mr W was trying to come up with 
ways to minimise his losses by selling and moving to another broker and buying quickly, but 
this would have needed the use of faster payments which wasnt available to him. I cant say 
trading 212 should have made faster payments available to him.
I know Mr W was trying to think of ways to move his investments without suffering losses but 
as Ive said I have looked to see whether Trading 212 acted unfairly when they decided to 
close Mr Ws accounts. Having looked at everything I think they were entitled to close his 
accounts and any losses that Mr W has incurred as a result of the closure of the account are 
not recoverable from Trading 212. Im satisfied that Trading 212 gave Mr W extra time after 
the 8 November 2021 account closing deadline, to close his accounts in order to minimise 
his losses, so I think they acted fairly here.
In summary I appreciate that Mr W may have suffered substantial losses as a result of the 
block and closure of his accounts with Trading 212. The point here is whether Trading 212 
should be held liable for these losses because they shouldnt have closed his accounts or 
because they treated Mr W unfairly. I know Mr W will be disappointed with my decision but 
having looked at all the information I dont think Trading 212 acted unfairly and they were 
entitled to close his accounts. So, although I acknowledge that Mr W may have suffered a 
loss because he ended up selling his positions at a time that wasnt advantageous to him, 
that loss isnt recoverable from Trading 212. It follows I wont be awarding him compensation 
for his trading losses.
In summary I thank Mr W for his submissions which I have considered in full. I appreciate 
Mr W will be disappointed by my final decision but having reviewed all the information 
received by both parties and their responses to my provisional decision I see no reason to 
depart from my original provisional findings. I remain of the view that this complaint should 
be partially upheld for the reasons set out in my provisional decision, which are repeated 
above and form part of this decision.
Putting things right
To put things right Trading 212 should pay Mr W £300 to compensate him for the 
inconvenience of not following his instructions.
My final decision
For the reasons stated above and in my provisional decision I partially uphold this complaint. 
I require Trading 212 UK Limited to pay Mr W £300 compensation for the inconvenience 
caused to him.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 1 December 2023.
 
Esperanza Fuentes
Ombudsman