DRN-1964424
The complaint
Miss P complains Bank of Scotland plc, trading as Halifax, is unfairly holding her liable for a 
loan which she says she did not apply for.  She would like the loan account to be closed and 
removed from credit file.  She also complains Halifax was irresponsible in agreeing to the 
loan.
What happened
In June 2019, an online application for a loan was made via Miss Ps online banking.  The 
request for £28,000 was approved and paid into Miss Ps account.  Later that day, a number 
of transfers were carried out in branch as well as a cash withdrawal.  But when a transfer 
was attempted online, Halifax blocked this as suspicious and blocked Miss Ps account with 
another bank (L) in the Bank of Scotland plc group.
Miss P says she became aware of matters on the next day when she tried to use the 
account with L and realised it had been blocked. She reported the loan as a fraudulent 
application straight away. She also explained that the account with Halifax had been opened 
for her savings  but shortly after it had been opened, there had been some disputed 
transactions on the account which Halifax had refunded.  She had then transferred this 
money out of the account and had assumed the account had been closed.
Halifax did not uphold Miss Ps complaint. In its final response to her in July 2019 it said it 
was holding her liable for the loan.  It did, however, offer £75 for poor service she had 
received.
Miss P was not happy with that response and so brought her complaint to this service where 
our investigator looked into matters for her.  She explained that she had never received the 
card or PIN for her Halifax account when she had opened it in 2018.  She had made the 
complaint about the disputed transactions and the money had been refunded. She also told 
this service she thought an ex-partner may have applied for the loan in her name.
Our investigator didnt think he could ask Halifax to do anymore  so the matter was passed 
to me for a final decision.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
For very much the same reasons as the investigator, I dont intend to ask Halifax to do 
anymore here.  I think the reasons have been explained to Miss P in detail  so for the 
purposes of this decision, I will re-iterate them in brief.  However, this does not mean I have 
not considered Miss Ps further submissions  simply that they do not change my mind.
In terms of access to the account, Miss P said she had set up online banking but had 
shredded the secure information shortly after.  She does not say she shared these with 
anyone else.  Also, a further card was sent out to her address when she complained she had 
not received the previous one  but no PIN.  This was subsequently requested during a 
telephone call in December 2018.  The person making the call was able to pass through 
security in order to make the request.  Again, in June 2019, a request was received by 
Halifax for a username reminder for online banking.  A code was subsequently sent to Miss 
Ps phone.
Miss P has provided no credible explanation as to how a third party would have access to 
secure information (if indeed it was not Miss P on the call) unless she had shared it with 
them.
Miss P says she was the victim of thefts and burglaries, but I dont think the information 
which was required in order to pass security would have been stolen during these incidents.
The loan agreement was sent via email to Miss Ps email address.  She has confirmed this 
was her email address but says the same was compromised.  I have seen nothing credible 
to support that submission.
The transfers were made in branch  with the cashier having taken a copy of the driving 
licence which was the identification provided.  This matches the exact details of Miss P and I 
am satisfied her genuine licence was used.  I am also satisfied, on balance, that if this was 
not Miss P in person, then the licence had been provided to a third person by Miss P.
During the transfers, four slips had to be signed by the person making them.  Ive considered 
Miss Ps signature against the four slips and I make a finding that the signatures are so 
similar that it is more likely than not that that Miss P signed these forms.
So, in summary, I am satisfied that Miss P made this application herself or allowed someone 
to make it with her authority  so I wont be asking Halifax to close the account or remove it 
from Miss Ps credit file.
Miss P further submits Halifax was irresponsible in lending these funds as her income was 
insufficient, and she would not be able to repay.  I have seen nothing to suggest that Halifax 
was irresponsible in its lending. It carried out sufficient checks and Miss Ps disposable 
income showed she was able to afford the repayments.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss P to accept 
or reject my decision before 22 October 2020.
 
Shazia Ahmed
Ombudsman