DRN-4139405
The complaint
Mr and Mrs W complain that Clydesdale Financial Services Limited trading as Barclays 
Partner Finance (BPF) didnt fairly or reasonably deal with claims under Sections 75 and 
140A of the Consumer Credit Act 1974 (the CCA) in relation to the purchase of a timeshare 
in November 2014. They also say that the credit agreement they entered into with BPF was 
unaffordable. Mr and Mrs W are represented by a professional representative (PR).
What happened
In November 2014 Mr and Mrs W purchased a holiday product from a company I will call S. 
It cost £49,950 and this was funded by a loan for £39,950 in Mr Ws name and one for 
£10,000 in Mrs Ws name. Both were with BPF and were repaid in June 2015. Mr and Mrs W 
have purchased a number of holiday products over the years and in August 2022 PR 
submitted a letter of claim to BPF for all of these purchases under s.75 CAA and s.140A 
CCA. 
The claims are well known to both parties so I will not detail them here. In summary it 
claimed that the products had been misrepresented, there had been an unfair relationship 
and a proper assessment of their ability to repay the loans had not been carried out. 
BPF responded and said that it had only financed the 2014 purchase. It said that the 
purchase price exceeded £30,000 and so s.75 didnt apply. As for s.140A it said the claim 
was made out of time.
PR brought a complaint to this service where it was considered by one of our investigators 
who didnt recommend it be upheld. He concluded the s.75 claim exceeded the statutory 
financial limits and the s.140A claim had been made out of time. Nor did he believe there 
was sufficient evidence to allow him to say the lending had been unaffordable. 
PR didnt agree and said that S has ceased trading and Mr and Mrs W had six years from 
the date of insolvency to bring the claim.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
When doing that, Im required by DISP 3.6.4R of the FCAs Handbook to take into account 
the:
(1) relevant:
(a) law and regulations;
(b) regulators rules, guidance and standards;
(c) codes of practice; and
(2) ([when] appropriate) what [I consider] to have been good industry practice at the relevant 
time.
And when evidence is incomplete, inconclusive, incongruent or contradictory, Ive made my 
decision on the balance of probabilities  which, in other words, means Ive based it on what 
I think is more likely than not to have happened given the available evidence and the wider 
circumstances.
Having read and considered all the available evidence and arguments, I dont think this 
complaint should be upheld. I would add that we have in effect two complaints, one made by 
Mr W and the other by Mrs W for their individual loans. However, the circumstances are 
identical with both being taken out and repaid at the same time and used for the same 
purpose. As such I will deal with them in this single decision.
The S. 75 Claims for Misrepresentation
S. 75 of the CCA states that, when a debtor (Mr and Mrs W) under a debtor-creditor-supplier 
agreement has a claim of misrepresentation or breach of contract against the supplier that 
relates to a transaction financed by the agreement, the creditor (BPF) is equally and 
concurrently liable for that claim  enabling the debtor to make a like claim against the 
creditor should they choose to.
As our investigator has pointed out that s.75 only covers purchases up to £30,000 in value 
and the cost of the product exceeds that. However s.75A covers purchases up to £60,260 in 
value where the supplier has become insolvent. That said, it only applies to claims for 
breach of contract. It does not cover misrepresentation.
Time Limits for s.75 and s.140A
Although I have concluded that the claim under s.75 fails due to the cash price exceeding 
£30,000 it also falls foul of the legislation relating to time limits for claims.
Mr and Mrs W entered into the agreement to buy the product, as it was at that time they 
entered into an agreement based on alleged misrepresentations and suffered a loss. It 
follows that the cause of action accrued in November 2014 and they had until November 
2020 to bring any claim. But no claim was made until August 2022, which was outside of the 
time limits set out in the LA. So BPF acted fairly in turning down the misrepresentation claim 
under s.75 CCA.
Only a court has the power to decide whether the relationships between Mr and Mrs W and 
BPF were unfair for the purpose of s.140A. But, as its relevant law, I do have to consider it if 
it applies to the credit agreement  which it does.
However, as a claim under Section 140A is an action to recover any sum recoverable by 
virtue of any enactment under Section 9 of the LA, Ive considered that provision here.
The LA applies to a claim under s.140A CCA too and the time for limitation purposes starts 
to run from the date the credit agreement ends. It was confirmed in Patel v. Patel [2009] 
EWHC 3264 (QB) that when considering section 140A of the CCA, the time for limitation 
purposes ran from the date that the credit agreement ended if it was not still running at the 
time the claim was made. 
Here Mr and Mrs W are asking for a refund of payments, so s.9 LA applies, meaning any 
claim had to be made within six years of June 2015. But as they did not do that, I think BPF 
acted fairly in turning down the s.140A CCA claim. PR has not addressed the relevance of the LA, but has simply asserted that s.140A applies to the claims and that the date of the 
insolvency is when the clock starts running. As I have pointed out above I can see nothing 
that allows me to ignore the application of the LA.  
As I think the s.140A claim was raised too late, I make no findings on the detail of the claims 
made by PR. 
Affordability
PR says that the lender didnt perform adequate credit checks when approving the loan. 
However, when considering a complaint about unaffordable lending, a large consideration is 
whether the borrowing was likely to prove unaffordable in practice and whether the 
complainant has actually lost out due to any failings on the part of the lender. 
So even if I was persuaded that BPF did not do appropriate checks (and I make no such 
finding), for me to say it needed to do something to put things right, I would need to see that 
the credit granted by them was likely to be unaffordable and that Mr and Mrs W suffered a 
loss as a result. I note they were both repaid within some seven months and Ive not been 
provided with sufficient evidence to suggest they didnt have enough disposable income to 
sustainably afford repayments against this loan, and I dont therefore think it would be 
reasonable to suggest the lender was irresponsible when providing the credit.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W and Mrs W 
to accept or reject my decision before 5 December 2023.
 
Ivor Graham
Ombudsman