DRN-1212581
 
The complaint
Mr H complains that Virgin Money plc has incorrectly charged him interest on his credit card 
account.
What happened
Mr H says his Virgin credit card account has a 0% balance transfer rate and he made 
purchases using the credit card that he repaid but was charged interest. He says the 
payments he made should have been used to repay the purchases first and that Virgin made 
a previous similar mistake and paid him compensation.
Virgin doesn't accept making a mistake and says the payments have been allocated in line 
with the order set out in the terms and conditions and account statements. It doesn't accept 
making a previous mistake as Mr H says but accepts it didn't raise a complaint for him and 
that is why it made a gesture of goodwill payment. Virgin says its explained the payment 
order to Mr H and in summary says where the credit card was used for purchases then to 
avoid interest the whole balance needed repaying.
Mr H had brought his complaint to us and our investigator didn't uphold it. The investigator 
didn't think it our role to tell a business how it makes such decisions on payment allocation 
as we are not the regulator of banks and building societies. The investigator thought Virgin 
had acted in line with the account terms and conditions on payment allocation and didn't 
think it made a mistake or that it had accepted making a previous mistake.
Mr H doesn't agree with that view and complains about Virgin's practices which he says are 
different to other credit card providers. He says the terms and conditions say payment is 
allocated to purchases first, as they attract the highest interest rate. Mr H says the terms  
and conditions are illegal and in summary says Virgins actions are unfair and he shouldn't 
have been charged interest.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Having done so, I have come to the same 
overall view as the investigator. I realise Mr H will be disappointed by my decision and 
having listened to the telephone calls in the case, I also appreciate how strongly Mr H feels 
about what's taken place.
The investigator has explained our role and that we are not Virgin's regulator. That means 
that I can't consider as part of this complaint the fairness of Virgin's decision on payment 
allocation or that I can tell a business what its policy on such matters should be. I appreciate 
Mr H says that Virgin's policy is different to other credit card providers. But that is not 
something I can consider for the same reasons.I have looked at the terms and conditions of Mr H's account which I think he would have 
agreed to when the account was opened. And I'm satisfied Virgin sets out the order in which 
it allocates payments. And that to avoid interest for card purchases, then the whole balance 
needs to be repaid by a certain date. I'm also satisfied that information is repeated on the 
account statements that Mr H received monthly. So I'm satisfied that Virgin hasn't made a 
mistake here or acted unfairly by charging interest where Mr H used his credit card for 
purchases and didn't repay the whole balance by the requested date..
I have looked at Virgin's response to Mr H's earlier complaint about this same issue in 
around April 2019. And I don't think Virgin accepted it had made  a mistake in calculating 
interest at that time as Mr H says. I 'm satisfied that Virgin apologised for not raising a 
complaint and made the gesture of goodwill payment for that issue and explained to Mr H 
why interest had been charged and also provided a detailed example of the calculation.
I can see that Mr H used his credit card for purchases and the same situation arose. I have 
explained that I don't find that Virgin made a mistake or acted unfairly by charging interest. I 
appreciate Mr H says its actions were illegal but I think it would be for a court to make such a 
finding. I make it clear that I have not seen any evidence that Virgin made a mistake in its 
interest calculations or order of payment allocation. 
Overall as I don't think Virgin acted unfairly or made a mistake then I can't order it to refund 
any interest it has charged Mr H or pay him any compensation.
My final decision
My final decision is that I don't uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 25 May 2020.
David Singh
Ombudsman