DRN-2102253
The complaint
Mrs L complains that Legal and General Assurance Society Limited (L&G) havent fairly 
compensated her for mis-selling a mortgage endowment policy.
What happened
L&G sold Mrs L a mortgage endowment policy alongside an interest-only mortgage in April 
2001. She later complained it had been mis-sold when informed that it would likely fail to 
reach its target maturity value of £95,000  despite being told that this was guaranteed.
L&G agreed that the policy had been mis-sold as the policy was not suitable for Mrs Ls 
circumstances at the time. In particular, they said they had failed to fully establish her 
capability to accept the consequences of the risk of shortfall for a plan that invested in an 
ISA fund. However, L&G said they would not have given any contractual guarantee that the 
policy would repay the mortgage upon maturity, and that there was no evidence of any such 
promise having been made. 
As a result, L&G offered £1,309.67  which they say puts Mrs L in the position she would 
have been in, had the endowment policy not been sold and a repayment mortgage taken out 
instead. Mrs L did not think this was fair as she wants L&G to pay the difference between 
any shortfall and the target maturity value of £95,000.
Our investigator considered that L&Gs offer was fair and in line with regulatory guidelines on 
how to compensate customers that have been mis-sold an endowment policy alongside an 
interest only mortgage. Mrs L disagreed, so the matter has been passed to me to determine.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the conclusions reached by the investigator and consider 
L&Gs offer to be fair.
Mrs L says the policy was mis-sold  and L&G accept this  so all Im deciding here is 
whether Mrs L has been fairly compensated for the mis-sale.
The UK financial regulator  the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA)  set guidance on how to 
calculate compensation for mortgage endowment complaints. This is based on a comparison 
between the customers actual financial position and the one theyd likely be in if theyd 
taken out a capital repayment mortgage (and no endowment).
I appreciate that Mrs L does not think that L&Gs offer reflects her loss. But having looked 
over the calculation, I can assure her that it has been done in line with the regulators 
guidance. This method compares what situation Mrs L would likely be in if she had taken out 
a repayment mortgage instead. I understand that this was not offered to Mrs L at the time, 
but if an interest only mortgage with an endowment policy was deemed to be unsuitable at 
the time, then its likely that a repayment mortgage would have been the suitable alternative 
that should have been offered. 
So, to work out the difference between the two, L&G have compared how much capital 
Mrs L would have paid off under a repayment mortgage; how much this would have cost her 
compared to what she paid for the endowment premium, plus her mortgage interest 
payments; and the surrender value she will receive. 
Its necessary that such a calculation will involve assumptions  as its comparing what they 
actually did against a different, hypothetical course of action. Im satisfied that L&G
hasnt relied on any unreasonable assumptions or incorrect information. 
The records show Mrs L paid more for her endowment policy and interest-only mortgage 
than she would have done if she had taken out a repayment mortgage. L&Gs offer includes 
a refund of the difference. This suggests that they havent made an assumption regarding 
this which is detrimental to Mrs L.
Mrs L says that L&G ought to pay the difference between the policy surrender value and the 
£95,000 target value, as she says this was guaranteed. But Ive seen no persuasive 
evidence to suggest this was the case. Ultimately, the endowment is an investment that is 
liable to experience losses as well as gains. And I can see that L&G presented Mrs L with 
different projections and three assumed rates of investment  which showed both the 
potential for surplus and shortfall. So, alongside this information, I dont think its likely L&G 
would have made any guarantees around the target value being achieved. 
Legal and Generals offer
L&G have followed the approach set by the regulator for calculating compensation for 
complaints like this in a guidance note called Handling Mortgage Endowment Complaints, 
often referred to as RU89 calculations. As per that guidance, Mrs L is to be put back in the 
position she would have been in, so far as is reasonably possible, had she not been 
recommended an unsuitable policy. This means refunding the loss she suffered when 
comparing her financial situation now with the one she would have been in if she had been 
sold a repayment mortgage (capital and interest) in 2001 over a 25-year term.
L&G have agreed to pay Mrs L the loss identified by carrying out a loss calculation in 
accordance with the RU89 guidance.
My final decision
Legal and General Assurance Society Limited have already offered to compensate Mrs L. 
My final decision is that it should pay this compensation, as set out above in the section 
Legal and Generals offer. 
If Mrs L accepts my decision, it becomes legally binding on both parties. So she wouldnt 
then be able to take legal action in relation to any issues covered in this case. On the other 
hand, if she rejects the decision, whilst that wont affect her legal rights, it will mean that L&G 
wouldnt be obliged to comply with my decision  so it would then be purely a matter of 
goodwill as to whether they honour the offer theyve made. Legally, an offer isnt binding until 
unconditional acceptance of it has been communicated by the offeree.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs L to accept or 
reject my decision before 5 October 2020.
 
Jack Ferris
Ombudsman