DRN-4264243
The complaint
Mr K and Mrs K complain HDI Global Specialty SE (HDI) have unfairly declined their 
buildings insurance claim. 
All references to HDI also include its appointed agents.
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them in full 
again here. Below is a list of the key events that led to the complaint.
Mr K and Mrs K purchased the property in 2021.
A conservatory was built by the previous owners in 2009.
Around August 2022, Mr K and Mrs K discovered cracking in the walls of the 
conservatory, both internally and externally. They made a claim on their policy.
HDI confirmed the cracking was due to subsidence. However, it said the 
conservatorys foundations were at an inadequate depth  and it was it was therefore 
inevitable for roots to encroach and weaken footings. 
HDI declined the claim. It applied an exclusion in the policy which says it will not 
cover damage arising from the use of defective materials, defective design, or faulty 
workmanship.
Our Investigator recommended the complaint be upheld and that HDI should now meet the 
claim in line with the remaining terms and conditions of the policy. 
HDI disagreed with our investigator and asked for an ombudsman to review the matter. In 
doing so, it has provided further comments for me to consider.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im upholding the complaint for these reasons:
In its reasoning, HDI referenced guidance from a provider of building warranties. The 
policy doesnt set out any requirement to adhere to these standards. And HDI have 
not provided anything that persuades me the conservatory was subject to them when 
it was built. So, I dont think this guidance is relevant here.
The policy doesnt cover any loss or damage arising from defective design, defective
materials or faulty workmanship.
HDI confirmed the foundations of the conservatory were 770mm but have said 
relevant building regulations recommend a minimum depth of around 900mm.
Although building regulations dont apply to all conservatories, this does provide a 
guide to the depths that need to be considered to keep the structure stable.
However, I do consider the test of time to be relevant here. The conservatory stood 
for around 13 years without any issues. It was given Local Authority sign off at the 
time of construction and Ive not seen any evidence that persuades me any issues 
existed that Mr K and Mrs K should reasonably have been aware of at the time of 
purchasing the property in 2021.
I also note from HDIs investigations that roots were found at a depth of around 
1,500mm. So even if the foundations had been deeper, its more likely than not the 
damage would still have occurred.
HDI have also referenced the conservatory wasnt built to the same depth as the 
main building, but Ive not seen anything that persuades me it had to be. And HDI 
have not pointed to anything specific that shows this was a requirement.
Considering everything Ive set out above, I think its more likely than not, if there 
were issues with the foundations, they would have presented themselves 
sooner. And Im not persuaded HDI have acted fairly in this instance in applying the 
exclusion.
Putting things right
To put things right HDI should now proceed to deal with the claim under the remaining terms 
and conditions of the policy.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold Mr K and Mrs Ks complaint.
To put things right I direct HDI Global Specialty SE to do as Ive set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr K and Mrs K to 
accept or reject my decision before 23 October 2023.
 
Michael Baronti
Ombudsman