DRN-3549124
The complaint
Mr R complains about a caravan he acquired under a hire purchase agreement through 
Black Horse Limited. He says the caravan has various issues with it.
What happened
What happened here is well known to both parties  so Ill summarise the key points here.
Mr R acquired a new caravan in March 2017. A few months later he says he noticed issues 
with the caravan. He says there were cracks in the paintwork and an interior wall was bowed 
so the rear bathroom door wouldnt latch. Mr R says he approached the dealer in 2018 and 
was told to take it locally for repair.
Unfortunately, Mr R suffered a health issue and things were delayed. The caravan was then 
booked in to be looked at in March 2020, but this appointment kept being delayed due to the 
impact of COVID-19.
Mr R was unhappy with this and complained to Black Horse in early 2021. He said the 
caravan now had various problems with it. Black Horse arranged for an independent 
inspection of the caravan which was carried out in March 2021. Following this, Black Horse 
issued its final response to the complaint in May 2021.
In the final response, Black Horse listed the issues Mr R had complained about and 
explained the independent reports conclusions on these. Based on this, it upheld some of 
the problems and didnt uphold others. In summary, these were the areas complained about 
by Mr R and Black Horses stance on them:
Damp Not upheld
Leaking causing water stains Upheld
Leak in skylight Upheld
Crack in rear panel Not upheld
Scratch above battery box Not upheld
Wallboard joining tape Not upheld
Levelling system Not upheld
Intelligent Drive Control 
(IDC) Not upheld
Black Horse explained the report said that while damp was established in the 2018 service, 
this wasnt present when the report was produced.
It said it wasnt possible to tell when the scratch occurred.
Where it didnt uphold other areas, Black Horse explained this was because the report said 
the issues were due to wear and tear or failure of a serviceable part.
Black Horse said for the areas it upheld, it thought repair was a suitable remedy. And, it 
offered £250 compensation to reflect the distress and inconvenience caused.
Mr R was unhappy with this and brought the complaint to our service. He said, in summary, 
that the caravan had damp issues. He said the scratch above the battery box was pointed 
out to him two days before he got the van so it was present before he got it. And he didnt 
believe the other issues were due to wear and tear.
Our investigator issued an opinion. He said, in summary, that he thought there were faults 
with the caravan. But, he said considering the independent report, he agreed with Black 
Horse about the areas it was responsible for. He explained he thought the offer Black Horse 
had made was fair and reasonable.
Mr R remained unhappy. He said, in summary, that the rear panel cracked early on and this 
might lead to water ingress. He said the caravan was damp. And he sent in photos which he 
said he was given two days before he collected the van showing the scratch.
Our investigator said this didnt change his opinion. So, the case was passed for an 
ombudsmans decision.
While the case was awaiting a decision, Mr R said the caravan had been in for some repairs 
but not others. He confirmed the levelling system and the IDC had been repaired and he had 
not been charged for this. But, he said the skylight and leaks hadnt been.
The case has now been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I think the offer Black Horse has made to put things right is fair and 
reasonable. Ill explain why.
Mr R complains about a caravan supplied under a hire purchase agreement. Entering into 
consumer credit contracts like this as a lender is a regulated activity, so Im satisfied I can 
consider Mr Rs complaint against Black Horse.
When considering whats fair and reasonable, I take into account relevant law and 
regulations. The Consumer Rights Act 2015 (CRA) is relevant to this complaint. The CRA 
explains under a contract to supply goods, the supplier  Black Horse here  has a 
responsibility to make sure goods are of satisfactory quality. Satisfactory quality is what a 
reasonable person would expect  taking into account any relevant factors. 
I would consider relevant factors here, amongst others, to include the caravans age, price, 
previous use and description.
Here, Ill consider that the caravan Mr R got was brand new. So, I think a reasonable person 
would have very high standards for the caravan and would expect it to be free from any 
issues.
In this case, it seems Black Horse, and Mr R, accept that the caravan wasnt of satisfactory 
quality when it was supplied. So, Ill only comment very briefly on this here. I dont think a 
reasonable person wouldve expected the issues confirmed in the independent report, and that Black Horse have accepted liability for, to have been present at the point of supply. And, 
Im satisfied this means the caravan wasnt of satisfactory quality.
What I need to focus on in this decision is what is fair and reasonable to put the 
acknowledged issues right, and decide whether Black Horse is responsible for any of the 
other disputed problems with the caravan. Ill consider each of these issues in turn. I wont 
address the faults Black Horse has already accepted.
Damp
Ive thought about what the report says here:
The issue is no longer present
The areas picked up on the first service in 2018 were found to be dry during the inspection
Ive carefully thought about what Mr R said about this. But, the report is quite firm here. It 
doesnt appear this fault is present. It follows I dont think Black Horse needs to take any 
action to put this right.
Exterior cracking
Ive carefully thought about what Mr R said about this and what the report says. The report 
says:
At present there are no signs of ingress in this area and the issue appears to be limited to 
the surface
These cracks occur due to the materials succumbing to road trauma and stress
It is recognised that cosmetic cracking can appear and is characteristic of the materials and 
design
I should say here that Im satisfied, from the report and photos, that this issue does exist. 
But, the report is quite firm that this isnt causing any issues, is a characteristic of the 
caravan and is due to wear and tear. On balance, I havent seen enough to make me think 
this particular issue means the caravan was of unsatisfactory quality when it was supplied. It 
follows I dont think Black Horse needs to take any action here.
Scratch above battery box
I am satisfied from the report and the photos that there is a scratch above the battery box. 
The report says:
accidental damage would be the most plausible cause
Black Horse says it isnt possible to tell when this issue occurred. Mr R says the scratch was 
there when he got the caravan and a photo of it was sent to him two days before he 
collected it.
Ive carefully thought about this. One of two things has happened here. 
Firstly, the scratch might have occurred when Mr R had the caravan. In which case Black 
Horse arent responsible for it.Secondly, the scratch was present when Mr R collected the caravan. But, in this case he has 
said he was made aware of this and shown the scratch before he collected the caravan and 
entered into the agreement. The CRA explains satisfactory quality cant be considered for 
something which is specifically drawn to the consumers attention before the contract is 
made.
So, it follows, either way, that I dont think Black Horse needs to take any action here. 
Mr R said the dealer agreed to repair this  I would suggest he speaks directly to them about 
this issue.
Wallboard joining tape
Here the report says:
The wallboard joining tape is lifting in several places
this is a result of changes in humidity and temperature over time
It is characteristic and of no mechanical or functional consequence
The report also suggests a simple fix for the issue.
Ive carefully thought about this. Again, Im satisfied this issue is present. But, Im satisfied 
on balance this issue is due to wear and tear and wasnt present or developing at the point 
of supply. It follows I dont think Black Horse needs to take any further action here.
Electronic stabilizers and IDC system
The report notes both of these systems are not working properly or performing as they 
should. Both issues are noted in the report as caused by serviceable component failure. 
And Black Horse have said this means it isnt responsible.
Here, I was not fully convinced by Black Horses argument nor the conclusions of the report. 
I say this as neither the report, nor Black Horses response, addresses whether these 
systems lasted as long as Mr R couldve expected before developing faults. This is 
important, as the CRA explains that the durability of goods should be considered as part of 
satisfactory quality.
Thinking about this, Im not sure I wouldve expected these systems to fail when they did. 
But, that being said, Mr R has confirmed these issues have been now been repaired at no 
cost to him. If I found these issues meant the caravan was of unsatisfactory quality, repair is 
one of the remedies available to Mr R under the CRA. So, this means his rights have already 
been met here. So I dont need to make a finding here as, either way, Black Horse wouldnt 
need to take any further action on these points.
In summary, Im satisfied the caravan wasnt of satisfactory quality when it was supplied to 
Mr R. Im satisfied the issues that meant this was the case have either been repaired, or 
Black horse has offered to repair them. And Im satisfied Black Horse isnt responsible for 
the other problems Mr R complains about.
Finally, Im also satisfied Mr R has suffered distress and inconvenience because of whats 
happened. It must have been upsetting to realise the caravan had issues, and hes had to 
take it for repairs. I find the £250 already offered by Black Horse for this to be a fair reflection of whats happened
My final decision
Black Horse Limited has already made an offer to repair some issues and pay Mr R £250 to 
settle this complaint. I think this offer is fair in all the circumstances.
So, my decision is that Black Horse Limited should, if it hasnt already:
Arrange for the issue with leaking and water stains explained in the report to be 
repaired at no cost to Mr R
Arrange for the issue with the skylight explained in the report to be repaired at no 
cost to Mr R
Pay Mr R £250 to reflect whats happened
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 July 2022.
 
John Bower
Ombudsman