DRN-2147098
The complaint
Mr W complains about Caravan Guard Limited (CGL) and their insured value of his 
motorhome.
What happened
Mr Ws motorhome was stolen from their home address while he weas on holiday, so he 
made a successful claim on his insurance policy with Insurer R. But he was made aware by 
Insurer R that CGL had undervalued his motorhome when selling the insurance policy, 
meaning the maximum amount he could receive was £4,000 - £5,000 less than the actual 
value.
Mr W was unhappy with this, so he raised a complaint with CGL. He didnt think it was fair 
for CGL to undervalue his motorhome. The motorhome had been insured for a value of 
£25,000 and this was the maximum amount he could receive. Yet, the market value of his 
motorhome was worth £29,000 - £30,000. He also didnt think it was fair that the motorhome 
couldve been insured for £40,000 but hed still only receive the market value. Because of 
this, he thought CGL should pay him the difference between the insured value and market 
value of his motorhome.
CGL didnt agree. They explained the insurance policy was sold and renewed on a non-
advised basis, meaning they couldnt advise Mr W on how much he should insure his 
motorhome for. But they explained they do offer to check valuation websites where possible. 
In this situation, they were unable to find Mr Ws motorhome to obtain a valuation. So, they 
agreed to insure Mr Ws motorhome for the amount Mr W himself suggested, which was 
£25,000. They thought the terms of the policy made it clear this would be the maximum 
amount he could receive. So, they didnt think theyd done anything wrong and didnt offer 
anything further. Mr W remained unhappy, so he referred his complaint to us.
Our investigator looked into the complaint and didnt uphold it. She listened to the call 
recordings of the renewals in 2018 and 2019 and thought Mr W himself valued the 
motorhome at £25,000. As this was a non-advised sale, she didnt think CGL did anything 
wrong by following Mr Ws instructions. And she didnt think theyd acted unreasonably when 
not being able to find an online valuation as she explained insurer R had in house engineers 
that CGL didnt. So, she thought CGL had acted fairly and didnt need to do anything further.
Mr W didnt agree. He referred back to previous policies he held with CGL that valued his 
motorhome higher and wanted this considered. He maintained he didnt think CGL had acted 
fairly when agreeing the valuation for the insurance. Our investigator responded explaining 
Mr Ws complaint didnt refer to these previous policies and so CGL hadnt had a chance to 
review them. So, she explained we werent able to consider this as part of the complaint as 
so her view didnt change. Mr W remained unhappy, so the complaint has been passed to 
me for a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im not upholding the complaint for broadly the same reasons as the 
investigator. Ive focused my comments on what I think is relevant. If I havent commented 
on any specific point, its because I dont believe its affected what I think is the right 
outcome.
First, I want to recognise the impact this has had on Mr W. Its not in dispute that Mr W has 
received a payment that is less than the market value of his motorhome. So, this has 
impacted him financially as hes been unable to replace it for a motorhome of a similar 
standard. I can appreciate how upsetting and frustrating this has been for Mr W, and why he 
feels unfairly treated. But for me to agree CGL have done something wrong, Id need to see 
that they failed to take reasonable steps available to them when calculating the correct 
insured valuation for Mr Ws motorhome. Or that they decided on an insured valuation 
without Mr Ws agreement. And in this situation, I dont think thats the case.
Ive listened to the calls between Mr W and CGL when he came to renew his motorhome 
insurance. I think CGL took reasonable steps to obtain an independent valuation as each 
handler took the registration and details of the motor home in order to search the online 
platforms they had available. And I think its most likely that, due to the make and model of 
Mr Ws motorhome, they were unable to obtain one. So, I dont think it would be fair for me 
to say that CGL didnt take reasonable steps to assist Mr W in valuing his motorhome for the 
purposes of the insurance.
But Im aware Mr W is unhappy insurer R was able to produce a more accurate valuation. I 
think its important to note CGL were the broker in this process, not the insurer. So, their 
involvement was limited to the sale of the policy, not the processing of claims. As insurer R 
processed claims, they would need to have the ability to accurately value vehicles for the 
purposes of any claim thats been made. So, I think CGLs explanation regarding insurer Rs 
access to in-house engineers and other methods is a reasonable one to explain why insurer 
R could value the motorhome more accurately. So, I dont think insurers Rs ability to value 
Mr Ws motorhome is a reflection on the service CGL provided.
Ive then considered whether CGL made Mr W reasonably aware of the insured valuation of 
the motorhome. And that this would be the maximum amount hed be able to receive.
In both calls, as CGL were struggling to obtain a valuation, Mr W suggested a valuation of 
£25,000. On both calls, CGL confirmed with Mr W that he was happy to insure the 
motorhome for this amount and on both occasions Mr W agreed that he was. If Mr W was 
unhappy with this amount, and thought the motorhome had been undervalued, I wouldve 
expected him to raise it at this point. But I cant see that he did. And as CGL were operating 
on a non-advised basis, I wouldnt expect them to guide Mr W to increasing the valuation if 
he was happy with it. So, I cant say CGL did anything wrong.
Also, in the renewal call in 2019, CGL confirmed with Mr W that the £25,000 would be the 
maximum amount he would receive. And Mr W confirmed he understood and was okay with 
this. Mr W was also sent policy schedules documenting the renewals, which documented the 
value insured as up to £25,000. I think this makes it reasonably clear to Mr W that this 
would be the maximum amount he would receive. 
And, the terms and conditions of Mr Ws insurance policy state:
Market ValueThe cost of replacing Your motorhome with one of the same make, model, specification, 
mileage and age, in the same condition as your motorhome was immediately before the loss 
or damage. The maximum we will pay is the sum insured stated on your Schedule.
So, I think Mr W agreed to the insured value of £25,000. And I think he was made 
reasonably aware this was the maximum amount hed receive if he made a claim. So, I think 
CGL acted both fairly and reasonably, and I cant say Mr W receiving a payment less than 
the market value of his motorhome was because of anything CGL did wrong. Because of 
this, I dont think they need to anything further.
Thats not to say I dont understand Mr Ws frustration about receiving less than the market 
value for his motor home. I want to re-assure him I considered his comments about the 
market value and the definition within the policy. And I agree if hed insured his motor home 
for more than the market value, the market value is all that he wouldve received.  But the 
policy terms and conditions and policy schedule make it clear that the sum insured is the 
maximum amount that can be paid. And that the policy is designed to provide a customer 
with the market value, if that falls within the sum insured. In this case, Mr W agreed to the 
£25,000 insurance valuation and the premiums he paid took this maximum payment into 
consideration. So, although I do appreciate how this feels unfair, I dont think this shows 
CGL to have acted fairly or unreasonably.
My final decision
For the reasons outlined above, I dont uphold Mr Ws complaint about Caravan Guard 
Limited. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 3 November 2020.
 
Josh Haskey
Ombudsman