DRN-2710151
The complaint
Ms B complains that Monzo Bank Ltd (Monzo) wont refund her after falling victim to a 
scam.
What happened
In April 2020, Ms B was looking for a kitchen mixer and found one on an online market 
place. Ms B said shed seen ads for people selling the mixer she was looking for, and the 
prices they were asking ranged from £100 to £260 for a used item. The brand new item was 
around £350 to £400.
Ms B contacted the seller of the kitchen mixer she was interested in, and says they 
messaged for a few days before she agreed to buy the item. Ms B asked for photos of the 
mixer and says the seller provided her with several. She says he told her it was his 
girlfriends item and he was selling it for her. Ms B said the seller had a profile on the market 
place which looked legitimate to her. There were several photos and links to his family 
members profiles, and his profile had been in place for eight to ten years. Ms B says there 
was nothing that looked suspicious to her, so she paid the seller for the mixer. The seller 
was asking for £200 for the mixer and an additional £10 for the cost to courier the mixer to 
Ms B. Ms B made the payment by bank transfer on 28 April 2020.
The seller gave Ms B a tracking number for her mixer so she could track the delivery. But 
after a few days Ms B hadnt received the item, despite the seller assuring her that the mixer 
had been picked up. So, Ms B contacted the courier firm and was told there was no job 
logged with the tracking number shed been given, also they had no record of a parcel being  
picked up  from the sellers address, and didnt have a delivery due to be made to her 
address.
At this point Ms B became aware that shed fallen victim to a scam. She contacted Monzo 
and asked them to recover her funds.
Monzo isnt a signatory of the Lending Standards Board Contingent Reimbursement Model 
CRM Code (the CRM Code) but has explained that it is committed to applying the principles 
set out in it. The Code requires firms to reimburse customers who have been the victims of 
APP scams in all but a limited number of circumstances. Monzo says one of those 
exceptions applies in this case. It says Ms B made the payment without having a reasonable 
basis for believing it was a genuine payment. In particular, Monzo says Ms B ought to have 
done more checks to make sure the payee was legitimate.
Monzo was able to recover £0.26 from the sellers account once they were aware of the 
scam, which they refunded to Ms B. But as they declined to refund the rest of the payment 
she made, Ms B brought a complaint to our service.
An investigator looked into Ms Bs complaint and upheld it. In summary they felt that Ms B 
did have a reasonable basis to believe the payment she was making was genuine, and that 
Monzo hadnt established that she didnt. The investigator recommended that Ms B be fully 
refunded under the CRM Code, with interest added to that payment.
Monzo disagreed, so the case was passed to me for a decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In deciding whats fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of a complaint, Im required to 
take into account relevant: law and regulations; regulators rules, guidance and standards; 
codes of practice; and, where appropriate, what I consider to be good industry practice at the 
time. 
In broad terms, the starting position at law is that a firm is expected to process payments 
and withdrawals that a customer authorises, in accordance with the Payment Services 
Regulations and the terms and conditions of the customers account. However, where the 
consumer made the payment as a consequence of the actions of a fraudster, it may 
sometimes be fair and reasonable for the bank to reimburse the consumer even though they 
authorised the payment.
As Ive said above, Monzo has committed to follow the Lending Standards Board Contingent 
Reimbursement Model (the CRM Code) although they arent a signatory to the CRM Code. 
And, the CRM Code requires firms to reimburse customers who have been the victims of 
Authorised Push Payment (APP) scams like this, in all but a limited number of 
circumstances.
Under the CRM Code, a bank may choose not to reimburse a customer if it can establish 
that:
  The customer made payments without having a reasonable basis for believing that: the 
payee was the person the Customer was expecting to pay; the payment was for genuine 
goods or services; and/or the person or business with whom they transacted was legitimate
There are other exceptions under the Code, but they dont apply in this case, so I havent 
included them. Monzo says that Ms B failed to take reasonable steps to verify the seller and 
check who she was paying, and therefore didnt have a reasonable basis for believing the 
transaction was legitimate.
So, Ive considered whether Monzo shouldve reimbursed Ms B under the provisions of the 
CRM Code, or whether its established that the exception set out above applies in this case.Did Ms B have a reasonable basis for belief in making the payment?
Having considered everything Im satisfied that Ms B did have a reasonable basis for belief, 
for the following reasons:
The online marketplace that she used to purchase the item is commonly used to 
purchase goods. It may not be reliable, in the way purchasing new from a retail store 
would be, but I dont agree with Monzos point that by using it Ms B should be 
inherently concerned about scams  particularly taking into account all the 
circumstances of this case.
Ms B has told us that she has used this online marketplace before to purchase items 
and hasnt had a problem like this.
Ms B checked the sellers profile and saw nothing that made her suspicious or 
suspect that the seller may not be genuine. The sellers profile had been in place for 
a number of years and had multiple photos and family members linked to their profile.
Also, Ms B asked for pictures of the item she was looking to buy and received 
several different photos. Ms B said there was nothing in the photos that looked 
unusual. And Ms B communicated with the seller for a few days before agreeing to 
buy the item, and says the communication was friendly and didnt give her any 
indication that she should be wary.
Ms B had done some searches for the item she was looking to purchase and had 
found used items listed online that ranged in price from £100 to £250. So, the 
purchase price of £200 (plus postage) that the seller was asking, wasnt unusually 
low whereby I think it shouldve raised concerns for her. Ms B says she didnt choose 
one of the cheaper items as she didnt want to buy something that might break down 
soon after purchase  which isnt unreasonable. Whereas a brand new product was 
being sold in stores for £350 to £400. So, the price that item was listed at, doesnt 
seem particularly concerning.
Having considered everything, Im not persuaded that there were warning signs or 
indications that would suggest to me that Ms B shouldve carried out further checks before 
the making the payment. Or, that she didnt have a reasonable basis to believe the seller 
was genuine. Therefore, Im not satisfied that Monzo can rely on the exception under the 
CRM Code as a reason to not refund her.
I think Monzo should now fairly and reasonably compensate Ms B by refunding her the 
money she lost as a result of the scam.
Putting things right
For the reasons Ive explained, Ive decided that Ms B ought reasonably to have been fully 
refunded. 
I therefore direct Monzo Bank Ltd to pay her: 
 The full amount of £210 she lost   less the £0.26 recovered and already paid to her;
 Interest at the simple rate of 8% per year on that amount (less any tax properly deductible) 
from the date it should have accepted Ms Bs claim under the CRM Code to the date of 
settlement.
 My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint against Monzo Bank Ltd.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms B to accept or 
reject my decision before 20 October 2021.
 
Lisa Lowe
Ombudsman