DRN-4287167
The complaint
Mr S complains that Creation Financial Services Limited continues to report his credit card 
account to a credit reference agency as live, following his discharge from bankruptcy.
What happened
Mr S had a credit card account with Creation. In 2018 he became bankrupt, and his Creation 
account was included in the bankruptcy. A year later, he was discharged from bankruptcy. 
However, he later discovered that Creation was still reporting his account on his credit file as 
if it was still live, and showing late payments, rather than being recorded as having defaulted 
in 2018.
Mr S complained to our service. We forwarded his complaint to Creation, to give Creation an 
opportunity to deal with the matter first. Creation replied to Mr S. It told him that it could not 
find any record of his account. (It could find two other accounts, which it had sold to a third 
party following his bankruptcy, but that was all.)
Our investigator then considered this complaint. Based on evidence provided by Mr S of 
what was reported on his credit file, the investigator was satisfied that the relevant account 
was still being reported by Creation as a live account, rather than as defaulted and partially 
settled as it should be. He recommended that Creation contact the relevant credit reference 
agency and correct the entry, and also pay Mr C £100 for his inconvenience.
Creation did not reply, so the investigator referred this complaint for an ombudsman to look 
into.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I uphold it, for the same reasons as my colleague. I will explain why.
In its final response letter (which is all that Creation has provided), Creation denied any 
knowledge of the relevant account, which it described as an account with a number ending 
with 66. It said it could not find any record of such an account; all it could find were two other 
accounts, both ending with different numbers, which had both been sold to a third party. 
However, I find that denial to be impossible to reconcile with the evidence that Mr S has 
provided of his credit file with two different credit reference agencies, which both show a 
Creation credit card account.
(Just in case Creation has not received Mr Ss evidence, I will arrange for copies to be sent 
to Creation with this decision.)
Screenshots from Equifax show an account described as Credit Card from CREATION 
CONSUMER FINANCE LTD (I) with an account number ending with 4366. It gives Mr Ss 
former address (which can be found in several places in his Experian credit file). It goes on 
to give a Default / Delinquent Balance of £2,189, but this is not a default, because further 
down it says Default Date: N/A. This entry was last updated in April 2023, which is only one 
month before Creation sent its final response letter in May.
The other credit file, from Experian, appears to show the same debt. It also names a credit 
card account held with Creation Consumer Finance Ltd, and it gives the same balance of 
£2,189, so I am satisfied that these two entries both relate to the same account. But unlike 
Equifaxs entry, this entry clearly shows that this was a default balance, and the date of the 
default is the same date on which Mr S was declared bankrupt. And the entry also gives a 
satisfaction date, which is the first anniversary of the bankruptcy, being the date when Mr Ss 
bankruptcy was discharged.
I have seen evidence that Mr S was discharged from bankruptcy in 2019, namely the 
certificate of discharge from the Insolvency Service. I have not seen the bankruptcy order or 
a list of which debts were included in it, but I am satisfied that his Creation credit card 
account was included, because the dates of default and satisfaction in the Experian credit 
file match the dates of Mr Ss bankruptcy and his discharge, and because the way that 
Experian has reported it is consistent with the debt having been included in the bankruptcy.
I am therefore satisfied that Creation is still reporting Mr Ss account to two credit reference 
agencies, and that this account was included in a bankruptcy order which has since been 
discharged, and that it is being reported differently to each agency  it is being reported as 
defaulted to Experian, but not to Equifax.
The Information Commissioners Office (ICO) has published relevant guidance, Principles for 
the Reporting of Arrears, Arrangements and Defaults at Credit Reference Agencies. That 
says (on pages 7 and 8 of version 2) that if an account is included in a bankruptcy which is 
later discharged, and less than the full balance was paid, then the account should be 
reported as having been defaulted no later than the date of the bankruptcy, and as closed 
and partially settled. So the Experian entry is correct, and the Equifax entry is not and needs 
to be corrected.
Putting things right
I agree with the redress recommended by our investigator.
My final decision
My decision is that I uphold this complaint. I order Creation Financial Services Limited to:
Amend Mr Ss credit file with Equifax to bring it in line with the ICOs guidance  that 
is, to report the credit card account ending 4366 as having defaulted on 11 
September 2018, and as having been partially settled or satisfied on 11 September 
2019; and
Pay Mr £100 for his inconvenience.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 10 January 2024.
 
Richard Wood
Ombudsman