DRN-3215024
The complaint
Mr P complains as a director of V, a limited company, that DAS Legal Expenses Insurance 
Company Limited delayed in dealing with a claim it made on its commercial legal expenses 
policy.
 
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here. Instead Ill focus on giving my reasons for my decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the conclusions reached by the investigator for the following 
reasons:
DAS has admitted it received the claim on 4 August but didnt contact V to request 
further information until 17 August. This was outside its usual timescales and after 
the associated court deadline. 
I realise this delay would have been very stressful for Mr P himself, given the 
impending deadline, however I have to consider what specific impact it had on V. 
Mr P has confirmed that other than redirecting some staff to work on the legal claim, 
(which would have happened anyway), the impact was on him personally as he had 
to chase DAS for a response and locate alternative solicitors to instruct within a short 
timeframe. He has confirmed no additional legal costs were incurred by V due to the 
short timeframe.
Insurers complete initial checks at the start of each claim and one of those includes 
making sure the event for which a claim is being made, is covered by the policy. DAS 
later confirmed the event wasnt covered by the policy as it happened outside the 
period of insurance. So, on this basis, it seems V would have always been 
responsible for the legal costs it incurred.
Having considered everything, I think the £100 compensation payment offered by 
DAS is fair and reasonable and reflects the impact its initial delay had on V. 
For the reasons above, I do not uphold this complaint. 
 
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold Vs complaint against DAS Legal Expenses 
Insurance Company Limited.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask V to accept or 
reject my decision before 19 January 2022.
 
Alison Gore
Ombudsman