DRN-3992590
The complaint
Ms B complains about the way AXA insurance UK Plc (AXA) handled her claim following 
the theft of her car.
What happened
The circumstances of this complaint are well known to both parties, so Ill only summarise 
them here.
Ms Bs car was stolen in July 2022 and she reported the loss to AXA
AXA initially made a cash offer to replace the car which was accepted by Ms B
A few days later the police found the stolen car and it was recovered to a garage.
AXA said it would arrange to carry out some repairs and return the car to Ms B.
Ms B says she had to chase AXA to progress the claim and was without her car for 5 
months and it was kept in storage for a lengthy period before repairs commenced.
Ms B tells us AXA only provided a courtesy car for a limited period and she had to 
use public transport and private hire vehicles resulting in considerable expense and 
inconvenience to her and her young child.
Repairs to the car were not completed until December 2022.
AXA agreed the service it provided fell below the standard it would expect to provide, 
and apologised to Ms B.
AXA said a courtesy car was provided for 14 days in line with the policy terms and 
this was extended for a further 7 days. It also says it provided a courtesy car whilst 
repairs were undertaken but accepts Ms B incurred travel costs due to the delays in 
starting and completing repairs.
AXA awarded £200 compensation for the inconvenience caused plus £25 for delays 
in responding to Ms B. And it reimbursed £450 travel costs that Ms B said she had 
incurred. So it paid Ms B a total of £675.
Our investigator agreed the service provided by AXA was not to a high standard but 
said its offer of £225 was in line with what shed have awarded, and that it had 
reimbursed the additional costs Ms B had claimed for so didnt ask AXA to do any 
more. 
Ms B remains unhappy and says she should have a full refund of her insurance 
premium and asked an ombudsman to decide her case.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so Ive reached the same outcome as our investigator, and largely for the same 
reasons.
There is no dispute AXA took longer than it shouldve done in arranging and completing 
repairs after Ms Bs car was recovered. The issue I have to decide is whether AXA needs to 
do more than it has to compensate Ms B for the additional disruption and inconvenience she 
experienced during those delays.
I can see that Ms B had to chase AXA on numerous occasions, and far more than Id expect 
her to have to do had the claim proceeded as it shouldve done. Im also mindful of the 
distress and inconvenience of being without a car for an extended period of time. Ms B was 
without her car for 19 weeks after it was recovered until repairs were completed in 
December 2022.
 AXA has reimbursed £450 to cover the taxi and public transport costs she and the named 
drivers had incurred, and Ms B tells us she is satisfied with this offer. Im satisfied AXA has 
acted reasonably in reimbursing the additional travel costs incurred and ensured Ms B is not 
out of pocket.
AXA has also apologised for the time taken and paid a total of £225 in compensation for the 
inconvenience she experienced. Ive considered the distress and inconvenience caused to 
Ms B, and that she had to chase AXA numerous times. Having done so I agree with our 
investigator that is a reasonable amount of compensation, and in line with what Id have 
awarded, for the avoidable delays and poor service Ms B experienced.
I can understand why Ms B might feel she should have her premium refunded. But thats not 
something Im going to ask AXA to do. It has settled the claim, so the policy has done what 
its designed to do. 
In the circumstances of this case Im satisfied the action taken by AXA to resolve Ms Bs 
complaint is fair and reasonable. And I wont be asking it to do any more.
My final decision
For the reasons above I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms B to accept or 
reject my decision before 21 April 2023.
 
Martyn Tomkins
Ombudsman