DRN-3683335
The complaint
Mr C complains about the advice given by D C Financial Limited (DCFL) to transfer the 
benefits he held in the British Steel Pension Scheme (BSPS) and another small pension to 
a self-invested personal pension (SIPP). The BSPS was a defined benefit (DB) 
occupational pension scheme. He says the advice was unsuitable for him.
Mr C is being represented by a third party but for ease of reading this decision Ill largely 
refer to representations as being made by Mr C.
What happened
In March 2016, Mr Cs employer announced that it would be examining options to restructure 
its business, including decoupling the BSPS (the employers DB scheme) from the company. 
The consultation with members referred to possible outcomes regarding their preserved 
benefits, which included transferring the scheme to the Pension Protection Fund (PPF), or a 
new defined-benefit scheme (BSPS2). Alternatively, members were informed they could 
transfer their benefits to a private pension arrangement.
In May 2017, the PPF made the announcement that the terms of a Regulated Apportionment 
Arrangement (RAA) had been agreed. That announcement included that, if risk-related 
qualifying conditions relating to funding and size could be satisfied, a new pension scheme 
sponsored by Mr Cs employer would be set up  the BSPS2.
On 11 August 2017, Mr Cs employer confirmed the terms of the RAA  which had been 
agreed in May 2017  had been signed. This announcement included confirmation that 
agreement had also been reached about the sponsorship, by Mr Cs employer, of the 
BSPS2.
Also on 11 August 2017, Mr C obtained a summary of the transfer value for his BSPS 
benefits. This said his benefits had a cash equivalent transfer value (CETV) of £37,839.28. 
Shortly after this Mr C asked DCFL for advice about his pension arrangements. Largely it 
was Mr Cs BSPS benefits that were discussed. But DCFL also advised Mr C in relation to 
the transfer of a separate small personal pension at the same time.
On 25 August 2017, an important update was issued in respect of BSPS transfer values. 
This explained that the expected lump sum payment into the BSPS by Mr Cs employer was 
likely to result in an improvement to transfer values. And for those with unexpired transfer 
values, as in Mr Cs case, updated valuations would be issued in around October 2017, 
which would be guaranteed until at least December 2017.
Also on 25 August 2017, DCFL wrote to Mr C confirming an appointment to meet on 
31 August 2017. Attached to that letter DCFL sent Mr C a fact-finding document and asked 
him to complete this prior to its initial meeting. The completed fact find noted that Mr C was 
32, in good health, employed full time and married with two children. He and his wife owned 
their own home with an outstanding mortgage that was due to be repaid in approximately 23 
years. And their income covered their outgoings each month. Mr C also noted that his 
knowledge of financial terms was very limited, and he had little or no investment experience.
Mr C was a member of his employers new defined contribution pension scheme  set up 
when the BSPS closed to further contributions during the ongoing consultation. And he and 
his employer were making combined contributions to this of 18% of his salary. That pension 
arrangement had only recently begun though and the BSPS benefits made up the majority of 
his retirement provisions at that time.
It was recorded that Mr C hoped to retire at age 57. But his income needs in retirement were 
unknown. And the fact find said the reasons he was considering a transfer were for flexibility, 
better growth prospects and alternative death benefits.
On 11 September 2017 there was a further announcement, confirming the agreed payment 
had been made into the BSPS by Mr Cs employers and the separation of the BSPS from 
the company had been completed. This set out that members would have to make a choice 
between staying in the BSPS or moving to the BSPS2 and explained that personalised 
information and illustrations would be provided in October 2017 to assist with that choice and 
that members would have until December 2017 to make a decision.
A follow up meeting between DCFL and Mr C took place on 13 September 2017. I 
understand at that meeting a recommendation was given by DCFL that Mr C transfer his 
pension benefits to a SIPP. Documents were signed during that meeting to enable the 
transfer to take place including an authorisation form to the BSPS trustees for the funds to 
be released and an application form for the new pension provider.
A written summary of the advice given by DCFL was not produced until 20 September 2017 
 after the application had been submitted. The suitability report said Mr Cs income needs in 
retirement werent known, because of how long it was until hed retire. But at the same time, 
it said the DB scheme wouldnt provide a sufficient income for retirement and transferring 
allowed the opportunity for the fund to grow. And, as DCFL had assessed that Mr C had a 
moderate to aggressive attitude to risk (or a 7 on a scale of 1-10), it felt he could afford to 
take the relevant risks involved.
DCFL also said Mr C wanted control of his pension because of the ongoing uncertainty and 
was concerned about the inflexible death benefits in general the DB scheme provided and 
losing flexibility if he moved to the PPF. In particular it noted the inflexibility of having to take 
a regular pension income from the point tax-free cash (TFC) was drawn, as a feature Mr C 
wanted to avoid. It also said Mr C was concerned about the penalties hed incur for taking 
benefits before age 65 under the DB scheme. And DCFL said a transfer addressed these 
issues. The report did say that the critical yield  how much a new pension would need to 
grow by each year in order to allow Mr C to purchase equivalent benefits to those the DB 
scheme guaranteed  was unlikely to be achieved. But didnt comment further on why it was 
suitable for Mr C to accept that. 
The report also recommended that Mr C transfer his other small personal pension, which 
had a transfer value of £956.72, in order to streamline his pensions savings. Subsequent to 
the transfer, DCFL would also provide ongoing servicing and advice to Mr C in relation to the 
pension, at a cost.
The transfer went ahead in line with DCFLs recommendation. DCFL provided ongoing 
servicing until 2021.
Mr C complained in 2021 to DCFL. He said the advice was unsuitable and he thought a 
transfer should not have been recommended because the SIPP was highly unlikely to match 
the guaranteed benefits that he couldve received through the BSPS2.DCFL didnt uphold Mr Cs complaint. DCFL said the uncertainty around the BSPS was a 
major concern for Mr C and so he wanted to transfer. DCFL said these benefits were likely to 
only represent a small part of Mr Cs retirement provisions and he was happy to accept a 
moderate to aggressive risk profile. So, by transferring he could achieve growth not just 
limited to inflation  which the DB scheme wouldve been. It also gave him the flexibility to 
retire early. And he would have more flexible death benefits, which DCFL said the DB 
scheme didnt provide. So, it said it thought the advice was suitable as a transfer allowed 
him to meet his objectives.
Mr C referred his complaint to our service. An Investigator upheld the complaint and said 
DCFL should compensate Mr C for any loss the transfer of the BSPS benefits and the small 
personal pension had led to as well as pay £350 for the distress caused. He thought Mr C 
was always likely to receive overall pension benefits of a lower value as a result of 
transferring. And he didnt think any of the other reasons for transferring given by DCFL were 
strong enough to justify the transfer and Mr C accepting a reduction in his retirement 
benefits. So, he didnt think a transfer was in Mr Cs best interests and if he had been 
correctly advised believed Mr C wouldve transferred his benefits to the BSPS2.
Mr Cs representatives largely accepted the Investigators findings although they noted that 
Mr C disputed that alternative death benefits or the ability to draw TFC was a motivator for 
the transfer or were even discussed in any detail. Mr Cs representatives also said they 
didnt think making an overall 15% notional deduction from the compensation amount to 
account for income tax was fair as this didnt account for ongoing charges that Mr C may 
incur.
DCFL did not accept the Investigators opinion. It said Mr C had been clear he intended to 
retire early and take TFC and said its recommendation was based on an assessment of 
Mr Cs circumstances and objectives  which it felt the Investigator had not given enough 
regard to. So DCFL maintained that transferring was in Mr Cs best interests. It also made 
the comment that while Mr C was in good health at the time of the advice, this wasnt 
guaranteed to be the case moving forward, so the alternative death benefits were useful.
DCFL also said the BSPS2 was not certain to proceed at the time and so it didnt think using 
this as the basis for redress was fair. DCFL also argued it was not responsible for any losses 
since it had stopped providing ongoing servicing.
The Investigator wasnt persuaded to change their opinion. They still didnt think that Mr C 
had any need to transfer and so felt that doing so wasnt in his best interests. He also didnt 
agree that recommending redress on the basis Mr C wouldve transferred into the BSPS2 
was unfair, as this is what he believed wouldve happened, if Mr C had been advised against 
transferring. And he also thought it was fair to hold DCFL responsible for the entirety of any 
losses incurred. In response to the representatives argument, the Investigator still felt it was 
reasonable to require a notional deduction to account for income tax, as previously set out.
As agreement could not be reached, the complaint was referred to me to make a final 
decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
DCFL has said that the regulator, the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA), previously 
undertook a review of its advice process in relation to members of the BSPS and didnt 
highlight any concerns. It has therefore questioned how our service can come to a different conclusion  that transfer advice was unsuitable. But our role is different to that of the FCA. 
It is to look at the individual circumstances of a complaint, not a business processes and 
practices as a whole, and decide what we consider is fair and reasonable. That is what Ive 
done here.
Ive taken into account relevant law and regulations, regulators rules, guidance and 
standards and codes of practice, and what I consider to have been good industry practice at 
the time. This includes the Principles for Business (PRIN) and the Conduct of Business 
Sourcebook (COBS). And where the evidence is incomplete, inconclusive or contradictory, 
I reach my conclusions on the balance of probabilities  that is, what I think is more likely 
than not to have happened based on the available evidence and the wider surrounding 
circumstances.
The applicable rules, regulations and requirements
The below is not a comprehensive list of the rules and regulations which applied at the time 
of the advice but provides useful context for my assessment of DCFL's actions here.
PRIN 6: A firm must pay due regard to the interests of its customers and treat them fairly.
PRIN 7: A firm must pay due regard to the information needs of its clients, and communicate 
information to them in a way which is clear, fair and not misleading.
COBS 2.1.1R: A firm must act honestly, fairly and professionally in accordance with the best 
interests of its client (the client's best interests rule).
The provisions in COBS 9 which deal with the obligations when giving a personal 
recommendation and assessing suitability. And the provisions in COBS 19 which specifically 
relate to a DB pension transfer.
Having considered all of this and the evidence in this case, Ive decided to uphold the 
complaint for largely the same reasons given by the investigator.
The FCA states in COBS 19.1.6G that the starting assumption for a transfer from a DB 
scheme is that it is unsuitable. So, DCFL should have only considered a transfer if it could 
clearly demonstrate that the transfer was in Mr Cs best interests. And having looked at all 
the evidence available, Im not satisfied it was in his best interests.
Financial viability 
DCFL said that Mr C was interested in transferring so that he could benefit from investment 
growth. But in my view, this would only be in his best interests if he was likely to improve on 
the guaranteed benefits he was already entitled to. 
DCFL talked about Mr C being able to achieve growth above inflation by transferring  which 
the DB scheme didnt provide. But that didnt mean Mr C would be better off. The 
guaranteed annual pension the DB scheme would pay would be revalued and escalated in 
line with inflation. But just achieving growth above inflation from the amount transferred to a 
personal pension, wouldnt have resulted in his overall benefits exceeding those of the DB 
scheme. To achieve that, hed have needed to achieve growth exceeding the critical yield.
DCFL has provided a copy of a transfer value analysis (TVAS) report  which it was 
required to produce by the regulator. This included the calculation of critical yields. 
DCFL indicated in the suitability report that it felt the critical yields were unlikely to be achieved and says Mr C accepted this risk. But highlighting a risk does not mean that the 
advice that follows is suitable. And the suitability reported offered no additional commentary 
on this. There was no explanation what this meant for Mr C in terms of what income he 
would be able to sustainably draw from the new arrangement or how that compared to what 
he was giving up. Nor was there any detailed comparison for him to consider. And DCFL 
didnt explain why it considered accepting that the critical yields wouldnt likely be achieved  
and the likely reduction in overall benefits this would bring  was in Mr Cs interests. Rather it 
instead promoted the benefit of achieving growth through transferring. So, while DCFL says 
Mr C accepted the risk of not achieving the critical yield, I dont think, based on what Ive 
seen, that he was in a suitably informed position to understand what this meant.
I can see that critical yields were calculated in respect of the PPF, which I think was 
appropriate. But the other critical yield figures were based on matching Mr Cs existing 
scheme, the BSPS, based on the revaluation assumptions noted. But Mr C didnt have the 
option to remain in the BSPS  he either needed to opt into the BSPS2 or move with the 
scheme to the PPF. 
DCFL has also said that the BSPS2 was not certain to go ahead. But I think DCFL is 
overstating the chance of the BSPS2 not happening. 
While the advice process was ongoing there were some significant updates being issued 
about what was happening with the BSPS and the BSPS2. This included confirmation that 
sponsorship of the BSPS2 was planned, that details of the scheme would follow and that 
members would have until December 2017 to make a choice. And indeed, before advice 
was given confirmation that the RAA had been implemented and separation of the BSPS 
from Mr Cs employer completed, was confirmed. 
DCFL was clearly aware of this, as the suitability report made reference to transfer values 
being due to improve  as a result of the lump sum payment into the BSPS by Mr Cs 
employer as part of the RAA. But its advice didnt really account further for these 
developments as there were no comparisons carried out with the benefits the BSPS2 would 
potentially provide. 
DCFLs role was to look at and advise Mr C about what was in his best interests. 
Transferring out of a DB scheme is a one-off event. Once transferred there's no going back, 
the benefits of the DB scheme are usually lost forever. The announcements indicated the 
BSPS2 was likely to proceed, that details would follow and that Mr C would be given time to 
make a choice. Waiting for the further details wouldve allowed DCFL to carry out an 
analysis of the BSPS2 benefits, and properly compare these to the alternatives, and base its 
advice on this. Without doing this, DCFL was acting on information which it knew to be 
limited. So, it is difficult to argue that DCFL could properly assess whether a transfer was in 
Mr Cs best interests or that it gave him enough information to make a fully informed 
decision. So, I think DCFL should have told Mr C to defer making a decision on the transfer 
until further details of the BSPS2 were known.
Nevertheless, Ive thought about the analysis that was carried out. And I dont think this 
supports that a transfer was in Mr Cs best interests.
The TVAS said the critical yield required to match the full escalating annual pension the 
BSPS was likely to provide from age 65 was 6.88%. And to match the full pension Mr C 
could take under the BSPS at age 57, the critical yield was said to be 8.04%. No figures 
were calculated for what would be required if Mr C elected to take TFC and a reduced 
pension under the BSPS at either age  even though DCFL says Mr C was interested in 
doing so. DCFL should have done this. Critical yield figures were also calculated for the growth that would be required to match the 
benefits Mr C would be due under the PPF at ages 65 and 57. If Mr C took a full pension at 
age 65 under the PPF, the critical yield was said to be 5.42%. Or if taking TFC and a 
reduced pension, 5.19%. To match the full pension under the PPF at age 57 the critical yield 
was 6.74%. And for the reduced pension and taking TFC at that age, the critical yield was 
6.49%.
Again, the critical yield applicable to the BSPS2 benefits wasnt calculated. The lower annual 
increases under the BSPS2 wouldve likely decreased the critical yields somewhat in 
comparison to the BSPS. But I still think they wouldve likely been equal to or higher than 
those reflecting the PPF benefits and are likely to have been closer to those of the BSPS 
benefits, particularly at age 65.
The advice was given during the period when the Financial Ombudsman Service was 
publishing 'discount rates' on our website for use in loss assessments where a complaint 
about a past pension transfer was being upheld. Whilst businesses weren't required to refer 
to these rates when giving advice on pension transfers, I consider they provide a useful 
indication of what growth rates would have been considered reasonably achievable when 
the advice was given in this case. 
The relevant discount rate at the time the advice was given was 4.7% per year for 32 full 
years to retirement, as would be the case had Mr C retired at age 65, given his age at the 
time of the advice was 32. For 24 years to retirement, the case if he retired at 57, the 
discount rate was 4.6%. For further comparison, the regulator's upper projection rate at the 
time was 8%, the middle projection rate 5%, and the lower projection rate 2%.
I've taken this into account, along with the composition of assets in the discount rate, Mr Cs 
attitude to risk and also the term to retirement. There would be little point in Mr C giving up 
the guarantees available to him through his DB scheme only to achieve, at best, the same 
level of benefits outside the scheme. But here I think Mr C was always likely to receive 
benefits of a substantially lower overall value than the DB scheme at retirement  whether at 
age 65 or 57, as a result of transferring. This would be the case even if the scheme moved 
to the PPF.
DCFL has said the performance of the investments between the transfer being completed 
and the complaint show that the critical yields were achievable. But past performance is no 
guarantee for future performance and so I consider the discount rates and the regulators 
standard projections to be more realistic in this regard in the long term rather than projecting 
historic returns forward, particularly over such a long period of time.
So, from a financially viability perspective, I dont think a transfer was in Mr Cs best 
interests. Of course, financial viability isnt the only consideration when giving transfer 
advice. There might be other considerations which mean a transfer is suitable, despite 
providing overall lower benefits. Ive considered this below.
Flexibility and income needs
DCFL has said Mr C was interested in retiring at age 57. But Mr C was only 32 when DCFL 
advised him to transfer  over 24 years from apparently when he intended to take any 
retirement benefits. I dont doubt he was interested in retiring early if possible  I think most 
consumers would be when asked. But I dont think his thoughts or plans were definitive at 
the time of the advice. Which I think is supported by the notes DCFL has provided from the 
meeting on 13 September 2017 which say Mr C would like to retire at age 57 but was open 
to working longer. And in any event, Mr C could take benefits early, potentially from age 57, 
under either the PPF or the BSPS2. So, I dont think he needed to transfer in order to access his pension from age 57.
DCFL has said that Mr C was unhappy with the penalties for accessing his benefits early 
under the PPF or the BSPS.
It is true that if Mr C drew his benefits at age 57, as DCFL has suggested he was interested 
in, under either the PPF or the BSPS2 the amount he could take would be subject to an 
actuarial reduction. But an actuarial reduction is intended to reflect the pension benefits 
being paid for longer. The starting monetary amount when compared with the full pension 
payable from age 65  the normal scheme retirement age  wouldve been less. But by 
taking benefits at age 57 Mr C wouldve been receiving his pension for eight years longer. It 
was a trade-off, rather than a penalty. I dont think, based on what Ive seen, that DCFL 
gave a balanced explanation of this and so it wasnt providing clear and fair information. 
And, as Ive already explained, I think Mr C was always likely to receive benefits of a lower 
overall value than those hed have been guaranteed under the BSPS2 or the PPF at age 57 
as a result of transferring.
DCFL indicated that transferring would mean Mr C did not incur these penalties. But while 
taking benefits flexibly under a personal pension would allow Mr C to decide the level of his 
income without penalty the amount he could take was entirely dependent on the sum 
available under the pension plan. The income he took would deplete the plan  potentially 
leaving him with less than he might need later. Whereas the DB scheme benefits, regardless 
of which point they started, were guaranteed for life. And I cant see that it was estimated or 
discussed with Mr C what level of income he could sustainably draw from the pension in 
order to ensure he had enough funds for his entire retirement. And I think if it had been, and 
Mr C had been in a more informed position about the penalties for early retirement, he 
mightve been more willing to accept them.
DCFL also says Mr C wanted to be able to access the TFC without having to draw an 
income from the pension. Mr C though says this wasnt discussed. 
The fact find makes no record of a documented need for TFC. And while Mr C had a 
mortgage, the information indicates this was due to be repaid before he reached the age at 
which DCFL says he wanted to take benefits. No other reason was recorded as to why Mr C 
might need TFC. So, I dont agree that at the time of the advice, Mr C had a genuine need to 
obtain flexibility for this purpose.
The suitability report also said that Mr Cs DB scheme wouldnt provide him sufficient income 
in retirement. But at the same time his income needs were not recorded and DCFL said 
Mr C was unsure of what these would be. But with these needs entirely unknown, I dont 
think it can be argued Mr C needed to transfer in order to achieve a specific level of income 
particularly given I think he was unlikely to be better off by transferring. And I also dont think, 
given how long it was until Mr C was due to retire, that he could realistically rule out wanting 
at least some guaranteed income in retirement.
Based on what Ive seen, I dont think Mr C had a need for flexibility at the time of the advice.  
And I dont think it was a suitable recommendation for him to give up his guaranteed benefits 
when he did  particularly given he was always likely to receive benefits of a lower overall 
value by doing so. If Mr C later had reason to transfer out of his DB scheme I understand 
that this wouldve been allowed under BSPS2. And he couldve done so closer to retirement. 
Death benefits
DCFL says Mr C was concerned about the inflexible nature of the death benefits in his 
existing scheme. But Mr C again disputes that there was any real discussion about this.Death benefits are an emotive subject and of course when asked, most people would like 
their loved ones to be taken care of when they die. The lump sum death benefits on offer 
through a personal pension might have seemed an attractive feature to Mr C. But whilst 
I appreciate death benefits are important to consumers, the priority here was to advise Mr C 
about what was best for his retirement provisions. A pension is primarily designed to provide 
income in retirement. And I dont think DCFL explored to what extent Mr C was prepared to 
accept a lower retirement income in exchange for different death benefits.
I also think the existing death benefits attached to the DB scheme were underplayed. At the 
time of the advice  the circumstances that the advice shouldve been based on - Mr C was 
married and had children and so the spouses and dependents pension provided by the DB 
scheme wouldve been useful to his dependents if Mr C predeceased them. I dont think 
DCFL made the value of this benefit clear enough to Mr C. This was guaranteed and it 
escalated  it was not dependent on investment performance, whereas the sum remaining 
on death in a personal pension was. 
And while the CETV figure might have seemed attractive as a potential lump sum, the sum 
remaining on death following a transfer, as well as being dependent on investment 
performance, wouldve also been reduced by any income Mr C drew in his lifetime. Mr C was 
recorded as being in good health, so there was nothing to suggest he was less likely to live 
until at least his average life expectancy. DCFL has said this was not guaranteed but with no 
recorded health issues I think expecting him to reach his average life expectancy was a 
reasonable assumption. So, given the implication was that Mr C would draw a pension 
without penalty from age 57, it appears likely the fund wouldve been significantly depleted 
by the time it was passed on to any dependents. 
The fact find also recorded that Mr C had death in service benefits, which, in my view, 
appear to have been a more appropriate method by which to leave a legacy to his estate. 
The new defined contribution pension he was a member of wouldve also provided 
alternative death benefits by way of a lump sum. And, if Mr C didnt think these were enough 
and genuinely wanted to leave a further legacy, which didnt depend on investment returns 
or how much of his pension fund remained on his death, I think life insurance shouldve been 
considered - which given his age and apparent good health appears likely to have been 
obtainable at a reasonable price. But I cant see that this was discussed.
Overall, I dont think the different death benefits available through a transfer to a SIPP 
justified the likely decrease of retirement benefits for Mr C. And I dont think that insurance 
was properly explored as an alternative.
Control or concerns over financial stability of the DB scheme
I think Mr Cs desire for direct control over his pension benefits was overstated. Mr C was 
not an experienced investor and I cannot see that he had an interest in or the knowledge to 
be able to manage his pension funds on his own. Indeed, DCFL continued to manage his 
SIPP on his behalf after the transfer.  So, I dont think that this was a genuine objective for 
Mr C  it was simply a consequence of transferring away from the DB scheme.
I think this objective was more linked to the uncertainty about the BSPS. I dont doubt Mr C, 
like many of his colleagues, was concerned about his pension. His employer had been 
consulting on its plans for the scheme for some time. And the announcements in the weeks 
and months prior to the advice indicated he was going to need to make a choice about this  
which I doubt is something hed done or contemplated before. And he mightve felt 
unequipped to do so. I also dont doubt Mr C had likely heard negative things about what 
could happen, including entry into the PPF. And its quite possible that Mr C was leaning 
towards the decision to transfer because of his concerns. But that was why it was even more important for DCFL to give Mr C an objective picture and recommend what was in his best 
interests. 
As Ive explained, I think DCFL should have waited before confirming its advice so that the 
option of the BSPS2 couldve been fully considered and explained. Prior to the advice being 
given there were updates regarding the BSPS and the BSPS2 that indicated it was 
progressing and appeared likely to be an option for customers in Mr Cs position. So, the 
advice shouldve properly taken the benefits available to Mr C through the BSPS2 into 
account. Which, as Ive said, it appears he was unlikely to improve upon by transferring. And 
I think this shouldve alleviated some of the concerns Mr C mightve had about the scheme 
moving to the PPF  particularly if DCFL had done more to explain the significant distinction 
between Mr Cs employer and the trustees of the BSPS2.
But even if there was a chance the BSPS2 wouldnt go ahead, I think that DCFL shouldve 
reassured Mr C that the scheme moving to the PPF wasnt as concerning as he thought. The 
income available to Mr C through the PPF, while a reduction on what hed have been due 
under the BSPS, was still guaranteed and not subject to investment risk. And he was 
unlikely to improve on the pension benefits the PPF wouldve provided by transferring out. 
So, I dont think that any concerns Mr C mightve had about the PPF shouldve led to DCFL 
recommending he transfer out of the DB scheme altogether. 
Suitability of investments
DCFL recommended that Mr C invest his SIPP across a specific portfolio. As Im upholding 
the complaint on the grounds that a transfer out of the DB scheme wasnt suitable for Mr C, it 
follows that I dont need to consider the suitability of the investment recommendation. This is 
because Mr C should, in my view, have been advised not to transfer so the investments 
wouldnt have arisen if suitable advice had been given. 
DCFL has said that it shouldnt be responsible for any losses stemming from those 
investments after it ceased managing the SIPP on Mr Cs behalf. But again, the investments 
would not have arisen at all were it not for DCFLs advice. So, I dont agree that its 
responsibility for loss stemming from its advice ceased when it ended its agreement with 
Mr C.
Summary
I dont doubt that the flexibility, control and potential for higher death benefits on offer 
through a personal pension would have sounded like attractive features to Mr C. But DCFL 
wasnt there to just transact what Mr C might have thought he wanted. The advisers role 
was to understand Mr Cs circumstances, separate his potential concerns stemming from the 
ongoing uncertainty and unfinalized potential plans from his genuine needs and recommend 
what was in his best interests.
Ultimately, I dont think the advice given to Mr C was suitable. He was giving up a 
guaranteed, risk-free and increasing income. And this action was irreversible. By 
transferring, Mr C was very likely to obtain lower retirement benefits and, in my view, there 
were no other particular reasons which would justify a transfer and outweigh this. So, I dont 
think it was in Mr Cs best interests for him to transfer his DB scheme to a SIPP. And I think 
DCFL shouldve first recommended that he defer making a decision until further details of 
the BSPS2 were available  which the announcements preceding the advice indicated was 
imminent and Mr C would be given time to consider. And ultimately, I dont think he 
shouldve been advised to transfer.
Mr C had over 24 years before he reached the age at which hed indicated he might like to retire. But his plans were in any event unconfirmed. I don't think that it would've been in his 
interest to accept the reduction in benefits he would've faced by the scheme entering the 
PPF, as it wouldn't be offset by the more favourable reduction for very early retirement. And 
by opting into the BSPS2, Mr C wouldve retained the ability to transfer out of the scheme 
nearer to his retirement age if he needed to. The annual indexation of his pension when in 
payment was also more advantageous under the BSPS2. So, I think if DCFL had correctly 
advised him against transferring Mr C wouldve opted into the BSPS2. And I dont agree with 
DCFL that it is unreasonable to base redress on this  given it is what I think is more likely 
than not to have happened had there been no error.
Of course, I have to consider whether Mr C would've gone ahead anyway, against DCFL's 
advice. 
Ive seen documents that suggest Mr C and DCFL discussed the pros and cons of 
transferring. And a document was completed indicating Mr C had been made aware of the 
risks involved. But ultimately DCFL advised Mr C to transfer out, and I think Mr C relied on 
that advice. 
Im not persuaded that Mr Cs concerns about the consultation or the PPF, or the potential 
appeal of alternative death benefits, control or flexibility were so great that he wouldve 
insisted on the transfer knowing that a professional adviser, whose expertise he had sought 
out, didnt think it was suitable for him or in his best interests. And if DCFL had explained 
that Mr C was always unlikely to exceed the guaranteed benefits available to him by 
transferring, I think that wouldve carried significant weight. So, I dont think Mr C would have 
insisted on transferring out of the DB scheme.
In light of the above, I think DCFL should compensate Mr C for the unsuitable advice to 
transfer his DB scheme benefits, using the regulator's defined benefits pension transfer 
redress methodology.
I've thought about Mr C's representative's point regarding the 15% deduction from any 
redress payable, to take into account the tax Mr C would've paid had this been taken as 
income. It believes this is unfair as it doesn't account for the charges that would've been 
deducted from the fund value over that time. While I appreciate the representative feels this 
may unfairly reduce the redress payable, I'm mindful that it is not possible to provide exact 
compensation in these circumstances, as the only way to achieve this would be to put Mr C 
back into the scheme as if the transfer out hadn't happened  which isnt an option. So, 
overall, I remain of the view that the redress proposed fairly compensates Mr C for the 
impact of the unsuitable advice he received.
Our Investigator recommended that DCFL also pay Mr C £350 for the distress caused by the 
unsuitable advice. I dont doubt that Mr C has been caused distress and concern by finding 
out the advice may not have been suitable  particularly given the circumstances and 
uncertainty under which he first asked for this advice. And Im conscious this upset wouldnt 
have happened but for the unsuitable advice. So, in the circumstances, I think the award the 
Investigator recommended in respect of this is fair.
The advice to transfer Mr Cs small personal pension
In addition to recommending Mr C transfer his BSPS benefit, DCFL also recommended that 
Mr C transfer a separate small personal pension, with a transfer value of just over £950. The 
reason given in the suitability report for doing so was to streamline his pension savings.
Mr Cs existing personal pension had an annual management charge of 0.95%.The SIPP that DCFL recommended had an annual service charge of 0.25%. But there also 
appear to have potentially been management charges in respect of some of the specific 
investments. And DCFL charged an annual fee of 1% for providing ongoing management. 
So overall, the cost of the new arrangement appears to have been greater than Mr Cs 
existing pension.
And the majority of the flexible features that the new arrangement would provide were 
already offered by Mr Cs personal pension.
So, there seems to have been no particular reason or benefit to Mr C in transferring this 
pension, beyond consolidation of his different provisions. And as Ive already found that the 
DB scheme transfer was unsuitable, it follows, in my opinion, that without that, the transfer of 
the personal pension would likely not have taken place. So, at the same time as addressing 
the unsuitable advice to transfer his DB scheme, I think DCFL should put Mr C, as far as 
possible, in the position he wouldve been in, had the transfer of the personal pension not 
taken place.
Putting things right
A fair and reasonable outcome would be for the DCFL to put Mr C, as far as possible, into 
the position he would now be in but for its unsuitable advice. I consider Mr C would have 
most likely remained invested in his personal pension, if suitable advice had been given. And 
in respect of the BSPS benefits, I consider Mr C would have most likely opted to join the 
BSPS2, rather than transfer to a SIPP if he'd been given suitable advice. So, DCFL should 
use the benefits offered by BSPS2 for comparison purposes in respect of that part of the 
redress.
To compensate Mr C fairly, DCFL must determine the combined fair value of his 
transferred pension benefits as outlined in Step One and Step Two below. If the actual 
value is greater than the combined fair value, no compensation is payable.
fair value  step one
If Mr C had been given suitable advice, I think he would have retained his DB scheme 
benefits and joined the BSPS2.
On 2 August 2022, the FCA launched a consultation on new DB transfer redress guidance 
and set out its proposals in a consultation document - 
https://www.fca.org.uk/publication/consultation/cp22-15.pdf
In this consultation, the FCA said that it considers that the current redress methodology in 
Finalised Guidance (FG) 17/9 (Guidance for firms on how to calculate redress for unsuitable 
defined benefit pension transfers) remains appropriate and fundamental changes are not 
necessary. However, its review has identified some areas where the FCA considers it could 
improve or clarify the methodology to ensure it continues to provide appropriate redress. 
A policy statement was published on 28 November 2022 which set out the new rules and 
guidance- https://www.fca.org.uk/publication/policy/ps22-13.pdf. The new rules will come into 
effect on 1 April 2023.
The FCA has said that it expects firms to continue to calculate and offer compensation to 
their customers using the existing guidance in FG 17/9 for the time being. But until changes 
take effect firms should give customers the option of waiting for their compensation to be 
calculated in line with the new rules and guidance.Weve previously asked Mr C whether he preferred any redress to be calculated now in line 
with current guidance or wait for the new guidance / rules to come into effect. He has chosen 
not to wait for any new guidance to come into effect to settle his complaint. 
I am satisfied that a calculation in line with FG17/9 remains appropriate and, if a loss is 
identified, will provide fair redress for Mr C. 
DCFL must therefore calculate the value of the benefits Mr C lost as a result of transferring 
out of his DB scheme in line with the regulators pension review guidance as updated by the 
FCA in its Finalised Guidance 17/9: Guidance for firms on how to calculate redress for 
unsuitable DB pension transfers.
For clarity, Mr C has not yet retired, and he has no plans to do so at present. So, 
compensation should be based on his normal retirement age of 65, as per the usual 
assumptions in the FCA's guidance.
The calculation should be carried out as at the date of my final decision, using the most 
recent financial assumptions at the date of that decision. In accordance with the regulators 
expectations, this should be undertaken or submitted to an appropriate provider promptly 
following receipt of notification of Mr Cs acceptance of the decision.
DCFL may wish to contact the Department for Work and Pensions (DWP) to obtain Mr Cs 
contribution history to the State Earnings Related Pension Scheme (SERPS or S2P). These 
details should then be used to include a SERPS adjustment in the calculation, which will 
take into account the impact of leaving the occupational scheme on Mr Cs SERPS/S2P 
entitlement.
If the complaint hasnt been settled in full and final settlement by the time any new guidance 
or rules come into effect, Id expect DCFL to carry out a calculation in line with the updated 
rules and / or guidance in any event.
fair value  step two
DCFL must compare the value of Mr Cs personal pension transferred to his SIPP with that 
of the notional value from the previous provider shown below to determine the fair value of 
Mr Cs personal pension if suitable advice had been given. 
Investment 
nameStatus BenchmarkFrom (start 
date)To (end 
date)Additional 
interest
Value of 
the 
personal 
pension 
fund 
transferredStill exists 
and liquidNotional 
value from 
previous 
providerDate of 
investmentDate of my 
final decision8% simple per 
year from final 
decision to 
settlement (if 
not settled 
within 90 days 
of the business 
receiving the 
complainant's 
acceptance)
Notional Value
This is the value of Mr C's investment had it remained with the previous provider until the end date. DCFL should request that the previous provider calculate this value.
If the previous provider is unable to calculate a notional value, DCFL will need to determine 
a fair value for Mr C's investment instead, using this benchmark: FTSE UK Private Investors 
Income Total Return Index. The adjustments above also apply to the calculation of a fair 
value using the benchmark, which is then used instead of the notional value in the 
calculation of compensation.
Any additional sums paid into the SIPP should be added to the fair value calculation from the
point in time when they were actually paid in. Any withdrawal, income or other payment out
of the SIPP should be deducted from the fair value at the point it was actually paid so it
ceases to accrue any return in the calculation from that point on. If there are a large number
of regular payments, to keep calculations simpler, I will accept if DCFL totals all those
payments and deducts that figure at the end instead of deducting periodically.
Why is this remedy suitable?
Ive decided on this method of compensation because:
Mr C wanted Capital growth and was willing to accept some investment risk.
If the previous provider is unable to calculate a notional value, then I consider the 
measure below is appropriate.
The FTSE UK Private Investors Income Total Return index (prior to 1 March 2017, 
the FTSE WMA Stock Market Income total return index) is made up of a range of 
indices with different asset classes, mainly UK equities and government bonds. It 
would be a fair measure for someone who was prepared to take some risk to get a 
higher return.
Although it is called income index, the mix and diversification provided within the 
index is close enough to allow me to use it as a reasonable measure of comparison 
given Mr C's circumstances and risk attitude.
The combined value of the sums produced by the above two steps is the combined fair 
value.
actual value
This means the actual amount payable from the SIPP at the date of the calculation. 
A copy of the redress calculation should be shared with Mr C and his representatives. If the 
redress calculation demonstrates a loss  the combined fair value is greater than the 
actual value  the compensation should, if possible, be paid into Mr Cs pension plan. The 
payment should allow for the effect of charges and any available tax relief. The 
compensation shouldnt be paid into the pension plan if it would conflict with any existing 
protection or allowance.
If a payment into the pension isnt possible or has protection or allowance implications, it 
should be paid directly to Mr C as a lump sum after making a notional deduction to allow for 
income tax that would otherwise have been paid. Typically, 25% of the loss could have been 
taken as tax-free cash and 75% would have been taxed according to his likely income tax 
rate in retirement - presumed to be 20%. So, making a notional deduction of 15% overall 
from the loss adequately reflects this.The payment resulting from all the steps above is the compensation amount. This amount 
must where possible be paid to Mr C within 90 days of the date DCFL receives notification of 
his acceptance of my final decision. Further interest must be added to the compensation 
amount at the rate of 8% per year simple from the date of my final decision to the date of 
settlement for any time, in excess of 90 days, that it takes DCFL to pay Mr C.
Its possible that data gathering for a SERPS adjustment may mean that the actual time 
taken to settle goes beyond the 90 day period allowed for settlement above - and so any 
period of time where the only outstanding item required to undertake the calculation is data 
from DWP may be added to the 90 day period in which interest wont apply.
In addition, DCFL should pay Mr C £350 for the distress caused by the disruption to his 
retirement planning.
Where I uphold a complaint, I can award fair compensation of up to £160,000, plus any 
interest and/or costs that I consider are appropriate. Where I consider that fair compensation 
requires payment of an amount that might exceed £160,000, I may recommend that the 
business pays the balance.
My final decision
Determination and money award: I uphold this complaint and require D C Financial Limited 
to pay Mr C the compensation amount as set out in the steps above, up to a maximum of 
£160,000.
Where the compensation amount does not exceed £160,000, I would additionally require 
D C Financial Limited to pay Mr C any interest on that amount in full, as set out above.
Where the compensation amount already exceeds £160,000, I would only require D C 
Financial Limited to pay Mr C any interest as set out above on the sum of £160,000.
Recommendation: If the compensation amount exceeds £160,000, I also recommend that 
D C Financial Limited pays Mr C the balance. I would additionally recommend any interest 
calculated as set out above on this balance to be paid to Mr C.
If Mr C accepts this decision, the money award becomes binding on D C Financial Limited.
My recommendation would not be binding. Further, its unlikely that Mr C can accept my 
decision and go to court to ask for the balance. Mr C may want to consider getting 
independent legal advice before deciding whether to accept any final decision.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 7 March 2023.
 
Ben Stoker
Ombudsman