DRN-2756419
The complaint
Mr C is unhappy that American Express Services Europe Limited (Amex) didnt refund a 
payment hed made.
What happened
At the end of October 2019, Mr C spent a couple of nights in an overseas hotel. On arrival, 
he used his Amex credit card to pay for his accommodation. During his stay he moved 
rooms. After the move, Mr C reported to the hotel management that some of his belongings 
had gone missing  two items of underwear, some socks and a razor. The hotel apologised 
and offered to pay for the missing items once hed replaced them. It also said it would 
transfer 10,000 points to Mr Cs hotel chain loyalty scheme account. 
Mr C wasnt happy with this. He said he would accept the loyalty points, but not as a full 
resolution to the matter. He refused to give details of the cost of the missing items and 
wasnt prepared replace them and then provide receipts to the hotel. He said instead, it 
should pay him reasonable compensation for having to go and replace the missing items. He 
also set out at length what the hotel needed to do to investigate. Mr C said if the items 
couldnt be found that day, he would deem it as theft and would expect the hotel to dismiss 
the relevant staff member. 
The hotel told him that after taking all the necessary steps to get to the bottom of things, it 
didnt know what happened to the missing items. It apologised again and told Mr C it would 
refund the cost of his last nights room charge back to his credit card. He didnt accept the 
hotel and done a proper investigation. He also told the hotel it needed to refund the cost of 
his whole stay. It refused, saying it had offered a fitting solution. In response, Mr C told the 
hotel to report the matter to the police. 
It seems the hotel then tried to make the offered refund to Mr C. But rather than refund it to 
his Amex card, it tried to refund it to a different credit card  one that hed used to make his 
hotel reservation via an online booking website. A lengthy exchange of emails, including with 
the wider hotel group, didnt resolve the issue to Mr Cs satisfaction. 
Also, two days after his stay, he told the hotel group and Amex hed just realised other items 
were missing. These were: a computer back up drive; several cables: and headphones. 
Mr C said the total value of these was around £230. He also said hed only just realised 
these were in the hotel room and not in the bag he took with him when he left. 
In the meantime, Mr C had contacted Amex to get a refund. It first looked at a refund under 
the chargeback progress, but this wasnt successful. So, Amex then looked at a claim under 
Section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974 (S75). This wasnt successful either. Mr C 
wasnt happy with how Amex had dealt with his refund request and complained. It didnt 
uphold the complaint. In short, Amex said it had dealt with Mr Cs S75 claim correctly. He 
didnt accept this, but Amex didnt change its position. 
So Mr C brought his complaint to our service. It was looked at by one of our investigators. 
She also didnt think Amex had done anything wrong. Briefly she didnt necessarily think 
thered been a breach of contract nor had Amex made an error in not pursuing the 
chargeback. Mr C didnt accept our investigators view. 
As this matter remains unresolved, its been passed to me for a final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided not to uphold it. Ill explain why. But first, Im very aware that 
Ive summarised this complaint very briefly, in far less detail than has been provided, and in 
my own words. No discourtesy is intended by this. Instead, Ive focussed on what I think is 
the heart of the matter here: has Amex dealt with Mr Cs S75 claim fairly and reasonably? 
If theres something Ive not mentioned, it isnt because Ive ignored it. I havent. Im satisfied 
I dont need to comment on every individual point or argument to be able to reach what I 
think is a fair outcome. Our rules allow me to do this. This simply reflects the informal nature 
of our service as a free alternative to the courts. 
When reaching my decision, Im required to take into account relevant law. Here, this clearly 
includes S75. But Im also required to look at whats fair and reasonable in the individual 
circumstances of this case  and thats what Ive done. My role here is to look at how Amex 
dealt with Mr Cs refund request. 
Ill now turn to the chargeback. A chargeback is a scheme by which payment disputes can 
be resolved between card holders and merchants. The relevant chargeback scheme in this 
case is run by Amex. There is set criteria for when disputes can be raised, such as the type 
of dispute for example. 
Its important for me to point out that Amex is under no obligation to submit a chargeback. 
But I would consider it good practice for a chargeback to be attempted where the right exists 
and there is a reasonable prospect of success. In this case, I can see Amex reviewed the 
information Mr C supplied. After doing this, as hed alleged criminal conduct by the hotel, 
Amex deemed this to be outside the scope of the chargeback process. Given the nature of 
the dispute and Mr Cs allegations, I can fully understand why it came to this position. So, Im 
satisfied Amex didnt treat him unfairly or unreasonably by not pursuing a chargeback. 
Once the chargeback route had been exhausted, I would expect Amex to look at S75, and 
this is exactly what it did. S75 sets out that in certain circumstances, as the provider of the 
finance used to pay for the hotel accommodation, Mr C has a like claim against Amex for 
any breach of contract or misrepresentation by the hotel. Im satisfied those circumstances 
apply here. 
For there to be a successful claim under S75, Mr C needs to demonstrate that the hotel 
made a misrepresentation about the accommodation or that theres been a breach of 
contract. Its not been suggested at any point that the hotel misrepresented the 
accommodation Mr C had booked. He booked accommodation for two nights and thats what 
he got. Im satisfied theres been no misrepresentation here. Instead, Mr C is claiming 
theres been a breach of contract as goods were allegedly stolen from the hotel room by 
hotel staff. 
Having looked at all the available evidence, Im not satisfied theres been a breach of 
contract. Its just not clear exactly what happened to Mr Cs missing items. I know Mr Cs 
position is that these were stolen, but theres nothing to support his testimony on this. I can see the hotel acknowledged that two pieces of underwear, some socks and a razor were 
missing. But it never accepted these had been stolen  nor could it say for certain what had 
happened. I can also see Mr C wanted the matter reported to the police and is unhappy that 
the hotel didnt do this. But I would point out that he was able to report the matter to the 
police himself throughout. Theres nothing to suggest he did this.
 
Ive also noted Mr C later reported other items were missing, namely: a computer back up 
drive; several cables; and headphones. He stated in an email, two days after he left the 
hotel, that hed just noticed these were missing. Mr C went on to say hed realised these 
were in the room and not in his bag which he took with him when he left the hotel.
 
Again, theres nothing to back up this testimony. Mr C thought these items were in his bag 
when he left the hotel. His email acknowledges it was two days later that he realised the 
items were missing. Theres absolutely nothing to show these went missing from his room. 
They could well have gone astray from his bag after hed left the hotel. Theres just no way 
of knowing.
 
Given the situation Ive outlined above, I can fully understand why Amex didnt think it could 
find that thered been a breach of contract. So, I dont think it acted unfairly or unreasonably 
by not giving Mr C a refund. Im satisfied Amex dealt with his S75 claim in a fair and 
reasonable way.
 
For completeness, I would point out that even if I thought thered been a breach of contract, I 
wouldnt necessarily have asked Amex to do anything here. Thats because I think the hotel 
has already made a reasonable offer to compensate Mr C. It offered straight away to refund 
the cost of replacing the items it acknowledged were missing. When Mr C wouldnt accept 
this, it offered  and then tried  to refund the cost of his last nights stay.
Its important to remember that S75 gives Mr C a like claim against Amex. I dont think it 
would be fair to expect it to do anything more when there was already a fair and reasonable 
offer on the table from the hotel.
 
It seems that Mr C refused the attempted refund from the hotel. It appears this was made to 
the credit card he used to make his reservation rather than the Amex card he used to 
actually pay for his stay. If Mr C would like to pursue the hotels offer, he would need to 
contact the hotel directly to see if its still available. Thats not something our service can 
assist with.
 
As above, Im satisfied Amex has dealt with Mr Cs refund request fairly and reasonably. So 
Im not upholding this complaint.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
 
This final decision ends the Financial Ombudsman Services review of this complaint. This 
means that we are unable to consider the complaint any further, nor enter into any 
correspondence about the merits of it.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 29 July 2021.
 
John Miles
Ombudsman