DRN-3670645
The complaint
Mr L complains that Barclays Bank UK PLC has been unable to trace his account.
What happened
Mr L says he has a Barclays passbook that was last used in the late 1960s. He says 
Barclays has been unable to trace the account and says he was told in 2017 that a trace 
may have been found. Mr L would like access to his account and says Barclays should be 
able to trace the account as he has provided the sort code as well as the account number.
Barclays says it has tried to trace the account without success and says the account number 
provided was six digits whereas its account numbers are now eight digits. It says it has also 
searched for the account using Mr Ls previous addresses and didnt tell a different 
organisation that Mr L approached, that it had found the account.
Mr L brought his complaint to us and our investigator didnt uphold the complaint. The 
investigator thought Barclays had carried out appropriate searches for the account.
Mr L doesnt accept that view and says he hasnt been given a record of the account closing 
and questions who is responsible for the lost money.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I have come to the overall view that dont uphold this complaint.
A rediscovered account passbook doesnt mean that an account is still in existence. I make 
clear to Mr L that a bank or building society wouldnt automatically need a passbook to close 
an account or allow transactions from it. And that a passbook wouldnt be required to be 
returned on closure of the account. 
I have looked carefully at Barclays records and am satisfied that it has carried out searches 
for Mr Ls account and fairly checked the different addresses he has provided. So, I cant 
fairly ask Barclays to do anything further in the circumstances of this complaint and think that 
due to the passage of time of over 50 years it is unrealistic and unreasonable to expect 
Barclays to have kept records going back that far. I think that an account passbook simply 
provides a snapshot in time of the account at that time and its rediscovery doesnt mean that 
the account is still open.
I appreciate Mr L was given information by a separate organisation that Barclays may have 
found the account. But Im satisfied that Barclays has carried out appropriate searches and 
hasnt found any trace of the account. I have not seen any evidence that Barclays ever 
provided any information that suggested it had found the account and cant fairly hold it 
responsible for what that other organisation said.
I appreciate that this decision doesnt provide the answer Mr L was looking for, but I find this 
now brings an end to what we in trying to resolve this dispute informally can do.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr L to accept or 
reject my decision before 13 October 2022.
 
David Singh
Ombudsman