DRN-3804474
The complaint
Mrs L and Mr L are unhappy with the service they received from Santander UK Plc 
surrounding a fraud prevention block being applied to their account.
What happened
Mrs L and Mr L attempted to make two transfers from their Santander account to accounts 
held in their name with other account providers. The transfers were flagged by Santanders 
fraud prevention systems which resulted in Santander blocking their account. And, despite 
Mrs L and Mr L making concerted efforts to confirm the transfers so that their account could 
be unblocked, it took Santander four working days to unblock their account and allow the 
transfers to complete. Mrs L and Mr L werent happy about this, or with the service they 
received from Santander staff, so they raised a complaint.
Santander looked at Mrs L and Mr Ls complaint. They acknowledged Mrs L and Mr Ls 
frustration, but they didnt feel theyd acted unfairly in how theyd managed the situation. Mrs 
L and Mr T werent satisfied with Santanders response, so they referred their complaint to 
this service. 
One of our investigators looked at this complaint. They felt that Santander had acted 
reasonably by referring the transactions for checks and that therefore the inconvenience that 
Mrs L and Mr L had incurred had unfortunately been necessary. Mrs L and Mr L remained 
dissatisfied, so the matter was escalated to an ombudsman for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Fraud prevention systems, such as the system employed by Santander that flagged Mrs L 
and Mr Ls requested transfers, are used by many financial institutions to flag account 
activity that may be of concern and to prevent further usage of an account where its felt that 
theres a possibility that fraud may potentially be occurring. And financial institutions such as 
Santander have an obligation to have systems in place to protect their customers accounts, 
as much as possible, from acts of attempted fraud.
 
Additionally, its incumbent on banks to employ these systems with a degree of vigilance  to 
err on the side of caution, as it were  which unfortunately means that there will be instances 
where legitimately authorised transfers are flagged erroneously by the fraud prevention 
systems. And Im satisfied that this is what happened in this instance.
 
Mrs L and Mr L may ask for an explanation as to why this was the case. But I wouldnt 
expect Santander to provide such an explanation here, and this is not only because fraud 
prevention systems are being constantly updated by financial institutions in response to new 
information on potential threats, but also because if a bank were to make public how its fraud 
prevention systems work, then this would potentially reduce the effectiveness of those 
systems and leave them open to manipulation.
 
Im not unsympathetic to Mrs L and Mr Ls position here. But ultimately, I feel that the 
necessary employment of fraud prevention systems can mean that there are instances 
where an unavoidable degree of inconvenience and frustration can sadly be incurred by 
account holders. And, while I accept that this is unfortunate, I dont feel that its unfair, and 
so it follows that I dont feel that Santander should reasonably be asked to compensate Mrs 
L and Mr L for what happened as they would like.
Mrs L and Mr L may point out that they were told by Santander their account would be 
unblocked within two working days, when in fact it took four working days before their 
requested transfers were allowed to complete. 
However, Im satisfied from the internal notes and audit trails that Santander have provided 
to this service that they were working towards resolving this matter throughout that four day 
period, and that as such it was simply a case that, in this particular instance, it unfortunately 
took longer than anticipated to complete the further checks. And again, while I appreciate 
that this would have been frustrating for Mrs L and Mr L, I dont feel that it constitutes any 
form of unfair act. 
Im also aware that Mrs L and Mr L are unhappy with the length of time they had to wait on 
hold while trying to speak with specific Santander departments. But a business cant control 
the number of people attempting to speak with any of its departments at any one time, and it 
would generally be expected that the business would answer calls to a department in the 
order in which they were received, which appears to be what happened here.
It's also notable that Mrs L and Mr L were given the option of going to a Santander branch to 
verify the transfers in person and unblock their account more quickly. And, while Mrs L and 
Mr L initially declined this option they did later go into branch. But unfortunately, the matter 
couldnt be resolved in branch at that time, because the branch staff had to contact a specific 
fraud team and Mrs L and Mr L were unable to wait in branch for that team to be contacted. 
Again, I dont dispute that this must have been frustrating for Mrs L and Mr L, but I dont feel 
that Santander acted unfairly, because I feel that if Mrs L and Mr L had been able to remain 
in branch while the necessary fraud team were contacted, its likely that matters could have 
been resolved more quickly as Santander suggested. 
Mrs L and Mr L may be unhappy with some of the service they received from Santander staff 
during what happened, including that they feel they were given conflicting information by 
some of Santanders staff. But while there may have been some confusion in regard to what 
Mrs L and Mr L were told, Im satisfied that this didnt in all likelihood impact how quickly 
Santander were able to unblock Mrs L and Mr Ls account, and that Santander did work to 
resolve this matter in a reasonable timeframe and as circumstances allowed.
Finally, I also understand that Mrs L and Mr L would like Santander to acknowledge that they 
should have better trained staff who can resolve issues such as this more quickly. But it 
must be noted that this service isnt a regulatory body, and so it isnt within the remit of this 
service to instruct a business on how it structures and manages its operation. 
Instead, this service is an informal dispute resolution service, with a mandate focussed on 
fairness of outcome. And while I appreciate that Mrs L and Mr L may disagree, given the 
undoubted inconvenience theyve experienced here, I dont feel that Santander have acted 
unfairly towards them  for the reasons explained above. These include that I feel it was reasonable for Santander to have flagged the requested 
transfers for further checks as they did and that Im satisfied Santander did seek to complete 
those further checks in as timely a manner as possible at that time. 
I realise this wont be the outcome Mrs L and Mr L were wanting here, but while I 
acknowledge the upset and frustration this matter must have caused them, because I feel 
this arose from Santander following reasonable and necessary processes, it follows from this 
that I dont feel that Santander have acted unfairly towards Mrs L and Mr L as they contend 
and that therefore I wont be upholding their complaint or instructing Santander to take any 
further action. I hope that Mrs L and Mr L will understand, given all that Ive explained, why 
Ive made the final decision that I have.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs L and Mr L to 
accept or reject my decision before 1 February 2023.
 
Paul Cooper
Ombudsman