DRN-3979409
The complaint
Mr R complains that when trying to extend the lease of a car he was hiring from Lex 
Autolease Ltd (Lex), he was quoted a price which they then would not honour. 
What happened
Mr R entered into a hire agreement with Lex in 2018 for a car. The agreement was for four 
years, and a few months before the end of the agreement, he contacted Lex to discuss his 
options for extending the agreement or returning the car. 
Lex emailed him on 12 July 2022 with an offer to extend the lease to July 2023 at a price of 
£343.75 plus VAT per month. However, when he tried to go ahead with this extension, Lex 
told him that the quote hed been given was incorrect, and the actual cost to extend the 
agreement would be £468.43 plus VAT per month. 
Unhappy with this, Mr R complained to Lex on 19 July 2022. He also complained about their 
wait times on the phone. 
Lex investigated his complaint and issued their final response letter (FRL) on 24 August 
2022. In this they apologised for the confusion and explained that the email quote sent to 
him was wrong, and that the person sending the email had quoted the wrong price. They 
explained they couldnt honour this price, and also apologised for his wait times on the 
phone. They upheld his complaint and offered £70 to recognise the wrong information 
provided and the inconvenience of the wait times on the phone. 
Mr R wasnt happy with this and brought his complaint to our service. He wanted Lex to 
compensate him for the difference in quotes. 
An investigator here investigated his case and did not uphold it. They agreed that Lex had 
got things wrong but said that the offer made by Lex was fair, and they didnt need to do any 
more. They said that the quote sent to Mr R on 12 July 2022 included the statement This 
quote is indicative only and subject to change, so Lex were entitled to amend it. They also 
said that as Mr R had then chosen to end the agreement early, it wouldnt be reasonable to 
expect Lex to compensate him for a difference in payments going forward on an agreement 
that wasnt in force. 
Mr R didnt agree with this view. He said the quote he was given was materially altered 
without any satisfactory explanation. He didnt feel the investigator had addressed Lexs 
procedures to guard against such issues. He also didnt feel the quotes provided made 
sense for a car that was approaching four years old. He asked for an Ombudsman to make a 
final decision on the complaint.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive reached the same overall conclusions as the investigator, and for 
broadly the same reasons. If I havent commented on any specific point, its because I dont 
believe its affected what I think is the right outcome.
In considering this complaint Ive had regard to the relevant law and regulations; any 
regulators rules, guidance and standards, codes of practice, and (if appropriate) what I 
consider was good industry practice at the time. Mr R was supplied with a vehicle under a 
contract hire agreement. This is a regulated consumer credit agreement which means were 
able to look into complaints about it.
Firstly, I just wanted to clarify that any issues with the early termination of the agreement 
wont be dealt with here. That wasnt the complaint Mr R raised with Lex and brought to our 
service, so he will need to raise that separately with Lex and can then bring that back to our 
service separately if he wishes to. The investigator confirmed this for him, so I am just 
confirming this is correct, and I wont be considering any concerns with the early termination 
here. 
Lex have admitted their mistake and apologised. But Mr R wanted them to honour their 
original quote and to pay him the difference in the quotes. The investigator highlighted that 
Mr R had terminated the agreement anyway, so it wouldnt be fair to compensate him like 
this. 
Ive considered this, as well as considering what would have been fair, putting aside the 
subsequent early termination. 
Mistakes happen in all areas of life. When a financial business makes a mistake, my role is 
to consider what impact it has had on a consumer, to ensure they are treated fairly, and 
compensated for any loss they suffer. 
However, my role does not include evaluating a businesss procedures or policies. It also 
doesnt involve explaining how a business may choose to price their deals and offers. So 
unfortunately, where Mr R has raised these issues, I wont be able to answer them. I can 
consider the impact these policies have had on him, but its not in my remit to tell a business 
how they should run their business. The FCA will evaluate whether a financial business has 
adequate policies and procedures in place to protect consumers. 
Similarly, a business can choose to price their agreements however they choose. In this 
instance, if a customer doesnt like the price quoted, they have the choice to walk away and 
do business elsewhere. This is what Mr R ultimately chose to do. 
In my role as Ombudsman, I have looked at the error made, and the impact it had on Mr R. 
He told us that he contacted Lex because he was deciding whether to extend his contract, or 
to end it. He was quoted the wrong price on 12 July 2022 and complained about this (having 
been given the right price) on 19 July 2022, so seven days later. Alongside this, his existing 
hire agreement was due to run until December 2022.
The quote he was provided on 12 July 2022 was noted as being indicative and subject to 
change. Amongst the reasons for this would be exactly this kind of eventuality; someone 
making an error when providing the pricing to him. 
In an ideal world, perhaps errors wouldnt happen, but human error cannot be avoided in 
every instance. In this case, Lex have admitted the person sending the email to Mr R has 
just typed the wrong numbers into it. Theyve apologised for this, and on finding it, at the 
earliest opportunity, theyve corrected their error by giving Mr R the correct quote. Whilst I understand that the original quote was attractive to Mr R, and the corrected quote 
wasnt, the impact on him from that is not significant. He found out a week later that he 
wasnt able to get the price to extend the agreement that he had been given, so he re-
evaluated his options, and decided not to carry on and extend it. 
Lex admitted their mistake, apologised, and offered Mr R £70 by way of apology and for the 
inconvenience of waiting on the phone. Mr R has suffered no actual financial loss from the 
mistake; he wasnt entitled to the original quote which was only provided in error. Mr R has 
been inconvenienced by having the wrong quote for a week. Once this has been recognised 
and corrected, hes decided not to go ahead with the corrected quote, which was always a 
choice he had. 
Hes in exactly the same position he would have been in had Lex given him the correct quote 
originally, hes just lost a week. He remained in a contract for the car for a period of several 
months, so that week has had no significant impact on him. 
I empathise with the frustration of being given the wrong information. But I cant agree that 
Lex should provide further compensation here. Quoting a wrong price does not tie a 
company to offer than price. The quote was indicative, and as such, Lex could change it for 
a number of reasons. 
Its unfortunate, its frustrating for Mr R, but its ultimately fair. It wouldnt be fair for me to tell 
Lex to honour the quote in these circumstances, when it was clearly wrong, and theyve 
apologised and admitted it was human error. It also wouldnt be fair for me to tell Lex to 
compensate Mr R as if hed gone ahead with the corrected quote, when he didnt, he 
terminated the agreement. But to be clear, even if he had gone ahead, I wouldnt be asking 
Lex to compensate him in line with the original quote, because that quote was indicative, 
subject to change, and theyve had to change it because it was wrong.  
Im sorry for the frustration the incident caused Mr R, but I wont be asking Lex to do any 
more here. They recognised their error, it was corrected before any further issues were 
caused, and theyve apologised for it and offered £70 for any distress and inconvenience 
caused to Mr R, and for delays on their phone lines. I am satisfied this is a fair offer and 
wont be asking Lex to do any more. 
I am aware Mr R declined the £70 at the time, so if he wishes to now accept this, Id 
encourage him to contact Lex directly to arrange this. I think the £70 offered is fair 
compensation, so if it hasnt been paid, Id expect Lex to honour it still.   
My final decision
I am not upholding this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision before 24 April 2023.
 
Paul Cronin
Ombudsman