DRN-4289573
The complaint
Mr P is unhappy with the service he received from Volkswagen Financial Services (UK) 
Limited trading as Skoda Financial Services (VWFS) when taking out a hire agreement. 
What happened
Mr P entered into a hire agreement for a new car with VWFS in January 2023. He paid a 
deposit of £5,678.74 and the agreement was for 57 monthly repayments of £63.81.
Mr P provided some bank details to enable the direct debit to be set up for the monthly 
repayments, and VWFS sent him the relevant paperwork. There was an error on the initial 
agreement sent by VWFS as it didnt show details of the deposit paid by Mr P. Mr P 
complained about this, and this was rectified a week or so later.
However, VWFS had difficulty in setting up the direct debit for Mr P as the bank details he 
had provided were for a business account  and for the direct debit to be set up successfully 
VWFS required the bank details that Mr P used for his personal finances. Unfortunately, 
VWFS didnt let Mr P know this for a month or so. But as soon as the problem had been 
communicated to Mr P, the direct debit was able to be set up successfully and the monthly 
repayments were collected as expected. 
Mr P was unhappy with VWFSs customer service. He felt the service hed received since 
entering the agreement hadnt been what hed expected. He was also unhappy that the 
direct debit payments had been delayed. VWFS responded and partially upheld Mr Ps 
complaint. They acknowledged that he should have been notified much sooner that a 
business account couldnt be used for the direct debit payments, and that VWFSs advisers 
should have made him aware of this shortly after the agreement had started. 
Mr P felt he should have received some compensation from VWFS for the errors, so he 
brought the complaint to our service. Our investigator didnt uphold it. He explained that he 
felt VWFS couldve communicated better with Mr P, but he hadnt seen anything to show any 
significant distress and inconvenience had been caused to Mr P as a result. He said that 
there hadnt been any adverse impact on Mr Ps credit file, and the agreement was running 
as expected now so, whilst he understood Mr Ps frustration, he didnt feel the 
miscommunication and customer service warranted an award of compensation.
Mr P didnt accept. He felt the service hed received from VWFS deserved a compensation 
award.
As Mr P hasnt agreed, its been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Its clear from the information that Mr Ps direct debit payments are being made as expected 
and the agreement is running as its expected to be. The only thing I need to decide is 
whether the customer service Mr P received from VWFS was as it should be, and if it wasnt, 
should an award of compensation be made to him. Whilst I think VWFSs communication 
and customer service could have been better, Im not of the opinion that any errors merit an 
award of compensation. Ill explain why.
However, before I do I want to explain to Mr P that it isnt our role to punish businesses, nor 
are we the regulator. 
Mr P has said that he initially complained to VWFS in February 2023, when he received 
paperwork in relation to the agreement that didnt show the deposit amount he had paid. And 
he feels that complaint was never dealt with. But from the information Ive seen from VWFS 
and Mr P, it seems Mr P was happy that the matter was dealt with by VWFS a week after he 
had brought it to their attention. So, whilst I appreciate Mr P did raise a complaint, Im also 
satisfied VWFS dealt with it for him, and to his satisfaction. I dont think VWFS need to do 
anything else in respect of Mr Ps first complaint. 
I can understand Mr Ps frustration with VWFS in relation to the direct debit instructions he 
provided and why it took VWFS a couple of months to notify him that the direct debit details 
werent acceptable. VWFS have acknowledged this themselves and accepted that Mr P 
should have been told as soon as he provided the business bank account details that they 
werent going to be an acceptable method to collect payment. However, I havent seen 
anything to demonstrate how this delay has adversely impacted Mr P, and why an award of 
compensation should be made. Had VWFSs delays caused Mr Ps credit file to be 
detrimentally affected, for example, then I would be more satisfied that the actions of VWFS 
had caused some distress and inconvenience that might have needed rectifying. But as 
things stand, while I appreciate it was probably annoying for Mr P to find out the bank details 
hed initially provided werent acceptable, the situation was quickly put right, and the 
agreement continued without any further problem. 
I know my decision will come as a disappointment to Mr P, as he feels the only way VWFS 
will improve is if a compensation award is made against them. But as Ive explained already, 
it isnt my role to punish VWFS. Im satisfied theyve accepted they should have handled 
Mr Ps agreement details more thoroughly and with greater speed. I wont be asking them to 
do anything more here. 
My final decision
For the reasons above, I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision before 4 December 2023.
 
Kevin Parmenter
Ombudsman