DRN-4084086
The complaint
Mr M complains that Secure Trust PLC, trading as V12 Retail Finance (V12) unfairly 
declined his claim for a refund under section 75.
What happened
In October 2022 Mr M entered a fixed sum loan agreement with V12 to buy a smartwatch 
online from a retailer, whom Ill refer to as H. The cash price of the watch was £449. Mr M 
paid a £64 deposit and agreed to make 24 monthly instalments of £17.34.
Mr M said the watch was too big for him, he wanted to return it for a full refund under the 14 
days cancellation period. He contacted H on the same day of delivery to cancel the order for 
a full refund, but H wouldnt accept the return of the watch, because it had been paired/ 
registered with an app. In its email on 13 October 2022, H said it was happy to look into an 
exchange. Mr M advised that hed already purchased an alternative watch, so wanted a full 
refund, which H declined.
Unable to resolve his concern with H, Mr M contacted V12 in November 2022 to raise a 
claim under section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974. V12 declined the section 75 claim, 
it didnt think Mr M was entitled to a full refund under Hs terms and conditions, so didnt think 
there had been a breach of contract by the supplier.
Mr M complained to V12 about the outcome of his claim, it didnt think it had made a 
mistake. Unhappy with its response Mr M brought his complaint to our service. 
Our investigator didnt think V12 had unfairly declined Mr Ms section 75 claim. As Mr M had 
registered the smartwatch, so he considered it to be used, so could not be returned for a full 
refund. The investigator didnt think it was unreasonable for V12 to decline Mr Ms request 
for a full refund but said he could submit a new claim to V12 for a reduced refund to take 
account of his use, for its consideration.
Mr M disagreed, he said he was entitled to a full refund under The Consumer Contracts 
(Information, Cancellation and Additional Charges) Regulations 2013 (CCR). 
The complaint has been passed to me for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr M purchased the smartwatch with a fixed sum loan from V12. This is a regulated 
consumer credit agreement and as a result our service is able to look into complaints about 
it.
Mr M used a fixed sum loan from V12 to pay for the smartwatch, this is a regulated 
agreement, so Im satisfied that we can look into this complaint. In certain circumstances, 
section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974 (CCA) gives a consumer an equal right to claim 
against the supplier of goods or services or the provider of credit if theres been a breach of 
contract or misrepresentation by the supplier. To be able to uphold Mr Ms complaint about 
V12, I must be satisfied that theres been a breach of contract or misrepresentation by H and 
that V12s response to his claim under section 75 was unfair.
I havent seen any suggestion here by Mr M that there was any misrepresentation by H. So, 
my focus of this decision will be whether H breached its contract with Mr M when it refused 
to allow him to cancel his order, in return for a full refund.
 
V12 says that in accordance with Hs terms and conditions, Mr M wasnt entitled to a full 
refund because the watch had been registered/paired with an app. 
Hs terms and conditions say;
Smartwatches must be returned unpaired, unregistered and set to original factory settings. 
Any watch that has been registered to an app or worn/used for activities will not be accepted 
back for a full refund.
So, under Hs terms and conditions Mr M wasnt entitled to a full refund. However, Mr M says 
he is entitled to a full refund under the CCR. The CCR implies a cooling off period of 14 
days for the consumer to change their mind (there are some exceptions i.e., personalised 
goods, health products etc), due to the contract being made at distance, like it was here. 
This allows the consumer to return the goods for a refund of the purchase price. 
Cancellation rights do not apply to personalised items. However, I havent seen anything 
from the parties to indicate the smartwatch was made to a particular, unique specification, 
specific to Mr Ms needs, so I dont think the smartwatch is personalised, so I agree with Mr 
M that the CCR applies to the sale of the smartwatch.
Mr H says he is entitled to a full refund, but I dont think thats the case. Section 34 (9) of the 
CCR says if in the case of a sales contract the value of the goods is diminished by any 
amount as a result of handling the goods by the consumer beyond what is necessary to 
establish the nature, characteristics and functioning of the goods, the trader may recover 
that amount from the consumer, up to the contract price. Section 34 (12) adds for the 
purpose of paragraph (9) handling is beyond what is necessary to establish the nature, 
characteristics and functioning of the goods if, in particular, it goes beyond the sort of 
handling that might reasonably be allowed in a shop.
I dont think a deduction could have been made for Mr M taking the smartwatch out of its 
packaging and even trying it on, as I think this would be reasonable for a customer to 
remove this to see the item in the same way they would in a shop. However, I dont think it 
would be reasonable for a customer to then register the smartwatch and pair it with an app 
on their phone whilst in a shop. Which is exactly what happened here. Whilst I appreciate 
that Mr M has unpaired his device, the smartwatch has been registered and so cant be 
resold as factory setting new. In the circumstances, I think this means that a deduction can 
be made to reflect the diminished value. 
Mr M asked V12 for a full refund, which it declined. Having considered the CCR I dont think 
there was a breach of contract when H refused to accept a return of the smartwatch for a full 
refund. I think Mr Ms handling of the smartwatch went beyond the sort of handling that might 
be reasonably allowed in a shop, so I dont think he was entitled to a full refund. It follows 
that I dont think V12 made a mistake when it declined Mr Ms claim for a full refund.Its open for Mr M to submit a further section 75 claim to V12 for a partial refund of the 
smartwatch. He may wish to provide V12 with supporting evidence of the smartwatchs used 
value for its consideration.
I know my decision will come as a disappointment to Mr M, but this is our final say on this 
complaint. He is not bound to accept my decision, and if he doesnt, he will be free to pursue 
this matter in court  if he wishes to.
My final decision
My final decision is I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 24 May 2023.
 
Karen Dennis
Ombudsman