DRN-1713154
The complaint
Mr O says Lloyds Bank PLC mis-sold him a payment protection insurance (PPI) policy.
What happened
What happened 
This complaint is about a PPI policy taken out on a credit card account that started in 1996. 
Lloyds no longer has the original application that Mr O wouldve had to complete to get his 
credit card and couldnt confirm how PPI was sold to Mr O. But Mr O told us he took out his 
card and the PPI during a meeting with a Lloyds staff member. So I think thats probably 
what happened. 
In 2005, Mr O completed an application to upgrade his credit card and he also upgraded his 
card again a few years later  and continued to have PPI. 
Our adjudicator didnt uphold the complaint. Mr O disagrees with our adjudicators view. 
Mr Os main complaints are that he wasnt ever told anything about PPI and, since he was 
self-employed, he was never eligible for the policy and couldnt have benefitted from it. And 
Mr O is unhappy because he feels hes been charged extra for PPI when he was already 
having money problems.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding this case. 
Ive decided not to uphold Mr Os complaint. Ill explain why.
The original paperwork from 1996 is no longer available. And I cant know exactly what the 
bank mightve said to Mr O when he applied for his credit card. I have to look at everything 
and decide whats most likely.
Lloyds has provided a sample credit card application. I think its likely this is like the form 
Mr O wouldve had to fill in to get the credit card he took out. Looking at this, I can see that 
Mr O wouldve had to say if he wanted to buy PPI cover. 
So, I think Mr O wouldve known that it was up to him to say if he wanted PPI and he chose 
to take it out to protect his credit card monthly repayments. I think its unlikely that PPI 
wouldve been added on otherwise.
 
And it looks to me as if Mr O couldve benefitted from having PPI if hed needed to claim. So, 
on balance, I think its more likely that Mr O decided that he wanted to have the benefits PPI 
offered and Lloyds added PPI to his account at his request.  
Although Mr O told us that Lloyds didnt recommend the PPI to him (as he couldnt recall 
any discussion about it), its possible that Lloyds did personally recommend PPI to him 
during the discussion that Mr O mentioned a with a Lloyds representative. 
If a financial business makes a recommendation about PPI, it has to take reasonable steps 
to make sure the cover it recommends is suitable as well as giving important policy 
information in a clear way. 
So looking at his complaint this way gives Mr Os complaint the best chance of success as it 
imposes additional obligations on the lender. And Ive looked at Mr Os complaint with this in 
mind. 
It doesnt look as if PPI was unsuitable for Mr O based on what Ive seen of his 
circumstances at the time. 
Looking at the likely terms that wouldve applied over the period when Mr O took out the 
policy it looks like the PPI wouldve covered Mr O for up to 12 months per claim in the event 
of accident or sickness if he couldnt work. 
And the policy wouldve also paid out if Mr O lost his job unexpectedly and was out of work. 
It doesnt appear that Mr O had any significant other means he couldve depended on if he 
wasnt able to work. Taking out PPI is more dependable than relying on family to help out as 
everyones circumstances can change unexpectedly. 
So I think PPI was worthwhile for him and a PPI recommendation wouldve been suitable.  
Ive taken into that account Mr O was self-employed when he took out the PPI. Ive checked 
the policy wording and being self-employed didnt mean he wasnt eligible for the policy. 
Mr O was eligible for the cover.
And I dont find that it wouldve been any harder for him to make an unemployment claim 
than it wouldve been for someone who was employed. 
It doesnt look as if he was affected by any of the other main conditions that mightve limited 
the policys benefits to him. So, even if not everything was mentioned, I dont think that 
knowing more about things the policy didnt cover wouldve made any difference to Mr Os 
decision to take the policy out in 1996. 
Its possible some of the information Lloyds gave Mr O about the PPI wasnt as clear as it 
shouldve been. I dont know if Lloyds properly explained what the policy would cost, or what 
it might pay out if Mr O made a claim. But it seems to have been affordable for him. Mr O 
couldve seen when he had to pay for PPI as it wouldve shown up on his monthly 
statements when he was charged for it  and if he cleared his monthly card balance in full he 
didnt pay anything for PPI. He couldve cancelled the policy at any time if his circumstances 
changed or he no longer wanted to pay for it.
In 2005, when Mr O upgraded his credit card, he also indicated on the application that he 
wanted to have PPI to protect his card monthly repayments. Ive seen the form he completed 
and there was an option to say No if he hadnt wanted to protect his payments  this is left 
blank on Mr Os application. And hes put a cross next to where it says on the form: Yes 
I want to take out Payment Protection Cover and protect my payments. Mr O signed his completed form so I think its likely that he wouldve carefully checked the information on the 
form before doing this. 
On balance, I think Mr O wouldve understood that having PPI was optional and it was on his 
account at his request.  
As far as I can see Mr Os circumstances hadnt changed significantly and the policy that 
wouldve applied then offered (in all main respects) the same benefits as earlier policies. So, 
I think a policy that protected his monthly repayments for up to 12 months per claim in the 
event of accident, sickness and unemployment offered him useful benefits. 
Mr O continued to be able to take full advantage of the benefits the policy offered him. And 
whilst Im sorry to hear that he felt paying for the PPI was a problem for him, he wouldve 
continued to be able to see when he was being charged for PPI and he couldve cancelled to 
avoid any further PPI costs at any time. 
Ive seen nothing to suggest that things were any different the next time that Mr O upgraded 
his card. The PPI continued to offer him useful protection given his circumstances.
Taking everything into account, I dont think its likely Mr O wouldve made a different 
decision if better information had been provided. On balance, I think hed still have taken out 
the PPI. 
Its possible some of the information Lloyds gave Mr O about the PPI wasnt as clear as it 
shouldve been. I dont know if Lloyds ever properly explained what the policy would cost, or 
exactly what it might pay out if Mr O made a claim. But Mr O chose to have PPI when he 
didnt have to  so he seems to have wanted this type of cover. I cant see that he wouldve 
been disadvantaged by any of the policys exclusions or limitations. Mr O couldve cancelled 
the policy at any time if his circumstances changed or he no longer wanted to pay for the 
benefits it offered him.
Looked at overall, I think its unlikely Mr O wouldve made any different decisions about 
having PPI even if better information had been provided. On balance, given his 
circumstances and the benefits the policy offered him, I think he still wouldve taken out the 
policy.
This means Lloyds doesnt have to pay back all of the cost of the PPI to Mr O.
But Lloyds has paid back some of the cost of the PPI to Mr O because: 
Lloyds got a high level of commission and profit share (more than 50% of the PPI 
premium) - so it should have told Mr O about that. Because Lloyds didnt tell Mr O, that 
was unfair. 
To put that right, Lloyds has paid back the amount of commission and profit share that 
was above 50% of the PPI premium - and I think that is fair in this case.My final decision
The PPI policy wasnt mis-sold  so Lloyds Bank PLC does not have to pay back all of the 
cost of the PPI to Mr O.
But Lloyds Bank PLC does have to pay back to Mr O any commission and profit share it got 
that was more than 50% of the PPI premium. I understand it has already done this, so I dont 
award any further compensation. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr O to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 September 2020.
 
Susan Webb
Ombudsman