DRN-1998333
The complaint
Mr T complains that Lloyds Bank General Insurance Limited (Lloyds) didnt offer him a 
suitable replacement when he made a claim for his damaged laptop.
What happened
Mr T had buildings and contents insurance with Lloyds. He made a claim under his contents 
insurance for his damaged laptop. Lloyds accepted the claim but on inspection it decided the 
laptop was damaged beyond economical repair (BER).
Lloyds offered Mr T a choice of laptops with similar specification or a cash alternative. He felt 
its offers were not in line with the terms of his policy. Mr T asked Lloyds to look again at the 
laptops it could offer him, but it didnt change the options.
Our investigator didnt uphold Mr Ts complaint. She thought that Lloyds had offered Mr T 
laptops of a similar specification to his damaged one and she felt that it had done enough to 
put matters right. 
Mr T didnt agree. He provided a comparison of the laptops and a quote for a new one from 
the same manufacturer as his damaged one. He thought that as the policy didnt specify that 
replacement would be on a like for like specification, he thought it was fair to ask for a laptop 
which was of a similar position in the market.
The complaint was passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
While I realise this will disappoint Mr T, Ive decided not to uphold his complaint. Ill explain 
why.
Theres no dispute about the claim itself. Lloyds has accepted it and offered to settle. As I 
understand it, the dispute is about how the words nearest equivalent should be interpreted 
and whether the offer Lloyds made is fair.
The policy states:
Contents covers
We can either repair or replace any item or make a money payment instead.
We will pay the cost of replacement as new if available or otherwise the nearest 
equivalent less any discounts obtainable.
If an item is irreplaceable, we will base our payment on expert opinion of its value 
immediately prior to its loss or damage.
Mr Ts damaged laptop was 12 years old and no longer available to buy. Lloyds offered a 
choice of three alternative laptops (availability of which fluctuated during the claim) or a cash 
sum. But Mr T felt the laptops it offered werent the nearest equivalent. 
Firstly, Mr T didnt think that it was appropriate for Lloyds to focus on the technical 
specification. He said that when he bought his laptop it was in the mid- to high-specification 
bracket, but he thought the laptops Lloyds offered were a basic specification and the 
cheapest available. He thought Lloyds shouldve offered to replace his with another mid- to 
high-specification laptop. I dont agree. Im not disputing where Mr T ranks his damaged 
laptop  but I dont think its fair to ask Lloyds to replace his 12-year old laptop with one 
which markets at the upper end of the scale now. Technology moves on so quickly and if 
Lloyds offered an upper end laptop now, Mr T would be benefitting from technology that he 
didnt have before. The policy is not there to provide an improvement, but to replace what 
was lost.
Because Lloyds focussed on the technical specification, Mr T provided a comparison of his 
damaged laptop and those offered by Lloyds. He focussed on three technical specifications 
for the purpose of his comparison  memory, storage and optical drive. I agree that one of 
the offers was of a lower specification. The remaining two provided the same memory, 
significantly more storage, but didnt have an optical drive. However, Lloyds offered to add 
an external optical drive to the third option, so Mr T certainly wouldnt have had less than he 
had before. Taking these options into consideration  along with the fact that Mr T also had 
the option to take a cash sum instead  I think Lloyds made a fair and reasonable offer to 
make available to Mr T at least the same technical capability that he had before.
Mr T provided a letter from the manufacturer of his damaged laptop stating what it 
considered to be a suitable alternative,
After comparing your current (model given) Laptop to the units we have in stock at the 
moment I found the one that would be the closest to it. I would like to offer you the (model 
given) as a direct upgrade.
Having looked at the model referred to, I can see that it is of a higher specification than Mr 
Ts damaged laptop in terms of memory and storage, but it doesnt appear to have an optical 
reader. I also note that the manufacturer states that its an upgrade, which I dont think 
meets the policy term of nearest equivalent. 
Mr T is correct to say that Lloyds doesnt define nearest equivalent and I understand hes 
unhappy with how it reached its settlement offer. In the absence of a definition, Ive thought 
carefully about whether its fair for Lloyds to use the technical specification of a laptop as a 
basis for its offer. I think it is. Lloyds is replacing an item of technology, so it seems 
appropriate for Lloyds to consider the technical specification when identifying a suitable 
replacement.
In summary, Im satisfied that Lloyds fairly decided to use the technical specification of Mr 
Ts laptop as a basis for its replacement offers and I see no reason to ask it to do any more.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, my final decision is that I dont uphold the complaint.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr T to accept or 
reject my decision before 3 November 2020.
 
Debra Vaughan
Ombudsman