DRN-3333548
The complaint
Mr H says Quidie Limited (trading as Fernovo) lent to him irresponsibly and increased his 
loan charges after it failed to take payment from him.
What happened
Mr H took out a three-month instalment loan for £300 from Fernovo on 24 September 2021. 
The maximum monthly repayment was £148.97. I understand there is an outstanding 
balance.
Mr H says the loan should never have been given to him due to his credit history and 
Fernovo then failed to take the first payment when the funds were available in his bank 
account. He believes this increased the charges per day, so he wants all charges refunded 
and any adverse data removed from his credit report.
Our adjudicator did not uphold Mr Hs complaint. He said given the loan amount, what was 
apparent about Mr Hs circumstances at the time and the fact it was his first loan from 
Fernovo, it wouldnt have been proportionate to ask for the amount of information needed to 
show the lending was unsustainable. 
He also said the lender had tried to collect the first payment twice, but the request was 
declined. He couldnt see Mr H had tried to make the payment manually once he knew it had 
failed, or that he raised it with his bank. He had considered the bank statement Mr H sent in 
but said this only showed Mr H had the money in an account, not that the lender had not 
attempted to collect it with the details Mr H had provided.   
Mr H disagreed saying he has evidenced the money was in his bank account. As it wasnt 
collected the debt continues to escalate. He asked for an ombudsmans review, so the 
complaint was passed to me to make a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about short-term lending - including all of
the relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice - on our website.
Fernovo needed to take reasonable steps to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly.
In practice this means that it should've carried out proportionate checks to make sure Mr H
could repay the loans in a sustainable manner. 
These checks could take into account a number of different things, such as how much was 
being lent, the repayment amounts and the consumers income and expenditure. With this in 
mind, in the early stages of a lending relationship, I think less thorough checks might be 
reasonable and proportionate. But certain factors might point to the fact that Fernovo should 
fairly and reasonably have done more to establish that any lending was sustainable for the 
consumer. These factors include:
the lower a customers income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make any
loan repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income);
the higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income);
the greater the number and frequency of loans, and the longer the period of time
during which a customer has been given loans (reflecting the risk that repeated
refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming 
unsustainable).
There may even come a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable.
I think that it is important for me to start by saying that Fernovo was required to
establish whether Mr H could sustainably repay his loans  not just whether the loan
payments were affordable on a strict pounds and pence calculation. Of course the loan
payments being affordable on this basis might be an indication a consumer could
sustainably make their repayments. But it doesnt automatically follow this is
the case. This is because the Consumer Credit Sourcebook (CONC) defines sustainable
as being without undue difficulties and in particular the customer should be able to
make repayments on time, while meeting other reasonable commitments; as well as without
having to borrow to meet the repayments. And it follows that a lender should realise, or it
ought fairly and reasonably to realise, that a borrower wont be able to make their
repayments sustainably if theyre unlikely to be able to make their repayments without
borrowing further.
Ive carefully considered all of the arguments, evidence and information provided in this
context and what this all means for Mr Hs complaint.
I think Fernovo carried out proportionate checks for loan 1. It asked for details of Mr Hs
income and expenditure and carried out a credit check. It reduced his declared income after 
verification and increased his declared outgoings based on national statistics. From its 
assessment it concluded Mr H would have £547 disposable income and so could afford the 
loan.
I havent seen anything in the information it gathered that I think should have led it to reach a 
different lending decision. I note that the credit checks showed Mr H had previously 
defaulted on accounts, but given the early stage in the lending relationship, the value of the 
monthly repayments and the income Mr H declared, Id agree with Fernovo that this in itself
wasnt a reason not to lend to Mr H at this stage. None of the accounts had defaulted within 
the previous 12 months and Mr Hs current level of indebtedness was not excessive at 
£2,752. 
So I dont think Fernovo was wrong to give the loan to Mr H.
Mr H has also complained that Fernovo failed to take the first payment and this has led to 
increased charges that he wants refunding. He has sent a screenshot showing the balance 
of his back account at the time to show the funds were available. But I dont find this is 
evidence that the missed payment was due to an error on the lenders part. It has submitted 
that it attempted to take payment twice on 20 October 2021. It sent Mr H a text and later two 
emails that same day to let him know the payment hadnt been successful. So I think he had 
the opportunity to contact the lender to resolve the issue. As he didnt and no payment was made, Fernovo applied a £15 late fee but later refunded this as a gesture of goodwill. 
Fernovo also advised Mr H to contact his bank to ask about the declined transaction but I 
cant see he did this  and he did not respond to the adjudicators request about this. So 
based on the available evidence I cant fairly conclude Fernovo was at fault for the missed 
payment. 
The interest charges Mr H refers to were applied to his account once it was in arrears and 
are in line with the terms of the account. So I can find no reason to instruct the lender to 
remove them. I have reviewed the email correspondence between the parties and Fernovo 
was always very clear in setting out the different ways Mr H could repay his loan and what to 
do if he wanted to set up a payment plan.
It follows I dont find the lender needs to take any corrective action with regards the missed 
payment. It must of course continue to work with Mr H to ensure he has an affordable 
repayment plan.
My final decision
I am not upholding Mr Hs complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 12 April 2022.
 
Rebecca Connelley
Ombudsman