DRN-2238421
The complaint
Mr G complains that HDI Global Specialty SE (HDI) are unfairly trying to recover certain 
sums from him, following his claim being settled. He also says he was provided with 
misleading information. 
Where I refer to HDI, this includes their agents. Although at times Mr G used his solicitor as 
a representative, for ease of reading Ill refer to all submissions as having come from Mr G 
himself. 
What happened
The detailed background to this complaint is well known to both parties. So, Ill only provide 
an overview of some key events here. 
Mr G was involved in legal action with a former business partner. He took out an after the 
event (ATE) insurance policy with HDI to cover him for some of the adverse costs in the 
event that he lost the legal case.
Mr G lost his legal case. He was required to pay costs of around £300,000. HDI paid out 
£182,400 towards this amount which was in line with the level of cover originally selected. 
Following the conclusion of the court case, Mr G still had around a 50% share in the limited 
company that was central to the legal action. 
Mr G contacted HDI who confirmed that they no longer had a financial interest in his claim. 
He then started some negotiations in relation to the sale of his shares. HDI later contacted 
Mr G and said they were seeking to recover nearly £300,000 from him. This was made up of 
the policy premium (including tax) and their outlay on the claim. 
Mr G complained, he said hed relied on what HDI had told him about no longer having an 
interest in his dispute before looking to sell his shares. HDI maintained that they would 
pursue Mr G in the courts for the outstanding amount. They made an offer of mediation and 
said that Mr G seeking to use the Financial Ombudsman Service was an effort to delay 
legitimate legal action. 
Mr G referred the matter to our service. HDI re-iterated their position and suggested this is a 
complaint that should be dismissed without considering the merits as there was pending 
legal action. One of our investigators explained that there was no evidence of current court 
proceedings between HDI and Mr G. She didnt think any of the reasons within our rules as 
to why a complaint could be dismissed were applicable. She went on to consider the merits 
of the complaint and thought it should be upheld. In summary, she didnt think HDI acted 
fairly when seeking to rely on the terms of the policy to recover funds from Mr G. 
HDI disagreed and so the matter has come to me for a decision. Ive already explained to 
HDI that I agree with our investigator that this isnt a complaint that ought to be dismissed. 
So, Ill now go on to consider the merits of the complaint. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with our investigator and for very similar reasons, Ill explain why.
Mr Gs policy says:
Reimbursement of amounts paid and set-off costs recovered.
In the event of you achieving a successful outcome in your legal action, you must:
a) Reimburse the insurer any opponents costs or own disbursements or any other 
sums paid by the insurer under the terms of this insurance to the extent that such 
amounts can be met out of any sums recovered from your opponent;
b) Set-off all sums recovered from your opponent against any claims due in respect of 
your liability for opponents costs and own disbursements.
The phrase successful outcome is specifically defined in the policy as: Your legal action is 
settled in your favour either as a result of a decision made by a court or a settlement agreed 
between you and your opponent which leads to damages being paid to you or you obtaining 
a benefit from the legal action.
Legal Action is defined as: The pursuit or defence of a dispute, as specified in the 
schedule, including any actions taken before the issue of court proceedings.
Damages are considered: Compensation or monetary sums which are awarded by a court 
to you or which your opponent has agreed to pay to you in order to settle your legal action.
And in Mr Gs case, the policy schedule records the legal action as Shareholder dispute: 
Unfair prejudice application.
Key to deciding whether HDI can fairly rely upon these terms to seek funds from Mr G is 
whether or not it can be said that he had a successful outcome as a result of his legal 
action. Ive read the judgement given by the court. It makes very clear that Mr Gs unfair 
prejudice application was unsuccessful. The case wasnt settled in his favour, neither by a 
decision of the court, nor by a settlement agreed between the parties. I also dont think that 
any funds Mr G might receive from the sale of his shares would meet the definition of 
damages. The legal action was concluded (when the court made its judgement) prior to any 
agreement being reached (or negotiations started) in relation to the sale of shares. There 
was no direction from the court that Mr G should or shouldnt sell his shares.
The outstanding part of the definition refers to Mr G receiving a benefit from the legal 
action. Its HDIs position that one of the resolutions Mr G proposed to his legal action was 
to be bought out of his shares. HDI therefore say there is sufficient connection between the 
claim and the settlement to establish a successful outcome of the dispute. 
Ive considered this, but I dont agree. Mr G had held his shares for a number of years and 
whenever he decided to sell them, he would have received the benefit of their value. This is 
irrespective of any court or legal action. I accept that the court provided commentary on what 
the shares might be worth. But as no direction was made in relation to selling the shares, I 
dont think it can fairly be said that Mr G selling his shares after the conclusion of the court 
case means there was a successful outcome. 
Stepping back and looking at this as a whole, I also dont think it can fairly be said that Mr G 
achieved a successful outcome. He lost his case, the company shares were valued at a lower price than before the legal action and Mr G was ordered to pay significant costs. In his 
own words it was a catastrophic loss. I dont think it can reasonably be concluded that Mr G 
came out in a better position after the legal action, than he was in before it. 
As I dont think there was a successful outcome, I dont think its fair for HDI to rely on the 
policy terms to require Mr G to reimburse the premiums, the opponents costs or his own 
disbursements. 
In line with my finding above and what our investigator has already explained, I dont think it 
is necessary to further consider whether Mr G was provided with misleading information by 
HDI. I accept that Mr G may have acted on the reassurances given by HDI, but even if the 
information he relied on was misleading, I dont think it has had an impact on the overall 
outcome here. 
My final decision
Ive decided to uphold this complaint. For the reasons Ive explained, I dont think the terms 
of Mr Gs policy enable the sums Ive referenced above to be recovered from him and 
HDI Global Specialty SE cant rely on those terms in order to do so.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 December 2020.
 
Richard Annandale
Ombudsman