DRN-1699059
The complaint
Mr and Mrs C say they were mis-sold a payment protection insurance (PPI) policy by 
Bank of Scotland Plc (BoS), trading as Birmingham Midshires.
What happened
In 2003, BoS sold Mr and Mrs C a monthly premium PPI policy to protect their mortgage 
repayments if one of them was unable to work because of an accident, sickness or 
unemployment. 
Our adjudicator didnt think the PPI had been mis-sold. Mr and Mrs C disagreed, so the case 
has been passed to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website. And 
Ive taken this into account in deciding Mr and Mrs Cs case. Having done so, Ive decided 
the PPI wasnt mis-sold for reasons that Ill explain.
There are gaps in the information thats still available from 2003. But that isnt particularly 
surprising given how long ago that was. BoS doesnt still have full details of how the PPI was 
sold, or a copy of the PPI application form Mr and Mrs C would have needed to complete for 
this cover. And Mr and Mrs C dont seem to have a clear memory of how they were sold their 
PPI policy either.
But BoSs computer records do show that Mr and Mrs C were sent a letter inviting them to 
apply for PPI in March 2003 and that an application for this cover was received from them in 
April 2003. Ive also seen a copy of a PPI welcome letter which BoS sent Mr and Mrs C in 
April 2003, after their application had been approved. And as this all happened some years 
after their mortgage had already been put in place, I think Mr and Mrs C would have known 
at the time that they didnt need to take the policy to get approval for their loan and that it 
was a separate product.
So from the evidence Ive seen, I think that Mr and Mrs C actively decided to take the PPI 
policy knowing they had a choice. But I can understand why they may not recall this now.
BoS has considered this complaint as though it recommended the PPI to Mr and Mrs C. And 
Ive taken this to be the case because this means it needed to take steps to ensure its 
advice was right for them. I cant now know how it did this. But from what I know about 
Mr and Mrs Cs circumstances at the time, I cant see any reason why it wouldnt have been. 
I say this because:
Mr and Mrs C appear to have been eligible for the policy and not affected by any of its 
main exclusions or limitations. Mrs C says she doesnt think she was working in 2003 
when the policy was sold. But she hasnt been able to provide any evidence to show that 
this was the case and, on balance, I think she is most likely to be mistaken. It doesnt 
seem likely that Mr and Mrs C would have applied to take out a joint PPI policy to cover 
their mortgage if this had been the case.
Mr and Mrs C say that they had other means of making their mortgage repayments if one 
of them couldnt work, so they didnt need the policy. But the policy would have paid out 
in addition to these other means, leaving these to be used for other expenditure. And a 
mortgage is a big financial commitment, where ones home is, potentially, at risk. So I 
still think they would have valued the extra security which the PPI policy gave them if 
things went wrong. And they chose to take out the cover, so it seems as if they did value 
this type of protection.
Ive no reason to think the PPIs monthly cost of £8.42 was unaffordable for 
Mr and Mrs C. And as it was paid monthly, they could have cancelled the policy if it no 
longer met their needs.
BoS also needed to give Mr and Mrs C enough information about the PPI to allow them to 
decide for themselves if it was right for them. I think its possible that the information it gave 
them could have been better than it was. But for much the same reasons that I dont think 
the PPI was unsuitable for them, I dont think that better information would have changed 
their minds about taking it. I think theyd still have thought it provided a useful benefit at an 
affordable cost. 
So taking everything into account, I dont believe Mr and Mrs C have lost out because of 
anything that BoS may have done wrong when it sold the PPI. 
Ive thought about why Mr and Mrs C still think the PPI policy was mis-sold, but this hasnt 
changed my mind about not upholding their complaint.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given, I dont uphold this complaint against Bank of Scotland Plc.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs C and Mr C to 
accept or reject my decision before 9 September 2020.
 
Simon Furse
Ombudsman