DRN-4503091
The complaint
Ms L has complained that Lloyds Bank PLC mis-sold her credit card payment protection 
insurance (PPI) and then didnt pay her enough compensation in response to her complaint.
What happened
Ms L originally complained to Lloyds in 2011. In response, it upheld her complaint and 
offered to refund all the PPI premiums paid, plus interest as applicable. This amounted to 
£49.80.
I wrote a provisional decision last month in which I explained why I wasnt thinking of 
upholding the complaint and giving the parties some time to provide any additional evidence 
or comments they might wish to make. Ms L didnt respond to my provisional decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As stated in my provisional decision, theres no need for me to make a finding on whether or 
not the PPI was mis-sold, because Lloyds accepted that it was and upheld the complaint. 
The outstanding issue was whether Lloyds then paid Ms L the correct redress as a result.
Ms L has banked with Lloyds for a number of years and has therefore assumed that she 
must have had credit card PPI for most of that time. However, in my provisional decision I 
explained the information Id seen which indicated that this was not the case.
Lloyds has provided account statements starting from January 2007. It shows that no 
premiums were being made prior to September 2008. And the statements also show that the 
PPI was cancelled in November 2008. Ms L only made three monthly payments for PPI 
(September, October and November 2008), which is why the redress she was offered was 
relatively small.
As mentioned in my provisional decision, this would also explain why she was unable to 
make a claim for unemployment when she was made redundant in August 2009  because 
the policy was no longer active.
Ms L hasnt been able to provide any evidence that she paid more premiums than the 
information provided by Lloyds suggests.
As neither party has made any substantive response to my provisional decision, I see no 
reason to depart from my original findings.
Based on the available evidence, Im satisfied that the PPI was only active between 
September to November 2008. So, the offer of £49.80 that Lloyds made in 2011 was correct.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, my final decision is that I do not uphold the complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms L to accept or 
reject my decision before 5 January 2024.
 
Carole Clark
Ombudsman