DRN-2221304
The complaint
 Miss H complained that Royal and Sun Alliance Insurance Plc didnt handle her car repairs
properly when she claimed under her car insurance policy.
What happened
After Miss Hs car was vandalised in May 2019 RSA had their approved repairers (who Ill
call RSAs garage) repair it. But she returned her car to the garage about four times after
that because she said they hadnt repaired it properly. RSA had an independent engineer
inspect her car, and authorised their garage to do rectification repairs, even though they
didnt agree that all of those were related either to the accident or their garages repairs.
After this the independent engineer re-inspected her car and found four matters which again
RSA fixed, and they valeted her car. But she was still unhappy with her car and with RSAs
service and what she felt had been improper use of her car, including that someone had
connected to her car phone system and charger and used her petrol. She also felt that the
independent engineer was biased towards RSA.
RSA offered her compensation of £150. They acknowledged that someone had attached
their phone to her car and that situation would be addressed. But they felt that theyd done
more than theyd had to as regards the repairs. The garage felt that she had added more
faults every time they returned her car, in what theyd felt was showroom condition. They felt
that this was because Miss H wanted a new car and wanted them to contribute to its cost.
The investigator didnt recommend that the complaint should be upheld. They thought that
RSAs actions to rectify the matter and their offer of £150 compensation were fair and
reasonable and recommended no further action.
Miss H didnt agree. So her complaint was passed to me to decide. I issued my provisional 
decision on 2 September 2020 saying that I intended to uphold it.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
We dont assess whether or how damage to a car could be caused as this is a matter for the
experts in these situations, the insurance companies and engineers. Our role in these
complaints is to determine whether an insurer has considered all the available evidence and
whether they can justify their decision to not pay for additional repairs. Im not looking at the 
repair items individually, because these have all been itemised in the several independent 
engineer reports and Miss Hs information and photos given, and both Miss H and RSA are 
aware of what Miss H claims. My role is to look at the situation overall and decide if, in all the 
circumstances, RSA have acted fair and reasonably.
I saw that RSA had an independent engineer report several times on the repairs to Miss
Hs car. One of the later of these was the report of 23 September 2019 which identified
about 31 faults. RSA said that not all of them were related to the incident or RSAs repairs
but as gesture of goodwill they fixed them anyway.
The independent engineer re-inspected her car after that remedial work and found a few
other matters requiring rectification. RSA agreed to resolve these too and to have the car
valeted. Though again, RSA didnt accept the matters were incident or repair related, and
they said that although they had previously returned her car in immaculate condition, they
werent obliged to do that under the policy. So they felt they already gone farther than they
had to under her policy, and that any petrol use had been minimal.
Miss H said that she found it traumatic to have to keep returning her car, and that even when
she got it back in November, she didnt feel that it was satisfactory. She said that this meant
that she had stopped liking her car and wanted to buy another. I saw that it must have
been upsetting for Miss H for her car to be vandalised and for her to have to deal with a
claim through no fault of her own. And I saw that her relationship with the garage had
broken down.
Overall though I thought that what RSA have done to resolve the issue with her car repairs 
was reasonable in the circumstances. Theyve considered her concerns, had her car
inspected more than once by an independent engineer and theyve acted on his
recommendations, which I think is reasonable. I havent been shown any evidence to
suggest that what she still says is wrong with her car is incident or garage repair related. And
so I thought that theyve done enough to fix her car. And so I dont require them to do any 
more repairs. I also saw nothing to support her suggestion that the independent engineer 
was biased.
However, I did think that the rectification process took too long, and that Miss H had to return
her car too often. By November shed had to return it to the garage about four times,
including twice by the time of the independent engineers report in August, and I thought that
RSA could have acted more quickly on this.
I thought that dealing with the ongoing matter for all this time was an inconvenience for Miss 
H. And so I thought that RSAs offer of £150 did not adequately compensate her for this and 
I thought that they should pay her a total of £300 compensation, less the £150 if they have 
already paid her that.
Since I issued my provisional decision on 2 September, RSA replied accepting that decision. 
Miss H has not replied, despite a reminder. As she has not put forward any additional 
evidence , I see no reason not to maintain my provisional decision. 
  
Putting things right
For the reasons Ive given above and in my provisional decision its my final decision that I 
uphold this complaint. I require Royal and Sun Alliance Insurance Plc to do the following:
Pay Miss H £300 (less the £150 offered, if theyve already paid that to her) for her
distress and inconvenience.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss H to accept 
or reject my decision before 3 November 2020.
Royal and Sun Alliance Insurance Plc must pay the compensation within 28 days of the date 
on which we tell them Miss H accepts my final decision. If they pay later than this, they must also pay interest on the compensation from the date of my final decision to the date of 
payment at 8% a year simple.
If RSA consider that they are required by HM Revenue & Customs to withhold income tax 
from that interest, they should tell Miss H how much they have taken off, and give Miss H a 
tax deduction certificate if she asks for one, so she can reclaim the tax from HM Revenue & 
Customs if appropriate.
 
Rosslyn Scott
Ombudsman
