DRN-3988307
The complaint
Mr E is unhappy Santander UK Plc (Santander) has blocked his account because it suspects 
he is falling victim to a scam, which he says isnt true. 
What happened
Mr E has shared with our service that he suffers from a mental health illness. Id like to thank 
him for sharing this with us and reassure him that Ive taken this into consideration when 
reviewing his complaint. 
Santander blocked online transfers from Mr Es account in September 2022 after his ex-wife 
told Santander that she believed he was being scammed by a women, who I shall refer to as 
B, hed met online. Mr E is still able to use his debit card and his regular payments can still 
debit. 
Mr E has said he isnt being scammed. He explained he sent Bs husband some money from 
his Santander account to help her pay to get her phone back which she had pawned to 
afford a VISA to get to the UK. He says his ex-wife just reported it because she is upset she 
isnt in control anymore following the divorce. 
Following the block Santander asked Mr E about the transfer and he provided some 
information about why he was sending the money. However, when Santander asked for 
additional information such as evidence of Bs VISA application, he didnt feel comfortable 
sharing this. Because of this, Santander has said it couldnt be satisfied Mr E wasnt being 
scammed and therefore it wouldnt remove the block from his account. The block therefore 
remains to this day. 
Mr E referred his complaint to this service. He explained the impact the block was having on 
his mental health and provided evidence from his psychiatrist to show the matter had caused 
a significant relapse in his condition  something hes spent a great deal of time and money 
on to get under control. He says Santander has breached his human rights and 
discriminated against him as a disabled person. He also referred to the fact Santanders 
request for evidence was breaking the Human Rights Act of a right to a private life and 
contravened the Regulation of Investigatory Powers Act. Mr E has also explained that his 
credit file has been impacted by the block as he wasnt able to pay his Santander credit card. 
Mr E told us hes opened a new account with a different bank now. Mr E mentioned he 
hasnt been able to switch his regular payments to his new account, but Ive not considered 
the account switch in this decision, as it didnt form part of his original complaint. 
Our investigator didnt uphold the complaint. He explained that Santander has numerous 
legal and regulatory obligations that it must follow and part of this is to ensure it safeguards 
itself and its customers from the risk of financial harm. Therefore, it was entitled to review 
and block Mr Es account when he received the scam report from his ex-wife. He was 
satisfied the information Santander had asked Mr E for was neither intrusive or inappropriate 
and based on what hed seen, he agreed there were legitimate concerns Mr E was being 
scammed. Because of this, he didnt recommend Santander remove the block. 
The investigator also looked into Mr Es complaint point that he was unable to pay his credit 
card bill following the block, which led to his credit file being impacted. He concluded that the 
block didnt prevent Mr E from making payments towards his credit card. 
Mr E didnt agree with the investigators findings. He says he has a right to spend his money 
how he wants to, and Santander has no right to be asking for evidence still, six months after 
the transfer. He says that the investigator failed to consider various mental health disability 
offences under the Human Rights Act and equality legislation. 
Because Mr E disagreed, the complaint has been passed to me to decide.
 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im very conscious of the fact Santanders actions have had a negative impact on Mr Es 
mental health and Im very sorry for what hes been going through. Its clear he feels 
extremely strongly about the way hes been treated, and I understand his reasons for this. 
But having reviewed the facts of this case, Im unable to agree that Santander has made any 
mistakes. Ill explain why. 
Santander has a wide range of legal and regulatory obligations it must meet when providing 
account services to its customers. Part of those obligations require Santander to have 
safeguarding measures in place to protect both itself, and importantly, its customers from 
financial risk and harm. And key to Mr Es complaint, this includes the risk of its customers 
falling victim to scams. This is especially the case when the customer is considered 
vulnerable. These obligations are ongoing so dont just apply at account opening stage. To 
comply with these obligations, it may need to review accounts and request information from 
its customers. These reviews can lead to accounts being blocked. If Santander didnt do this, 
it could risk serious sanction.
Santander blocked and reviewed Mr Es account following a call from his ex-wife. I 
appreciate Mr E doesnt believe his ex-wife made this call with good intentions, but 
regardless of this, Santander acted how I would expect once it received this information. As 
explained above, it has an obligation to safeguard its customers from financial harm, so 
ignoring the concerns raised by Mr Es ex-wife would mean disregarding these obligations  
something I wouldnt expect it to do. It follows that Im satisfied it was entitled to block and 
review Mr Es account. 
It seems the main issue here is the fact the block has remained ever since then, despite 
Mr E telling Santander he is confident he isnt being scammed. Santander asked Mr E 
questions about the money hed sent abroad and whilst he answered some of these 
questions, he wasnt willing to provide all the evidence Santander had asked for. I appreciate 
Mr Es comments around the intrusive nature of some of the information Santander has 
requested  I understand part of it belongs to another individual such as the VISA application 
 and he therefore doesnt believe he should have to provide this. But Santander requested 
the information based on its knowledge of how these types of scams work. So, taking this 
into account, Im satisfied the information Santander asked for was reasonable, 
proportionate and necessary to help it prevent financial harm to Mr E. 
Because Mr E wouldnt, and still wont, provide anything further, it meant Santander couldnt 
be satisfied he wasnt being scammed. And having reviewed the information, I agree the 
possibility remains. Despite Mr E saying the payment was over six months ago now, given he is adamant hes not being scammed, the issue here is that there is still a risk that if 
Santander reinstates his ability to make online transfers, he may send more money to B. 
I understand this whole matter is still impacting Mr Es mental health and my conclusions are 
in no way meant to diminish this. I also appreciate the frustration caused by Santanders 
continued refusal to unblock Mr Es account or enter any further discussions with him when 
he called. However, as disappointing as I know it will be to Mr E, for the reasons given 
above, Im not in a position to recommend the block be lifted. Of course, if Mr E chooses to 
provide the documents to Santander, I would expect it to review them and reconsider the 
block. 
Im pleased to see Santander has only placed a block on online transfers, which means Mr E 
can use his account normally otherwise if he wishes (although I note hes said he opened 
another account elsewhere, so may not need to). Im satisfied Santander has acted fairly 
and proportionately in the circumstances by only partially blocking the account, as it has 
limited the impact on Mr Es everyday life. All his regular payments such as Direct Debits 
and Standing Orders continue to debit, he can transfer money into his account, and he can 
still use his debit card in all the usual ways. 
Mr E has said the block on his current account meant he wasnt able to transfer money to 
pay his Santander credit card bill and this has impacted his credit score. It may well have 
been the case that he wasnt able to pay his credit card in this way due to the block. But 
having listened to the call Mr E had with Santander on 9 September 2022 (the day the block 
was placed), its clear he was aware of the block. The advisor confirmed this and explained 
he could still use his card. Given Im satisfied the block isnt an error, and the fact Mr E was 
aware of the block and the other ways he could use his account, Im unable to hold 
Santander responsible for a late payment towards Mr Es credit card. Ultimately, Mr E had 
ways he could have made his credit card payment on time - I can see he did indeed pay 
towards his credit card account using his debit card on 17 September 2022. 
Finally, but importantly, Mr E has said he feels like he is being discriminated against 
considering his mental health condition and has pointed to various pieces of legislation that 
he feels Santander is breaching by taking the actions it has in blocking his account. Its not 
our role to say whether a business has acted unlawfully or not  thats a matter for the 
Courts. Our role is to decide whats fair and reasonable in all the circumstances. In order to 
decide that, however, we have to take a number of things into account including relevant law 
and what we consider to have been good industry practice at the time. And having done so, 
whilst I can understand why Mr E feels as he does, based on what Ive seen, Im satisfied 
Santander is acting fairly in the actions its taking. The block is in place to protect Mr E from 
potential financial harm  something I agree is currently a real risk. So, as already explained, 
I wont be asking Santander to remove the block or compensate him for what has happened. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold Mr Es complaint against Santander UK Plc.
 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr E to accept or 
reject my decision before 25 May 2023.
 
Sarah Brimacombe
Ombudsman