DRN-2838808
The complaint
Mr V complains to Plus500UK Ltd about his contracts for difference (CFD) trading account  
he says he didnt understand the nature of the account and thought he was buying shares in 
an oil company rather than opening CFD positions in oil. 
What happened
Mr V opened a trading account with Plus500 in March 2020. At the time, he was 20 years old 
and says he was following information online about investing in the oil sector. Mr V began by 
funding his account with €500 from his student account, but says he soon got multiple 
reports from Plus500 about topping this up due to margin requirements. 
By April 2020, Mr V says hed lost around €8,000 - €9,000. He emailed Plus500 on 26 April 
and said he didnt understand how the product worked  he was under the impression hed 
bought shares and that hed been tricked into losing all his money. 
Mr V asked for our help  he explained that he didnt have any experience of investing and 
his knowledge of such products was also limited. While he felt regretful for having invested 
money into something he didnt understand, he felt Plus500 put a lot of pressure on him to 
keep funding the account. He said he thought hed bought oil shares, not oil CFDs and didnt 
understand the margin call. 
Mr V is supported by a representative who says CFDs are far too complex for a novice 
investor, that Plus500 have failed to know their customer and that Mr V was unable to fund 
the position before its ultimate closure due to a system problem which wasnt his fault. Mr V 
asked that the €8,000 - €9,000 he owed was reduced to nil and that Plus500 change their 
procedures to ensure other unexperienced people arent able to end up in this situation.
Plus500 didnt agree theyd done anything wrong  they shared an excerpt from their user 
agreement which said trading was in CFDs and that their risk disclosure notice said CFDs 
were high risk and not suitable for many investors. They explained why Mr Vs position was 
closed due to margin and quoted the oil prices at the time. They asked for further information 
about the system issue but hadnt received this and lastly, they decided to close Mr Vs 
account.
One of our investigators had a look into what had happened. But he didnt agree Plus500 
had done anything wrong. He agreed that the account didnt seem appropriate for Mr V, but 
in line with the rules hed been warned about this and chose to go ahead regardless. He 
thought the risks had been explained and that Mr V had placed a number of trades before 
raising his concerns with Plus500. He also noted that most of Mr Vs losses occurred on 21 
and 20 April 2020 when the pandemic brought about unprecedented market events and that 
as the economic outlook led to a large drop in the demand for oil, this led to far cheaper 
prices which was the opposite of Mr V had bet. 
Mr V didnt agree  he said there was nothing done by Plus500 to test his knowledge or 
experience, he thought he was buying shares. The statement mentioned a stock not a CFD. 
And hed been pressured into reacting quickly when being asked to pay additional sums of 
€500 each time. 
Our investigator thought about what had been said, but wasnt persuaded to change his view 
on the complaint. He explained Plus500 had checked Mr Vs knowledge and experience, 
and even though the account wasnt appropriate for him he accepted a warning and 
proceeded anyway. He also explained that the margin call emails were to warn Mr V he 
needed to fund the account or else get closed out, but it was always Mr Vs choice as to 
whether he added more money or not. 
Mr V didnt agree  he still thought there wasnt an adequate check done, that Plus500 didnt 
know their customer and that CFDs shouldnt be accessible to inexperienced investors. So 
as an agreement wasnt reached, the matter was passed to me to review. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As Plus500 are a regulated firm theyre subject to the rules set out in the regulators 
handbook  the conduct of business (COBS) section is whats relevant here. Plus500 
werent required to assess the suitability of Mr Vs upcoming trading given they werent going 
to be giving him any advice  his account was opened on an execution only basis so it was 
for him to decide which trades to make. However, COBS 10 required Plus500 to assess his 
appropriateness to trade as he did. In other words, this required them to gather relevant 
information from Mr V in order to decide whether he had the necessary knowledge and 
experience to understand the risks involved. 
Looking at the answers Mr V provided, I can see that he didnt have the knowledge and 
experience to pass the appropriateness test. He was aged 20 when he opened the account, 
he said he had no trading experience, no professional experience, was a student, earned 
between €0 and €20,000 a year and had between €5,000 and €20,000 in savings. Mr V also 
said he could afford to risk between €5,000 and €20,000. He was also asked three questions 
about his investment knowledge  these asked him to calculate leverage, what happens 
when the market gaps through a stop loss and who was responsible for maintaining margin. 
Mr V got two questions right.
Mr Vs answers indicated he wasnt an appropriate candidate for this sort of trading. Plus500 
displayed a warning to this effect. It said: Appropriateness Risk Warning. Declaration  I 
acknowledge your warning that a CFD account is not appropriate for me. However, I wish to 
proceed with my application and I understand the risks associated with CFD trading. I am 
aware of your demo account and the information on your website. Mr V answered true. 
Having given the warning, and with it being accepted, Plus500 then had the option to either 
turn down Mr Vs application or proceed with it. They chose to proceed and allow the 
account to be opened. Mr V may now argue this wasnt the right thing to do, but the 
regulators rules permitted Plus500 to do this while having regard to the circumstances.
Despite the fact Plus500 didnt consider Mr V an appropriate candidate for trading, it doesnt 
follow that they did anything wrong by letting him open an account anyway. If a firm warns 
the client of their concerns but they wish to proceed, the firm is able to open an account  
guidance just asks them to have regard for the wider circumstances. 
Importantly, we must recognise Plus500 warned Mr V that they didnt think the account was 
appropriate for him, but he chose to accept the warning and proceed regardless. So despite Mr Vs inexperience and financial situation, I dont think it would be fair or reasonable for the 
risks he accepted at the time and the decisions he made to trade to now be transferred to 
Plus500 by way of them compensating him for his losses. I appreciate Mr Vs concerns 
about Plus500 knowing their customer, but as Ive explained, the firm fulfilled the 
requirements set by the regulator here, so I dont agree theyve fallen short of whats 
expected of them despite what Mr V and his representative feel. 
Mr V traded for around a month before his positions went against him. Ive reviewed his oil 
positions and while he did lose money, he did profit from some too. While he says he 
thought he was buying shares, I think the considerable reference to CFD trading was made 
clear in the variety of documents available, as well as on the website. I appreciate Mr V says 
the word aandeel was used on the statement, and this translates to stock, but having 
viewed Plus500s Netherlands site more generally, I see in context it said, Handel in CFDs 
op aandelen, indices, Forex, en cryptovaluta which translates as Trade CFDs on stocks, 
indices, Forex and cryptocurrencies. So from everything Ive seen, I dont think Mr V was 
misled as to the nature of the account. And it wasnt until hed lost so much money that he 
queried the nature of the account either  after placing a number of trades which were 
affected by margin too. 
I also dont agree the way Plus500 dealt with margin calls was either unreasonable or 
unusual. While Mr V may have felt under pressure to add more money to his account, that 
wasnt because Plus500 did anything wrong, instead, the pressure came from the market 
moving against him. If Mr V didnt react to the margin calls, there was the chance his position 
would move further and further offside to the point where he didnt have enough equity on 
account to keep it open. Being closed out means Mr V could have crystallised losses which 
he might otherwise have wanted to ride out, should he have felt the market was set to move 
and return him to profit (or at least less of a loss). So I dont agree Plus500 were wrong to 
alert Mr V to this possibility. And while Mr V mentioned he was prevented from adding funds 
to meet margin before his last position was closed, that wasnt something he gave Plus500 
further information on, nor has he pursued this point with us, so I havent seen anything to 
show Plus500 did anything wrong here either.
I sympathise with Mr Vs situation as I can see hes lost a lot of money. And I can see why 
Plus500 have now decided to close his account. But I dont agree this means they did 
anything wrong prior to this. Instead, from everything Ive seen and for the reasons Ive 
explained above, I think Mr V made the decision to accept the risks involved and trade 
despite Plus500 warning him against it. It seems that Mr V lost money due to market 
conditions rather than as a result of Plus500 doing anything wrong, so I dont think his losses 
are something for which Plus500 ought fairly and reasonably to be held responsible for.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I dont uphold Mr Vs complaint. Under the rules of the 
Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr v to accept or reject my decision 
before 20 July 2021. 
Aimee Stanton
Ombudsman