DRN-3656204
The complaint
Mrs G complains that Lloyds Bank General Insurance Limited (LBGI) unfairly declined a 
claim she made on a home insurance property.
What happened
Mrs G holds home insurance with LBGI. She made a claim on the policy for damage to a 
roof following a period of bad weather.
LBGI declined cover for the claim. While it agreed the weather conditions at the time meant  
the claim should be considered under the storm section of cover, it considered that the 
damage was caused mainly because of wear and tear issues with the roof which Mrs G was 
aware of.
Mrs G didnt accept this and complained to LBGI. When it rejected her complaint, she 
referred it to our service. Our investigator thought LBGI had acted fairly. Mrs G doesnt agree 
and has asked for an ombudsmans decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Its accepted the relevant cover on Mrs Gs policy for this claim is where it provides for storm 
damage. When dealing with complaints about storm damage claims, our service generally 
looks at three questions:
1. Were the weather conditions at the relevant time a storm?
2. Is the damage consistent with that typically caused by a storm?
3. Is the storm the main cause of the damage?
If the answer to all three questions is yes, then wed generally expect the claim to be 
covered (dependent on any other relevant terms and conditions being met).
The answers to the first two questions arent disputed. LBGI accepts there was a storm and 
that the damage to Mrs Gs roof is consistent with storm damage. LBGIs decision to decline 
cover for the claim, and Mrs Gs complaint, centres on the third and final question.
In considering this final question, Im aware certain points are accepted. Mrs G says before 
the storm, she was aware of damage to the roof and was making arrangements to have this 
repaired. By Mrs Gs account, she was aware of the damage, and that repairs were required 
for a period of several months before the storm. In effect, the dispute is between LBGIs 
opinion that the pre-existing damage was the main cause of the damage, and Mrs Gs 
opinion that the damage claim was separate and mainly caused by the storm. 
LGBI says that the winds in the storm have got under felt on the roof through holes which 
were part of the existing damage. These winds lifted the felt and damaged other parts of the 
roof. Photographs of the roof do show that an area of felt has moved quite considerably. 
Im unable to say for certain what caused the felt to move, but I do think the explanation 
given by LBGI is plausible. I think its fair to say that an area of already damaged roof is 
more likely to be affected by the high winds from the storm. I think LBGI acted fairly when it 
concluded the storm wasnt the main cause of the damage.
The terms and conditions of Mrs Gs policy state We will take into consideration the 
condition of your home. A storm can highlight damage rather than cause it and damage that 
happens gradually through wear and tear or due to lack of maintenance is not covered. The 
policy also excludes Any loss or damage caused by wear and tear. 
I think its more likely than not that the damage caused arose mainly because there were 
existing issues with the roof, which required repairing. The winds during the storm 
exacerbated those issues, and that is what then caused the damage. So it was fair for LBGI 
to conclude the damage can be attributed mainly to the roof which already required repairing 
before the storm. As the policy terms say, storm conditions can highlight damage, which is 
what LBGI concluded here.
It isnt disputed there was existing damage, which required repairing. I havent seen anything 
which persuades me the damage claimed for would have occurred irrespective of the pre-
existing damage. I appreciate the storm led to particularly violent winds, but that alone isnt 
enough for me to say it was the main cause of the damage.
My final decision
Its my final decision not to uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs G to accept or 
reject my decision before 21 October 2022.
 
Ben Williams
Ombudsman