DRN-2965197
The complaint
Ms M complains that Hitachi Capital (UK) Plc did not uphold her claim under section 75 of 
the Consumer Credit Act 1974 in respect of a washing machine and a tumble dryer.
What happened
Ms M bought a fitted kitchen from a third party (the retailer), financed by a regulated fixed 
sum loan agreement with Hitachi. There were a number of problems with it, which took 
several months to resolve. This complaint is about the issues which still have not been 
resolved. Hitachi accepted responsibility for dealing with these problems, under section 75. 
(Some of the correspondence about the kitchen was dealt with by her husband, but since he 
is not a party to the loan agreement he is therefore not a party to this complaint.)
Ms M says that the tumble dryer is defective and needs to be replaced. The doors which 
were supposed to go in front of the dryer and the washing machine were not supplied, and 
the retailer has run out of stock. Her husband found some matching doors on eBay, and 
Hitachi said if he bought them then it would reimburse the cost, but he said that providing the 
doors should be the retailers responsibility, since it had undertaken to provide a fitted 
kitchen. Hitachi told him that the retailer would not do that, but it was prepared to offer a 
refund instead. He did not agree, and now the doors are no longer available.
Ms M suggested as a compromise that if doors could not be provided, then the white 
washing machine could be replaced with a black one, as this would be more in keeping with 
the overall look of the kitchen.
Hitachi agreed in principle with Ms Ms compromise of getting a black washing machine, and 
offered to pay any difference in price. But at first the retailer did not agree, because Ms M 
had ordered a white one, and it later said that it did not have any black standalone washing 
machines anyway. So Hitachi said that the washing machine could be returned and refunded 
instead, so that Ms M could buy a black one from a third party. Hitachi also paid her £285 for 
her trouble. Ms M did not accept Hitachis proposed solution, and she brought this complaint 
to our service. She asked for the entire kitchen to be replaced.
Our investigator did not uphold this complaint. He emphasised that his remit was only to 
consider whether Hitachi had done enough to resolve Ms Ms section 75 claim, not to 
investigate the retailer. He thought that since the retailers warranty said that it would either 
provide a like for like replacement or a refund if something went wrong, and it had offered a 
refund, then he could not require Hitachi to do more than that. He did not think it would be 
proportionate to replace an entire kitchen just because two doors were missing. He thought 
that refunding the doors was enough, since it was no longer possible to obtain them. He did 
not accept that the dryer was defective.
Ms M did not accept that opinion. She said she had ordered a fitted kitchen and so 
everything should match, and the retailer had failed to provide this. She said her statutory 
rights under the Consumer Credit Act 2015 applied to the kitchen as a whole, not just to its 
individual components, and so she should be entitled to reject the entire kitchen for a refund. 
She said the dryer was a hazard to her young children. So the investigator referred this case 
for an ombudsmans decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I have some sympathy for the ordeal Ms M and her family have been through. It certainly 
seems that there has been a range of problems with their new kitchen, and that a great deal 
of time and energy has been spent on dealing with them. This came at a particularly difficult 
time in their lives, which I have no doubt made it more challenging to deal with. 
Nevertheless, my decision focuses on whether Hitachi did enough to discharge its 
responsibilities under section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act, having regard to the retailers 
duties under the Consumer Rights Act. So I am not considering everything that happened, 
but only the outstanding issues which the parties still do not agree on. These are whether 
the dryer is defective, and what the remedy should be for the missing doors.
Having considered these issues, I am satisfied that Hitachi has done enough, and so I do not 
uphold this complaint. I will explain why.
The dryer was inspected by an engineer sent by the manufacturer, who diagnosed an 
intermittent fault which he believed was being caused by uneven loads. He reported that he 
had told the customer this (this could be a reference to either Ms M or her husband), and 
he had also reprogrammed the control board to help to prevent the fault recurring. I think that 
Hitachi was entitled to accept this evidence and to conclude that the dryer was not defective. 
I have noted that Ms M has since said that the dryer is blowing cold air, but without a report 
by another engineer to confirm that this appliance was faulty when it was sold or still in 
warranty, I dont think it would be fair and reasonable of me to require Hitachi to have the 
dryer replaced or refunded.
I have not considered whether the washing machine is still defective, because the retailer 
has agreed to this being returned and refunded. The refund (£370) would enable Ms M to 
buy a suitable replacement from a third party, and if that is more expensive that the one she 
currently has, then I think the £285 compensation paid by Hitachi would very likely be 
enough to cover the difference.
I understand and agree with Ms Ms argument that she purchased a fitted kitchen and so all 
the doors should be present and should match. So I agree that the retailer breached its 
contract with her by failing to supply doors to cover the dryer and the washing machine. 
I agree with her that this is more than a minor cosmetic issue, but a significant failure to meet 
her legitimate expectations. But I still agree with the investigator that ripping out and 
replacing or refunding the entire kitchen would not be a proportionate remedy. In coming to 
that conclusion, I have taken into account the fact that the white washing machine can still 
be replaced with a black one (and I understand that Ms M has already removed the dryer). 
I have also taken into account the fact that Ms M had the opportunity to buy replacement 
matching doors from a third party, and that Hitachi had offered to reimburse the cost. I will 
elaborate further on this last point.
When there is a breach of contract, although the fault and therefore the primary obligation to 
put things right lies with the party in breach, there is also an obligation on the other party to 
mitigate her loss. That means that she must take reasonable steps herself to try and avoid or 
reduce the consequences of the other partys breach. In this case, I think it would have been 
a reasonable step to buy the matching doors on eBay while they were still available and then accept Hitachis offer to meet the cost. Instead, she (or rather her husband on her behalf) 
insisted that the retailer should buy the doors, even after Hitachi had said that this was not 
going to happen, and so the opportunity was lost.
That is unfortunate, but it was not Hitachis fault. I think that Hitachis proposed solution was 
a reasonable and proportionate one, and it would not have been too onerous. So Hitachi 
does not now need to provide a significantly more extensive remedy instead. I am sure that 
replacing the entire kitchen at Hitachis expense would be wholly disproportionate (even if 
Hitachi was later able to recover the cost from the retailer).
My final decision
So my decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms M to accept or 
reject my decision before 13 September 2021. 
Richard Wood
Ombudsman