DRN-1345609
 
The complaint
Mr H complains Nationwide Building Society (Nationwide) have lent irresponsibly by 
increasing the limit on his credit card account with them.
What happened
Mr H brought his complaint to us as he was unhappy with the response hed received form 
Nationwide when he complained to them.
Nationwide didn't think theyd made an error so told Mr H they were unable to uphold the 
complaint. Nationwide told Mr H when hed applied for the account on 9 March 2012 hed 
declared an income of almost £10,000 per year and his credit limit was set at £2000. They 
said hed then applied to increase the credit limit on his card via their website which 
didn't allow them to discuss the application with him. And as hed submitted the request they 
processed it on the understanding that he was responsible and knew what he was asking 
for. They said their website does provide some information about increasing the credit limit 
prior to clicking on continue. Nationwide told Mr H the increases were approved and as 
there were no issues with him making the payments every month they had no valid reason to 
decline his request. They also said Mr H hadn't contacted them to advice of any health of 
financial problems which wouldve given them the opportunity to discuss the account with 
him.
Our investigator didn't think Nationwide had made any error, so he didn't uphold the 
complaint. He thought from the statements it wasn't  evident that Mr H was unable to 
maintain his account and there was nothing to suggest he was struggling to make payments 
or that the credit limit was unaffordable for him. He also thought there was no evidence to 
suggest Mr H contacted Nationwide to advise of his health problems or to advise of any 
potential financial problems. And he thought as Nationwide weren't aware they couldn't have 
acted any differently.
Mr H didn't agree. He said with or without his illness his credit card limit shouldn't have 
increased to £11,500 on an income of £6000, he thought it was reckless lending. He told us 
he hadn't asked for most of the increased limits, they were increased and if he didn't want 
them he could say no. Mr H said when he applied for the credit his income was higher but for 
the last couple of years it had been £6000, and he didn't think we could take into account the 
large repayments hed made to the account as these were funded from gifts hed received. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im afraid theres not a great deal I can add to what the investigators already told Mr H - I 
think hes covered most points quite clearly. I agree with his analysis and his overall 
conclusions. Theres some dispute over how the increases came about. Nationwide have told us their 
records show the credit limit was changed online both on 19 October 2018 from £8350 to 
£9350 and on 18 April 2019 from £9350 to £11,350. Theyve also said there were possible 
other changes to the credit limit, but they were unable to locate these on the account and 
believe they may have been purged. The statements show the initial credit limit reduced to 
£1800 in July 2013. There were then gradual incremental increases to £2200 in August 
2014, £2650 in March 2015, £3200 in September 2015, £3850 in November 2016 and £5050 
in May 2017. 
Mr H says he didn't ask for all the increases and Nationwides records  apart from showing 
the increases on 19 October 2018 to £9350 and on 18 April 2019 to £11,350 were applied 
for online - shed no further light on this. But I dont think that matters. And thats because 
even if the increases, up to those documented in 2018 and 2019, were made by Nationwide 
I dont think theyve done anything wrong here.
Ultimately its for a bank to decide what affordability criteria to apply and what risk it was 
willing to take when it lends money. This service wont generally interfere with that. The 
terms on the account allow Nationwide to make changes to the credit limit but say that they 
wont increase the limit unless the customer wants that. Those terms also make provision for 
a customer to reduce the credit limit or opt out of any future offers of credit limit increases. 
The application Mr H signed also provided that the credit limit could be changed. And, as Mr 
H has told us, he knew it was up to him to say no if he didn't want the increase. But I cant 
see that he did that even before the onset of his mental health difficulties in 2018.
The statements show that the account was being actively managed within the terms. Mr H 
told us the significant payments made on the account were gifts to him, so he thinks they 
shouldn't be considered but I disagree. Theres no record of him telling Nationwide this or of 
the reduction in his income from the level it was at the time of the application to £6000 which 
he says has been the case for a number of years. So I dont think the information before 
Nationwide wouldve indicated to them that Mr H couldn't afford the account. So, overall, it 
doesn't seem unreasonable to me that Nationwide decided that he was eligible for 
increases.
Mr H tells us he told an assistant in branch in January 2019 that hed been sectioned but that 
he didn't ask for anything. So Im not surprised the assistant didn't make a note of it or when 
Nationwide tell us theres no mention of his health problems on their records. So theres 
nothing before me to show Mr H made Nationwide aware of his vulnerabilities and financial 
difficulties until he complained. And, I think, as soon as Nationwide were made of the 
problems their actions were positive and sympathetic and in line with their responsibilities.
Theres no suggestion Mr H was unaware of the increases  hes told us he knew if he 
didn't want them he could say no. But each time the limit increased he used the credit 
available to him. Im satisfied from the records Nationwide sent me that their terms make it 
clear they can change the credit limit and give Mr H the option not only to decline an 
increase but to also opt out of any future offers of credit limit increases.
Although Mr H was on a low income and had problems with his mental health from 2018, he 
nevertheless chose to spend up to the credit limit and, on at least two occasions, applied 
online for the increase himself. Hes had the benefit of the money he spent. Im not satisfied 
that Nationwide acted irresponsibly when it increased the credit limit. Nor do I find that 
theres any reason why it shouldn't have applied interest and charges to the account, in line 
with the terms and conditions.
My final decisionMy final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 6 July 2020.
Annabel O'Sullivan
Ombudsman