DRN-1306686
 
The complaint
Ms K complains about the way Zurich Insurance Limited handled a claim she made on a 
landlords buildings insurance policy.
Mr Zs brought this complaint on Ms Ks behalf.
What happened
On 1 June 2019, Ms Ks tenant discovered an escape of water at Ms Ks property, which had 
caused damage. Ms K made a claim to Zurich five days later. Zurich appointed contractors 
to assess the damage and draw up a scope of works.
The contractors inspected the property a couple of days later. They told Ms Ks tenant that 
shed need alternative accommodation, but at this point, the tenant preferred to stay in the 
property. Asbestos tests were carried out and negative results were received almost two 
weeks later. At this point, the property was ready to be stripped out and dried, but the works 
couldnt go ahead while the tenant was still in the property. Ms K learned about the need for 
the tenant to move out at this point and arranged alternative accommodation from 4 July 
2019.
But Zurichs contractors then let Ms K know that the works couldnt start until the contents of 
the property were put into storage. So Mr Z made a complaint on her behalf, because he 
said they hadnt been told about this. Works therefore didnt start until 11 July 2019 when 
stripping out began.
Ms K asked whether it was possible the claim could be cash settled instead. Due to the 
ongoing issues and lack of progress updates, Ms K and Mr Z travelled to London to 
investigate what was happening with the claim. After some delay and confusion about which 
business should pay what, cash settlement was agreed at the end of July 2019. And a 
settlement for loss of rent was also paid. 
Ms K organised her own contractor to carry out the repair works and these were completed 
in late August 2019. She was unhappy with the way the claim had been handled, especially 
as she then experienced delays in getting her contractors VAT reimbursed.
Zurich looked into Ms Ks complaint. It acknowledged there had been communication issues 
with its contractors and that Ms K hadnt been told about the need to either arrange 
alternative accommodation or storage. It also acknowledged that thered been a delay in 
arranging the cash settlement. So it offered Ms K £300 compensation.
Ms K wasnt happy with Zurichs decision, so Mr Z asked us to look into her complaint. He 
said they thought an award of around £10,000 would be more appropriate. This took into 
account a number of points, including their time; number of calls; delays; stress; aggravation; 
Zurichs poor choice of contractor and the impact on Ms Ks summer holiday. Mr Z said Ms K 
had struggled with the stress and hassle. He also felt Zurich should pay for their travel expenses in coming to investigate the progress of the claim; for the interruption of Ms Ks 
summer holiday and the delays which had caused her to pay extra for alternative 
accommodation for the tenant.
Our investigator didnt think Ms Ks complaint should be upheld. She thought £300 was fair 
compensation for the service Ms K had received. She said we wouldnt look to punish 
businesses for each and every mistake. She thought it was likely Ms K wouldve always 
needed to travel to the property at some point to check the works had been properly 
completed. She explained that Zurich had said if Ms K provided evidence of other financial 
losses, it would consider these.
Mr Z disagreed with our investigator. He wanted the costs of all of the calls he and Ms K had 
made and their travel costs reimbursed. He also didnt think there was any remorse for the 
delays Ms K had experienced. He asked for an ombudsman to consider Ms Ks complaint. 
So its been passed to me to decide. 
 What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Having done so, I think £300 is fair 
compensation for the delays Ms K experienced in the handling of her claim. Ill explain why.
First, I need to make it clear that in this decision, Ive only considered the trouble and upset 
Ms K suffered and the costs she incurred. Thats because she is the policyholder. We dont 
generally make awards for the inconvenience of third parties or representatives.
Mr Z wanted Zurich to provide a breakdown showing how itd calculated its offer of 
compensation. Zurich made a global offer, taking into account all of the issues Ms K had 
experienced; their impact on her and her call costs etc. I think this was fair way to decide on 
an award of compensation. 
Ive thought carefully about the £300 compensation offer Zurich made. I too have considered 
it as a whole, but Id reassure Ms K that I have thought about each and every one of the 
points Mr Z made on her behalf in reaching my decision.
Zurich acknowledges there were issues in the way its contractors communicated with Ms K 
and how both it and the contractor handled the claim. I can see there were periods of 
avoidable delays  like not telling Ms K personally that the tenant would need to move out of 
the property, or that the contents would need to go into storage. That looks to have delayed 
the claim by about three weeks. I can understand why this mustve been frustrating for Ms K.
It also seems there was confusion about whether Zurich or its contractor was paying Ms Ks 
cash settlement; what the various settlement amounts were for and then delays in payment. 
I can appreciate that this further added to Ms Ks frustration, especially when she then 
needed to chase up payments that were due. 
But I also think some of the delays were unavoidable, such as waiting for the results of the 
asbestos test. Zurich needed to be sure the property was safe before works could be carried 
out. And while I know Mr Z disputes that the plaster needed to be stripped back; Ive looked 
at Zurichs contractors report. It seems the moisture readings in the walls were high. And the 
course of action it recommended was because it said this method of drying will allow a 
much shorter claim. I think the contractor did a thorough inspection. So I dont think stripping 
back the walls caused unnecessary delays. Ive also borne in mind that while this claim undoubtedly caused inconvenience to Ms K, she 
didnt need to move into alternative accommodation personally and so wasnt 
inconvenienced by this. Most claims will require some ongoing communication between a 
policyholder and an insurer, although I do acknowledge that Mr Z says Ms K needed to 
make lots of unnecessary calls. 
It seems it took almost three months between the water leak and the completion of the 
works. While this took longer than perhaps it needed to by around a couple of weeks, I do 
think much of the delay was unavoidable. And while I dont doubt the claim was stressful for 
Ms K, unfortunately, most claims do involve a level of stress and inconvenience. 
So I think £300 is fair compensation. I think this appropriately recognises the impact Zurichs 
handling of the claim had on Ms K. While Im sorry to hear this claim meant Ms K wasnt able 
to enjoy her holiday, I do think the compensation Zurich offered recognises the trouble and 
upset Ms K suffered and the cost of the calls she incurred.
As the investigator said, our role isnt to fine or punish businesses.  In this case, I think 
Zurich has recognised it made mistakes and has offered a fair settlement to put things right. 
Its broadly what I wouldve awarded Ms K if it hadnt already made an offer. So I wont be 
asking it to pay Ms K any more compensation.
Mr Z thinks the travel costs he and Ms K incurred in travelling to the property should be 
covered because they needed to check on the progress of the claim. I disagree. I think its 
likely Ms K would always have needed to check the repairs once they were done to confirm 
she was happy with them. So I think shed always have needed to travel to the property to 
do so and wouldve incurred these costs regardless of whether or not the repairs were 
delayed. But Zurich has said it will consider any other financial losses Ms K suffered if she 
provides evidence of those losses for it to consider. Its open to Ms K to get in touch with 
Zurich if she wants it to consider any further losses.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above, my final decision is that I dont uphold Ms Ks complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms K to accept or 
reject my decision before 14 May 2020.
Lisa Barham
Ombudsman