DRN-1971859
Complaint
Mr B complains that Greenlight Credit Ltd (trading as Varooma) unfairly provided him with 
six logbook loans. He says the loans were unaffordable.
Background
As far as I can see, Varooma provided Mr B with six logbook loans. The first was provided in 
February 2014 and was for £2,200.00. The last one was provided in January 2019 and was 
for £3,000.00. In the period between November 2014 and August 2017 Mr B was provided 
with four other loans. Three of them were for £2,000.00 and one was for £5,000.00. The 
repayment period ranged from 6 months to 18 months.  
One of our adjudicators reviewed Mr Bs complaint. And he explained why he thought 
reasonable and proportionate checks would have stopped Varooma from providing Mr B with 
loans two to six. Varooma disagreed and asked for an ombudsmans review. 
My findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. As well as setting out the main rules, 
regulations and good industry practice, weve explained how we handle complaints about 
unaffordable and/or irresponsible lending on our website. Ive used this approach to help me 
decide Mr Bs complaint. 
Having carefully considered everything Ive been provided with, Im upholding Mr Bs 
complaint. Id like to explain why.
Varooma will be aware that the various rules and regulations, in place at the respective 
times it lent to Mr B, all make it clear that the extent to which a lenders checks are 
proportionate will depend on the type of credit, the associated cost and the risks to the 
borrower bearing in mind their financial situation. 
Having reviewed everything provided done so, Ive seen the income and expenditure 
declaration which Varooma relied on for loan two seemed implausible bearing in mind what 
had been declared for loan one and Mr B felt the need to borrow so soon after loan one had 
been repaid. 
As Varooma was providing expensive credit and there was the potential for Mr B losing his 
car if he ran into difficulty making payments, I think that Varooma needed to get to the 
bottom of just why there was such a drastic difference in the disposable income declared for 
loan two (from that declared for loan one), in order for its checks to have been fair, 
reasonable and proportionate. I think it needed to do this by asking for Mr B to provide some 
evidence of his income and expenditure. 
I think if Varooma had done this for loans two to six it would have seen that Mr Bs actual 
expenditure significantly exceeded his income. And it was clear that Mr B was struggling to 
make ends meet. Indeed the extract of bank statements that Varooma appear to have taken from Mr B, for loans 5 and 6, suggest this, given the high overdraft balance being run. I also 
think such checks would more likely than not have shown that Mr Bs finances worsened as 
he continued borrowing from Varooma. So as Mr B couldnt sustainably repay what he 
already owed and his position was worsening, I think that he simply wasnt in any sort of 
financial position to repay any further borrowing.
Consequently, and having carefully considered everything provided, Im satisfied that 
Varooma unfairly provided loans two to six to Mr B. 
What Varooma should do to put things right
I think it would be fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of Mr Bs complaint for 
Varooma to put things right by:
refund all the interest and charges Mr B paid on loans two to six; 
 
adding interest at 8% per year simple on the interest and charges from the date they 
were paid by Mr B to the date of settlement;
 
removing any adverse information placed on Mr Bs credit file because of loan two;
 
removing all reference to loans three to six from Mr Bs credit file;
 
HM Revenue & Customs requires Varooma to take off tax from this interest. Varooma must 
give Mr B a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if he asks for one.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, Im upholding Mr Bs complaint. Greenlight Credit Ltd should 
put things right in the way set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, I am required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 31 July 2020.
Jeshen Narayanan
Ombudsman