DRN-4276538
The complaint
Mrs B complains about the way American Express Services Europe Limited (AESEL)  
trading as American Express handled a dispute about a transaction on her credit card.
What happened
The facts are well known to the parties so I am only going to cover these briefly and focus on 
giving reasons for my decision.
Mrs B used her AESEL card to purchase a piano and stand set. However, Mrs B says the 
stand was faulty and the supplier wasnt helpful. So she raised a dispute of £69.99 with 
AESEL for part of the purchase.
Mrs B says that AESEL did not handle things well. In summary, it asked her to send 
evidence already supplied and it also didnt give her certainty about the outcome of the 
chargeback.
The complaint about AESEL came to this service. Our investigator thought AESEL had 
acted reasonably, noting it got Mrs B the £69.99 refund through the chargeback scheme and 
paid her £25 compensation for it service failings.
Mrs B has asked for the matter to be looked at by an ombudsman.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I have looked at the evidence submitted by the parties but I wont be commenting on all of it - 
only what I consider central to this complaint. This isnt intended as a discourtesy but it 
reflects my role in resolving disputes informally.
I note in response to the view Mrs B has mentioned a dispute in relation to a different item (a 
camera). This doesnt appear to be part of this complaint and I understand will be dealt with 
separately. Therefore, I am not going to be commenting on it here. Here I will be looking at 
the acts or omissions of AESEL in relation to its handling of the dispute about the transaction 
for the piano and stand leading up to the point AESEL issued its Final Response Letter in 
December 2022.  
It is often good practice for a bank to raise a chargeback, even though the outcome of a 
chargeback isnt guaranteed. A chargeback will be governed by the particular rules of the 
chargeback scheme  in this case AMEX. I can see that AESEL raised a chargeback for Mrs 
B about her disappointment with the keyboard stand. And that it eventually closed the 
dispute in Mrs Bs favour.
AESEL ultimately achieved a positive outcome for Mrs B by getting the refund she wanted  
so I consider it reasonable to take that into account in deciding if it acted fairly. However, I do 
acknowledge that its service in handling the dispute could have been better. AESEL says it 
could have explained the status and progress of the dispute better  and I agree with this 
based on the correspondence I have seen. 
Mrs B says AESEL asked for information she had already provided it with, which would no 
doubt have been frustrating for her. Furthermore, I can see AESEL were not clear about the 
process and timeframe for confirming the credit as permanent (I note that although AESEL 
refers to upholding Mrs Bs dispute it also refers to a process where a reversal might occur). 
From what I understand the £69.99 credit AESEL applied in late 2022 (after the dispute was 
raised) has not been reversed to date and wont be as the merchant has run out of time for a 
response. It isnt unreasonable for AESEL not to have confirmed a permanent refund leading 
up to its Final Response in December 2022 if it wasnt able to due to the card scheme 
process running its course. However, I can see how AESEL not clearly explaining this 
process (and any relevant timeframes for confirming the refund) at the time would lead to a 
degree of unnecessary uncertainty and frustration going forward for Mrs B. 
In deciding what AESEL needs to do to put things right I have taken into account the impact 
on Mrs B but also note there will be a usually expected level of frustration and uncertainty 
with a disputes process like this in any event. And I also note that AESEL did get the money 
back for Mrs B and write to apologise to Mrs B for its service failings  this seemed sincere. 
In the circumstances although £25 is not a large award I dont consider it reasonable to 
direct AESEL to pay Mrs B more.
I note part of what Mrs B wants to put things right is an assurance from AESEL that her 
emails will be answered in the future and measures put in place to ensure the complaints 
and disputes team are on the same page. I cant direct the business to change its 
commercial procedures nor is it realistic for me to direct it to do things that will guarantee 
errors wont be made going forward. Hopefully, AESEL will have taken note of any feedback 
and in future things will go more smoothly. However, Mrs B is not prevented from 
complaining to AESEL about matters going forward should she have cause.
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs B to accept or 
reject my decision before 20 October 2023.
 
Mark Lancod
Ombudsman