DRN-2606203
The complaint
Mr F and Mrs V complain that Santander UK Plc gave Mrs V incorrect advice about a loan 
over payment option.
What happened
Mrs V says she spoke to Santander in January 2018 and was told she couldnt increase the 
direct debit amount for the loan repayment. She says she was later told that was incorrect 
and if given the option, would have increased the amount of the loan direct debit. Mrs V says 
that overpayment would have reduced the amount she owed and would like Santander to 
recalculate how much she could have paid and refund the extra interest.
Santander accepts that Mrs V was given incorrect information during the January 2018 
telephone call. But it says its advisor did tell Mrs V she could make overpayments if she 
wished and no overpayments were made by her. Santander has paid £50 compensation for 
the incorrect information.
Mrs V had brought her complaint to us and our investigator didnt uphold it. The investigator 
accepted Mrs V had been given incorrect information, but that Santander had paid a fair and 
reasonable amount of compensation. The investigator thought Mrs V could have still made 
the overpayments but didnt.
Mrs V doesnt accept that view and maintains she could have made a significant 
overpayment and doesnt think it fair to expect her to have made the repayments herself 
each month. She also says Santander paid her the £50 and didnt give her any option about 
accepting or declining it.
 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I have come to the overall view that Santander has dealt fairly with this 
complaint and I dont require it to do anything further in the circumstances of it. I realise Mrs 
V will be disappointed by my decision.
There is no dispute here that Santander gave Mrs V incorrect information during the call 
between the parties in 2018 about the direct debit amount. I accept Mrs V was caused 
inconvenience and some distress by later finding out that information was incorrect. But Im 
satisfied Santander has apologised and paid what I think is a fair and reasonable 
compensation amount of £50.
The key issue is the advice about the amount of the direct debit and the effect of the 
incorrect advice. And Im satisfied that although Santander told Mrs V, she couldnt increase 
the direct debit amount, it did tell her that she could make overpayments if she wished by 
calling it. So, I think Mrs V had the option of making overpayments if she wished. And whilst I 
accept that a direct debit payment would have been easier for her, I find that Mrs V could 
have made those overpayments each month if she wished to do so. So, it follows that I dont 
think Santander should recalculate the loan and I cant fairly hold it responsible for the fact 
that Mrs V didnt make any overpayments despite being given the option for doing so.
I have looked carefully at Santanders letter to Mrs V in September 2019 about her 
complaint. I accept Santander told her it was paying her £50 compensation, but it also told 
her she could bring any complaint to us. So, I dont think it matters that Mrs V wasnt given 
an option about accepting the payment and I dont think Santander acted unfairly by sending 
her the money. 
Overall, I accept Mrs V was given incorrect information. But that mistake didnt stop or 
prevent her from making loan overpayments if she wished to do so.
 
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr F and Mrs V to 
accept or reject my decision before 29 March 2021.
 
David Singh
Ombudsman