DRN-2871298
The complaint
Mr M complains that Admiral Insurance Company Limited unfairly recorded a late payment 
on his credit file.
What happened
Mr M took out a motor insurance policy with Admiral in May 2020. The premium was due to 
be paid in twelve instalments. Mr M made the first payment manually, and set up a direct 
debit to make the remaining payments, which were due on the first of each month. But the 
payment due on 1 July 2020 was reversed on 3 July. 
Admirals records show that the payment was rejected because Mr Ms direct debit 
instruction had been cancelled. It wrote to Mr M on the day the payment was reversed, 
telling him that it no longer had a live direct debit instruction for his payments, and asking 
him to set up a new one.
Mr M made the payment manually three days after that. But he was disappointed to discover 
subsequently that the payment was recorded on his credit file as a late payment. 
Mr M contacted Admiral and explained that the payment hadnt gone through owing to an 
oversight on his part. He explained that this was due to a bereavement involving a close 
relative. Admiral suggested that Mr M contact the credit reference agency. But the late 
payment has remained on Mr Ms record. Mr M would like Admiral to remove the late 
payment on compassionate grounds.
One of our investigators considered Mr Ms complaint, but she didnt think it should be 
upheld. In brief, she said she sympathised with Mr M, and understood that hed been 
through a very distressing and difficult experience. But she couldnt reasonably ask Admiral 
to remove the late payment marker, as it had been registered correctly. She explained that 
Mr M could put a notice of correction on his credit file, explaining the circumstances 
surrounding the late payment. This would be visible to any potential future creditors.
Mr M wasnt happy with the investigators view, so the complaint has been passed to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In response to the investigators view, Mr M has told us he doesnt understand how Admirals 
action in recording the late payment marker can be deemed to be reasonable. Hes pointed 
out that hed lost a very close relative. And he says hed only taken out the insurance the 
previous month. He considers that a reasonable company would accept that it was a one-off, 
and wouldnt happen again. And he says he hasnt missed any payments since. 
Mr M says that when he took the insurance out, he told Admiral that he was under extreme 
stress due to the bereavement, so it was aware of his situation. And he says didnt receive 
any communication from Admiral to tell him hed missed the payment, so he didnt know. 
When considering a case of this type, its useful to explain to begin with that banks and 
financial services companies have an obligation to provide credit reference agencies with 
information on how customers accounts are managed. This is because other businesses 
may rely on that information when it comes to making credit decisions. This includes 
information on late and missed payments.
I was sorry to read about Mr Ms bereavement. I fully understand that following the death of 
a close relative, there is a lot to deal with. And I appreciate that its possible to overlook 
payments and other tasks that, in normal circumstances, would have been dealt with on 
time. I can also see that the late payment marker doesnt reflect how he ordinarily runs the 
account. But that doesnt mean the information on the credit file is wrong. 
It isnt clear to my why Mr Ms direct debit instruction was cancelled. But the cancellation 
wasnt Admirals responsibility. And by the time the direct debit payment was reversed, the 
instalment was already late. I appreciate that Mr M had a considerable amount to deal with 
at the time, but the fact remains that the payment wasnt made on time. So the late payment 
marker accurately reflects what happened, and it wouldnt be right for me to require Admiral 
to change that, even bearing in mind Mr Ms circumstances. 
Im sorry to disappoint Mr M. I realise that this isnt the answer he was hoping for. But its still 
open to him to ask the credit reference agency to add a notice of correction to his file to 
explain why he made the payment late. If he does so, anyone seeing the notice will be able 
to take his circumstances at the time into account.
My final decision
My decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 8 September 2021.
 
Juliet Collins
Ombudsman