DRN-3222381
The complaint
Mr O has complained about the way Vitality Life Limited (Vitality) dealt with his claim. 
 
What happened
Mr O had an income protection insurance policy, underwritten by Vitality. This would pay a 
benefit if Mr O was unable to work due to illness or injury after a deferred (waiting) period of 
one month. 
In September 2020, Mr O sustained an injury and wasnt able to work for a number of 
weeks. Vitality made payment to Mr O in January 2021 and he complained about the delay. 
He also complained about the amount of benefit he received as he was off work for a full 
seven weeks and had to borrow money from family. 
Vitality looked into the complaint and accepted that it had delayed in assessing Mr Os 
complain but didnt think it had incorrectly paid the claim as no payment was due during the 
deferred period.
Mr O referred his complaint to this service. Our investigator looked into the complaint and 
found that Vitality had delayed the claim. She also didnt think it needed to verify the 
evidence Mr O had provided and recommended £200 compensation.
Vitality disagreed and said it had an internal process where verification of medical evidence 
was required if the evidence was provided directly by a customer. 
And so the case has been passed to me to decide. 
  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I issued a provisional decision on 2 December 2021. Neither party has provided any new or 
additional information and so I see no reason to depart from my earlier conclusions which I 
have set out in full in this decision. 
The relevant industry rules say an insurer must handle claims promptly and fairly and 
shouldnt unreasonably reject a claim. 
The policy confirms when Vitality will start paying a claim:
Your benefit will be due at the end of your deferred period. Your plan schedule 
shows the deferred period that applies to your plan.
The plan schedule confirms a deferred period of one month.
Ive set out the key dates below:
Timeline
24 September 2020  Mr O called to register his claim.
23 October  Mr O called to follow up.
27 October  Vitality acknowledged the claim and confirmed the deferred period was one 
month. It asked Mr O for evidence and confirmed it could also ask for additional information 
to validate the claim.
5 November  Vitality confirmed receipt of evidence from Mr O including a letter from a 
hospital.
16 November - Vitality confirmed the claim was being assessed which would take 10-14 
working days.
20 November - Mr O chased Vitality. It responded on 24 November to say the claim was with 
the management team for review. Mr O replied and asked for contact details for the 
management team. 
27 November - Vitality attempted to call Mr O but it went to voicemail. It sent an email 
confirming there werent any direct contact details but asked him to email or call. Mr O 
emailed again and said he hadnt had any money or updates and it had now been 22 days. 
30 November  Vitality emailed Mr O and said it had tried to call him. It asked him to call 
back to further assess the claim. 
7 December  Mr O called Vitality. It said it needed to verify the hospital letter which Mr O 
had provided. It confirmed it had contacted the hospital on 4 December but with no success 
and would try to contact the hospital again.
Mr O called for further updates on 10, 11 and 14 December. 
14 December  Mr O emailed to express his dissatisfaction and called again on 16 and 17 
December to ask for the name of the doctor it was verifying the evidence with. But Vitality 
said it didnt have a name.
21 December  Vitality called the hospital again. It was given an email address to write to. 
29 December  Mr O called again for an update. 
30 December  Vitality called and emailed the hospital and received the verification it 
required.
5 January 2021  Vitality confirmed the claim would be paid from 21 October 2020 to 8 
November 2020 as Mr O returned to work on 9 November. On 13 January 2021, the claim 
was paid. 
Vitality says it has an internal process which confirms that any medical evidence provided 
directly from a customer needs to be verified by the hospital or doctor. And for this reason, it 
verified the evidence provided by Mr O. Vitality also said it had made an overpayment by mistake. It had paid £676.71 benefit 
instead of £582.02 but hadnt asked for the difference to be paid back. It accepts it delayed 
in requesting verification from the hospital but says the overpayment of £94.69 is sufficient 
for this. 
Our investigator said Vitality shouldnt have had concerns about the letter provided by Mr O 
and said there was no need for it to contact the hospital for verification. But I disagree. Its 
usual industry practice for medical evidence to be verified before an insurance claim is paid. 
And so I dont think it was unreasonable for Vitality to verify the evidence provided by Mr O. 
This doesnt form part of the terms of Mr Os policy and doesnt need to be included. It is part 
of Vitalitys internal process which isnt something I can interfere with. 
Having said that, I can consider whether the delays were unavoidable and whether this had 
an impact on Mr O. I havent seen any evidence that Vitality tried to contact the hospital to 
verify the hospital letter sooner than December 2020. I think if Vitality had been more 
proactive in doing so earlier on, its likely it would have received confirmation from the 
hospital at an earlier point and Mr Os claim would have been paid sooner. As a result of 
Vitalitys delays, Mr O had to chase for updates a number of times which caused him 
unnecessary stress and inconvenience. So Ive considered whether the overpayment of 
£94.69 is sufficient.
Its clear that Mr O was feeling stressed due to the number of times he chased Vitality, as set 
out above. Vitality told Mr O the assessment of the claim would take up to 14 working days. 
It received the evidence on 5 November and so 14 working days from then would be 24 
November 2020. But it took a further 6 weeks from this point to give Mr O an answer. For 
this length of time and the number of times Mr O chased, I think a total payment of around 
£200 compensation would be appropriate. As Vitality made an overpayment of £94.69, I 
think a further £100 would be appropriate in this case. 
Mr O is also unhappy at the amount of benefit he received. He says he was off for seven 
weeks but only got paid for two weeks. Ive considered Mr Os policy terms which confirm 
benefit is payable after the deferred period of one month. This means no benefit would be 
payable for the first month. In this case, Vitality calculated the benefit after one month, up 
until Mr O went back to work, and Im satisfied these were the correct dates based on the 
policy terms.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I uphold this complaint and direct Vitality Life Limited to pay 
Mr O £100 compensation. 
  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr O to accept or 
reject my decision before 17 January 2022.
 
Shamaila Hussain
Ombudsman