DRN-4221890
The complaint
As trustee of his Small Self-Administered Scheme (SSAS), Mr F complains that Organic 
Investment Management (OIM) an appointed representative of Gallium Fund Solutions 
Limited (Gallium) unsuitably advised him to switch the discretionary managed part of his 
pension portfolio to a Gallium portfolio. This went on to lose money. 
What happened
Mr F had a personal pension with ReAssure. He had turned 55 in January 2014. At that point 
he established a SSAS with Cantwell Grove on advice from a third party which is likely  
from my wider knowledge of such cases  to have been an unregulated firm. In early 2014 
he also completed pension transfer forms and returned these to ReAssure, but his transfer 
was delayed by due diligence checks ReAssure was carrying out into pension liberation. On 
17 December 2014 £42,850 was transferred and the SSAS then appears to have paid 25% 
tax-free cash out to Mr F.
Another regulated firm (Ill refer to this as B) provided advice to Mr F on an unregulated 
property development to include in his SSAS alongside its discretionary managed portfolio. 
In September 2014 Mr F instructed Cantwell Grove to invest £13,882 into a Cape Verde 
investment offered by The Resort Group and £14,099 into Bs discretionary portfolio. These 
instructions werent carried out until January 2015 and March 2015 respectively, with the rest 
left in the SSAS bank account.
Almost straight away, and it seems in common with other individuals at that time who had 
originally invested through B, Mr F signed a further instruction letter on 1 April 2015, 
requesting that Cantwell Grove invest the full proceeds from Bs discretionary portfolio plus 
further cash from the SSAS bank account into Galliums discretionary portfolio. The letter 
also said:
Prior to issuing this letter I [Mr F] have obtained and considered investment advice from
Organic however recognise that they have only considered my proposed investment with
them.
OIM wrote to Mr F to confirm that £13,995 had been invested into the Gallium discretionary 
portfolio on 27 April 2015. Mr F had signed a handwritten application form with Avalon 
branding on 1 April (the unchanged details of which were subsequently copied across to a 
typed Gallium application form on the same date). This indicated that he wanted a medium 
low risk investment approach (the second of four categories where the others were low, 
medium high and higher), for an investment term of more than ten years. He expected to 
invest into the Organic Growth model portfolio. The application form also noted:
Gallium will act as the provider of the portfolio management service, on advice from 
Organic. As set out in the terms and conditions, we intend to appoint Organic to replace 
Gallium as discretionary portfolio manager once Organic becomes authorised and regulated 
by the FCA to carry out such activities.
The OIM terms and conditions document referenced above noted:
Before completing an application form each client will be required to undergo a Risk Profile
and Suitability Assessment where we assess each client's suitability for our different
products The portfolios may not be suitable for all investors and Organic will perform
suitability checks on all clients prior to provision of management services.
OIM ceased being an appointed presentative of Gallium on 4 January 2016 when it became
directly authorised by the FCA, and my understanding is that it then took over the 
management of the portfolio directly. The value of the OIM account as of April 2016 was 
£14,846, i.e. more than the initial investment. And I havent been able to find any evidence 
that this value resulted from any additional transfers into the discretionary portfolio. 
Cantwell Grove later wrote to investors on 11 December 2018, saying that OIM had lost its 
regulatory permissions to be able to manage the portfolio. It subsequently confirmed that 
another firm had been appointed by the FCA to oversee the OIM portfolio, and that firm 
would also be writing directly to investors to offer advice about its suitability as well. 
OIM later went into liquidation and Im aware that investors in some of OIMs portfolios 
suffered significant losses. From what I can see that may not necessarily apply to Mr F  the 
values of the portfolio seems to have continued to rise. Although being hit by COVID in 
2020, it reached £17,710 in 2021. However my understanding is that Organics demise has 
raised concerns amongst investors, including Mr F, about whether its portfolio was suitable 
for them in the first place  which began when it was managed by Gallium.
What our investigator concluded 
On the merits of Mr Fs complaint against Gallium, the investigator concluded that no 
evidence had been presented to back up his representatives assertions that Gallium was 
responsible for the transfer of Mr Fs ceding pension to the SSAS or his decision to invest in 
The Resort Group, or Bs original portfolio.
The alleged evidence of Galliums involvement in recommending the switch from Bs 
portfolio to a Gallium portfolio consisted of:
- The application form for the Gallium portfolio, which included a disclaimer stating that 
Mr F hadnt received any advice from OIM about the suitability of the portfolio.
- The separate letter (which seems to have been pre-prepared) signed by Mr F stating 
that he had obtained and considered investment advice from OIM. 
The investigator also noted that unregulated introducers (one in particular appears in 
ReAssures papers) had been active behind the scenes, particularly when the SSAS was 
originally taken out. That provided another possible reason for why Mr F was prompted to 
initiate a switch from Bs portfolio to Galliums. On balance, he wasnt satisfied the limited 
evidence available showed that OIM (or Gallium) contacted or advised Mr F to switch from 
one discretionary provider to the other. 
Neither party responded to the investigators view, but Mr Fs representative has said that 
this was because it was still awaiting instructions from Mr F (who had, earlier this year, 
actively supplied it with further information). It wished the case to be passed to an 
ombudsman to protect his right to a final decision if he was dissatisfied.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr Fs representative has requested this decision without providing any further evidence or 
arguments for me to consider. Mr F seems to have provided all the paperwork he has and I 
would expect his representative, having established the nature of the background to this 
complaint when it took on Mr F as a client, to be able to respond to the investigators view on 
his behalf. There appears to be no other evidence it can provide of Galliums alleged 
involvement in recommending a switch from Bs portfolio than that which Ive bulleted 
above.
Theres a difference between on the one hand, recommending that Mr F switch discretionary 
providers, or even recommending that he use Gallium in particular  and on the other, 
checking that his SSAS was suitable for Galliums services and that its funds would be 
invested appropriately. Galliums terms and conditions indicated that it would be doing the 
latter, and Im satisfied that was what it did in this case. Managing investments with 
discretion is not the same as advising the client to make those investments, which is why 
Gallium made disclaimers to Mr F that it was not providing advice in that sense.
The letter Mr F signed to say hed taken advice from OIM is quite clearly pre-prepared, most 
likely by Cantwell Grove  or another party that was aware Mr F had to take advice on such 
investments in order to comply with the obligations on him as a SSAS trustee. That doesnt 
mean that Gallium is bound by the content of a letter it (or OIM) wasnt a party to. In any 
event, the letter doesnt say that OIM had advised Mr F to switch from Bs portfolio to its 
own. It says that OIM have only considered my proposed investment with them. So, I 
dont find this letter inconsistent with the wider evidence.
Turning to the checks Galliums terms and conditions said it would carry out, Im aware that 
Mr F said on his Gallium application form that he had no experience of trading personally, 
and had no significant assets other than his pension. However neither of those were a bar to 
Gallium accepting him, as a SSAS trustee, as a client for discretionary management 
services. 
I think Gallium was entitled to take into account that Mr F had had a need within his pension 
scheme to make other investments alongside the property investment he held, so that he 
wasnt reliant on a single asset. Noting, of course, that Gallium wasnt responsible for the 
suitability of the Cape Verde investment. He was also expecting ongoing income from that 
investment which could be reinvested. Gallium would have been mindful that he was a 
trustee of an occupational pension scheme and had a responsibility to ensure it was 
invested. 
The scheme provider, Cantwell Grove, was not itself authorised to provide regulated 
investments. Mr F needed to locate a provider for those investments within the scheme, and 
he was seeking to change from the provider he was already using. On balance, and given its 
lack of advisory role I couldnt fairly say it was for Gallium to assess Mr Fs need for an 
occupational pension, or the background to why hed established it in the first place.
Ive gone on to consider whether the investments Gallium employed were consistent with the 
medium low risk mandate selected by Mr F. Im aware that in both April 2015 and April 2016 
(at around the time OIM took over directly), the portfolio was still invested 80% in exchange 
traded funds tracking European and US government bonds  although the precise make-up 
did vary over time. Again, given that these were snapshots of a portfolio that was changing 
in relation to market movements, I couldnt fairly say this was inconsistent with the broad risk 
level selected. 
By October 2016, that same government bondholding had dropped to only 20% (with another 8% in corporate bonds). The largest component was now shares in the US, UK, 
Europe, Asia and emerging markets  totalling about 50%, with the rest made up of cash 
and physical gold. 
Clearly there were some market movements as a result of the UK Brexit vote, and I do not 
know if OIM reassessed Mr Fs attitude to risk when it took over the portfolio. But if Mr F 
considers that he would have achieved more growth than he did had these changes not 
been made, I havent found grounds to conclude that Gallium was responsible for that. OIM 
was now managing the portfolio itself when these changes were made
My final decision
I do not uphold Mr Fs complaint and make no award.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr F to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 July 2023.
 
Gideon Moore
Ombudsman