DRN-1482672
The complaint
Mrs Ps complaint is about the refurbishment charges Lex Autolease Ltd applied at the end 
of her hire agreement.
What happened
Mrs P entered into a hire agreement with Lex Autolease and at the end of the agreement the 
car was collected, and an inspection was carried out. Mrs P was then charged over £1,000 
for damage to the car. Following her complaint, two damage charges were removed, and 
Lex Autolease also offered as a gesture of goodwill to reduce the outstanding balance by 
50% leaving Mrs P liable for charges totalling £442.
Our investigator looked at the damage that had been reported and thought that the charges 
were fairly applied aside from the dent to the door (LHF). However, she noted that as this 
charge was for £43 and Lex Autolease had confirmed its offer to reduce the balance by 50%, 
she thought it had done enough to settle this complaint.
Mrs P didnt agree with our investigators view. She that the photographs evidencing the 
damage werent taken at her property and that when the car was collected it was in perfect 
condition. She said that she had repairs carried out before collection to prevent any further 
charges being applied. She challenged whether the damage shown was to her car.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mrs P entered into a hire agreement with Lex Autolease and in doing so agreed to be bound 
by its terms. These included that the car would be properly maintained and that any damage 
would be made good however caused. The return conditions explained that the car must be 
returned in a reasonable condition for its age and mileage.
At the end of the agreement the car was collected. Lex Autolease has explained that the 
collection agent will do an initial inspection but then a full inspection will take place in line 
with the industry guidelines. In this case the car was collected from Mrs Ps address on 3 
September and delivered around an hour later to the inspection location. I note Mrs P 
comments about issues not being raised at collection, however the inspection report records 
several areas of damage noted at collection and I accept that the damage charges will be 
based on the results of the full inspection.  
The British Vehicle Rental and Leasing Association (BVRLA) has produced industry 
guidance to help determine what fair wear and tear is. Lex Autolease has confirmed the 
inspection took place in line with these guidelines and I have considered the damage 
reported in light of these guidelines. 
The inspection noted several areas of damage. As two of the damage charges were 
removed by Lex Autolease in its final response letter, I have only considered the remaining 
charges. These are recorded as:
Door LHF  dented
Wheel LHR  corroded
Door RHF  scratched
Door shut inner (LHR, RHF, RHR)  dented
The BVRLA guidelines set out that dents of 15 mm or less are acceptable if there are no 
more than two per panel and the paint hasnt been broken. Scratches of 25 mm or less, 
where the primer or base metal isnt showing, are acceptable if they can be polished out. 
Rust or corrosion isnt acceptable.
I have looked at the photographs provided and can see the corrosion on the wheel. I can 
also see that the scratch on the door is more than 25 mm and that the paint is broken on the 
three inner door dents. I accept that this damage falls outside of the fair wear and tear 
guidelines, so I dont find that Lex Autolease did anything wrong by applying these charges.
Our investigator challenged the dent to the door LHF as she didnt think the photograph 
clearly showed the dent to be larger than 15 mm. Lex Autolease said the charge had been 
applied fairly. I have looked at the photographs and the dent is clearly visible, however 
based on the photographs provided it isnt clear that the dent is larger than 15 mm.
Mrs P has suggested that the photographs showing the damage are not of her car. I have 
considered this comment however given the number plate matches that of her vehicle and 
the other features appear the same, I find that without further evidence to the contrary I 
accept that the photographs provided are of her car. 
Overall, as the photographs show damage that falls outside of the fair wear and tear 
guidelines, I do not find that Lex Autolease has done anything by applying charges. While 
there is dispute over the charge for the dent to the door, given Lex Autolease has confirmed 
its offer to reduce the charges by 50%, I find this a fair resolution to this complaint.
My final decision
My final decision is that Lex Autolease should, as it has offered, reduce the charges Mrs P is 
liable for to £442.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs P to accept or 
reject my decision before 4 September 2020. 
Jane Archer
Ombudsman