DRN-2144104
The complaint
Miss J complains that her hard drive was damaged, and her data was lost while her laptop 
was being repaired following a claim to Domestic & General Insurance Plc under her gadget 
insurance policy.
What happened
Miss J had insurance for her laptop with D&G. On 13 May 2020 she made a claim, 
explaining her laptop wouldnt operate for longer than five minutes without being plugged in. 
D&G accepted the claim and the laptop was collected to be repaired by its repair agent.
On 21 May, Miss J asked D&G for an update and was told the repair agent had identified a 
fault with the hard drive, so it had been replaced and that there was no data on there as the 
hard drive was at fault.
Miss J said she thought the problem with the laptop was an issue with the battery and could 
not understand why the hard drive had been replaced. And she was told that, no matter what 
repair was being carried out, a full reset was always done, hence the recommendation that 
all files are backed up on a regular basis. Miss J complained to D&G explaining shed I lost 
10 years worth of data, some of which had sentimental value.
D&G accepted its agent should have advised that if the fault was the battery alone it would 
be returned unrepaired and offered £5 compensation for this. But it didnt accept it was 
responsible for the loss of any data. It explained its engineers had found faults with both the 
battery and the hard drive. They didnt wipe any data from the hard drive and Miss J had 
given instructions for the laptop to be returned unrepaired. It explained terms and conditions 
of the policy advised the policyholder to back up data before any repairs and Miss J was 
asked to back up any data before sending it away.  
Miss J wasnt satisfied and so she complained to this service. She said that if shed been 
told the policy didnt provide cover for batteries, she wouldnt have sent the laptop to be 
repaired and her data wouldnt have been lost. She felt the repair agent should have 
contacted her to discuss the proposed repairs before going ahead, and she hadnt thought to 
back up her data due to the nature of the fault. She said there wasnt an issue with the hard 
drive before she sent it to be repaired and it must have been damaged in transit. She wants 
D&G to cover the cost of having her data restored, explaining the lost information had 
sentimental value and this has impacted her health.
Our investigator didnt agree the call handler should have told Miss J the claim wasnt 
covered because the cause of the problem wouldnt have been confirmed as a problem with 
the battery until the laptop was inspected. 
She didnt think it was unreasonable for the repair agent to have gone ahead with the repair 
without discussing it with Miss J, and she didnt think they were responsible for the data loss. 
She explained the policy set out the need to back up any data and she accepted Miss J had 
been given a reminder to back up her data before handing in the device for repair. She felt it 
was impossible to know if the laptop had been damaged in transit, but the repair agent said 
theyd found a hard drive fault and there was nothing to suggest this was a result of some 
sort of impact. 
She noted Miss J had said the laptop didnt start on the first attempt, but the repair agent had 
confirmed theyd discontinued the repair at her request, so she didnt think D&G was 
responsible for any remaining faults.
Miss J wasnt satisfied and has asked for her complaint to be reviewed by an ombudsman. 
Shes said she wasnt told to back up the laptop before giving it to the courier and she didn't 
think of backing it up because there was a problem with the battery.
She said the hard drive was working before she sent it to be repaired and the repair agent 
should have called her to discuss the proposed repairs. She also said D&Gs call handler 
should have told her the policy didnt provide cover for battery issues and D&Gs handling of 
the claim and subsequent data loss has caused her to suffer depression.
Miss J has been advised by a professional IT person that the hard drive could have been 
damaged in transit leading to a mechanical failure and if the repair agent had repaired the 
original hard drive, they would have been able to reinstall all her data. She believes the 
repair agent only removed the original hard drive because theyd damaged it.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Miss Js said that if shed been told the policy didnt provide cover for battery faults, she 
wouldnt have sent her laptop in to be repaired. I dont think its unreasonable to expect the 
agent to have given Miss J some information about what the policy would or wouldnt cover, 
but I dont think Miss J would have done anything differently because until a diagnostic 
report was done, the exact nature of the fault was unknown.
Miss J maintains there were no problems with the hard drive when she sent it to be repaired. 
But the repair agent has explained that when its engineer switched the laptop on, he found 
two faults  one with the battery (which wasnt replaced because it wasnt covered), and one 
with the hard drive, which would not work at all. I understand Miss J didnt know there was a 
problem with the hard drive when she sent the laptop to be repaired, but the available 
evidence suggests the problem already existed when it was received by the repair agent. 
Further, theres no evidence to suggest the laptop was damaged in transit and, while Miss J 
thought there was a problem with the battery, its possible the problem was linked to an 
issue with the hard drive, which only became parent when the laptop was inspected. 
Consequently, I dont accept the laptop was damaged while in transit, or by the repair agent.
In any event, the repair agent has confirmed its engineer didnt wipe the hard drive because 
they couldnt access it as it was faulty, so all they did was remove it and send it back to  
Miss J. In those circumstances I think its unlikely the engineers actions would have caused 
any data loss. The repair agent has explained the original hard drive wasnt wiped and so if 
Miss J wants to pay to see if the data can be restored, shes free to do so. 
Miss J thinks the repair agent should have called her to discuss the proposed repair, but 
D&G has explained they werent required to do this. Shes said she didnt backup her data 
due to the nature of the fault, but Im satisfied she was clearly warned on more than one 
occasion to backup and clear all her personal data before sending the laptop to be repaired. So, I think it was reasonable for the repair agent to have gone ahead and removed the faulty 
hard drive. 
The repair agent has confirmed that before its engineer had downloaded a new operating 
system onto the new hard drive, they were asked to put the old hard drive back into the 
laptop and send it back unrepaired. So, I cant hold it responsible for the ongoing problems 
Miss Js reported.  
I understand Miss J is distressed about the potential loss of her data, but I cant fairly hold 
D&G responsible for this and so I wont be asking to do anything else.
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss J to accept or 
reject my decision before 20 January 2021.
 
Carolyn Bonnell
Ombudsman