DRN-2248882
The complaint
Miss S complained because Capital One (Europe) plc refused her request for a lower 
interest rate on her credit card.
What happened
Miss S had a credit card with Capital One, which shed opened in February 2011. The 
agreement she signed had an APR rate of 34.94%.
In 2020, Miss S read an article about getting a cheaper interest rate on her credit card. On 
14 August, she asked Capital One to reduce hers. Capital One said it couldnt do that, but 
offered to support her by setting up a repayment plan. Miss S complained.
In its final response to Miss Ss complaint, Capital One said that the interest rate hadnt 
changed since Miss S had opened her account, and shed agreed to this in the terms and 
conditions. It said it wasnt able to reduce this rate. Capital One explained that interest was 
calculated daily, based on the balance of the account. It only refunded interest if it had been 
added incorrectly. Capital One provided contact details and suggested Miss S should get in 
touch if she was struggling to make payments. It also provided details of debt charities.
Miss S wasnt satisfied and complained to this service. She was unhappy that Capital One 
had refused to negotiate, and said that she felt Capital One should be investigated. She 
explained that she wasnt in financial difficulty, but that she had a good credit rating and felt 
Capital One should reduce her rate to reflect that.
The investigator didnt uphold Miss Ss complaint. He explained that businesses are 
expected to be positive and sympathetic towards customers who said they were in financial 
difficulties. Hed listened to the call recordings between Miss S and Capital one. But when 
Capital One had asked Miss S if she was in financial difficulties, shed said she could make 
the repayments and didnt want any negative impact on her credit file. 
Miss S didnt accept the investigators view. She said that Capital One was bullying, not 
ethical, and not empathetic, and she asked for an ombudsmans decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive checked the application form which Miss S signed on 9 February 2011. Under the 
section about interest rates, this says:
The standard interest rates that we will charge you are:
Standard purchases rate: an effective rate of 34.94% (variable) from the date of debiting a 
transaction to your account until repayment
Standard balance transfers rate: an effective rate of 34.94% (variable) until repayment
Standard cash withdrawals rate: an effective rate of 34.94% (variable )from the date of 
debiting a transaction to your account until repayment. 
Miss S signed the agreement, which is on the same page as this information about the 
interest rates. So she agreed to the rate charged.  
The wording on the agreement provides for the interest rate to be varied, but Ive seen no 
evidence that Capital One had changed the rate. The provision in the agreement for the rate 
to be variable doesnt mean that the customer was entitled to a reduction in rate when they 
asked for one.
Capital One said it has a policy not to amend interest rates for individual customers. Thats a 
business decision, and its not the role of this service to say what policies or business 
decisions a financial organisation must follow. Its the role of the Financial Conduct Authority 
to regulate financial organisations.
I note that on one of the phone calls to Capital One, Miss S said that because Capital One 
refused to reduce her rate, it was discriminating against her because she was a woman. The 
call handler said hed give the same answer about rates to any account holder. Ive seen no 
evidence that Capital One refused to reduce Miss Ss rate because she was a woman, or 
that it had reduced the interest rate for male account holders in similar circumstances to 
hers.
Financial businesses do have a responsibility to be positive and sympathetic to those in 
financial difficulty. Ive also borne in mind the particular issues relating to the pandemic of 
2020. But Capital One said, in its final response and in phone calls, that if Miss S was 
struggling with financial difficulties, she could get in touch to discuss options  for example 
about payment holidays. But Miss S has repeatedly said, both to Capital One and to this 
service, that she isnt experiencing financial difficulties. She also said that she has a very 
good credit rating and doesnt want any options which might affect this.
So I find that Capital One fulfilled its responsibilities to be positive and sympathetic if a 
consumer has financial difficulties. It doesnt have to reduce a contractually agreed interest 
rate because an account holder asks to have a lower rate. And ultimately if Miss S feels that 
Capital Ones interest rates arent competitive, she can take her business to another 
provider.
Finally, Miss S said that said that because Capital One refused to reduce her interest rate, it 
was bullying, not ethical, and not empathetic. Ive seen no evidence to support this.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss S to accept 
or reject my decision before 12 December 2020.
 
Belinda Knight
Ombudsman