DRN-2901833
The complaint
Mr N complains Acromas Insurance Company Limited have turned down his claim unfairly
on the Parts and Garage Cover (PGC) element of his roadside assistance policy.
Other companies have been involved in this complaint, but as Acromas are responsible for it
Ive just referred to them in this decision.
What happened
In May 2021 I issued my provisional decision, setting out whatd happened in this complaint, 
and what I thought about that. 
On 15 February 2020 Mr Ns car broke down and was taken to a specialist garage. On
20 February 2020 Mr N says he was contacted by the garage and told all four of the injectors
in his car were faulty and would need replacing. As a result of this, the following day, he
purchased replacements. On 27 February 2020 Mr N received a report to confirm what he
says hed been told, which is the injectors were faulty. Mr N understood the garage owner to
be experienced in dealing with Acromas, so trusted him to submit a claim under his PGC. If
Acromas have attended Mr Ns car, then the PGC can provide cover for damaged items
subject to the policy terms.
The claim was turned down, as Acromas saw a discrepancy in the date of the purchase of
the injectors, and the date of the report confirming they were an issue. Mr N says he tried to
explain this to Acromas, but they wouldnt listen to him.
Acromas replied to the complaint and explained in their policy terms it says if Mr N, or
someone acting on his behalf, have knowingly misrepresented the claim, then they may
refuse to pay the claim. Acromas said the dates dont match the information provided by the
garage  and the injectors were bought on 21 February, but they werent told until
24 February. They said this added to the inconsistencies and that theyd acted fairly.
Unhappy with this, Mr N asked us to look into things and provided a letter from the garage.
The letter explained they suspected the injectors were faulty, tested them and confirmed
they were. When the garage called Acromas, they were told a report was needed for each of
the injectors, so they were sent off for that report on each one. The garage said Acromas
then picked up on the report date being different from the date of purchase and turned down
the claim.
One of our investigators began looking into things, and as part of this spoke to the garage 
asking why the injectors had been sent off for the report? The garage owner said its
because they didnt have a machine to print out a report for Acromas.
Our investigator upheld the case. He felt there was a misunderstanding on Acromas part
which could have been cleared up quite easily. He said Acromas believed the issue was
unknown until the date of the report, but thats not the case. He felt Acromas needed to pay
the claim, plus 8% interest from the date Mr N settled the invoice with the garage, to the date
of settlement  and pay £100 compensation.
Mr N was happy with our investigators outcome, but Acromas werent. They asked one of
their technical managers to provide a response. In summary, they said:
Its very uncommon for all four injectors to fail at the same time on the same journey 
 and because of that a report was needed showing the results.
If the tests are done without specialist injector testing equipment its not possible to 
accurately diagnose if its one or all four injectors that have failed  and the testing 
wasnt done on 24 February as the garage have said.
The report was received on 17 March, and showed the testing was done on 
27 February  because of this, it wouldnt have been possible to confirm how many 
injectors had failed, and as such its been treated as per the policy terms quoted 
above.
The invoice showed the injectors were bought on 21 February, three days before 
they were told about it, and six days before the report to confirm it. This shows all of 
the injectors had been bought before a full diagnosis and the claim being submitted.
Our investigator still felt Acromas hadnt acted fairly and felt the explanation of the garage
doing the testing initially, and then sending them off for a report when Acromas asked for it 
is reasonable. So, he still felt Acromas should settle the complaint as he outlined previously. 
Acromas still didnt agree, and their technical manager said:
He thinks information was misrepresented in order to get the injectors thatd already 
been purchased covered.
In his opinion its unknown for all four injectors to fail at the same time  and thats 
why theyre asking a number of questions.
The report doesnt number the injectors, so thinks that means theyre open to 
ambiguity, and were the four tests carried out on the same injector to get the result 
claimed for?
And, he said if they took a step back, the failure of the injectors wouldnt have been covered
anyway as a dripping injector is a slow fault  and the policy is designed to cover sudden
issues.
Our investigator pointed out an error in the technical managers timeline  and reiterated his
opinion was the injectors had been tested by the garage before they contacted Acromas. 
Thats why he felt it was reasonable for the claim to be met. And he said the claim had been
turned down because it was considered fraudulent, so didnt think it was fair for Acromas to
now say itd never have been covered under the policy terms anyway.
Acromas accepted theyd made an error in the timeline, but didnt agree with the outcome,
so asked for an ombudsman to consider things. Because of that, the complaints been
passed to me to decide.
Before progressing with the case, I asked our investigator to get in touch with Mr N, and ask
him if he had any further evidence he wanted to supply  bearing in mind what Acromas
technical manager had said. Mr N didnt reply by the deadline set.What Ive provisionally decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I think its important to explain that I can only require Acromas to meet the claim if its
covered under the policy terms  unless theyve made an error which has led to a loss for
Mr N.
Acromas reason for turning down the claim for the majority of the time is because they
believe the claim has been misrepresented. Our investigator didnt agree with that  but I
think I only need to decide this if I think the claim could be met under the policy terms. And,
as Ill explain, I dont currently think they should be.
Acromas technical manager has said the dripping injectors would be a slow fault. A slow
fault isnt covered under the policy terms as something thatd be fixed  what is covered is
sudden and unexpected faults.
We asked Mr N for any further evidence he may have to dispute this, which included the
possibility of him going back to the garage, but weve not been provided with anything.
My review of all the information provided by both parties hasnt shown anything to dispute
this either.
I do think its very disappointing its taken from the original event in February 2020 until more
recently for Acromas to point this out. But their overall answer of turning down Mr Ns claim
hasnt changed  just the reason for that answer.
So, as things stand, Im satisfied based on the information Ive been provided with Acromas
have acted fairly and reasonably in turning down this claim under the policy terms.
Responses to my provisional decision
Mr N replied to my provisional decision. He told our investigator:
Acromas gave the green light to the garage to do the work
The error is with the garage saying to buy the injectors before speaking to Acromas  
otherwise the claim would have gone through without any issues
Mr N didnt think going back to the garage to get a report now was particularly fair 
given how long this has been going on  but said hed speak to them anyway
Mr N did then provide a copy of a report from the garage. They said in their opinion the 
reason for all four injectors failing is because one failed and began over injecting fuel. They 
said this caused the engine to rev uncontrollably, and all injector tips have overheated, which 
damaged them all at the same time. The garage added that if only one injector had been 
faulty, the engine light and coil light would have lit up on the dash and the engine would have 
been undriveable.
We put this to Acromas for their comments. Their technical manager said its possible the 
garage isnt aware of the full history - explaining there was an MOT on 13 February 2020, 
and didnt think it was possible for the injectors to all fail in the 21 miles then covered by 
15 February 2020. They added if there was an issue, then itd have been picked up in the 
MOT. And, regardless, the fault is still a slow and progressive fault which is excluded under 
the policy terms.What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Its clear Mr N feels very strongly that his claim should be met. And as I said in my 
provisional decision, I do think Acromas have handled things poorly.
But, in relation to his comments about Acromas giving the garage the green light to do the 
work we dont treat incorrect information as being correct  instead we consider the impact 
on someone of that incorrect information.
Here, for reasons Ive mentioned above, it seems this claim should never have been met. 
And Mr N has been diligent in pursuing his complaint when it was turned down  so I cant 
reasonably say theres been a significant impact from Acromas mistakes as it seems hed 
have pursued his complaint for the claim being turned down anyway.
And, as Ive said before which has been reiterated by Acromas technical manager  the 
policy only covers sudden faults which isnt whats seemingly happened here. With that in 
mind I cant reasonably ask them to meet a claim that shouldnt have ever been met in the 
first place.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained above I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr N to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 July 2021.
 
Jon Pearce
Ombudsman