DRN-2933640
The complaint
Mr S complains that PDL Finance Limited trading as Mr Lender irresponsibly gave him 
unaffordable loans.
What happened
Mr Lender provided loans to Mr S as follows: 
Loan 
numberDate 
TakenDate 
RepaidInstalments Amount Highest 
Repayment
1 12/08/2015 20/01/2016 5 £450.00 £226.80
2 28/01/2016 28/04/2016 5 £310.00 £117.55
3 29/06/2016 20/12/2016 6 £650.00 £231.83
4 13/02/2017 20/06/2017 4 £380.00 £198.36
5 04/10/2017 20/02/2018 5 £220.00 £84.92
Mr S said that he doesnt believe he should have been approved for these loans as he also 
had other outstanding loans with different short-term lenders at the time and repaying these 
Mr Lender loans added to his financial difficulties in the longer term and caused him anxiety.
Our adjudicator didnt think she had seen enough to say that Mr Lender shouldnt have 
provided loan 1. But she thought that the information Mr Lender had gathered about Mr Ss 
financial situation by the time he applied for loan 2 showed he was having problems 
managing his money and that Mr Lender shouldve realised it was unlikely that he would be 
able to sustainably repay this borrowing  or any of the loans that followed. She didnt think 
Mr Lender shouldve given Mr S loans 2  5 and she set out the steps Mr Lender needed to 
take to put things right for Mr S. 
Mr Lender didnt accept our adjudicators view and asked an ombudsman to review the 
complaint. So it comes to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
We've set out our general approach to complaints about short--term lending - including all of 
the relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice - on our website. Mr Lender needed 
to take reasonable steps to ensure that it didn't lend irresponsibly. In practice this means that 
it should have carried out proportionate checks to make sure that Mr S could repay the loans 
in a sustainable manner. 
These checks could take into account a number of different things, such as how much was 
being lent, the repayment amounts and the consumer's income and expenditure. 
With this in mind, in the early stages of a lending relationship, I think less thorough checks 
might be reasonable and proportionate. But certain factors might point to the fact that 
Mr Lender should fairly and reasonably have done more to establish that any lending was 
sustainable for a consumer. These factors include, amongst other things:
the lower a customer's income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make any 
loan repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income)
the higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income)
the greater the number and frequency of loans and the longer the period of time 
during which a customer has been given loans (reflecting the risk that repeated 
refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, 
unsustainable).
There may even come a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly 
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable.
Mr Lender was required to establish whether Mr S could sustainably repay his loans - not 
just whether the loan payments were affordable on a strict pounds and pence calculation.
Of course the loan payments being affordable on this basis might be an indication a 
consumer could sustainably make their repayments. But it doesnt automatically follow this is 
the case. This is because the relevant regulations define sustainable as being without undue 
difficulties. And in particular, the customer should be able to make repayments on time, while 
meeting other reasonable commitments - as well as without having to borrow to meet the 
repayments. And it follows that a lender should realise, or it ought fairly and reasonably to 
realise, that a borrower wont be able to make repayments sustainably if theyre unlikely to 
be able to make their repayments without borrowing further. 
Taking all this into account, Ive carefully considered all of the arguments, evidence and 
information provided and thought about what this all means for Mr Ss complaint.
As far as I can see, Mr S hasnt objected to what our adjudicator said with respect to not 
upholding his complaint about loan 1. So I dont think I need to say more about loan 1 except 
to say that I agree with our adjudicator about this loan.  
Looking at loan 2, Mr Lenders income and expenditure checks suggested that it looked like 
Mr S shouldve had disposable income of around £1,110. There are some discrepancies in 
the information it looks like Mr Lender has recorded for this loan. But when we queried this 
with Mr Lender it confirmed to us that its credit checks done at the time showed that Mr S 
was already repaying three Advance against Income loans  in other words, other short-
term loans similar to the loan it was considering providing to Mr S. Having asked for more 
clarity about this particular issue, I think its fair and reasonable for me to rely on the 
information Mr Lender provided in response.
So I think, at this point, Lending Stream shouldve realised that it was clear from what its 
credit checks revealed about Mr Ss borrowing history and the extent of his other outstanding 
short-term loans, that he was likely having money problems. 
I say this because by the time he asked for loan 2, Mr S already had three other outstanding 
short--term loans which suggests to me that he was finding it hard to get on top of his money 
problems and his financial difficulties were likely ongoing.  So although the loan mightve appeared affordable on a simple pounds and pence 
calculation, I think Mr Lender shouldve realised that Mr Ss borrowing record painted a 
picture of a person struggling with debt. And despite what hed told Mr Lender about his 
finances, it showed that Mr S was having serious problems managing his money. So I think 
Mr Lender shouldve realised when Mr S asked for loan 2 that any further lending was 
unsustainable and it shouldnt have provided loans 2 - 5 to Mr S.
Mr Lender said it was reasonable for it to have made an assumption that out of date 
information on its credit checks probably meant that Mr S didnt actually have three other 
outstanding short-term loans at the time he applied for loan 2  and likely he had only one 
other. But I cant fairly say it was reasonable for Mr Lender to rely on unsupported 
supposition rather than the actual information it had gathered and this assumption is not 
borne out by information Ive seen on Mr Ss credit report which clearly shows he had at 
least three other outstanding short-term loans at the time. 
I also agree with our adjudicator that the gaps between Mr S repaying a previous loan and 
taking out a new loan and the decreasing loan amounts are not enough of a reason to say, 
as Mr Lender has suggested, that this shows Mr S was not reliant on repeat lending and that 
he was using this type of borrowing for its intended purpose of helping to manage a short-
term or temporary cash flow problem. And thats borne out by what I've seen on Mr Ss credit 
file which shows that he continued to rely on repeat borrowing and it looks like he was using 
the credit obtained to pay for other lending  which I think Mr Lender will already be aware is 
a hallmark of financial difficulty. 
For these reasons, Im upholding Mr Ss complaint about loans 2 - 5.
Putting things right
I think it is fair and reasonable for Mr S to repay the principal amount that he borrowed 
because he had the benefit of that lending. But he has had to pay interest (and possibly 
charges) on a loan that shouldnt have been provided to him  so thats unfair. 
In deciding what redress Mr Lender should fairly pay in this case Ive thought about what 
might have happened if it hadnt provided lending to Mr S, as Im satisfied it ought to have.
Clearly there are a great many possible and all hypothetical answers to that question. For 
example, having been declined this lending Mr S may have simply left matters there, not 
attempting to obtain the funds from elsewhere. If this wasnt a viable option, he may have 
looked to borrow the funds from a friend or relative  assuming that was even possible. Or, 
he may have decided to approach a third-party lender with the same application, or indeed a 
different application (i.e. for more or less borrowing). 
But even if he had done that, the information that would have been available to such a 
lender and how they would (or ought to) have treated an application which may or may not 
have been the same is now impossible to reconstruct accurately. From what Ive seen in this 
case, I dont think I can fairly conclude there was a real and substantial chance that a new 
lender would have been able to lend to Mr S in a compliant way at this time. 
Having thought about all of these possibilities, Im not persuaded it would be fair or 
reasonable to conclude that Mr S would more likely than not have taken up any one of these 
options. 
So it wouldnt be fair now to reduce Mr Lenders liability in this case for what Im satisfied it 
has done wrong and should put right.Mr Lender should do the following:
A. Add together the total of the repayments made by Mr S towards interest, fees and 
charges on loans 2,3,4 and 5, not including anything it has already refunded.
B. Calculate 8% simple interest* on the individual payments made by Mr S which were 
considered as part of "A", calculated from the date Mr S originally made the 
payments, to the date the complaint is settled.
C. Pay Mr S the amounts calculated in "A" and "B".
D. Remove any adverse entries Mr Lender has recorded on Mr Ss credit file for 
loans 2,3,4 and 5.
*HM Revenue & Customs requires Mr Lender to take off tax from this interest. Mr Lender 
must give Mr S a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if he asks for one.
My final decision
I uphold Mr Ss complaint about loans 2,3,4 and 5 and direct PDL Finance Limited trading as 
Mr Lender to take the steps set out above to put things right.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 17 September 2021.
 
Susan Webb
Ombudsman