DRN-2844518
The complaint
Mr and Mrs H complain that Bank of Scotland plc (trading as Halifax) mis-sold a payment 
protection insurance (PPI) policy.
What happened
This complaint is about a monthly premium PPI policy taken out by Mr and Mrs H in 1997 in 
connection with a loan secured on their home. The policy provided cover for Mr H if he 
couldnt work because of accident, sickness or unemployment. 
Our adjudicator did not uphold the complaint. Mr and Mrs H disagreed with the adjudicators 
opinion so the complaint has been passed to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Where the evidence is incomplete, inconclusive or contradictory (as some of it is here), I 
reach my decision on the balance of probabilities  that is, what I think is most likely to have 
happened in light of the available evidence and the wider surrounding circumstances. 
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding Mr and Mrs Hs case. 
It seems to me that the relevant considerations in this case are materially the same as those 
set out on our website. And the main questions I need to consider are:
- If Halifax gave any advice or recommendation, did it make sure the product it 
recommended was suitable for Mr and Mrs Hs needs? 
- Did Halifax give Mr and Mrs H the information they needed to decide whether to take 
out the policy? 
If there was a problem with the way the policy was sold then I need to consider whether Mr 
and Mrs H are worse off as a result. That is, would they have done something different  
such as not taking out the policy  if there hadnt been any problems with the sale? 
Ive decided not to uphold Mr and Mrs Hs complaint and Ive set out my reasons below.
Mrs H has said she was working when the policy was sold. Halifax has provided a copy of 
the records that were taken at the time of the loan application. I note that Mrs Hs occupation 
type is described as Homemaker. In addition, I cant see any employer or income 
information that would suggest she was employed at the time. 
From what Ive seen, on balance I think its unlikely Mrs H was working. And I think this 
might explain why the PPI policy was put in place to cover Mr H only.  
Mr and Mrs H say they were told they had to take the PPI to get the loan they wanted, and 
that they werent given a proper choice about buying the policy. 
The difficulty I have is that I cant be sure what was discussed between Mr and Mrs H and 
Halifax when the loan was arranged. Halifax hasnt provided much documentation from the 
sale, which isnt surprising as its many years since the policy was sold. Im also mindful that 
exact recollections of what happened can fade over time. 
Ive noted everything Mr and Mrs H have said. But without anything else to support what 
theyve told me, I havent been able to safely conclude that Halifax didnt make them aware 
that the PPI was optional.
Halifax has accepted that it advised Mr and Mrs H to take out the PPI. Based on what Ive 
seen of their circumstances at the time it doesnt look like it was unsuitable for them. I say 
this because:
- Mr H was eligible for the policy given his circumstances and the PPI terms and 
conditions. 
- Mr H says he was entitled to sick pay from his employer, and that he and Mrs H had 
some savings they could use. But the PPI policy wouldve paid out in addition to Mr 
Hs employer benefits, and would do so, it seems, for longer. Having the policy in 
place would mean Mr and Mrs H could use Mr Hs employer benefits and their 
savings to pay for other expenses.
So overall, from what Ive seen, I think Mr and Mrs H would have had some use for 
the policy despite their existing arrangements. 
- Mr H wasnt affected by any of the conditions limiting the policys main benefits, such 
as those affecting self-employed people or people with pre-existing medical 
conditions. As he could have benefited from the full extent of the cover I think it 
unlikely he and Mrs H needed better advice or information about the policys 
exclusions and limitations. 
- Mr and Mrs H have said they werent made aware of the policy cost and I cant be 
sure that the cost was made clear to them before they agreed to buy it. But the policy 
was competitively priced and had a reasonable benefit. So I think it unlikely Mr and 
Mrs H would have made a different decision if better information about the cost had 
been provided. 
Its possible the information Halifax gave Mr and Mrs H about the PPI wasnt as clear as it 
should have been. But as Ive already said, Mr H wasnt affected by any of the exclusions or 
limitations and the policy seems to have been affordable. So I think it unlikely Mr and Mrs H 
would have made a different decision if better information had been provided  overall, I 
think they would still have taken out the policy.
My final decision
My decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs H and Mr H to 
accept or reject my decision before 3 November 2021.
 
Caroline Stirling
Ombudsman