DRN-3062405
The complaint
  Mr B complains about a loan provided to him by Loans 2 Go Limited trading as Loans 2 
Go, which he says was unaffordable.
What happened
 Loans 2 Go provided Mr B with a loan. The details of which are given in this table:
Number Taken Instalment Amount Instalments
1 17/03/2018 15.68 300 78 weeks
Our investigator assessed the complaint and recommended that it be upheld. He thought 
Loans 2 Go should have sought further information and, if it had, it would have seen Mr B 
was having problems managing his finances. He concluded Loans 2 Go shouldnt have 
agreed to lend to Mr B.
Loans 2 Go disagreed with our Investigators view. It said it was not obliged to review Mr Bs 
bank statements before approving the loan. It says when checks are considered 
proportionate, as it thinks was the case here, it is entitled to make a decision to lend based 
on what it had in front of it.
As this complaint hasnt been resolved informally, it has come to me, as an ombudsman, to 
review and make a decision. 
 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I have also taken into account the law, any relevant regulatory rules and good industry 
practice at the time.
When Loans 2 Go lent to Mr B the regulator was the Financial Conduct Authority and 
relevant regulations and guidance included its Consumer Credit Sourcebook (CONC).
Loans 2 Go was entering a regulated credit agreement. So, it had to carry out a reasonable 
assessment of Mr Bs creditworthiness before it entered the agreement. This means that 
Loans 2 Go had to consider both the risk to it that Mr B wouldnt make the repayments under 
the agreement when due, and the risk to Mr B of not being able to make these repayments. 
In particular, Loans 2 Go had to consider Mr Bs ability to make repayments under the 
agreement as they fell due over the life of the agreement, without him having to borrow to 
meet the repayments, without him failing to make any other repayment he had a contractual 
or statutory duty to make, and without the repayments having a significant adverse effect on 
her financial situation.
The rules dont set out any specific checks which must be completed to assess 
creditworthiness. But the lender should take into account the borrowers income (over the full 
term of the loan) and their ongoing expenditure for living expenses and other debts. Whilst it 
is down to the lender to decide what specific checks it wishes to carry out these should be 
reasonable and proportionate to the type and amount of credit being provided, the length of 
the term, the frequency and amount of the repayments and the total cost of the credit. So, a 
lenders assessment of creditworthiness would need to be flexible and what is appropriate 
for one person might not be for another. And what might be sufficient for a borrower in one 
circumstance might not be so for the same borrower in other circumstances.
In general, Id expect a lender to require more assurance the greater the potential risk to the 
consumer of not being able to repay the credit in a sustainable way. So, for example, Id 
expect a lender to seek more assurance by carrying out more detailed checks:
the lower a consumers income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make any loan 
repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income);
the higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to meet a 
higher repayment from a particular level of income);
the longer the period of time a borrower will be indebted for (reflecting the fact that the 
total cost of credit is likely to be greater and the borrower is required to make repayments 
for an extended period).
Bearing all of this in mind, in coming to a decision on Mr Bs case, I have considered the 
following questions:
Did Loans 2 Go complete reasonable and proportionate checks when assessing Mr Bs 
loan application to satisfy itself that he would be able to repay the loan in a sustainable 
way? If it did, did Loans 2 Go then make fair lending decisions?
 If not, what would reasonable and proportionate checks have shown?
Did L2G carry out proportionate checks?
I can see that Loans 2 Go asked Mr B about his income and expenditure. It has told our 
service that it adjusted Mr Bs income and expenditure based on an online verification tool 
for his income, and its own calculations using what it had in front of it for expenditure. It says 
it made its calculations about Mr Bs expenditure by using what it saw in his credit report and 
also added a buffer of 10% for any unexpected spend.  
It reduced Mr Bs declared income from £1400 a month to £1198.85 after verifying this. It 
then increased what Mr B says his expenditure was of £614, to £888.83, based on checks it 
carried out this included a credit search. 
Ive carefully considered what Loans 2 Go has said about how it calculated Mr Bs 
disposable income when it agreed to the loan. I acknowledge the comments it has made, but 
I dont think its checks were proportionate for this loan. This is because I can see there was 
a discrepancy between what Mr B said about his expenditure and what it says it could see 
through its checks. I dont think Loans 2 Go should have accepted the loan knowing or 
having reason to suspect Mr B wasnt being truthful about his income or expenditure in this 
case. In this instance the discrepancy between what Mr B said his income and expenditure 
was and what Loans 2 Go calculated it was, was fairly wide. So, I think Loans 2 Go should 
either have carried out further checks to see if there were good reasons for this, or it 
shouldnt have provided Mr B with the loan. This leads me to think that Loans 2 Go needed to take additional steps to verify what Mr Bs actual monthly expenditure was and carry out 
further checks about his income.
In addition to this, Loan 2 Gos credit search results for Mr B showed credit impairment. He 
was over his agreed limit on two accounts, close to his limit on his current account and had 
recently been in arrears. He had also recently been in an arrangement to pay. I think all of 
this ought to have prompted Loans 2 Go to find out more and carry out further checks to 
assure itself that the loan repayments for this loan were sustainable for Mr B. 
So, as I have concluded that Loans 2 Go needed to carry out further checks for the loan, I 
need to consider what it would have seen if it had done so. 
What would reasonable and proportionate checks have shown?
As reasonable and proportionate checks werent carried out before this loan was provided, I 
cant say for sure what they wouldve shown. So, I need to decide whether it is more likely 
than not that a proportionate check would have told Loans 2 Go that Mr B would have been 
unable to sustainably repay this loan.
Loans 2 Go was required to establish whether Mr B could make his loan repayments without 
experiencing significant adverse consequences  not just whether the loan payments were 
technically affordable on a strict pounds and pence calculation.
Ive carefully considered the information provided including reviewing bank statements that 
Mr B has provided for the months leading up to his applications for the loans. Having done 
so, its clear Mr B was reliant on using finance to cover a short fall in his finances including 
taking loans by other short-term lenders. At the time Loans 2 Go granted the loan, Mr B was 
paying off 2 open short-term loans with other finance providers. He was also persistently in 
his overdraft which was attracting fees. At the point Loans 2 Go agreed to this loan, Mr B 
would have taken on credit commitments that took up around 25% of his income each 
month. It is clear to me after seeing this, and looking through his statements, that Mr B was 
struggling to manage his finances. In short, the loan repayments for this loan from Loans 2 
Go wouldnt have been sustainable. 
Bearing all of this in mind, Im satisfied that reasonable and proportionate checks would 
more likely than not have shown Loans 2 Go that Mr B would not have been able to 
sustainably repay this loan. So, Im satisfied that Loans 2 Gos failure to carry out 
proportionate checks resulted in it unfairly providing this loan to Mr B.
So, I think Loans 2 Go needs to put things right with the loan for the reasons given above.
  
Putting things right
 In line with this Services approach, Mr B shouldnt repay more than the capital amount he 
borrowed for the loan. With this in mind, Loans 2 Go should:
add up the total amount of money Mr B received as a result of being given the loan. 
The payments Mr B made should be deducted from this amount. Any payments 
made after the total repaid exceeds the amount Mr B was given should be treated as 
overpayments and refunded to him;add interest at 8% per year simple on any overpayments from the date they were 
paid by Mr B to the date of settlement;
remove any adverse information placed on Mr Bs credit file because of the loan;
*HM Revenue & Customs requires Loans 2 Go to take off tax from this interest. Loans 2 Go 
must give Mr B a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if he asks for one.
 
My final decision
  My final decision is that I uphold Mr Bs complaint for the reasons set out above and require 
Loans 2 Go Limited, to put things right.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 7 November 2021.
 
Mark Richardson
Ombudsman