DRN-3846022
The complaint
C, a limited company, complains HSBC UK Bank Plc gave it incorrect advice leading to 
significant costs, loss of income and being forced to sell the business.
Mr W is representing C, so Ill also refer to him in this decision.
What happened
I issued a provisional decision setting out whatd happened, and what I thought about that. 
Ive copied the relevant elements below, and they form part of this final decision.
Mr W says he was told C needed to be registered with the financial regulator, the 
Financial Conduct Authority (FCA), to keep their account with HSBC. After many discussions 
with the FCA and professional advisers, C completed an application to become registered as 
a Small Payment Institution (SPI).
Mr W explained that:
On 9 September 2019 the FCA said as an SPI C had permission to carry out its 
business and any money it holds doesnt come under the Client Assets Sourcebook 
(CASS) rules.
On 13 September 2019 HSBC said as long as the FCAs permissions allow C to 
handle client monies then it should be fine  but said please be guided by the FCA.
On 11 February 2020 HSBC said they require C to have permissions to hold / control 
client monies only.
And then on 6 May 2020 C became registered as an SPI.
Mr W said as a result of HSBCs actions he was forced to sell the assets of the business.
HSBC explained their records showed C was holding client monies, so they needed 
evidence it had the necessary permissions to do so. HSBC said C subsequently registered 
with the FCA, adding SPI permissions three and five. But Cs relationship manager said this 
wasnt correct as permission to handle and control monies was required. HSBC added an 
email dated 3 November 2020 asked C to engage with the FCA and seek their advice about 
this. They said they understood the FCA, and Cs compliance consultant, said it was correct 
to have SPI permissions  and HSBC said if C insisted on having SPI permissions, theyd do 
enhanced due diligence to see if they were prepared to maintain the banking relationship.
HSBC said Mr W told them C was going to become an appointed representative which 
meant the SPI permissions could be given up. But they said this didnt actually happen, and 
instead C sold its book of assets, de-registered from the FCA and closed its accounts with 
HSBC. And, all of this happened before HSBC could complete their enhanced due diligence 
checks. Because of this, they didnt think theyd done anything wrong.
Unhappy with this, Mr W asked us to look into things. 
One of our Investigators ultimately upheld the complaint. He felt HSBC should have made it 
clearer from the outset what type of permissions C needed from the FCA  and he awarded 
C the costs of them registering with the FCA, plus 8% interest on those costs, and £200 to 
recognise the inconvenience caused to C.
HSBC replied and said the email correspondence between HSBC and C make it clear, the 
decisions made lie with C and its professional advisers.
Mr W initially accepted the outcome. Though, later on, he asked if I could consider Cs claim 
for £25,000 because HSBCs actions left them with no opportunity but to sell the business. 
So, Ive gone on to consider this matter for a decision.
What Ive provisionally decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The crux of Cs complaint is that when HSBC first contacted them regarding the FCA 
permissions, they told Mr W he needed to get C permissions to handle client money  but 
later on HSBC said C needed to get permissions to hold and control client money. Mr W 
says due to Cs business model, which HSBC were aware of, hold and control client money 
permissions would never have been possible. Because of that, Mr W says C has incurred 
losses which he says wouldnt have happened had HSBC been clearer about what was 
needed.
Ive firstly thought about HSBCs requirement for C to be FCA registered. Its not in dispute C 
was receiving client money, so at face value HSBCs request seems to be reasonable in 
asking for C to be registered with the appropriate body  here this was the FCA. Id also add 
that this would be a commercial decision made by HSBC in terms of what risk theyd be 
prepared to accept if someone wasnt registered with the FCA  which isnt something wed 
generally interfere with.
So, I think HSBCs request for C to get registered with the FCA wasnt an obviously 
unreasonable request. From what I can see, the first request in writing for this was made on 
12 August 2019 following a phone conversation. HSBC said C does need to be registered 
with the FCA because of their business model.
On the same day Mr W emailed the FCA, saying C needed to become registered with the 
FCA to handle client monies, explaining their business model, and asking them for advice.
I know a significant amount of conversations have happened afterwards  and I agree that 
Mr W was first told they needed to get permissions to handle client money in August 2019, 
with him then being told later on to get permissions to hold and control client monies. 
Although the communication on this point has used different words to describe whats 
needed, I need to step back and think about where HSBCs responsibilities fairly sit here.
Having done so, I think the extent of HSBCs responsibility here is limited to telling C they 
need to be FCA registered if C wants to continue banking with them. The actual type of 
permissions required would be something Id say only the FCA could fairly determine  given 
they set the rules.
Ive noted our Investigator felt HSBCs actions had led C to approach the FCA looking for 
permissions that werent needed  but equally the FCA did, ultimately, provide some 
permissions for C by registering them as a SPI. I wouldnt expect that to have happened, if the FCA didnt think some element of permissions were required for the type of business C 
was carrying out. And, as Ive explained above, it wasnt obviously wrong for HSBC to have 
asked C to be registered with the FCA.
Once the SPI was granted, HSBC have said this wasnt what they thought was needed  
and said if C were to continue with the SPI permissions, then theyd have to carry out 
enhanced due diligence to make sure this is something HSBCs risk team would accept. 
HSBC have said before this process could be completed, Cs assets were sold and Mr W 
de-registered C from the FCA.
Ive noted this was put to Mr W previously, and he didnt dispute this information. Ive seen 
he has said he felt he had no choice because in his view it was clear HSBC had no intention 
of continuing to work with C in future. While I do agree HSBC had managed Mr Ws 
expectations around the business relationship continuing, Ive not seen anything that clearly 
said HSBC wouldnt continue with the business relationship with C registered as an SPI with 
the FCA. What they did say was theyd have to look into things  but I dont think that in itself 
is a strong enough piece of information to say HSBC are directly responsible for Mr W selling 
Cs assets.
Overall then, I think HSBC have acted fairly in asking C to get FCA permissions for their type 
of business, and I dont intend to hold HSBC responsible for any permissions granted by the 
FCA potentially not being sufficient for HSBCs purposes.
Responses to my provisional decision
HSBC said they had nothing to add.
Mr W on behalf of C said if HSBC had made their FCA permission requirements clear at the 
start of the process, then they wouldnt have continued with their application with the FCA. 
He added that to carry on with the business they needed two things  to be registered with 
the FCA, and to be sponsored by a bank. He said other banks wouldnt sponsor them, which 
left HSBC who wanted to conduct enhanced scrutiny  but they never said what this was 
and whether they could comply. Mr W said he was happy to accept what our Investigator 
had recommended.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I do understand Mr Ws point of view on this matter, but ultimately I come back to saying that 
I cant hold HSBC responsible for the permissions granted by the FCA.
I accept Mr Ws argument is more nuanced than that  with him saying HSBC havent given 
him clear information about what type of FCA permissions are required. And, had they done 
so, then he would have known C couldnt get the permissions required so wouldnt have 
incurred some costs.
But I come back to where I think HSBCs responsibilities sit. There was no obvious error in 
saying C needed to be FCA registered. The FCA then decided what permissions were 
appropriate for C and this isnt something I can hold HSBC responsible for.
Following this, HSBC then said theyd carry out enhanced checks on Cs business before 
deciding whether to continue with the account. But, before HSBC could move forward, Mr W 
chose to sell Cs book of business. I know he says he didnt have any choice, but I cant say 
HSBC have done something wrong on the enhanced checking when they were never given the opportunity to do so. And I think its fair to say HSBC couldnt tell C what was or wasnt 
required without carrying out an assessment  and as Mr W had sold Cs book before this 
assessment could take place, there was no reason for HSBC to move forward with that 
action.
Ive noted Mr W has said he was happy with our Investigators outcome  but I need to make 
it clear both parties have the right to ask for an Ombudsmans decision. HSBC in this case 
werent happy with the Investigators outcome so also have the right to ask for a decision. As 
that right applies to both parties, Mr W cant accept the outcome unless HSBC were to also 
agree to it  which they dont.
Overall then while I understand Mr W will be disappointed I wont be requiring HSBC to 
refund any costs to C or pay any compensation.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained above, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask C to accept or 
reject my decision before 4 January 2023.
 
Jon Pearce
Ombudsman