DRN-3416585
The complaint
Mr A complains about the sale of his accident, sickness and unemployment policy 
by ActiveQuote Limited.
What happened
In January 2020, ActiveQuote arranged the policy for Mr A. This started in February 
2020 and had a monthly cost of £37.33.
In October 2020, the insurer increased the monthly premium to £48.55.
On 2 January 2021, the insurer carried out a review, but kept the premium as £48.55. 
However, on 25 January 2021, the insurer advised Mr A it would increase the premium 
to £90.57 from 1 March 2021.
Mr A cancelled his policy on 1 July 2021. He then brought a complaint to this service. 
He said ActiveQuote had led him to believe the premium would stay the same for a 
year, and could only increase at a review.
Our investigator recommended the complaint be upheld. She thought that ActiveQuote 
had given Mr A misleading information. To put matters right, she recommended that 
ActiveQuote refund the difference between the premium Mr A was charged by the insurer 
and £37.33 for the first year of cover. She also thought ActiveQuote should then refund 
the difference between £90.57 and £48.55 until the date Mr A cancelled the policy in July 
2021. Finally, our investigator recommended ActiveQuote pay Mr A £75 compensation.
I issued a provisional decision on 30 March 2022. Heres what I said:
When taking out the policy, Mr A was led to believe that his premium would be fixed 
for a year and was only subject to review by the insurer at each policy anniversary.
The insurers policy terms in force at the time explained that the policy would be reviewed 
on the policy anniversary date, and any changes they wished to make would be 
implemented with effect from the next or nearest policy anniversary date (but with a 
minimum of 21 days notice). It also says that the premium may increase or decrease or 
remain unchanged as a result of the annual review. The policy didnt allow the insurer to 
make changes to the premium at any other time.
Im therefore satisfied that ActiveQuote gave Mr A the correct information when the policy 
was sold, based on the policy terms in place at the time. I therefore dont find that the 
policy was mis-sold.
In July 2020 the insurer apparently sent out an email to all policyholders, confirming that 
the policy wording had been updated. ActiveQuote has provided a sample of this email. 
The email says that, as detailed in the policy schedule and Insurance Product Information 
Document, the policy renewed each month and amendments could be made by giving 30 
days notice. It then acknowledged the policy doesnt confirm the cover is monthly 
renewable, but does refer to an annual review. The insurer said it needed to correct this 
information, and provided a link to the updated wording. Finally, the insurer said it would 
continue to provide an annual review and the policyholder would receive an updated 
policy document at that time, which would make it easier for them to understand any 
changes to premium or terms and conditions.
Ive read the updated policy terms, and these say that the insurer could make changes to 
the price of the insurance, if they gave two months notice. It also says that once it has 
made an alteration, no further changes will be made to the premium for at least six months 
(unless theyre obliged to do so by law, regulation or any code of practice or industry 
guidance).
Based on what Mr A has said about the timing of the premium increases, it may be that 
the insurer hasnt complied with its policy terms. Though if Mr A has any concerns about 
this, he should raise these with the insurer in the first instance. If Mr A also thinks he 
didnt receive notification of the changes to the policy, he should again raise his concerns 
with the insurer.
I asked both parties to provide me with any further comments they wished to make before 
I made my final decision.
ActiveQuote confirmed it didnt have any further comments. 
Mr A responded to say hed already made a complaint to the insurer, and had received 
their final response.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr A appears to have accepted my provisional findings in respect of the sale of the policy by 
ActiveQuote. Hes confirmed that he complained to the insurer about their decision to 
increase his premiums. I see our investigator has set up a separate complaint against the 
insurer for us to look into this.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision before 4 May 2022.
 
Chantelle Hurn-Ryan
Ombudsman