DRN-4281459
The complaint
Ms S complains Startline Motor Finance Limited (SMFL) irresponsibly entered into a hire 
purchase agreement for a used car because she doesnt think it carried out reasonable or 
proportionate checks to ensure the agreement was affordable.  
What happened
Ms S entered into the hire purchase agreement on 10 September 2018 for a used car. The 
cash price of the car was £10,067. She paid a deposit of £1,300 and the total amount of 
credit was £8,767. Under the agreement Ms S was to pay 58 monthly repayments of 
£186.30 and a final monthly repayment of £187.30.  
 
Ms S complained to SMFL on 19 May 2023. She complains she told SMFL she could only 
afford a maximum of £90 per month and was pressured into agreeing a higher amount. She 
doesnt believe her finances or personal circumstances were sufficiently checked to make 
sure the payments were affordable. She didnt know how continuous payment authority 
works or her right to cancel. Moreover, it wasnt clear how much it would cost to repay the 
loan and she was not advised by the lender what to do about complaining.
  
SMFL responded to the complaint and said it had completed several checks to ensure the 
agreement was affordable to Ms S. This included verifying her income using credit reference 
agency data and completing a credit history search. It concluded Ms S met its lending 
criteria based on the checks and information she had provided in her application. It said 
there was no indication Ms S was under any financial pressure or that the lending was 
unaffordable. So, it doesnt agree their decision was irresponsible.  
Ms S remained unhappy and asked our service to investigate. Our Investigator issued a view 
explaining why they felt proportionate checks hadnt been carried out because SMFL didnt 
do enough to understand Ms Ss committed expenditure at the time. Our Investigator also 
felt that if proportionate checks had been carried out, they would have shown that the 
agreement wasnt affordable to Ms S. So, she felt Ms S should only have to pay for the cash 
price of the car and any over payments should be refunded (including 8% simple interest 
from the date of the overpayment to the date of settlement).  
SMFL didnt agree with our Investigators view as it said the checks were proportionate and 
the agreement affordable. In summary, SMFL said:  
It completed a full and complete credit and affordability check by utilizing credit 
bureau services and this, together with the application data, provided a strong basis 
on which to make a reasonable credit and affordability assessment. It was satisfied it 
had obtained sufficient information and doesnt feel enough weight was given to the 
evidence provided in the credit search and affordability assessment. It didnt feel 
there were indicators for a more rigorous assessment (demonstrating compliance 
with CONC 5.2A.21G).  
It applied a 5% calculation to Ms Ss credit card balance and included it within the 
customers monthly expenditure. The debt agency balance was historic and there 
were no monthly payments due. 
It obtained information supplied by the credit reference agency and this is 
independent evidence when considering affordability. Relying on such information is 
referenced in CONC 5.2A16G(3) and this point equally applies to the requirement to 
assess expenditure as outlined in CONC 5.2A.17R.  
The data showed the monthly instalment was within tolerance representing 13% of 
Ms Ss validated income. Taking the validated income and deducting the current 
proposed credit commitments, rent and the proposed monthly repayment showed 
there was significant head room of £556 per month for other living expenses.  
It limited finance repayments to 20% of disposable income to allow for other cost-of-
living expenses.  
Ms S paid a deposit of £1,300 which demonstrated commitment and affordability.  
The finance agreement and pre-contract information gave Ms S the opportunity to 
disclose any additional information, including adverse information. The customer 
acknowledgement and e-sign process asked Ms S to ensure shed be able to meet 
repayments without difficulty.
Our Investigator referenced car tax at £107.25. Whilst it's not clear what vehicle this 
relates to, the monthly tax on the vehicle being financed was only £21 per month, so 
perhaps this is an annual rather than monthly figure.  
The account management shows the agreement was affordable. All payments were 
paid on time and Ms S confirmed she could afford to pay the full settlement of £4,724 
in May 2021.  
The view states it's not necessary to obtain bank statements, however the conclusion 
was based on the bank statements and ignores the comprehensive checks.  
Therefore, the case has been passed to me to decide.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In doing so, Ive considered  amongst other things  the rules and guidance for lenders set 
out in the Consumer Credit Sourcebook (CONC) within the Financial Conduct Authoritys 
handbook. I think there are two overarching questions I need to consider in order to decide 
whats fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of this complaint. These questions are: 
 
1. Did SMFL complete reasonable and proportionate checks to satisfy itself that Ms S 
would be able to repay the borrowing?
  
a. If so, did it make a fair lending decision?  
b. If not, would reasonable and proportionate checks have shown that Ms S could 
sustainably repay the borrowing?  2. Did SMFL act unfairly or unreasonably in some other way? 
Did SMFL complete reasonable and proportionate checks to satisfy itself that Ms S would be 
able to repay the borrowing? 
 
SMFL were required to ensure it carried out adequate checks on Ms Ss ability to sustainably 
afford the agreement. These checks had to be borrower-focused and proportionate. What is 
considered proportionate will vary depending on the circumstances, such as (but not limited 
to): the total amount repayable, the size of the monthly repayments, the term of agreement 
and the consumers specific circumstances. 
SMFL has said that when applying Ms S said she was a divorced tenant with one 
dependent. She had lived in her rented property for six years. Also, that she was 
unemployed and a full-time carer for her daughter. It also confirmed that due to Ms Ss 
employment status the application was manually reviewed by an experienced underwriter.  
SMFL explained Ms S said her income was £1,438 per month and it validated this through a 
credit reference agencys affordability assessment. Ms S said she received benefits into her 
account on behalf of her daughter. Having reviewed the information, it looks like SMFL 
excluded those particular benefits from its assessment of Ms Ss income because the total 
figure is less than what I would expect to see if those payments had been included. SMFL 
have explained the monthly repayments only represented 13% of Ms Ss monthly income.  
Ms S also raised concerns that her benefits were cut following the agreement and said she 
explained this to the car dealer. But I have to consider what SMFL knew or ought to have 
known at the time of approving the lending. I cant see a reason it should have been aware 
that Ms Ss benefits would be cut. So, I cant conclude this should have impacted the checks 
carried out.  
SMFL said it reviewed her previous credit and it was noted Ms S had historical issues in 
2013, 2015 and 2016. Ive reviewed the results from SMFLs credit search. I can see Ms S 
had a defaulted account in 2014 for a balance of £463. There was one missed or late 
payment for gas in around June 2014. Therefore, there were indicators that Ms S had some 
previous financial difficulty.  
However, at the time of the agreement Ms S appeared to be managing her finances. The 
search showed Ms S had two unsecured loans which had been managed and settled in 
June 2018. The search also showed monthly credit commitments of £90. This was made up 
of £10 monthly repayments for a mail order account, a mobile phone contract with monthly 
repayments of £48 and home credit with monthly repayments of £32. There doesnt appear 
to be any monthly repayments for the defaulted amount of £462 from 2014. Additionally, I 
can see Ms S had an active credit card balance of £161 (against a card limit of £200).  
SMFL have also provided evidence which suggests it recorded Ms Ss monthly rent 
repayments at £595. In response to the view, SMFL confirmed it deducted this and the 
proposed monthly repayment and felt it showed significant headroom of £556 demonstrating 
sufficient affordability. It limited the monthly repayments to 20% of the disposable income 
(after the other credit commitments) to allow for cost-of-living expenses. But I dont agree 
this meant the checks were proportionate.  
Ms S was divorced, lived at home with one dependent and was unemployed. SMFL also had 
information about Ms Ss previous financial difficulties. These factors should have prompted 
SMFL to verify Ms Ss specific expenses. There were items such as petrol, utility bills, 
council tax and food for her and her dependent which it would be necessary to cover from 
the disposable income identified by SMFL. I dont agree capping the repayments under the agreement at 20% of this figure was sufficient to ensure the agreement was affordable 
without getting a greater understanding of Ms Ss expenditure.  
Overall, Im not satisfied the checks were proportionate. I think more should have been done 
to determine Ms Ss specific non-discretionary expenditure. Whilst I understand SMFLs 
point about the credit reference agency information it obtained and the independence of 
such evidence, I dont agree this information gave them a sufficient understanding of Ms Ss 
expenditure and in particular her non-discretionary commitments. Im also mindful of the 
duration of the agreement and Ms Ss employment status at the time, which leads me to 
conclude it was of greater importance to gain a more in depth understanding of her 
expenditure.  
It was for SMFL to ensure it carried out reasonable and proportionate checks and the pre-
contract information or e-sign process with the consumer declaration doesnt mean it fulfilled 
its obligation here. Overall, Im of the view SMFL should have done more checks in respect 
of Ms Ss expenditure to ensure she could sustainably afford the repayments throughout the 
duration of the loan.  
Would reasonable and proportionate checks have shown that Ms S would be able to repay 
the agreement in a sustainable way?  
It would have been proportionate for SMFL to have found out more about Ms Ss committed 
expenditure, such as her living costs. I cant be sure exactly what SMFL would have found 
out if it had asked. In the absence of anything else, I think it would be reasonable to place 
significant weight on the information contained in Ms Ss bank statements. Im not saying 
SMFL ought to have obtained the statements themselves and I appreciate SMFLs 
comments about this. However, the statements reflect Ms Ss financial circumstances and 
the information SMFL likely would have obtained had proportionate checks been carried 
out. 
Since the view, Ms S has provided more detail about her income and expenditure. She had 
a number of incoming and outgoing payments, which were on occasion significant sums, 
and has explained what these payments were to enable me to establish if they should be 
included in the assessment of Ms Ss disposable income.  
I appreciate there were a number of payments in and out of Ms Ss account to and from 
friends and family. As mentioned, Ms S has provided me with an explanation of these 
payments. For example, a friend helped her with the purchase of a sofa which was 
subsequently sold. Having reviewed the statements, I cant see regular payments from 
others which might be described as regular income she could reasonably rely on receiving.  
I also note the figure identified by SMFL doesnt seem to include benefits received into Ms 
Ss account. She received these benefits on behalf of her daughter who did not have her 
own bank account. Ms S has also identified some outgoing payments where the benefits 
were transferred to others to be spent by her daughter (Ive not included these transfers 
when considering Ms Ss committed expenditure). So, I think its right to exclude this 
particular payment in these circumstances. Therefore, Im satisfied Ms S regular income 
payments across the three months averaged around £1,689. I appreciate this amount is 
higher than that identified by SMFL and our Investigator. However, it doesnt change the 
overall outcome. 
Ive considered the expenditure as outlined by Ms S and Ive reviewed her bank statements. 
Having done so, I can see she had non-discretionary spend of around £1,702. Again, I 
appreciate this is higher than the expenditure identified by our Investigator. However, this is 
based on the identifiable committed expenditure from the statements, and Im satisfied it doesnt change the overall outcome of my decision. Id also note our Investigator confirmed 
some of the expected committed expenditure (for example, her food bills) hadnt been 
included in her calculations which I have considered. 
 
Therefore, Ms Ss average monthly non-discretionary spend exceeded her reliable income in 
the three months leading up to the agreement. And this means the agreement wasnt 
affordable for her and she had no disposable income remaining to meet the repayments 
under the agreement sustainably.  
SMFL has said Ms Ss deposit of £1,300 shows she had a high commitment. However, 
making an upfront payment does not necessarily speak to whether Ms S would be able to 
sustainably repay the agreement over its term. 
 
SMFL have also said Ms Ss account management shows the affordability of the agreement. 
I appreciate whats been said here and I understand she paid off the agreement, but this 
doesnt necessarily mean the agreement should have been entered into in the first place and 
the evidence shows Ms S didnt have sufficient income to cover her committed spend at the 
time the agreement was entered into.  
Taking into consideration the evidence Ive seen, Im satisfied had reasonable and 
proportionate checks been carried out, they were likely to show the agreement was not 
affordable for Ms S. Therefore, the agreement should not have been entered into and Ill 
explain how SMFL should put things right below. 
 
Did SMFL act unfairly or unreasonably in some other way?  
Ms S explained she felt pressured into entering the agreement at a higher amount of 
monthly repayments. Its difficult for me to say with certainty what happened at the outset of 
the agreement. Ive reviewed the documents available from the point the agreement was 
entered in to, and I havent seen anything which leads me to conclude SMFL acted unfairly 
in this regard.
  
Putting things right
Where a business has made an error, our service would usually aim to put the consumer in 
the position they wouldve been in had the error not occurred. However, in cases where a 
business has lent irresponsibly this isnt entirely possible, as the lending provided cant be 
undone.  
As SMFL should not have approved the lending, its not fair for it to be able to charge any 
interest or charges under the agreement. Ms S should only have to pay the original cash 
price of the car, being £10,067. Anything Ms S has paid in excess of that amount should be 
refunded as an overpayment.
  
Therefore, Startline Motor Finance Limited should:  
Refund any payments Ms S has made in excess of £10,067, representing the original 
cash price of the car. It should add 8% simple interest per year* from the date of 
each overpayment to the date of settlement.  
Remove any adverse information recorded on Ms Ss credit file regarding the 
agreement.  
*If SMFL considers that its required by HM Revenue & Customs to deduct income tax from 
that interest, it should tell Ms S how much its taken off. It should also give Ms S a tax deduction certificate if she asks for one, so she can reclaim the tax from HM Revenue & 
Customs if appropriate.
   
My final decision
Im upholding this complaint and Startline Motor Finance Limited should put things right in 
the way outlined above.  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms S to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 December 2023.
 
Laura Dean
Ombudsman