DRN-4371905
The complaint
Mr W complains that True Potential Investments LLP (TPI) caused avoidable delays to the 
transfer of his personal pension to his annuity provider. He says this led to a financial loss. 
What happened
Mr W had a personal pension with TPI. I understand hed been with TPI since May 2018. He 
had an arrangement with TPI to receive a monthly Tax-Free Cash (TFC) payment until hed 
taken 25% of his fund value as TFC. 
Mr W said that investment performance issues with TPI led to him deciding to leave it and 
transfer to a fixed term annuity with another provider. He arranged for his pension funds to 
be encashed on 5 October 2022. And contacted his annuity provider on 26 October 2022. 
He then posted his application. 
Mr W said the annuity provider started the transfer process on receipt of his application on 
31 October 2022. And that it used the Origo system. He said TPI failed to respond to the 
annuity providers request to transfer the funds. So it sent another request on 18 November 
2022. He said that TPI finally replied to his annuity provider on 25 November 2022 through 
the Origo system to say that some TFC remained which would be lost upon transfer.
Mr W said his funds werent transferred until 14 December 2022. He complained to TPI. He 
felt that itd caused avoidable delays to his transfer. And that as his pension had already 
been encashed, he felt his transfer shouldve been carried out much more quickly. He said 
that the delays had led to his annuity quote expiring, despite his annuity provider offering a 
generous 40-day guarantee to its quotes. He said the new rate hed been given meant hed 
lost £28,221 from his investments maturity value. He wanted TPI to reimburse him for the 
losses its delays had caused.
TPI said the following had taken place: 
2 November 2022  Itd received a transfer request from Mr Ws annuity provider via Origo.
11 November 2022  Itd reviewed the request. It notified Mr Ws annuity provider about his 
monthly TFC payments and asked it how he wanted to proceed given they would be lost 
upon transfer.
14 November 2022 - Mr Ws annuity provider confirmed to TPI that Mr W was happy to 
proceed with the transfer, without providing an instruction for the TFC.
16 November 2022 - TPI said it rejected the transfer because Mr Ws annuity provider hadnt 
provided a Stronger Nudge note. And told it that it would need this in order to proceed with 
the transfer. 
18 November 2022 - Mr Ws annuity provider resubmitted the transfer request and provided 
TPI with the Stronger Nudge note, confirming that advice had been provided.
25 November 2022 - TPI reviewed the case. As there was no reference to the original query 
about his remaining TFC payments, it asked Mr Ws annuity provider for clarification to see if 
anything had changed.
1 December 2022 - Mr Ws annuity provider confirmed that he did want to take the TFC to 
ensure it wasnt lost.
7 December 2022 - TPI processed the request and confirmed this with Mr Ws annuity 
provider.
12 December 2022 - Mr Ws annuity provider confirmed receipt of the funds. 
I understand that Mr Ws original fixed rate annuity quote expired on 30 November 2022. 
And that he asked for a new quote on 7 December 2022. But that the new quote provided 
him with a maturity value after 10 years that was more than £28,000 lower than the previous 
quote had provided.
TPI issued its final response to the complaint on 8 March 2023. It didnt think itd done 
anything wrong. It said the transfer had taken a little longer than itd usually expect, but that 
this was because Mr Ws transfer request had been submitted with missing information 
about his monthly TFC. It said itd needed to ask Mr Ws annuity provider how to proceed, or 
he couldve lost £3,019. But that Mr Ws annuity provider had responded without addressing 
the TFC issue. 
TPI also said that it usually needed a Stronger Nudge note. But that as Mr Ws annuity 
provider didnt confirm if the Stronger Nudge note should apply, it rejected the transfer 
request. And that when  two days later - the annuity provider had confirmed that no 
Stronger Nudge note was needed as there was an adviser involved, it still couldnt 
progress the transfer as the annuity provider had yet to respond to its original query about 
Mr Ws remaining TFC payments. TPI said that once itd received a response about this, it 
processed the transfer.
Mr W was unhappy with TPIs response, so he brought his complaint to this service in May 
2023. He said hed like to be reimbursed for £28,221, the difference between the two 
maturity proceeds of the fixed term annuity quotes hed received. Mr W felt that TPI 
shouldve communicated to him about what was happening. He said that despite being its 
customer, itd never contacted him through the whole transaction. He felt that TPI shouldve 
contacted him when itd been waiting for a reply from his annuity provider about his TFC. 
Our investigator asked TPI to confirm its standard time frames for a transfer like Mr Ws. TPI 
said that once itd received all the information needed to process a transfer and make the 
payment to the new provider, its standard time frame was 10 to 15 working days. It said that 
in Mr Ws case, once itd received the correct information needed, itd processed and paid 
the transfer within four working days. 
Our investigator also asked TPI about Mr Ws concerns about the lack of direct 
communication with him during the transfer. It said that it would check with its clients if a 
transfer out request was a legitimate request. But that it understood that the annuity provider 
would keep Mr W updated about his transfer in. It also said it would answer any of its clients 
questions. But that it would keep them updated throughout a transfer process through the 
client site and/or emails of any trades, disbursements and requests for data.
Our investigator didnt consider that the complaint should be upheld. He said he understood 
why Mr W held TPI responsible for the delays to his transfer to his annuity provider. But he 
didnt consider it was responsible for any unreasonable delays. He felt that once TPI had all 
the information it needed, itd completed the transfer within its usual service standards. And that itd acted reasonably when itd asked the annuity provider for the required information it 
didnt yet have.
Our investigator also felt that although Mr W had wanted to receive updates from TPI during 
the transfer, his advisers had told him how the transfer process would work at the start. 
Theyd told him that his annuity provider would need to contact TPI directly about the 
transfer. And that if Mr W had wanted updates, he wouldve expected him to ask his annuity 
provider as it was handling the transfer on his behalf. He also felt that TPIs explanation of its 
communication role in the transfer was what hed expect. He said that as it wasnt dealing 
with Mr W directly, he wouldnt expect it to provide regular direct updates unless Mr W had 
asked for them. He said that if Mr W had asked TPI for direct updates that werent provided, 
he should send the relevant evidence for his consideration. 
Mr W didnt agree with our investigator. He made the following points:
TPI had received the Origo transfer instruction on 2 November 2022, but as thered 
been no instruction for the monthly TFC Mr W had been receiving, it told the annuity 
provider on 11 November 2022. Mr W felt TPI shouldve told him about this. 
Although our investigator felt that TPI had acted in Mr Ws best interests when itd asked the 
annuity provider to consider the TFC, as it would otherwise have been lost, Mr W felt that 
hed lost much more by losing the annuity rate. He said TPI also hadnt advised him that the 
TFC would be lost on transfer. And that he didnt understand how it would be lost. 
The annuity provider had confirmed Mr W was happy to proceed with the transfer on 
14 November 2022. But TPI had rejected it on 16 November 2022 because the 
Stronger Nudge note hadnt been provided. Mr W said hed been unaware that 
there was an issue with the Stronger Nudge note. 
TPI had eventually processed his request on 7 December 2022, with the funds 
reaching the annuity provider on 12 December 2022. Mr W felt that it shouldnt have 
taken five days to simply transfer cash.
Although our investigator felt that TPI had completed the transfer within its service 
standard, Mr W felt that his transfer shouldve been carried out much more quickly, 
because his funds had already been encashed.
Mr W felt that TPI shouldve advised him directly if there were any problems with his 
transfer, rather than simply dealing with the annuity provider. He didnt think it was 
good enough for TPI to say it would answer any questions he might ask it, but 
instead felt it shouldve been actively updating him. And he said that when he had 
called TPI for updates, it hadnt mentioned any problems with the annuity provider.
Our investigator asked TPI for further information so he could address Mr Ws further 
concerns. He asked it what information itd requested from the annuity provider in the first 
instance. TPI provided all of the notes and instructions itd sent to the annuity provider. 
These confirmed the timeline itd previously provided. And showed that the annuity provider 
didnt initially respond to TPIs question about the TFC. 
Our investigator also asked TPI why itd taken it from 2 November 2022, when the annuity 
provider had made its initial transfer request, until 11 November 2022, for TPI to request the 
missing information, given Mr Ws pension was already in a cash account. TPI said that it 
had processed the initial request within seven working days, which was its Service Level 
Agreement (SLA) for cases to be reviewed. It said that other clients transfer cases had been 
ahead of Mr Ws in the queue. And that to treat its customers fairly, it worked in date order. TPI also said that even though Mr Ws pension was already in a cash account, it still needed 
10 to 15 working days to process the transfer, given it dealt with all cases in the order they 
were received. 
Mr W also asked his annuity provider for a timeline relating to his transfer. He shared this 
with this service. Our investigator confirmed that it agreed with the timeline provided by TPI. 
Our investigator didnt think it wouldve been fair for TPI to have dealt with Mr Ws transfer 
request out of turn. So he still felt that it hadnt done anything wrong. 
As agreement couldnt be reached, the complaint has come to me for a final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im not going to uphold it. I understand this will be disappointing for Mr W. 
Ill explain the reasons for my decision. 
I first considered whether TPI caused any avoidable delays to the transfer. 
Did TPI cause any avoidable delays to the transfer?
Mr W felt that TPI hadnt advised him that his TFC would be lost on transfer. He also felt that 
it hadnt acted in his best interests when itd rejected the transfer request because it hadnt 
received a response from the annuity provider about his TFC. He said this was because hed 
lost much more by losing the annuity rate. 
The evidence shows that TPI received the Origo transfer instruction on 2 November 2022. 
Its SLA for reviewing the request was seven days. And it picked up the request for review on 
11 November 2022, which is within that SLA. 
As the request didnt contain an instruction for the monthly TFC Mr W was receiving, without 
which Mr W was in danger of losing his remaining TFC of over £3,000, TPI asked the 
annuity provider how Mr W wanted to proceed. Although the annuity provider replied to TPI 
on 14 November 2022, it didnt provide the instruction it needed for his remaining TFC. 
TPI then rejected the transfer on 16 November 2022 because the annuity provider also 
hadnt provided a Stronger nudge note. As our investigator noted, this is something all 
pension providers must consider. Mr W said hed been unaware there was an issue with the 
Stronger Nudge note. And although Mr Ws annuity provider then provided TPI with the 
information it needed about the Stronger Nudge note on 18 November 2022, it still didnt 
respond to the question about the remaining TFC. So, when TPI reviewed the case again on 
25 November 2022  again within its SLA  it had to ask the annuity provider once again 
how Mr W wanted to proceed. 
Mr Ws annuity provider eventually provided a new instruction  different from the original 
one it had sent  on 1 December 2022. It confirmed that Mr W did want to take the TFC to 
ensure it wasnt lost. TPI processed the request on 7 December 2022. But Mr W felt that it 
shouldnt have taken so long to simply transfer cash.
TPI didnt consider that itd done anything wrong when itd asked the annuity provided to 
confirm what Mr W wanted to do about his remaining TFC. It noted that Mr W had in the end 
confirmed he did want to take his remaining TFC. And that if it hadnt clarified this point with his annuity provider he wouldve lost the TFC amount available to him.
I acknowledge that Mr W felt that TPI hadnt acted in his best interests when itd flagged the 
potential loss of his remaining TFC. I can understand why he now considers this action 
caused him an even greater loss, and therefore wasnt in his best interests. But I cant fairly 
agree.
I say this because if TPI had simply processed the transfer on 18 November 2022, when itd 
received the Stronger Nudge note confirmation, Mr W wouldve had the risk of losing 
£3,019.05 of TFC. TPI had no way of knowing that if Mr Ws annuity rate expired, the next 
one would be worse. So it asked the annuity provider one more time on 25 November 2022 
as it wanted to prevent Mr W suffering a known loss. Mr W did then confirm that he wanted 
to take his TFC, so changed his instruction. 
But Im satisfied that even if Mr W hadnt decided to change his instruction, TPI acted in his 
best interests. It was trying to save him from a known loss. And it couldnt have known that in 
doing so, his transfer might go beyond the expiry date of his quoted annuity rate. In any 
event, and even if we take 18 November 2022 at the point that TPI shouldve had everything 
it needed to process the transfer, it still completed it within its 10 to 15 working days service 
standard, which allowed it until 9 December 2022 to complete the process. 
I also acknowledge that Mr W felt his transfer shouldnt have taken so long as his funds were 
already in cash. But TPI has explained that it processes requests in the order they reach 
them. I consider this is a fair way to handle requests, which ensures that customers are 
treated fairly. In any event, the evidence shows that as soon as TPI had received all the 
correct information it needed on 1 December 2022, itd processed and paid the transfer 
within four working days. 
Therefore I cant reasonably say that Mr Ws transfer request shouldve been completed 
more quickly.
I next considered the communication issues Mr W has noted.
Communication about the transfer
Mr W felt that TPI shouldve advised him directly if there were any problems with his transfer, 
rather than simply dealing with the annuity provider. He didnt think it was good enough for 
TPI to say it would answer any questions he might ask it, but instead felt it shouldve been 
actively updating him. And he said that when he had called TPI for updates, it hadnt 
mentioned any problems with the annuity provider.
I take Mr Ws point here. I can see that if the usual process had been to involve him in the 
transfer, it mightve been possible to realise that the annuity provider hadnt answered TPIs 
questions earlier. But that wasnt the usual process. So it wouldnt be fair or reasonable for 
me to conclude that TPI did anything wrong here.
I say this because from what Ive seen, the transfer process was explained to Mr W at the 
start. I can see that Mr W expected TPI to proactively update him, but this wasnt its role in 
his transfer. I also consider that it was reasonable for TPI to expect the annuity provider to 
keep Mr W updated about his transfer in. 
In summary, Ive seen no evidence that TPI caused any avoidable delays to the transfer 
process. Nor have I seen any evidence that it fell short of its communication requirements. 
So I dont uphold the complaint.My final decision
For the reasons given above, I dont uphold this complaint.  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 9 November 2023.
 
Jo Occleshaw
Ombudsman