DRN-2886104
The complaint
Mr D is complaining about the layout and security arrangements in his local branch of 
National Westminster Bank Plc (NatWest). 
What happened
In January 2021, Mr D went to a branch of NatWest to withdraw a large sum of cash. Having 
made the withdrawal, he took the cash to his car and put it into the boot. Before Mr D could 
drive off, the cash was unfortunately stolen from the boot of his car.
Mr D says the police have told him that the thief had been in the branch at the same time as 
him and followed him from the bank to the car. 
Mr D complained to NatWest. He felt the layout of the branch made it easy for many people 
in the building to see how much money he was withdrawing. He said there werent many 
staff working in the branch, and in particular, there werent any staff monitoring suspicious 
customers. He felt NatWest should have done more to keep him safe, and wanted the bank 
to refund the cash hed lost.
NatWest didnt uphold Mr Ds complaint. While they were sad to hear of the robbery, they 
didnt think it was their fault. Mr D wasnt happy with the banks response, so he brought his 
complaint to us. He said the cash counting machine used to be under the counter and is now 
on top, making it much more obvious when a large sum of cash is being withdrawn. He also 
thought it had taken too long to go through the security questions which had contributed to 
the problem. He said hed been using the branch for a long time and felt the staff should 
have known him and shouldnt need to ask security questions. Mr D added that he thought 
the branch staff should have asked the thief to take off his hat and hoodie.  
Our investigator looked into the matter but didnt uphold Mr Ds complaint. He said we 
couldnt comment on the design or layout of a branch as it isnt a regulated activity. And he 
said the same was true about asking someone to remove some items of clothing  noting 
also that it may be inappropriate to do so. He added that it was important for NatWest to 
make appropriate checks when a customer is withdrawing cash  and didnt think NatWest 
had done anything wrong in asking Mr D a number of security questions.
Mr D was unhappy with our investigators view and asked for an ombudsman to look at his 
complaint  so its come to me. In doing so, Mr D reiterated his view that NatWest had 
breached their duty of care to him.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr Ds understandably very upset about being robbed and losing a large sum of money. 
Hes convinced that NatWest failed in their duty of care to keep him safe. Although I 
appreciate itll be disappointing for Mr D, Im not upholding his complaint. Ill explain why.
Ive thought carefully about NatWests duty of care. Mr Ds made it clear that this is the crux 
of his complaint, rather than specific individual points about the number of security 
questions, the branch layout, or monitoring individuals visiting the branch. 
I agree that NatWest does have a duty of care to its customers while theyre in its branches. 
Its not for me to say what policies and procedures they should put in place to fulfil this  
instead I have to consider whether NatWest acted fairly in the circumstances of this specific 
case. Mr D wasnt robbed inside the branch  it was after hed left the branch. I can see from 
the scripted questions that NatWest would have asked Mr D that hed likely have been 
warned about the risks of carrying cash and whether there might be a safer way for him to 
make the transactions he needed. So I think NatWest likely warned Mr D of the dangers and 
offered him alternatives but Mr D chose to take the cash anyway. 
I appreciate the evidence suggests the robbery was carried out by someone who was in the 
branch at the same time as Mr D. But I dont think this means that NatWests duty of care 
extends outside the branch. It wouldnt be fair to hold NatWest responsible for the behaviour 
of its customers or potential customers outside the branch. At that point the cash was Mr Ds 
responsibility and it was up to him to take precautions to protect it. 
My final decision
As Ive explained above, Im not upholding Mr Ds complaint about National Westminster 
Bank Plc.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision before 12 August 2021.
 
Clare King
Ombudsman