DRN-1904331
The complaint
Mr C has complained about the fees he was charged by his motor insurance broker, Saga 
Services Limited, after he cancelled his motor insurance. 
What happened
Mr C had bought a motor insurance policy through Saga which auto renewed in April 2019 
for £161.99. He cancelled the policy in June 2019 because hed sold his car and was issued 
with a £65.67 refund.
Mr C complained to Saga and said that he was due a higher refund as he had only had the 
policy for two months but was charged about 60% of his entire premium for 15% of the year. 
He said Saga had charged him for fees that it hadnt made him aware of before he renewed 
his policy and that this went against Sagas obligations under ICOBS (Insurance: Conduct of 
Business Sourcebook) which contains the rules and guidelines that apply to Saga when, 
among other things, it sells insurance policies. 
Saga accounted for the £65.67 refund by saying it had charged Mr C £21.32 for his time on 
cover plus a £25 arrangement fee and a £50 cancellation fee. It said these fees were in 
Mr Cs renewal documents- on page 7- but as a good will gesture it said it would not charge 
Mr C the £50 cancellation fee. 
Mr C didnt agree. He said Saga should pay him £135. That sum included a refund of the 
fees and compensation for the distress and inconvenience he said Saga caused him 
because of the number of emails he had to send. Saga didnt change its view and so Mr C 
complained to us. 
Our investigator who reviewed Mr Cs complaint didnt think it should be upheld. He didnt 
think Sagas decision to charge Mr C a £25 arrangement fee was unreasonable as it 
accounted for the work it did in renewing his policy. He also said that as Mr C had access to 
his policy documents online and as Saga explained to him how to access them it had done 
enough to bring these charges to his attention. Our investigator also felt that Saga had 
fulfilled its obligations under ICOBS.
Mr C didnt agree that Saga had brought these fees to his attention and asked for an 
ombudsmans decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided not to uphold it.
As Saga has waived the £50 cancellation fee I wont go on to consider this aspect of the 
complaint any further.
ICOBS says that those who provide insurance have an obligation to provide those they sell it 
to with enough information to enable them to make an informed decision about whether or 
not they wish to buy a policy. 
Sagas terms say that it will charge, among others, a £25 non-refundable arrangement fee 
and a £50 fee if the policy is cancelled after 20 days of the policy start date. 
Saga wrote to Mr C in March 2019 inviting him to renew the policy which was coming up for 
renewal in April 2019. The letter stated the full price Mr C would pay for his policy to renew 
but it didnt provide a breakdown of how this was calculated. However, under the heading 
How to renew in a few easy steps which was in bold and on the first page of the letter it 
said that it is important for Mr C to review his renewal documents online including his 
renewal schedule. The letter gave instructions on how to access these documents and also 
provided a number for Mr C to call if he had any questions. Mr C accepts that he received 
this letter but says that it was only two pages long and didnt include details of the fees he 
was later charged. 
Saga provided us with a copy of the renewal schedule which, in my view, states quite clearly 
that Mr Cs premium is made up of a charge for cover of £136.99 and a £25 renewal 
arrangement fee. This is on page one of the schedule and I think it is quite prominent- it 
appears under Discounts and Charges which is written in bold. So, I think Saga did make it 
clear that this fee was being charged. And as this information was available to Mr C before 
he renewed his policy, I think Saga did enough to bring this charge to his attention before he 
proceeded to renew. And consequently, I think it also fulfilled its obligations under ICOBS.
Furthermore, I dont think that a £25 arrangement fee is unreasonable or out of line with fees 
being charged by other insurance brokers in similar circumstances. So, for that reason I 
think it is fair and reasonable for Saga to charge it to cover the work it carried out in order to 
renew the policy. 
Mr C asked for compensation for having to email Saga to complain. I appreciate this would 
have caused Mr C some inconvenience but as these emails relate to his complaint this isnt 
something I can award him compensation for. This is because it relates to complaint 
handling which isnt a regulated activity and therefore not something our organisation can 
look into. 
My final decision
For the reasons above, Ive decided not to uphold this complaint.
 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 1 January 2021.
 
Anastasia Serdari
Ombudsman