The complaint
Mrs S complains that Cofunds Limited (now part of Aegon) prevented her from topping up 
her account to pay for charges, resulting in investment units being sold to pay for these 
charges. 
What happened
Mrs S took out the investment in 2001, through an intermediary, while she was living in the 
UK. Shortly after, she moved aboard. Charges were paid from her cash account which she 
topped up regularly but in March 2019 Aegon said she could not continue to fund her cash 
account. This meant she could not ensure there were sufficient funds to pay the charges.
When Cofunds merged into Aegon it changed the terms and conditions, telling investors:
Following changes to the service, if you change your residency status, we may have to take 
the following actions:
Suspend certain transactions, including your ability to open new products, make
contributions or buy and sell investments
Sell investments you hold, and
Give notice to you to close your product(s) and access to the service.
It also referred customers to its intermediary. Mrs S spoke to an advisor who assured her 
that as an existing customer she could continue to hold her investments on the platform and 
pay for charges through her GIA.
During correspondence both parties referred to the business as Aegon, rather than Cofunds. 
I have therefore used Aegon in my summary of what took place.
In her complaint Mrs S said she had been forced to sell long-term investments to pay for 
charges despite being an existing customer, and having been reassured nothing would 
change. She doesnt believe Aegon is entitled to do this; even if it is, it has the latitude to 
allow her to make additional contributions and could accept further contributions or 
transfers given the terms and conditions state:  
On a change of residency, we reserve the right to limit your ability to open a new
product, make additional contributions, buy/sell investments and make withdrawals
We may cease to accept further contributions or transfers, or close a product or all of
the products in your client profile, if we deem it appropriate and reasonable to do so,
either:  by giving you at least three months notice; or  without notice under
condition 9.6, or where you, a third party who is paying contributions on your behalf
or your employer are named on a sanctions list as described in condition 6.5 or you
DRN-1844388are no longer resident in the UK or you become a citizen of another country, provided 
we inform you of this immediately.
 
An adjudicator at this service felt Mrs S, understandably, did not think the residency switch 
sentence applied to her as she had been living abroad for many years and so was not about 
to change her status. He did not believe Aegon had made this important change to her terms 
and conditions sufficiently clear.
But he felt Aegon was entitled to make a commercial decision not to trade with foreign-based 
customers and did not have a licence to do so. Given this, he thought Aegon was entitled to 
decline Mrs Ss preferred method of paying for fees  either by topping up her cash account 
or personally selecting the units from one of her funds.
He said Aegon should pay her £100 in lieu of the trouble and upset caused by its failure to 
make its new trading terms sufficiently clear. But he said that Mrs S would have to choose 
one of the three options outlined above going forward.
Mrs S did not agree, and said:
She should be allowed to top up her cash account, via her ISA, as this is linked to a 
UK bank account; this does not constitute trading but simply paying for a service
She simply wishes to fund the charges in order to retain her pre-existing investments
Aegon says it is her responsibility to ensure there is sufficient funds in her cash 
account to pay for charges but it is not allowing her to do so
She is not a new customer but an existing one
If Aegon had made clear the new terms and conditions she would have put sufficient 
funds in her account to cover future charges
 
The new investigator who took over the case asked Aegon if it would allow Mrs S to top up 
her account from her UK bank account, if only on a one-off basis, to avoid selling further 
investment units. It said it was not legally able to do this as it did not have a licence to accept 
money from foreign-based customers whether to buy new investments or fund their GIA.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I fully understand Mrs Ss disappointment at what has happened and completely agree with 
her that Aegons new terms and conditions were at best unclear. She had no reason to 
assume that shed be unable to fund her cash account to pay for charges going forward.
Had the size of the charges and the value of the units needing to be cancelled been higher I 
would have instructed Aegon to pay more than £100 in trouble and upset. But given the 
sums involved I believe £100 is about right even taking account of Mrs Ss point that she 
could have funded her account prior to the change if things had been made clear.
That said, I am satisfied it was entitled to act as it did, albei t it should have made far clearer 
its proposed new approach. It chose not offer any ongoing service to foreign-based clients 
and decided that existing clients could only fund charges from unit cancellations once their 
GIA funds had expired. It is not for me to say whether it could, in theory, allow top-ups from 
UK accounts, solely to cover charges. The investigator did check this and the 
correspondence trail does indicate that Aegon explored this possibility but concluded it was not entitled to do this under its UK-only licence.
Crucially, even if it is technically able to do this, it is for Aegon to choose whether to do so. I 
agree with Mrs S that its terms and conditions suggest it has some latitude in this area but it 
is nevertheless for Aegon to choose whether to do so. It is not for me or this service to tell a 
business how to run its service or how or when to exercise latitude in areas where it may 
have some discretion.
So I do not believe I can fairly or reasonably conclude that Aegon ought reasonably to have 
allowed Mrs S to top up her GIA account
Putting things right
I therefore only uphold this complaint to the extent described above and agree that Cofunds 
should pay £100.
My final decision
I instruct Cofunds Limited to pay Mrs S £100.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs S to accept or 
reject my decision before 9 July 2020.
Tony Moss
Ombudsman