DRN-3859724
The complaint
Miss N complains Lantern Debt Recovery Services Ltd are asking her to repay a debt which 
shes said she was told would be repaid.
What happened
Miss N took out a loan with a company Ill refer to as S. Miss N says when S went out of 
business, she was contacted on the phone by their administrators and told nothing more 
would be owed on the loan, and itd be removed from her credit file. But, after this, she says 
Lantern got in touch, and are refusing to dispute the account for her  theyre asking her to 
repay the debt. Miss N asks for the debt to be removed from her credit file.
Lantern explained they bought the account in February 2020, in good faith and on the 
understanding the balance was owed. They said they were unaware of any issues, and after 
theyd bought the account several payment plans in May, June and October 2020 were set 
up with Miss N. Lantern said Miss N made one payment under these plans and found no 
evidence she disputed the validity of the debt until June 2022. They understood Miss N 
believed her debt had been written off, but there was no evidence to support that. Lantern 
added they were happy to reconsider their stance if she was able to provide anything in 
writing to confirm the loan had been written off.
Unhappy with this Miss N asked us to look into things, explaining shes got nothing in writing 
to show the debt was written off  and as S are in administration theyve stopped replying to 
her enquiries.
One of our Investigators looked into things, but ultimately found Lantern had acted fairly in 
asking for evidence the debt had been written off and, in the absence of that evidence, in 
asking for the debt to be repaid and continuing to report it on Miss Ns credit file. 
Miss N said she understands the debt should be paid back but thinks its unfair her credit file 
still shows the loan. She asks that the debt is removed from her credit file, as S did for other 
customers. Shes also mentioned she wasnt able to deal with matters until after the deadline 
for claims with the administrators for S had passed because of Lanterns actions.
As our Investigator and Miss N couldnt agree, the complaints been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Here, Miss N isnt disputing she took out a loan with S. Ive seen evidence of S going into 
administration, and a Notice of Assignment (NoA) saying Lantern are now the rightful owner 
of the debt.
Its quite common in unsecured lending situations where if someone has fallen into arrears 
or default that the debt may be purchased by a debt purchaser  such as Lantern. This 
means theyre now the owner of Miss Ns debt, but theyre not responsible for things the 
original lender did such as assessing whether the lending was affordable or not.
This means Lantern are entitled to ask Miss N to repay the debt, unless there is evidence to 
suggest they shouldnt.
Here, Miss N isnt able to provide anything to demonstrate her debt was written off. I dont 
dispute her testimony which is that she was phoned and told her account had been written 
off, so she didnt need to pay anything further and the account would be removed from her 
credit file.
But, I need to consider this from Lanterns perspective, as well as Miss Ns. Lantern have 
asked Miss N what evidence she says to prove the debt was written off  and shes 
unfortunately not been able to provide anything. Without that, its difficult for me to say 
Lantern arent entitled to ask her to repay the debt. And, in the absence of clear evidence to 
say the account should no longer be reported to the credit reference agencies, Ive no 
grounds on which to ask Lantern to stop doing that.
Ive noted Miss N said other customers of S had their credit files cleared of the debt. But, Ive 
seen the scheme email where it seems Miss N got this information  and it says We are 
currently submitting updates to credit reference agencies in order to amend customers 
credit files for loans that have been deemed unaffordable.
So, I agree some customers of S have had their credit files updated  but only where its 
been deemed the loan itself was unaffordable. And, as Ive explained above, unfortunately 
Miss N doesnt have any evidence of that happening for her loan.
Ive also noted Miss Ns concerns that Lantern didnt tell her about them taking over the debt 
until it was too late for her to raise her concerns to the administrator. I dont though think I 
can agree with that  as Miss N was sent the NoA in February 2020, and the scheme didnt 
close until January 2021. Whether Miss N received the NoA or not I cant know, but its 
correctly addressed, and Ive seen nothing to suggest it shouldnt have arrived with her.
Overall, as Lantern were assigned the debt in February 2020, theyre entitled to ask for 
repayment of the debt and to report it to the credit reference agencies. I cant say this is 
unfair, because there is simply no clear evidence Miss Ns loan has been written off as she 
said.
I have though got significant sympathy for Miss N given what shes outlined about how this 
has impacted her. With that in mind, our service determined who the administrators were, 
and found some contact details to try and get an updated position. We did contact them, but 
they didnt reply. Ive asked our Investigator to include this information for Miss N in the 
covering email for this decision, so she can contact them herself and, if she gets more 
information, then she can take that back to Lantern as a new complaint for them to consider 
the appropriate next steps.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained above I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss N to accept 
or reject my decision before 4 April 2023.
 
Jon PearceOmbudsman