DRN-2768702
The complaint
Mr R complains that his landlord insurance policy was automatically renewed by AXA 
Insurance UK Plc (AXA) without his consent.
What happened
Mr R tells us he took out a landlord insurance policy in September 2018 which unknown to 
him was automatically renewed (auto-renew) in September 2019. He says he sold the 
property in May 2019 so had no need to renew the policy, and wasnt aware the policy had 
been auto-renewed until some months after it was renewed.
Mr R approached AXA in April 2020 and says he was told hed need to provide evidence that 
hed sold the property to enable them to refund the renewal premium. Mr R says he cant do 
this currently as his documents are at his place of work which he cannot currently access.
Mr R didnt think this was reasonable and complained to AXA. He tells us he was unaware 
that the policy would auto-renew, hadnt given his permission for this to happen and wanted 
the premium to be refunded. 
AXA say that when Mr R took out the policy online he was informed the policy would be 
auto-renewed. And that renewal correspondence sent by email to Mr R set out the policy 
would be auto-renewed. Mr R tells us that he didnt see these emails, and it was only some 
months later when searching an unused email account he realised the policy had been auto-
renewed.
AXA confirmed to Mr R it would only consider refunding the premium if Mr R provided 
evidence he had sold the property. 
Mr R was unhappy with the response from AXA and brought his complaint to this service. He 
told us he wanted the premium refunding and a payment to compensate for the time hed 
spent dealing with the issue.
Our investigator didnt uphold the complaint. She felt AXA had acted fairly when it auto-
renewed the policy and it was reasonable for it to ask for proof the property had been sold.
Mr R remained unhappy and asked that an ombudsman decide the case.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The issues are straightforward, has AXA acted fairly and reasonably when it auto-renewed 
the policy and in its approach to considering a refund.
Mr R has raised a number of questions and referred to online legal publications as well as 
providing testimony in bringing his complaint. Ive considered these and have looked at 
everything hes sent in, but I dont intend to respond in similar detail. So if I dont mention a 
particular point or piece of evidence it isnt because Ive not seen it or thought about it. Its 
just that I dont feel its necessary to reference it to explain my decision. I hope Mr R doesnt 
take this as a discourtesy, its just a reflection of the informal nature of our service.
Insurers are entitled to auto-renew policies if they have made it clear to the policyholder that 
this will happen when the policy is purchased and when the policy renews.
Ive seen evidence that when the policy was arranged the online process included a section 
headed Automatic renewal. This section says By purchasing this policy, youve given us 
consent to set up a continuous payment authority. This means were renew your policy and 
apply for renewal payments from your account every year until you instruct us to stop.
Im satisfied that this is clear.
Ive seen evidence that AXA sent Mr R two emails in August 2019 letting him    know the 
policy was due for renewal in September. These emails included a section headed Next 
Steps which said:- 
If youd like to stay with us for another year, you dont need to do anything  your policy 
renews automatically 
  
Ive also seen additional renewal documents emailed to Mr R. And under the What you 
need to do next section there are a number of bullet points including:-
If you would like to accept this renewal, or need to change of the details, please log in to your 
online account or contact us on 0330 159 136
Please contact us if you do not want to renew your policy with us
These bullet points, which are sequential do contradict each other. However, on balance, 
given the content of the two emails and the proximity of the two bullet points I find it was 
clear the policy would be auto-renewed. If Mr R was in any doubt he couldve queried this 
with AXA either by calling or accessing his online account. 
Mr R couldve reasonably been expected to advise AXA he sold the property at the time he 
sold it, and if this had happened the policy wouldve been cancelled. And the auto-renew 
would not have happened. Given AXA wasnt aware the property had been sold and auto-
renewed the policy, thereby being on risk, its not unreasonable for it to seek confirmation 
the property was sold prior to the renewal before considering refunding the premium. 
I can appreciate the difficulties Mr R faces in accessing his legal papers. From what Ive 
seen AXA have not insisted on sight of original paper documents and Id expect it to accept 
email or online documents confirming the sale of the property which Mr R could more readily 
provide.
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision before 4 June 2021.
 
Martyn TomkinsOmbudsman