DRN-4136992
The complaint
Mr and Mrs D complain about the way that Vitality Health Limited set-up their personal 
private medical insurance policy.
What happened
Mr and Mrs H held a private medical insurance policy, which was underwritten on medical 
health disregarded (MHD) terms. In July 2022, their broker (which Ill refer to as A) contacted 
Vitality to enquire whether it could provide cover on MHD terms, as they were looking to 
switch Mr and Mrs D to a new policy with Vitality.
Vitality told the broker that it could offer policies on MHD terms. However, it didnt clarify that 
it couldnt offer personal policies on MHD underwriting  only business plans could be 
underwritten on an MHD basis.
The broker applied for a policy for Mr and Mrs D. The application form requested cover 
based on Continued Personal Medical Exclusions (CPME) underwriting. Vitality accordingly 
processed the application and set-up Mr and Mrs Ds policy on a CPME basis. It issued Mr 
and Mrs D with a policy certificate which confirmed the type of underwriting they held.
In November 2022, Mrs D made a claim on the policy. Vitality asked her for evidence in 
support of her claim. It was at this point that Mr and Mrs D learned that, in fact, they didnt 
have MHD cover. Mr D also went on to make a claim on the policy and was unhappy that 
hed been asked for medical information to allow Vitality to fully assess his claim. 
Mr and Mrs D were unhappy with the way their policy had been set-up and the way that their 
claims had been handled. So they made a complaint to Vitality about these issues, amongst 
other things.
Vitality accepted that it hadnt made it clear to A that it couldnt offer MHD underwriting on 
personal policies. So it ultimately offered to pay Mr and Mrs D £300 compensation for this 
error; along with £50 for other service errors. And it allowed Mr and Mrs D to cancel their 
policy early, without incurring a cancellation fee.
However, Mr and Mrs D remained unhappy with the way Vitality had settled their complaint. 
They asked us to look into their complaint. They felt that given their excess was £250 per 
person (which they had paid out for their claims), £500 compensation would be fair 
compensation for Vitality to pay. 
Our investigator felt Vitality had already settled Mr and Mrs Ds complaint fairly. And she was 
satisfied that Vitality had set-up the policy in line with the information on the application form.
Mr and Mrs D disagreed. They felt the £300 compensation theyd paid only represented the 
poor service theyd received from Vitality. They didnt think it took into account the mis-
selling of their policy.
The complaints been passed to me to decide. I have considered a complaint about the 
broker separately.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, whilst Im sorry to disappoint Mr and Mrs D, I think Vitality has settled their 
complaint fairly and Ill explain why.
First, its important I make clear the parameters of this complaint. It seems Mr and Mrs D 
made complaints to Vitality about information they were given about cashback and other 
aspects of Vitalitys claim handling. But the complaint they brought to us was mainly about 
the way their policy was set-up. And so its that issue I have focused on within this decision.
Vitality didnt sell this policy to Mr and Mrs D. That was Mr and Mrs Ds brokers 
responsibility. With that said, Ive listened to the call between the broker and Vitality. While 
this was a general enquiry rather than a call specific to Mr and Mrs Ds application, its clear 
that Vitality did indicate that it could offer MHD underwriting. And it didnt clarify that it could 
only offer MHD underwriting for business plans. Had it done so, it seems most likely to me 
that Mr and Mrs D wouldve chosen not to go ahead with applying for a policy with Vitality.
However, Ive also seen a copy of the application form Vitality received. This was completed 
by the broker and applied for cover on CPME terms. There was no reference to the earlier 
discussion with Vitality. And I dont think there was anything on the application form to put 
Vitality on notice of a potential link between its discussion with the broker and the application 
form it had been sent. As such then, I think it was fair and reasonable for Vitality to process 
the application it had been presented with and to set-up the policy on CPME terms.
Following the set-up of the policy, Vitality sent Mr and Mrs D a copy of their policy certificate. 
This is in line with what Id expect it to do. I can see that the certificate clearly states that the 
policy was underwritten on CPME terms. So I think Vitality made clear enough to Mr and Mrs 
D what type of cover they held.
I appreciate it must have come as a shock to Mr and Mrs D when they were asked for 
evidence in support of their claims. But I dont think it was unfair or unreasonable for Vitality 
to request this information from Mr and Mrs D. I note the policy includes a section called 
Getting Authorisation for your Treatment. This includes the following term:
Sometimes, particularly if you claim in the first one or two years after joining us, we may 
need you to send us a fully completed claim form to help us assess your claim. We will 
normally ask for details of your medical history for at least the previous five years, with 
sections for both you and your GP to complete. We will not pay fees charged by a medical 
practitioner for completing a claim form, and we will be unable to assess the claim or pay for 
any treatment before we receive the claim form.
And while I appreciate Mr and Mrs D feel it would be reasonable for Vitality to pay 
compensation equivalent to the claims excesses they paid; I disagree. The excesses were 
agreed prior to the policy being set-up and were factored into the price Mr and Mrs D paid for 
the policy. The excess was a contractual amount Vitality was entitled to require Mr and Mrs 
D to pay before it became liable to cover any medical costs. Vitalitys notes indicate too that 
it did go on to settle medical costs, so it seems that Mr and Mrs D did benefit from the cover.
Overall, I acknowledge that had Vitality given the broker clearer information about the 
circumstances in which it offered MHD underwriting, its likely Mr and Mrs D wouldnt have taken this policy. I accept too that they suffered trouble and upset when they learned that 
they had less cover than theyd held before. So I think it was reasonable and appropriate for 
Vitality to recognise this and to pay them £300 compensation for this specific error (along 
with further compensation and a hamper for other service issues). I understand too that 
Vitality waived the £40 administration charge it was contractually entitled to apply to Mr and 
Mrs D for the early cancellation of their policy. In my view, the compensation Vitality has 
already paid, along with the waiver of the cancellation fee, is fair and reasonable to reflect 
the impact I think this matter was likely to have had on Mr and Mrs D. 
So it follows that I dont think Vitality needs to do anything more.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above, my final decision is that Vitality has already settled Mr and 
Mrs Ds complaint fairly and I make no further award.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs D and Mr D to 
accept or reject my decision before 18 July 2023.
 
Lisa Barham
Ombudsman