DRN-1812605
 
The complaint
Miss M complains The Royal Bank of Scotland plc, trading as NatWest, will not refund a 
transaction which she says the ATM failed to dispense.
What happened
Miss M says she attempted to make an ATM withdrawal on 28th June 2019 at 9.23 am.  She 
says she entered her PIN but the ATM failed to dispense her £100.  She checked her online 
account to see if the money had debited her account  it hadnt she says so she tried 
another ATM.  This time the transaction was successful and she received her money.  The 
timing of the second transaction, Miss M says, was 9.27am.
When Miss M checked her account and noticed that it had been debited twice, she 
complained to NatWest.
NatWest did not uphold her complaint. It checked with the ATM owner and received 
confirmation that the ATM balanced and there were no errors.
So, Miss M came to this service.
Our investigator looked into matters for her.  She explained the following to Miss M:
her recollection with regards using two separate ATMs cant be right  because the 
printouts show the same ATM being used for both transactions;
Miss Ms online banking login did not show that she logged on in between the 
transactions  but rather she logged on almost four hours later;
the ATM she had used had not only balanced on that day but had no reported 
issues.  In fact, successful transactions were made before and after the disputed 
transaction.
 
But Miss M disagreed with the investigator. She insisted she had used two ATMs.  The 
matter was then passed to me for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I am afraid I arrive at the same conclusion as the investigator  and for very 
much the same reasons.
I need to base my decision on what I think is most likely to have happened here  and in 
arriving at my decision, I take into account the evidence from both sides.
I have seen nothing to suggest the documentary evidence is not correct  and by that I mean the evidence which shows the ATM used had the same ID, Miss Ms online banking shows 
she logged on later that day and the evidence from the ATM owner showing the ATM 
balanced and had no reported faults.
And I remind myself that it was over a week later when Miss M raised her complaint with 
NatWest.  Looking at the number of occasions she had accessed online banking during that 
time, I would expect her to have noticed if the debits to the account were not what she had 
expected.
Whilst I note what Miss M says, I think the documentary evidence is persuasive - and so I 
dont think it would be fair or reasonable for me to ask NatWest to refund this money to her.
I also note is was over a week before Miss M raised her complaint with NatWest so it's 
possible she is mistaken in her recollection.
My final decision
My final decision is that i do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss M to accept 
or reject my decision before 16July2020.
Shazia Ahmed
Ombudsman