DRN-1710322
The complaint
Mr Bs complaint is about the expiration and closure of specific trading positions (the trades) 
he held in his account with Gain Capital UK Limited (trading as City Index). 
He says  in the process of opening the trades no information or indication was given to him 
that they had an expiry date(s) or were Futures based positions; that he would have closed 
them earlier or behaved differently if he had been so informed; that he was misled by City 
Indexs mobile phone trading platform in this respect; and that he seeks compensation for 
the loss he incurred when his trades were closed on expiry. 
City Index disputes the complaint.
What happened
One of our investigators noted as follows:
Mr Bs trades were spread-bets with derivatives features; they were based on an 
underlying Futures instrument; as such, the expiring nature of the spread-bet was 
derived from the expiring nature of the underlying instrument.
Mr Bs account was based on an execution only service, whereby it was his sole 
responsibility to understand how the market for a trade operates before opening the 
relevant trade.
The trading platform had a market information section for the trade and within this 
section the expiration details of the trade were set out; had Mr B checked this he 
would have been informed about the expiry date of his trades; it was his 
responsibility to check the market information section before placing his trades.
For the above reasons, the investigator concluded that the complaint should not be upheld. 
Mr B disagreed with this outcome and mainly said:
The platform did not clearly identify the trades as being based on an underlying 
Futures instrument, the word Futures was not used and there were/are non-Futures 
based trades in the same product name so such identification (and distinction) was 
necessary.
He has known the market information section of the platform to provide incorrect 
information and to be unreliable.
The investigator was not persuaded to alter his view. He referred to evidence showing that 
the spread-bets were accurately defined and that the market information on expiration 
details was also accurate. In early June, this year, Mr B suggested he could provide 
evidence to show discrepancies in the market information section with regards to expiration 
of the trades. The investigator gave him time, until early August, to do so but no such 
evidence appears to have been presented. The matter was referred to an ombudsman.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I have reached the same conclusion expressed by the investigator. I do not 
uphold Mr Bs complaint.
I am not persuaded by Mr Bs arguments in this matter. His complaint at the outset featured, 
in equal measure, reference to him being misled about the underlying Futures basis for his 
trades and about his trades having an expiry date(s). Subsequent to the investigators view 
he appears to have focused mainly on the former. 
Overall, and based on Mr Bs express submissions, I consider that the crux of his complaint 
is that he made a financial loss from the trades because they were closed on expiry; that he 
was not aware that they were due to expiry (and close); and that he would have closed them 
earlier, or behaved differently, if he was so aware. I do not suggest that he does not hold a 
concern about the description (or, as he alleges, lack of description) of the underlying 
Futures basis for the trades, but the main issue is about expiration of the trades.
As the investigator noted, Mr Bs account was held on an execution only basis, so he made 
his own independent trading decisions, was responsible for that and was responsible for 
informing himself about any instrument he sought to trade before trading it. City Indexs 
response to his complaint also referred him to specific terms and conditions for the account 
which explained the closure of positions upon expiry (where they were not otherwise treated 
differently  such as closed early or rolled over), which explained that spread-bets were 
based on an underlying instrument and that their settlement dates (monthly, quarterly or 
annually) are specified in the market information section of the platform.
I agree with the point noted by the investigator and I accept that the terms highlighted by City 
Index had the effect of giving Mr B notice that expiry dates could be applicable to trades on 
its platform and that spread-bets were based on an underlying instrument.
Screenshot evidence of the mobile phone trading platform has been shared with this service. 
I consider that the layout of information for the product Mr B traded was reasonably clear 
and accessible. The product name was the heading and it included a shortened month name 
and year  both of which reflected the expiration of the underlying instrument. More 
specifically, the heading was followed by prominent tabs, one of which was the market 
information tab. Under this tab were a handful of sub-headings, one of which was the Expiry 
sub-heading. By opening the Expiry tab information was given on the products expiry date 
and time, the last date and time for trading the product, how the expiry price of the product is 
defined and the date and time from which a roll-over of the trade begins.
If he had checked the market information related to his trades and had checked the Expiry 
tab  as he ought reasonable to have done  I do not consider it plausible that Mr B could 
have been unaware that his trades were subject to an expiry date and unaware of the date 
and time his trades would expire. Specific information in this respect was available to him 
within the market information details. It was his responsibility to inform himself about the 
trades before placing them and this included the expiry information. I have not seen 
evidence to support his suggestion that the expiration information was incorrect.
There appears to have been an issue about the spread-bet expiry occurring the month 
before expiry of the underlying instrument and Mr B appears to argue that this too was 
misleading. I am not persuaded that this lends itself in support of the complaint. The fact 
remains that the market information section of the platform gave specific and, it appears, 
accurate information on the precise expiry date and time for the trades, so that was the 
information available to Mr B and that was the information he should have checked  but did not. City Index cannot reasonably be blamed for his failure to check, and be mindful of, this 
information.
I am not persuaded that the issue of description, or lack thereof, of the trades as being 
based on a Futures instrument is relevant to the complaint  or is as relevant as Mr B says 
it is. There was sufficient information on the platform about the spread-bet and it is the 
spread-bet that Mr B was trading. The name of the spread-bet referred to the name of the 
underlying Futures instrument (including its expiration month and year in the relevant 
underlying Futures market). 
The implication that arises is that either Mr B was aware of the basis for his spread-bets or, if 
he was not, he ought reasonably to have made himself aware of such basis. It was his sole 
responsibility to do that. In this context and with specific regard to his complaint about 
expiration of his trades, his argument about whether (or not) the word Futures was 
explicitly used in describing the underlying basis for the spread-bet is arguably redundant. If 
he did not know this at the time of placing the trades, he unreasonably placed those trades 
without first informing himself about what they were based on. In any case, the platform gave 
him information about the expiration of the trades he placed  which is contrary to his main 
complaint and assertion that it did not.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I do not uphold Mr Bs complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 14 September 2020.
 
Roy Kuku
Ombudsman