DRN-1943452
The complaint
Mr P complains that a car he took from Volkswagen Financial Services (UK) Limited (VWFS) 
under a four-year hire agreement wasnt of satisfactory quality. Specifically, he says that the 
cars electronic parking brake failed, causing damage to the car and other property.  
What happened
In July 2017 Mr P entered into a hire agreement for a new car. It was supplied with a three-
year manufacturers warranty. 
Mr P says that, in June 2019, the car was parked, unattended, at his wifes place of work. It 
rolled across the car park and into a fence post, causing damage to both the car and the 
fence. Repairs were carried out and mostly paid for under Mr Ps insurance policy. He has 
however had to fund the excess of £150, and its likely the claim will affect future premiums.    
Mr P believes that there was a fault with the cars parking brake. The car was however 
inspected by the dealership, but no fault was found. Mr P says that the fault is intermittent 
but was occurring on a regular basis at the time of the incident. He referred the matter to this 
service, where one of our investigators considered what had happened. The investigator 
was not however persuaded that there was any fault with the car. She didnt recommend that 
VWFS do anything to resolve the complaint. Mr P did not accept the investigators 
recommendations and made further submissions, so a second investigator considered the 
case. She, however, reached broadly the same conclusions as the first investigator had, for 
similar reasons. Mr P asked that an ombudsman review the case, as the final stage in our 
process. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
When Mr P took the car from VWFS he had a number of consumer protections. In particular, 
under the Consumer Rights Act 2015, the hire agreement was to be read as including a term 
that the car would be of satisfactory quality  meaning the quality a reasonable person would 
expect in the circumstances. The car also came with a three-year manufacturers warranty. 
Given the car was new and was under warranty, the parking brake should not have stopped 
functioning two years later. I dont believe that is in dispute; rather, the issue here is whether 
there was  as a matter of fact  a fault with the car. 
VWFS relies on the fact that a check of the car after the incident did not reveal any faults. 
The dealership was unable to replicate the issue that Mr P had described. 
Mr P says that he had experienced issues with the brake previously. He says too that the 
engineers notes indicate that the parking brake is engaged automatically  that is, the car 
cannot have rolled back as a result of the driver forgetting to engage it. 
The investigators looked into other work carried out on the car. That showed that in 
December 2017 there had been an issue with the battery, which affected the parking brake 
and other matters; that had been resolved under warranty. In June 2019 Mr P had reported 
an issue with the clutch, but again no fault had been found. 
The evidence here is not entirely consistent. If the brake engaged automatically, it seems 
unlikely that, in the absence of a fault, the car could have rolled back as Mr P reported. But 
no fault was found with the car when it was examined by an engineer. 
On balance however Im not persuaded that the parking brake was faulty as Mr P says. No 
fault has been identified, either before or after the incident in July 2019, and so I dont 
believe I can safely conclude that the car was not of satisfactory quality.  
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont require Volkswagen Financial Services (UK) Limited to do 
anything further to resolve Mr Ps complaint. Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman 
Service, Im required to ask Mr P to accept or reject my decision before 22 February 2021. 
Mike Ingram
Ombudsman