DRN-3258672
The complaint
Miss S complains that HSBC UK Bank Plc (HSBC) provided her with a loan which had a 
high interest rate and that they took advantage of her as she was vulnerable at the time she 
took out the loan. 
What happened
In July 2017 Miss S took out a loan with HSBC for £9430 over 48 months. She wanted to 
use the loan to consolidate her debts. 
Miss S says that she had just suffered a family bereavement and was still very upset. She 
was working away from home and was struggling to meet the payments on her existing 
credit card and loan debt and so she approached HSBC for a loan. 
Miss S says that when she made the call she was distressed, but they offered her a loan, 
telling her she had to accept quickly. Sher says that she didnt know whether it was a good 
offer or how to shop around and so accepted the offer, signing the documents online. 
Miss S says she was later surprised to learn that the repayments over the four years totalled 
£12767. The repayments were £265.99 per month. 
Miss S says that apart from a brief payment holiday during the pandemic, she has kept up 
the repayments, but has felt saddled with the repayments, and feels that HSBC took 
advantage of her when she was vulnerable. She thinks the interest rate is too high, and so 
she complained to HSBC. 
In their response, HSBC said that full details of the loan were provided, and the terms were 
accepted by Miss S. Miss S was unhappy with this and she brought her complaint to us.  
One of our investigators looked into Miss Ss complaint. He thought that HSBC had acted in 
a fair and reasonable manner.  
Miss S disagreed with our investigators view and has asked for an ombudsmans decision 
which is why it has come to me to review. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I have not upheld the complaint and I will explain my reasons below. 
I have reviewed all the documentation that was supplied to Miss S and listened to the call 
when the loan was taken out. I have also noted Miss Ss further comments that she has 
submitted to me following the investigators view. 
The ombudsman service cant tell a business what interest rates it should charge 
consumers, but we can look to see whether enough information was provided to a customer 
at the point of sale to make an informed decision about whether to accept the terms of the 
loan. So, I have looked at what information was provided to Miss S and thought about 
whether HSBC acted fairly in the information they provided. 
In the documents provided to Miss S before the loan contract was signed there was the Pre-
contract credit information document. This detailed that it was a fixed sum loan of £9430 
over 48 months with an interest rate of 16.9%. In section 23 it says that the total amount that 
she will have to repay is £12676.87. 
In the Key Points about your loan agreement document, it says under the agreement you 
must make a first monthly repayment of £266.34, and then 47 monthly repayments of 
£265.99. The total amount you will have to pay is £12767.87. this loan might not be right for 
you if you want more flexibility in the amount you borrow or repay. It was also says that the 
customer can withdraw from the agreement within 14 days of signing the agreement.
The detail is again repeated in the Fixed Sum Loan Agreement. 
In the call when Miss S took out the loan, she explained why the loan was needed, and the 
HSBC adviser discussed the option of a personal loan. They said they could provide a 
quotation, and proceeded to take details of income and expenditure, and discussed the 
disposable income after the loan repayments. Miss S confirmed she was happy to proceed 
with the application and the agent placed Miss S on hold while the application was 
considered. He came back and confirmed the loan application had been accepted for £9,430 
over 48 months and that the total payable for the loan would be £12,767.87. Miss S queried 
this amount and the option of a 36-month term with a lower total repayment figure was 
discussed. However, Miss S opted for a 48-month repayment and the interest rate and 
cooling off period were also discussed. 
In view of all the information provided during the call and in the documentation sent to Miss 
S before the contract was signed, I think she was fully informed about the costs of the 
lending, before making her decision to proceed. 
So, Ive then thought about what Miss S has told us about her personal circumstances at the 
time, and whether she was taken advantage of because she was vulnerable. 
I am sorry to hear about Miss Ss loss of a family member, and I appreciate that she was in a 
state of grief at the time she took out the loan. I can also understand that she may not have 
had the mindset to be able to look around for other options, given the financial pressures she 
was facing. However, this doesnt necessarily mean that HSBC shouldnt have lent to Miss S 
or that, as she has suggested, they have taken advantage of her. HSBC need to take 
reasonable steps to assist a customer in making a decision and given the content of the 
phone call and the documents, I think they did that in this instance. I cant see any evidence 
that they took advantage of her.
I can see that Miss S feels very strongly that the interest rate was too high, and she has 
provided me with details of lower rate loans that are available now. She has told me that she 
thinks that this shows that the rate of the loan provided to her was too high. As I have said 
above, I cant tell a business what loan rates to offer, and the business will often set rates 
dependent on the customers personal circumstances, with customers who are already in 
debt being offered higher rates because of the risk involved, so its not possible to say what 
a reasonable rate is  or that other lenders would offer a lower rate.
So, whilst I can appreciate that Miss S may have been able to get a lower interest rate 
elsewhere and that she considers this rate as too high, I am satisfied that HSBC havent 
done anything wrong in offering this loan to Miss S.      My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, my decision is that I dont uphold Miss Ss complaint about 
HSBC UK Bank Plc. 
  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss S to accept 
or reject my decision before 1 June 2022.
 
Joanne Ward
Ombudsman