DRN-2905467
The complaint
In summary, Mr C has complained that Everyday Lending Limited (ELL) provided him with a 
loan when he wasnt able to afford it. 
What happened
In January 2020 ELL gave Mr C a loan for £4,000 repayable over 24 months. It was a high 
interest loan with an interest rate of 133.6% APR. The total charge for the credit was 
£4,621.52, which meant the total amount repayable by Mr C for the £4,000 he was 
borrowing, was £8,621.52. The monthly repayments were £359.23. Mr Cs average net 
salary was recorded as £3,102.57 a month. The majority of the loan was intended to be used 
to repay existing credit including a payday loan. 
In its response to Mr Cs complaint, ELL said the loan was taken out to consolidate some of 
his existing debts. It also explained that its checks included conducting a credit search and 
carrying out a job check. When calculating the affordability of the loan, it used ONS data and 
figures to calculate living expenses and applied a buffer to accommodate any unexpected 
minor changes. His monthly expenditure was calculated as £2,808.05 a month. ELL also 
said it was satisfied reasonable and proportionate checks had been carried out and that the 
loan was affordable for Mr C.
Mr Cs concerns were investigated by one of our adjudicators. She thought ELL should have 
realised Mr C was unlikely to have been able to sustainably repay the loan. ELL didnt agree 
with the adjudicators assessment. In summary it said the balance of the defaults were low 
which suggested to it that Mr C was taking control of his finances and dealing with his debts. 
Mr Cs full rent had been included in the affordability assessment even though the payment 
was taken from a joint bank account. And it didnt agree that there were numerous unpaid 
direct debits. So, the case has been passed to me for review.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our approach to considering unaffordable and irresponsible lending complaints 
on our website - including the key relevant rules, guidance, good industry practice and law. 
And Ive considered this approach when deciding Mr Cs complaint. Having done so, Ive 
decided to uphold Mr Cs complaint. Ill explain why.
There are several questions that Ive thought about when deciding if ELL treated Mr C fairly 
and reasonably when it provided him with the loan.
1) Did ELL complete reasonable and proportionate checks to satisfy itself that Mr C 
would be able to repay his loan in a sustainable way? 
2) If not, what would reasonable and proportionate checks have shown at the time?
3) Ultimately, did ELL make a fair lending decision?  fair and reasonable in the 
circumstances of this complaint.  
4) Did ELL act unfairly or unreasonably in some other way?
Did ELL complete reasonable and proportionate checks to satisfy itself that Mr C would be 
able to repay his loan in a sustainable way? 
The rules that ELL had to follow, required it to carry out checks that would enable it to 
reasonably assess, whether Mr C could afford to repay the loan he was wanting to take out. 
This is often referred to as an affordability assessment.
 
The rules dont set out what specific checks it needed to carry out, but it did set out that 
those checks needed to be proportionate to the circumstances of the application. I think what 
this meant in practice, was that the scope and extent of ELLs checks needed to reflect the 
nature of the loan, bearing in mind things such as the amount of credit, the interest rate, the 
duration of the loan, the monthly and total amounts repayable, and any indications of 
customer vulnerability.  
The checks to be carried out by ELL as part of its affordability assessment, needed to be 
borrower focussed. What I mean by this is that the checks needed to consider whether 
paying the loan back would cause Mr C any difficulties or have any adverse consequences 
for him. It would also need to take into account factors such as the amount of money being 
lent, the term of the loan and the monthly repayments, total charge for the credit and the 
interest rate being charged. This isnt an exhaustive list. 
And as a result of the above I think a reasonable and proportionate check needed to be 
more thorough if Mr C had a low income. This would reflect that it could be more difficult for 
him to make the loan repayments with a low income. 
It would also need to be more thorough the higher the amounts he had to repay, as it would 
be more difficult to make higher loan repayments on a given income. 
The length of the loan term would also be relevant, partly because where the loan duration is 
longer, the total cost of credit was likely to be higher. It would also be relevant because there 
is greater risk of a negative change in circumstances affecting Mr Cs ability to repay, where 
repayments need to be sustained over a longer period. 
With these principles in mind Ive thought about whether ELL completed reasonable and 
proportionate checks to satisfy itself that Mr C would be able to repay his loan in a 
sustainable way.
In summary, then, the circumstances of this loan application are as follows:
Mr C was applying for a high-cost credit product which had an APR of 133.6%
The total cost of the loan was very high, particularly when viewed as a percentage of 
what Mr C borrowed. He was using the loan to repay other debts, which suggests he 
was already struggling with existing credit.
ELLs affordability assessment indicated that Mr Cs monthly expenditure accounted for 
approximately 90% of his average monthly income. 
Individually and taken together, there are several risk indicators here. So, I think that it was 
important for ELL to have conducted checks which gave it a thorough understanding of 
Mr Cs financial position and to scrutinise the information it gathered carefully, asking follow-
up questions where necessary, before agreeing to lend.ELL has said it did carry out some checks before it agreed to provide Mr C with the loan. 
And this seems to be on the basis of carrying out a credit search and using ONS data and 
figures to calculate living expenses. It also says it applied a buffer to accommodate any 
unexpected minor changes. It says it carried out an affordability assessment based on this 
information. 
Its not clear to me why it felt it necessary or appropriate to use ONS data to calculate Mr Cs 
living expenses, when it carried out its affordability assessment in this case. And it hasnt 
explained why this was a more reliable and borrower focussed assessment of Mr Cs living 
expenses, than scrutinising the information it did collect about Mr C.
This is surprising when it did have Mr Cs bank statements and appears to have reviewed 
these as part of the process of evidencing his income. And it seems to me that it would have 
been logical to have made an actual assessment of Mr Cs income and expenses, taking into 
account the information it did have, rather than making assumptions which werent 
necessarily accurate, appropriate or borrower focussed. 
Did ELL make a fair lending decision?
If ELL had objectively reviewed the information it did have about Mr C, I think it would have 
realised that his finances were not in a good position. I say this because if it had carried out 
a simple assessment of the November - December 2019 joint account bank statement, it 
would have seen that the start balance was a debit of £18.90 and the end balance a credit of 
£69.65.  Also, the statement shows payments from SF advance which Mr C has said was a 
scheme used by his employer to take an advance on his salary.  And his sole bank account 
for January 2020 showed that the total outgoings were greater than the total deposits. 
This all suggests to me that Mr Cs finances werent in a healthy position as he had little if 
any surplus income at the end of the month. And the fact that he was having to take 
advances on his salary each month, also indicates to me that he was having difficulty in 
managing his finances. 
ELLs income and expenditure assessment shows that it thought the loan was affordable for 
Mr C as he had surplus income of just over £77.58 a month, after the loan repayments for 
this loan were taken into account; together with the deduction for living expenses that it had 
allowed for. But it hasnt explained why it believes the information it reviewed supports that 
assessment and decision. 
Taking into account what Ive summarised above, I cant see objectively how on even a 
cursory analysis of the copies of the Mr Cs bank statements it had, that ELL could have 
concluded that the loan was affordable for him. I think the information ELL obtained from 
Mr C and the income and expenditure assessment it carried out, posed real questions about 
his ability to sustainably repay the loan. 
And I think given the evidence of pay day borrowing, the defaults shown on the credit report 
and the indication of how the bank accounts were being managed from the bank statements 
it did have that Ive summarised above; should have prompted ELL to decline the 
application.  So, in conclusion I dont think for the reasons Ive set out above, that ELL 
should have provided Mr C with the loan.
Putting things rightI think it is fair and reasonable for Mr C to repay the principal amount that he borrowed, 
because he had the benefit of that lending. But he has paid interest and charges on a loan 
that shouldnt have been provided to him. So, I think Mr C has lost out and ELL should put 
things right for him. ELL should: 
a) Remove all interest, fees and charges applied to the loan from the outset. Any payments 
made by Mr C should then be deducted from the new starting balance. If the payments Mr C 
has made total more than the amount he was originally lent, then any surplus should be 
treated as overpayments and refunded to him with 8% simple interest* calculated on any 
overpayments made, from the date they were paid by Mr C to the date the complaint is 
settled.
b) If there is still an outstanding balance, then ELL should agree an affordable repayment 
plan with Mr C, bearing in mind the need to treat him positively and sympathetically in those 
discussions; and taking into account his current ability to repay the loan from his present 
disposable income. 
c) Remove any adverse information recorded on Mr Cs credit file as a result of this loan. 
*HM Revenue & Customs requires ELL to deduct tax from this interest. ELL should give Mr 
C a certificate showing how much tax its deducted, if he asks for one. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive set out above, my decision is to uphold Mr Cs complaint about 
Everyday Lending Limited.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 8 September 2021.
 
Simon Dibble
Ombudsman