DRN-1676075
 
The complaint
Miss K and Mr M complain that The Co-operative Bank Plc (The Co-op) gave them the 
incorrect sort code to transfer a large payment into their savings account, they received poor 
customer service when they called to check the status of the payment, and it couldnt be 
traced until the following day.
The account is in the name of both Miss K and Mr M. Mr M has been the main point of 
contact with The Co-op and our service about this complaint, so for ease of reference I have 
referred to him only throughout the decision.   
What happened
In November 2019, Mr M raised a payment transfer of around £140,000 from his account 
with another bank (Bank A) into his savings account with The Co-op. Bank A had said they 
couldnt complete the transfer because it would be processed through a holding account 
which goes against their security procedures.
Mr M called The Co-op to discuss this whilst he was on the other line to Bank A. The first 
adviser he spoke to provided him with the sort code and account number for the savings 
account and said Bank A should be able to complete the transfer with that information. The 
money would be transferred into a holding account and then manually applied to Mr Ms 
account. Mr M put the adviser on hold to communicate this to Bank A, however the adviser 
ended the call before Mr M returned.
Later the same day, Mr M called The Co-op again and confirmed Bank A had agreed to 
complete the transfer as a one-off. He asked whether the money had been credited to his 
account. The adviser said it can take a few hours for the funds to hit the account and told 
him to call back later in the day which he did. 
Mr M spoke to a third adviser and confirmed the account details the transfer had been sent 
to. The adviser told him he had used the sort code that is for a BACS/Faster Payment. But 
Mr M had told him hed raised a CHAPS payment, which required a different sort code for 
the same account. 
The adviser contacted The Co-ops internal Finance Department to chase the funds. They 
said if the payment had been sent using the incorrect sort code, the payment would either 
bounce back to Bank A, or be manually transferred from the holding account into Mr Ms 
savings account the following morning. The adviser told Mr M he wouldnt be able to confirm 
which until the next day. Mr M was unhappy about this and raised a complaint.     
The adviser called Mr M the next morning and confirmed the funds had been successfully 
credited to the savings account the previous evening as a Faster Payment. 
The Co-op looked into Mr Ms complaint and offered him £125. They said he had received 
poor customer service when the adviser ended the call while he was on the phone to Bank A. And hed suffered distress when they were uncertain about whether the funds would be 
credited to his account. Mr M was unhappy with this and referred the complaint to our 
service.
Our investigator looked into Mr Ms complaint and didnt uphold it. He agreed The Co-op 
could have provided better customer service, but he thought the compensation offered was 
fair in the circumstances. As Mr M disagreed, the complaint has been passed to me for a 
final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Having done so, I dont uphold it. Ill 
explain why.
Sort code and account number for CHAPS payments
Part of Mr Ms complaint is that The Co-op didnt tell him he would need to use a different 
sort code depending on whether the transfer was by CHAPS or BACS/Faster Payment. 
The Co-op has explained that when a CHAPS transfer is actioned the funds are moved to a 
holding account and applied manually by the Finance Department to the customers account 
on the following business day. BACS/Faster Payments are moved to a holding account and 
then are credited to the customers account automatically. The issue in this case is not so 
much about the process followed by the Co-op, and more about how this was explained to 
Mr M and the information given to him.
Ive listened to the calls when Mr M spoke to The Co-op about the transfer, to see what 
information he was given. 
At the beginning of November 2019, before making the transfer, Mr M had mentioned during 
a call with The Co-op that he was planning to make a large transfer into his savings account 
later that month. The adviser emailed Mr M the sort code and account number for a 
BACS/Faster Payment transfer, but she didnt explain there is a different sort code for 
CHAPS payments. 
Having listened to the call, I cant see Mr M had said what type of payment he was going to 
make. However, I think the adviser still could have provided both sort codes at this stage. 
From what I can see, Mr M had only been provided with both sort codes when he applied for 
the account in September 2019. All of the correspondence following this, including the 
welcome pack for the account, only quoted the sort code for a BACS/Faster Payment. So I 
can understand why this was confusing for Mr M, and I think The Co-op had further 
opportunities to discuss this with him when he called about the transfer.
Ive considered whether The Co-op need to do anything further to put things right, taking into 
account whats happened and the impact this had on Mr M
I understand it caused Mr M distress when he realised there were different sort codes 
depending on the type of payment, and he thought he had provided Bank A with the wrong 
one. However I can see from The Co-ops records that the sort code Mr M had provided for 
the transfer was actually correct, as the transfer was raised as a Faster Payment and not a 
CHAPs payment. So I cant see Mr M has suffered a detriment because of this, as the funds 
were sent to the correct account and credited the day after the transfer was arranged. 
 Customer service
I have also considered the customer service Mr M received when he contacted The Co-op to 
discuss the payment. 
I agree there was some poor customer service. The first adviser he spoke to could have 
done more to help him once he had finished discussing the issue with Bank A. Mr M had told 
the adviser that he was on the other line with Bank A and would return to the call as soon as 
possible, and he hadnt kept the adviser waiting for an unreasonably long time. 
Mr M has described the frustration and anxiety he experienced after this when he spoke to 
the second adviser and he was told the payment couldnt be traced. And then he was 
informed by the third adviser he would need to wait until the next day to confirm if the money 
had reached the holding account. 
I can understand why Mr M was so anxious about this, given the high value of the transfer. 
And I think the second adviser could have done more to investigate this further and provide 
some reassurance.
Having said that, once The Co-op realised there had been confusion around the different 
sort codes, they resolved the issue and put things right quickly by calling the relevant team 
and letting Mr M know the next steps. And the transfer was credited to Mr Ms account as 
intended. The Co-op paid Mr M £125 to reflect the anxiety he experienced, and the fact he 
should have received better customer service. 
Ive taken into account all the individual circumstances of this complaint; on the one hand Mr 
M was very worried about what was happening with his money and had to make a number of 
phone calls, but on the other hand the matter was then resolved quickly. Overall Im satisfied 
that although The Co-op made mistakes, it acted fairly and reasonably to put things right for 
Mr M, and so I dont require it to do anything further. 
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss K and Mr M 
to accept or reject my decision before 21July2020.
Peter Whiteley
Ombudsman