DRN-3463569
The complaint
Mr and Mrs A complain that Gresham Insurance Company Limited unfairly declined their 
claim on their home insurance. 
What happened
Mr and Mrs A had home insurance with Gresham. In May 2021 a boundary wall at their 
property collapsed. This was jointly owned by Mr and Mrs A and their neighbours. Mr and 
Mrs A made a claim on the insurance for their part of the cost of rebuilding it.
Gresham declined their claim. It said the wall had collapsed due to a carport that their 
neighbour had built that had caused water to run alongside it and soften the wall. It said as 
this was a gradually operating cause, this was excluded under the policy.
Mr and Mrs A didnt agree and made a complaint. But Gresham maintained its position. So 
they brought their complaint to this service.
Our investigator considered the issues and recommended the complaint be upheld. He said 
that while he didnt dispute the cause of the damage was gradually operating, as it was 
caused by Mr and Mrs As neighbours installing a carport this was outside of their control. So 
he didnt think Gresham had acted fairly by applying the policy exclusion on this occasion. 
Mr and Mrs A accepted our investigators outcome. However Gresham didnt. It said that as 
the cause of the walls collapse was excluded under the policy, it didnt matter that it was 
outside of Mr and Mrs As control. It asked for the complaint to be reviewed by an 
ombudsman. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
While there have been conflicting reports provided about the cause of the damage to the 
wall, Gresham has accepted that the main cause was the carport that Mr and Mrs As 
neighbours had built close to the wall. This had caused surface water to run off the 
structure into a gap between the carport and the wall which had softened it. 
I agree that this had caused gradual deterioration to the wall and can see from the policy 
that this is an exclusion to cover.
However when considering a complaint I need to decide if Gresham has done enough to 
show an exclusion applies and if its acted fairly and reasonably by relying on it in the 
circumstances.
As the carport was put into place by Mr and Mrs As neighbour and the damage 
happened due to the carport, I cant see that Mr and Mrs A could have reasonably 
foreseen that the damage would have occurred or taken action to prevent it. And the 
reports suggest the wall was well maintained otherwise. 
For this reason, I dont think its fair or reasonable for Gresham to rely on the exclusion to 
decline Mr and Mrs As claim. I therefore agree with our investigator and require 
Gresham to accept Mr and Mrs As claim and settle it in line with the remaining policy 
terms and conditions.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given, I uphold Mr and Mrs As complaint. I require Gresham Insurance 
Company Limited to accept Mr and Mrs As claim without applying the exclusion for gradual 
damage, and settle it in line with the remaining policy terms and conditions. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs A and Mr A to 
accept or reject my decision before 21 June 2022.
 
Sophie Goodyear
Ombudsman