DRN-2892542
The complaint
Mr F complains that DAS Legal Expenses Insurance Company Limited have unfairly 
restricted the amount they will pay his solicitor to pursue a claim on his legal expenses 
policy. 
Mr F has been helped with his complaint by a representative, but for ease of reading Ill 
mainly refer to Mr F and will ascribe the comments of the representative to him. 
What happened
The detailed background to this complaint is well known to both parties. So, Ill only provide 
an overview of some of the key events here. In 2020 Mr F made a claim to DAS as he 
wanted to pursue a dispute with his former employer. DAS initially asked one of their panel 
solicitors to look at the claim. But soon after, Mr S said that he would like his own solicitor Q 
to act for him under the policy. 
Once Mr F had obtained his ACAS certificate, DAS said Q could be appointed for him under 
the policy. But they said Q must agree to the terms of appointment and that the most they 
would pay is £100 per hour. Q offered to reduce their usual hourly rate slightly to try to reach 
a negotiated agreement, but DAS insisted that £100 per hour was the most they would pay. 
Mr F complained. He said the £100 limit unfairly restricted his freedom to choose his own 
solicitor. 
DAS responded to the complaint and maintained their position. I understand that Mr F 
instructed Q to work for him (presumably entering into an agreement to top up their hourly 
rate) but he also referred his complaint to our service. 
One of our investigators didnt recommend that it should be upheld. In summary, she thought 
DAS had made the £100 per hour limit clear in the policy terms. And she wasnt persuaded 
that Mr Fs freedom to choose his own solicitor had been unfairly restricted. Mr F disagrees 
and has asked for an ombudsman to review his complaint. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The policy terms set out the extent of cover available to Mr F. The relevant term says: The 
most we will pay in costs and expenses is no more than the amount we would have paid to a 
preferred law firm. The amount we will pay a law firm (where acting as an appointed 
representative) is currently £100 per hour. This amount may vary from time to time. 
Im satisfied that as DAS are responsible for paying the legal costs incurred on this case, its 
fair for them to restrict what they pay, as long as any restriction is reasonable. The policy 
terms around the hourly rate, in my opinion, are sufficiently clear. There is provision for that 
rate to vary and that may be appropriate where, for example, the case is particularly unusual 
or complex. Ive considered Mr Fs submissions on that point, but Im not persuaded there is 
anything so unusual or complex about his case that means that the panel solicitors offered 
by DAS would be unable to deal with it. 
Mr F has correctly pointed out that there is relevant law that allows him the freedom to 
choose his own solicitor, where its necessary to start legal proceedings. But insurers have 
the right to restrict the hourly rate they will pay under the policy terms. As long as doing so  
doesnt make the choice meaningless. So, Ive thought about whether DAS hourly rate 
unreasonably restricts this right. 
DAS have confirmed that they have a number of solicitors that are willing to work at that rate. 
And the firm initially assigned was prepared to take the case on at £100 per hour. As DAS 
are able to offer a choice of different solicitors that could deal with Mr Fs claim, I dont think 
the policy limit restricts Mr Fs choice of solicitor so much as to render it meaningless. 
I appreciate Mr F has pointed out that the commercial rates charged by some of the panel 
solicitors are greater than Q would charge. But as our investigator pointed out, when acting 
as a panel solicitor there will be an agreement in place to work at that reduced rate. Im not 
persuaded that DAS are paying their panel solicitors more than the £100 per hour referred to 
in the policy.  
I appreciate it will be disappointing to Mr F that he isnt able to have all of his chosen 
solicitors fees covered under his policy. But as Ive explained above, DAS are entitled to 
restrict what they will pay to a non-panel solicitor, and Im satisfied that the hourly rate has 
been made clear in the terms and conditions, and that it doesnt render the freedom of 
choice meaningless given that he was able to instruct other firms to pursue his dispute at the 
applicable rate.
I again agree with our investigator that DAS could have been clearer that there was more 
than one panel firm available at the relevant time. But Im not persuaded this made a 
difference to Mr Fs decision to remain with Q whilst also progressing his complaint. So, I 
dont think this is a reason to require DAS to do more. 
I note that Mr F also believes the restriction in the hourly rate wasnt made clear enough 
when the policy was sold. Any complaint about a potential mis-sale would need to be 
directed to the firm that sold the policy, which wasnt DAS. So that isnt something Im able to 
comment on here. 
My final decision
For the reasons outlined above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr F to accept or 
reject my decision before 8 November 2021.
 
Richard Annandale
Ombudsman