DRN-3737962
The complaint
Mr L, through his representative, complains that Morses Club PLC lent to him when he could 
not afford it. 
What happened
Using what little information Morses has been able to send us  due to the age of the loans  
here is a brief loan table. 
Loan Start DateCapital 
Amount Term 
weeksRepayment 
amountStill 
Live Product NameTerm 
Type
121 12/10/2012 £300.00 47 £12.00 No KDS 203 47 WEEK 
LOANFIXED
122 28/03/2013 £300.00 21 £22.50 No KDS 201 21 WEEK 
LOANFIXED
Morses sent to Mr Ls representative its final response letter (FRL) saying it did not uphold 
his complaint. It was referred to the Financial Ombudsman Service. 
Morses sent to us what little information it had which included the details in the loan table 
above and some repayment records. Morses has said:
You may note the loan ID numbers are not in full numerical order and some loan 
numbers may be missing. For this customer we hold no loan information on 
account/s 1 to 120. This information may have been deleted due to data retention 
periods or it may not have been acquired as part of an acquisition, unfortunately we 
are unable to provide you with any further information relating to those accounts.
So, our adjudicator had very little to go on. He had no information about Mr Ls income at the 
time, the other loans leading up to these two loans or Mr Ls financial circumstances. So, he 
did not uphold Mr Ls complaint and his representative has asked for a final decision but has 
sent no information to us to substantiate the complaint. The unresolved complaint was 
passed to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about high cost, short-term and home 
credit lending - including all the relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice - on our 
website.
Morses had to assess the lending to check if Mr L could afford to pay back the amounts 
shed borrowed without undue difficulty. It needed to do this in a way which was 
proportionate to the circumstances. Morses checks could have considered a number
of different things, such as how much was being lent, the size of the repayments, and Mr Ls 
income and expenditure.
I think in the early stages of a lending relationship, less thorough checks might have been 
proportionate. But certain factors might suggest Morses should have done more to establish 
that any lending was sustainable for Mr L. These factors include:
Mr L having a low income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make any loan 
repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income);
The amounts to be repaid being especially high (reflecting that it could be more 
difficult to meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income);
Mr L having a large number of loans and/or having these loans over a long period of 
time (reflecting the risk that repeated refinancing may signal that the borrowing had 
become, or was becoming, unsustainable);
Mr L coming back for loans shortly after previous borrowing had been repaid (also 
suggestive of the borrowing becoming unsustainable).
There may even come a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly 
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable for Mr L. 
Morses was required to establish whether Mr L could sustainably repay the loans  not just 
whether he technically had enough money to make his repayments. Having enough money 
to make the repayments could of course be an indicator that Mr L was able to repay his 
loans sustainably. But it doesnt automatically follow that this is the case.
Industry regulations say that payments are sustainable if they are made without undue 
difficulties and, made on time, while meeting other reasonable commitments and without 
having to borrow to make them. If a lender realises, or ought reasonably to have realised, 
that a borrower wont be able to make their repayments without borrowing further, then it 
follows that it should conclude those repayments are unsustainable.
Ive considered all the arguments, evidence and information provided in this context, and 
thought about what this means for Mr Ls complaint.
Im in the same situation as our adjudicator with no information on which to make any 
findings. 
So, in the absence of any evidence to substantiate the complaint from Mr L, and in the 
understandable absence of information about loans going back to a decade ago, I have no 
reason to uphold the complaint. I can only conclude that the loans were lent responsibly.
I note that they were possibly loans 121 and 122 which suggests loans at the end of a long 
chain. But Ive no information about the other loans or the dates of any lent before these 
were approved. And I cannot guess. I have not been able to make any findings.
I do not uphold Mr Ls complaint. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold Mr Ls complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr L to accept or 
reject my decision before 18 November 2022.
 Rachael Williams
Ombudsman