DRN-3291601
The complaint
Mrs S complains about Covea for increasing the premium for her pet insurance by a large 
margin. She wants Covea to reduce her premium to a level nearer to her previous premium.
What happened
Mrs S owns a dog, which she has insured via an insurance administrator since 2018.
In 2018, Mrs S paid an annual premium of £383.04. 
In 2019, her premium increased to £420.77. 
In 2020, her premium was £547.00.
The terms of Mrs Ss policy have remained broadly the same since this time, but in 2021 the 
underwriter of the policy changed to Covea.
In mid-2021, Mrs S received her renewal information quoting her £711.09 for the following 
years cover.
Mrs S complained to Covea. She thought that the premium increase of around 30% per year 
was excessive. She had not made any claim in the previous year and felt that the increase 
was unexpected and disproportionate to the risks involved in insuring her dog.
Covea sent its final response to Mrs S in April 2021. It did not uphold her complaint and 
explained that a number of factors affect pricing, including the pets age, the consumers 
postcode and vet fee increases.
Mrs S was not happy with this response and contacted us.
One of our investigators looked into this matter and set out his view to the parties. This was 
that Covea had not acted wrongly in increasing the premium as it was entitled to do so and 
to set its price as it considered appropriate, but he felt that it had not been made sufficiently 
clear to Mrs S at policy inception that such substantial increases could occur. He therefore 
thought that Mrs S had not been able to make an informed choice about the policy and he 
recommended that Covea pay her compensation for her distress and inconvenience.
Covea did not accept that view and asked for an ombudsman decision.
I issued a provisional decision in relation to this complaint in January 2022. In that 
provisional decision I set out that I sympathised with Mrs S but did not agree that she had 
not been properly informed of the risks of premium increase. I therefore did not uphold her 
complaint or direct that Covea do anything further. 
That provisional decision has been shared with the parties for their comments. 
Covea has responded accepting the decision and stating that it has nothing to add. 
Mrs S has responded setting out that she had expected proportionate increases each year 
and she feels that she was hooked in to the particular product when it was at a low price and 
now has increased excessively. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I appreciate Mrs Ss comments and I do not disagree that the increases are large and would 
have been unexpected. I also understand her feeling that she was initially offered a lower 
rate and that this has increased rapidly. 
She has commented that she will undertake a search for alternative products, and she 
hopes to achieve similar cover at a lower price elsewhere. 
I remain sympathetic with Mrs S for the increases she has faced, and I understand her wish 
to look elsewhere. This dos not, however, affect my view that Covea is entitled to set its 
prices each year and to offer these to consumers. 
Consequently, I remain of the view expressed in my provisional decision and I adopt that 
decision and reasons as my final decision. I wish Mrs S all the best in finding cover which 
suits her better. 
My final decision
For the reasons given above, and in my provisional decision, I do not uphold Mrs Ss 
complaint and do not ask Covea Insurance plc to do anything further. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs S to accept or 
reject my decision before 8 March 2022.
 
Laura Garvin-Smith
Ombudsman