DRN-3766258
The complaint
Mr B complains that TSB Bank plc has registered a marker at CIFAS, the national fraud 
database.
What happened
Mr B says he was the victim of identity theft in 2020 and that an account at TSB was opened 
without his knowledge. He says that an account at a different financial business was also 
subject to fraud and that this business had accepted he was the victim and removed the 
CIFAS marker.
TSB said it hadnt made a mistake. It explained in a final response to Mr B that an account 
had been opened in his name online on 16 November 2020. This followed an account 
application using his then current address on 12 November 2020 which wasnt completed. 
The account opened had the same email address, telephone number and date of birth that 
Mr B had used on his complaint form. On 26 November 2020 it received a report that funds 
paid into the account had been obtained fraudulently. It attempted to contact Mr B with the 
details it had to allow him to prove he was entitled to the money. No response was received, 
and the account was closed on 8 February 2021 and the CIFAS marker added. It didnt 
accept that Mr B had been subject to impersonation fraud.
Our investigator didnt recommend that the complaint be upheld. Mr B had only said hed lost 
his bank card for his account at the other financial business. And hed insisted that he didnt 
share his personal and banking details with anyone. Shed seen the applications made in his 
name and with the information that matched. And also, that a copy of his passport was 
provided, and he was verified with a picture taken during the application. It was unclear how 
an unknown third party could have obtained the information and impersonated him. Mr B 
hadnt shown he was entitled to the funds received in his account. And so, it was fair that the 
account had been closed and the marker added. The other financial business had agreed to 
remove the marker it had applied but this marker was for different reasons.
Mr B didnt agree and wanted his complaint to be reviewed. He said that the letter he has 
from CIFAS gave the same reasons for both TSB and the other financial business applying 
the markers. And he says that it is easy for a fraudster to get peoples details. While both 
financial businesses had been right to take the action at the time once hed provided 
information about what happened the other business had removed the marker. He said it 
had recognised his young age and his circumstances and he thought that TSB had handled 
things in a ridiculous way.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I need to consider whether the report to CIFAS was made fairly. On this point, TSB needs to 
have more than a suspicion or concern. It has to show it had reasonable grounds to believe 
that a fraud or financial crime had been committed or attempted and that the evidence would 
support this being reported to the authorities.
This is a complaint only about TSB and what it did. And Im not bound by what a different 
financial business may have found. While the wording on the CIFAS letter in relation to both 
CIFAS markers refers to the misuse of facility and retaining a wrongful credit Im looking at 
the circumstances relating to the TSB marker. And that relates to a different account and 
completely different transaction. Thats what our investigator was getting at in distinguishing 
things and its what I think is relevant too.
I appreciate Mr Bs position is that he was subject to identity theft in 2020 and that this led to 
a number of issues for him. What I need to think about is how the TSB account involved here 
came to be opened. While its not impossible that an unknown third party opened an account 
in his name I dont think thats most likely. And I refer to what TSB has set out about the 
information used to open the account and the relationship to correct information about him 
and further the match of his photographic identity. Hes referred to his age at the time and 
having difficulties, but Im not persuaded in this case that these are either an explanation or 
mitigation of what happened. And hed be complicit in things even if say hed allowed his 
details to be used by someone else unless he could reasonably explain why hed done that.
The account was quickly used for the receipt of fraudulent funds. And these were then 
moved on the same day. Mr B hasnt shown that he was entitled to that money. 
TSB says that it applied the CIFAS marker because Mr B received fraudulent funds into his 
account. So, Ive looked at whether TSB was fair to apply the marker, based on the evidence 
it had, and the investigation it carried out. CIFAS guidance says the business must have 
carried out checks of sufficient depth to meet the standard of proof set by CIFAS. This 
essentially means that it needs to have enough information to make a formal report to the 
police. And that any filing should be for cases where there are reasonable grounds to believe 
fraud or financial crime has been committed, rather than mere suspicion. 
Having reviewed Mr Bs account of events and the evidence he has provided, Im satisfied 
that TSB had sufficient evidence for the CIFAS marker to be recorded. In coming to this 
view, Ive taken into account the following reasons:
- Mr B received fraudulent funds into his account and didnt report this to TSB at the 
time.
- He authorised the withdrawal of the funds and so was in control of who had the 
benefit of this money.
- TSB had grounds to believe that Mr B had used fraudulently obtained funds based on 
the evidence it had.
So, Im afraid I dont have a reasonable basis to require it to remove the marker. I can 
appreciate how disappointed Mr B will be given whats he said about the impact of this for 
him on accessing other financial products.
My final decision
My decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 13 December 2022.
 
Michael Crewe
Ombudsman