DRN-1227790
 
The complaint
This complaint is about a mortgage payment protection insurance (PPI) policy taken out in 
1997. Mr and Mrs K says Bank of Scotland plc trading as Halifax (BoS) mis-sold them the 
PPI. 
What happened
Briefly:
In 1997 Mr and Mrs K took out a PPI policy in connection with their mortgage. Mr and Mrs K 
already had a mortgage - since 1990 - but this policy was taken out with a further advance. 
BoS says things happened during a branch meeting. 
The policy provided protection for Mr and Mrs K's mortgage payments in the event Mr 
K couldn't work because of accident, sickness or unemployment - the policy was in his sole 
name. The policy would pay out for up to 12 months per claim and it cost around £20 a 
month.
At the time of the sale Mr K was employed. The questionnaire Mr and Mrs K completed in 
submitting their complaint indicates both he and Mrs K were entitled to sick pay - they've 
ticked the box for 12 months' or more pay. But it's not clear whether this relates to a 
combined joint sick pay entitlement. Mr and Mrs K said they had 12 months or more in 
savings they couldve used to make their repayments and Mr K was in good health at the 
time.
BoS' records show the mortgage account ended in 2001.
The adjudicator didnt recommend the complaint should be upheld. They said they thought it 
likely Mr and Mrs K chose to take out the cover. And there was nothing to indicate it was 
wrong or inappropriate for them.
Because Mr and Mrs K disagree, the complaint comes to me for a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken into account whats relevant here in deciding Mr and Mrs K's complaint.
Having done so, while I know this isn't the answer Mr and Mrs K were hoping for, Ive 
decided not to uphold their complaint. My reasons are set out below.
did Mr and Mrs K have a choice about PPI? Mr and Mrs K say they weren't made aware the policy was optional.
BoS doesn't have any paperwork from the time of the sale. And this isn't surprising given 
how long-ago things happened  businesses don't have to keep records indefinitely. Its also 
approaching 20 years since the mortgage account closed.
Mr and Mrs K haven't given much detail about what happened. And I'm mindful that Mr and 
Mrs K had their existing mortgage in place - the bulk of their borrowing - for seven years 
before they took out the policy.
So taking everything into account - and in particular given the passage of time - I dont think I 
can fairly say that BoS more likely than not misrepresented the policy as not being optional 
or that Mr and Mrs K didnt agree to take it out.
the advice
BoS says it recommended the PPI to Mr and Mrs K. This means BoS had to check that the 
PPI was right for Mr and Mrs K  and based on what Ive seen of their circumstances at the 
time (I've primarily focused on Mr K's circumstances as the sole policyholder) I think that it 
was. For example, Mr K was eligible for the cover; he wasnt affected by any of the 
exclusions to or limits on the PPI cover such as those for existing medical conditions or 
unusual employment circumstances; and he and Mrs K seem to have had a need for the 
cover.
Mr and Mrs K said they had 12 months of more sick pay entitlement. But the policy would've 
paid out in addition to any sick pay Mr K was entitled to. And in my view for longer than he 
was likely entitled to full sick pay for given his occupation type. Mr and Mrs K might've been 
able to use savings to help them out. But I still think that if the insured risks became a reality 
for Mr K the policy would've helped Mr and Mrs K out at what would likely be a difficult and 
perhaps uncertain time. So given this, and because they were taking on additional borrowing 
secured against their home, I don't think it was wrong for BoS to have recommended it to 
them.
the information 
Given the limited available evidence, I accept its possible the information BoS gave Mr and 
Mrs K about the PPI wasn't as clear as it shouldve been. But as I found above, I think they 
likely chose to take it out - so it looks like they wanted this type of cover. And based on 
their circumstances at the time it seems like it would have been useful for them if something 
went wrong. It also looks like it was affordable. So I dont think better information about the 
PPI would have put Mr and Mrs K off taking out the cover. 
This means I dont think Mr and Mrs K have lost out as a result of having PPI, so BoS 
doesn't have to pay back to them what they paid for PPI
Ive thought about everything Mr and Mrs K have said in bringing their complaint. But these 
points dont change my decision. For the reasons above I don't uphold this complaint.
My final decision
I've decided not to uphold this complaint and I make no award.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr and Mrs K to 
accept or reject my decision before 9 July 2020.Paul Featherstone
Ombudsman