DRN-1690730
The complaint
Ms B and Mrs G complain that Lloyds Bank General Insurance Limited (Lloyds) has unfairly 
declined their claim under their home insurance policy. 
What happened
In 2017, Mrs O had a leak at her home. Ageas carried out repairs and completed them in 
September 2017. Around a year later the same area leaked again and it was repaired. 
In September 2019, the leak returned in the same area and Mrs O found by looking under 
the shower tray that some of the supporting frame had collapsed. She contacted Ageas who 
advised her to make a new claim. 
Mrs O refused to do this as she didnt want to pay the excess and because she felt that it 
was the same issue. Ageas said that unless Mrs O provided evidence that this was a 
consequence of the leak in 2017, then a new claim would need to be made and the excess 
would need to be paid. 
Ageas also said that the time frame between the leak in 2017 and 2019 was no longer 
covered by any guarantee. The warranty period was one year.  Ageas wasnt responsible for 
the repair of the leak in 2018, as Mrs O had used another company to carry out the work. 
Mrs O didnt provide the evidence that Ageas required and as she was still unhappy with its 
response, she referred her complaint to the service. 
Our investigator didnt uphold the complaint. She concluded that Ageas couldnt be held 
responsible for the repairs carried out in 2018 as Mrs O had instructed another company to 
carry out those repairs. She said that Mrs O should pay the excess so that Ageas could 
inspect the leak. 
Mrs O didnt agree with our investigator and asked for a decision from an ombudsman.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I wont be upholding this complaint. 
I can understand this is likely to come as a disappointment to Mrs O, but I hope my findings 
go some way in explaining why Ive reached this decision.
Mrs Os first leak happened in 2017 and Ageas carried out the repairs to this by replacing 
her entire bathroom. Around a year later another leak occurred. From the evidence, it seems 
that Mrs O contracted another company to carry out the repairs in 2018.  Ageas werent 
involved in those repairs and Mrs O admits that the repairs were carried out independently of 
Ageas. So, I cant say that Ageas were responsible for the repairs in 2018.
In 2019 when the next leak occurred, Mrs O felt that this should be considered as part of the 
leak that occurred in 2017. Ageas confirmed that the work it carried out was covered by a 
one year guarantee, which is in the policy terms and conditions: All our repairs are 
guaranteed for one year. If your property is only partly damaged.
I can see that Ageas wasnt responsible for the repairs that happened in 2018 and so I can 
understand why it would require evidence to show that there was a link between the repairs 
carried out in 2017 and the new leak in 2019 and to rule out the possibility of a link between 
the 2018 and 2019 issues. 
Mrs O was asked to provide the evidence, but unfortunately this wasnt provided. Ageas 
relied upon the terms of the policy when making this request as it said: You must give us, 
and pay for, all the information we or they reasonably ask for
about any claim.  So, I can see that as there was no evidence this water leak was linked to 
the original claim in 2017, Ageas considered this to be a new incident. So, it told Mrs O this 
water leak would need to be a new claim on the policy and I think that it was reasonable for 
Ageas to rely upon the policy in requesting the additional evidence. 
Its clear that Ageas wasnt responsible for the repairs that were carried out in 2018. I havent 
seen any evidence to show that the 2018 repairs werent linked to the leak in 2019. 
I accept that there was a year guarantee for the work Ageas carried out. But based on what 
Ive seen, I cant see how there is a link between the leak in 2017 and the new leak in 2019. 
So, I think Ageas has been fair when it said that Mrs O ought to make a new claim as this 
will allow it to examine if there was a link between the 2017 event and 2019 leak. If there is, 
Ageas has said that the excess can be refunded. If there isnt, Mrs O has the option of 
contacting the contractors who carried out the repairs in 2018. So, I cant ask Ageas to do 
anymore. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint, for the reasons given.   
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs O to accept or 
reject my decision before 1 October 2020.
 
Ayisha Savage
Ombudsman