DRN-2094964
The complaint 
Mr D complains about the financial loss he says hes suffered as a result of the delay to his 
request to switch his pension funds into cash. He says that Old Mutual Wealth Limited (Old 
Mutual) agreed to backdate the switch because of the problems his adviser had accessing 
the account, but he doesnt agree with the date it has used. Hes also said that Old Mutual 
shouldnt have gone ahead with the switch when it became aware of how much he would 
lose using that date.
What happened
Mr D held a retirement account with Old Mutual. On 3 May 2019 his adviser attempted an 
online switch of his funds into cash. But a screen message told him it wasnt possible to 
conduct the switch, so he contacted Old Mutual. He was told that, as there had been a top-
up application submitted the previous day and there were outstanding trades on the account, 
he couldnt make the switch until the trades had completed. He was told that should be 
7 May 2019. But the adviser still couldnt make the switch on that date, so he contacted Old 
Mutual again. It was confirmed that due to the suspension of certain funds, the trades on the 
account remained outstanding.
The adviser tried again the following day but was still unable to complete the switch because 
he hadnt been given online authority. So, he asked Old Mutual to complete the transaction 
as he was aware that there had been a significant fall in value of Mr Ds fund. Old Mutual 
said it would investigate whether it had caused a delay to the switch and told the adviser to 
complete the switch in due course. Eventually it took place on 10 May 2019. 
 
Old Mutual then confirmed that it would use 8 May 2019 as the date on which to base a 
revaluation of the switch. It said this was the earliest date on which the switch could have 
taken place. But Mr Ds adviser said he first attempted the switch on 3 May and was then 
told it would be possible on 7 May 2019. So, he thought Old Mutual should use one of those 
dates to recalculate the processing of the switch. But Old Mutual confirmed it had corrected 
the pension account as of 8 May 2019, so Mr D complained. 
Old Mutual didnt uphold the complaint. It said its terms and conditions (T&Cs) stated that a 
switch can only be actioned as long as there are no other trades in progress. In this case 
there were trades in place until 8 May 2019  which was the date to which the switch had 
been backdated in order to compare fund prices. However, Old Mutual said it had provided 
incorrect and unclear information  which would have inconvenienced Mr D, so it offered 
£150 compensation. 
Mr Ds adviser didnt agree. He said he wanted to switch Mr Ds portfolio on 3 May 2019 and 
because that hadnt happened Mr D was now £11,792 worse off through no fault of his own. 
He said the reasons hed been given for not being able to make the switch, namely either the 
top-up investment or the suspended funds, were erroneous and he thought the actual 
reason was that there was a technical issue meaning he wasnt given authority to switch the 
funds. He said Old Mutual had subsequently given another reason for the problem as being 
because of an income dividend payment  which he didnt think was fair. 
Old Mutual said that Mr D wouldnt have been able to complete the switch until 8 May 2019 
as there were already trades in place before that date. It said it was only possible to process 
one transaction at a time. It agreed that it should have identified the adviser hadnt been 
given online authority earlier and reiterated its offer of £150 for the inconvenience caused. 
Mr D didnt agree, so his adviser brought the complaint to us on Mr Ds behalf  where one 
of our investigators looked into the matter. He said the complaint shouldnt be upheld. He 
said that when the instruction to switch to cash was made, a residual income distribution 
from an earlier trade was still in progress. So the instruction to switch couldnt have been 
actioned until that previous trade had finished  which wasnt until after trading on 
7 May 2019. So he thought that Old Mutuals offer to backdate the switch to 8 May 2019 was 
fair and reasonable. He also thought the offer of £150 for the distress and inconvenience 
caused to Mr D was fair in the circumstances.
Mr Ds adviser didnt agree. He said that:
The issue of the income distribution was a red herring.
Old Mutual didnt resolve the technical issue of him not being able to complete the 
online switches. That was the main issue here.
He did go online on 8 May 2019 but having seen the fall in the fund value wouldnt 
have made the switch at that time. 
On 10 May 2019 Old Mutual was advised not to complete the switch using a date on 
or after 8 May 2019. That action had cost Mr D £8,278.
The investigator said hed listened to a telephone call Old Mutual had with Mr Ds adviser. 
He said the call confirmed that Old Mutual did explain its complaints and investigation 
process and that the adviser didnt confirm he didnt want the switch to go ahead based on 
prices after 7 May 2019. He said Old Mutual had acted reasonably in applying the prices it 
did and by completing the switch. 
Mr D said Old Mutual had confirmed that it would correct any loss suffered by Mr D and 
failed to do so. He said hed told it not to switch using any date post 8 May 2019 and only 
agreed to the switch on that basis. He also said wed not addressed his comments about 
being able to switch the funds that werent subject to an income dividend. He asked for his 
complaint to be referred to an ombudsman, so its been passed to me for review.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
And having done so I agree with the investigator and for broadly the same reasons. I think 
what Old Mutual has offered to put this matter right is fair and reasonable  which I know will 
disappoint Mr D, so Ill explain my reasons.
Mr Ds complaint has been brought to us by his adviser who was responsible for trying to 
implement this switch of funds. He said that Old Mutual should have used 7 May 2019 as the 
switching date because thats when he was told he would be able to access the online 
service. 
Hes also explained that the real reason he thinks he was unable to make the switch was 
that his online authority wasnt correctly set up and he was locked out of the system. He said 
that if Old Mutual had investigated that problem when he contacted it on 3 May 29019 then he could have tried to gain access shortly afterwards  and he is sure he would have been 
able to switch the funds that werent affected by the trades in progress.
And hes also said that even when he complained and asked Old Mutual to recalculate the 
position so that Mr D wasnt financially disadvantaged, it shouldnt have completed the 
switch if it was going to use any date after 7 May 2019  as he told it not to do.
Should Old Mutual have used a different date to recalculate Mr Ds switching position?
Ive seen a copy of Old Mutuals T&Cs for Mr Ds pension, which were in force when he took 
out the plan in 2012. Under the processing section 22.4 it said, we can only carry out one 
transaction involving buying or selling units at a time, even if the funds in the first and 
subsequent transactions are different. This means that where we are carrying out a number 
of transactions involving buying or selling units, whether instructed by you or your financial 
adviser, it may take a number of working days to complete the first transaction and start the 
second. 
So, in Mr Ds case, an instruction for an additional investment had already been sent to Old 
Mutual on 2 May 2019 when the adviser wanted to make a second instruction  to switch the 
whole portfolio to cash  the following day. Regardless of whether the authority to switch 
online had been set up, both these instructions required the buying or selling of units. So I 
think Old Mutual acted within the T&Cs in not carrying out the second instruction (the 
switch) until the top up investment and any ancillary trading was completed.
Mr Ds adviser said that Old Mutuals reasons for not actioning the switch were red herrings 
and he says he wasnt able to carry out Mr Ds instruction because of an income distribution 
of £1.99. And I have some sympathy for Mr Ds position here, because Ive seen from its 
various responses that Old Mutual gave three different reasons for why the switch couldnt 
be actioned  which I dont think was the clearest way for it to answer the complaint. It 
seems, based on what Ive seen, that the inability to action the switch was a combination of 
those events. Mr Ds adviser had made an additional investment into a suspended account 
which then received an income distribution. Its unfortunate that Mr D, seeing problems 
arising in the markets, decided to reduce volatility at that time and switch to cash. But a top 
up investment had been made the day before and Mr Ds adviser would have been made 
aware of Old Mutuals T&Cs which stated that two transactions, involving buying and selling 
of units, couldnt be processed at the same time.
I know Mr Ds adviser thinks the size of the income distribution ought to have meant he could 
have switched the rest of the portfolio  which would have solved the problem. But I havent 
seen any suggestion in the T&Cs that the size of any trades in progress allowed for the 
alternative to partially switch other funds. In this case Ive seen evidence to show the 
distribution payment being made to the plan on 7 May 2019, which meant that the second 
instruction  to switch to cash  could only have been made from the following day on 
8 May 2019.
Its unfortunate that Old Mutual initially confirmed to the adviser that he should be able to 
make the switch on 7 May 2019, although it wasnt to know about an external factor that 
might extend that date. But I can see how, having been given that date, Mr Ds adviser might 
argue that it should be honoured in terms of being used to recalculate the fund prices. 
However, Im satisfied that the T&Cs are clear and that it wasnt possible to carry out the 
second instruction before the first had been completed. So, whilst I agree that Mr Ds 
expectations of using an earlier date were raised by Old Mutual during the ongoing conversation, I dont think Old Mutual should have to use 7 May 2019 as a recalculation 
date.
Should Old Mutual have gone ahead with the switch if using a calculation date after 
7 May 2019?
Mr Ds adviser has further suggested that Old Mutual shouldnt have completed the switch at 
all, as hed specifically told it not to use a recalculation date after 7 May 2019 because of the 
loss Mr D would incur. So Ive listened carefully to the telephone conversation the adviser 
had with Old Mutual. Mr Ds adviser was clear in his position that Old Mutual should 
recalculate the fund value so that Mr D didnt suffer any loss  which meant using a date no 
later than 7 May 2019. He said he wouldnt accept any other outcome. But at the same 
time Old Mutual confirmed its position that it would look into the matter and consider the 
impact of any incorrect action it had taken, but it didnt suggest this would automatically 
mean using 7 May 2019 or that Mr D wouldnt incur any loss at all. 
I also note that Old Mutual asked Mr Ds adviser to confirm the switch hed like to make. It 
asked him to confirm that in writing. The adviser said hed already provided those 
instructions but reiterated everything was to be switched into a cash fund and said he would 
confirm the instruction. Mr Ds adviser has since said he felt that had to authorise the switch 
so that Old Mutual could carry out its recalculation  as he assumed it would ensure Mr D 
didnt suffer any loss. But I dont think Mr Ds adviser gave a clear instruction not to go ahead 
with the switch  even in certain circumstances. He stated what he expected to happen, but I 
dont he received any reassurances from Old Mutual that he would get his preferred 
outcome and I dont think he told Old Mutual not to go ahead with the switch in that situation. 
I also dont think Old Mutual needed to check whether Mr D wanted to go ahead with the 
switch when it recalculated the position, as it already had a mandate to complete the switch 
which was confirmed by Mr Ds adviser on the telephone. There was no reason for it to 
consider the position had changed simply because the date used wasnt the one preferred 
by Mr Ds adviser.
Old Mutuals offer and its errors.
Theres no doubt that Old Mutual made mistakes here though. It didnt check Mr Ds 
advisers authority when it was informed that he couldnt log onto the system on 3 May 2019. 
And it provided a conflicting response to the issue of trades in progress and was unable to 
demonstrate why the fund that was suspended might have caused the delay in being able to 
carry out the switch instruction.
But in particular I think the main error was suggesting that Mr Ds adviser could access the 
system from 7 May 2019. It would seem that this information  albeit Old Mutual was 
unaware of what might be happening with the funds to delay that date, caused Mr Ds 
adviser more frustration and to suspect that it was his online access not being authorised 
that was really the cause of the problem here. 
But I think Old Mutual has acknowledged these errors. Im satisfied that it has backdated its 
calculation of when the switch should have taken place to the earliest date that it could have 
happened. And I think its offer of £150 for the distress and inconvenience caused here, for 
the errors Ive listed above, is fair and reasonable in all the circumstances and within the 
range of what Id expect to see in such situations. So, I dont think Old Mutual needs to do 
anything further here. 
I have some sympathy for the position Mr D finds himself in here, incurring an unexpected 
loss when he wanted to switch his pension funds into cash at a time when he suspected the 
markets might work against him. But I dont think that switch could have occurred while there was another trade in progress  which Old Mutual has shown there was, and has 
demonstrated within its T&Cs that a further instruction couldnt take place while the existing 
one continued. 
My final decision
Old Mutual Wealth Limited has already made an offer to pay £150 to settle the complaint 
and has backdated Mr Ds pension account to show its value based on a switch that was 
effective from 8 May 2019. 
So my decision is that Old Mutual Wealth Limited mutual should pay £150.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 September 2020.
 
Keith Lawrence
Ombudsman