DRN-4414944
The complaint
Mrs F complains about how Admiral Insurance (Gibraltar) Limited (Admiral), handled a claim 
under her home insurance policy for damage to her property caused by a neighbour. 
Any reference to Admiral in this decision includes their agents. 
This decision covers Mrs Fs complaint about Admiral as the insurer of her home insurance 
policy. It doesnt cover the insurer of the legal expenses section of the policy, which is a 
separate business.
What happened
The events in this case are complex and go back to November 2020. From the evidence and 
information Ive seen they involve a dispute between Mrs F and a neighbour about the 
boundary between their properties and what Mrs F says is damage the neighbour has 
caused to her property (which she believes was deliberate). There is also disagreement 
about when Mrs F first contacted Admiral to tell them about the incident and the damage. 
Given these points, Ive set out what I think is the sequence of events in this case from the 
evidence and information available. 
In November 2020 Mrs F said a neighbour, while carrying out work on their adjoining 
property, caused damage to an outside building and greenhouse, as well as a landscaped 
garden, retaining wall and fence. Mrs F has provided evidence she contacted the legal team 
of the insurer of the legal expenses section of her policy in November 2020 to tell them 
about the incident and to make a claim. Ive seen an acknowledgement of this from the 
insurer (a separate business to Admiral). Mrs F has also provided a copy of an email from 
the police acknowledging her reporting a crime to them at the same time (and providing a 
crime reference number). 
Mrs F says she also contacted Admiral at the same time to tell them what happened. 
However, Admirals case notes dont record the first notification of the loss until July 2022, 
although theres a reference to Mrs F contacting them in 2020  but that she didnt want to 
make a claim (under her home insurance policy) at that time. Mrs F provided information, 
including photographs showing the damage to her property. Admiral appointed a surveyor 
(S) to assess the claim and the damage. 
However, having assessed the claim, including Ss report, Admiral said they wouldnt cover 
the claim as the damage hadnt been due to one incident and therefore wouldnt fall under 
an insured peril (including accidental damage). Nor could they confirm the damage was 
malicious (which would be an insured peril). They concluded it was a legal issue (not a 
claims issue) between Mrs F and her neighbour.
Mrs F was unhappy at the decline of her claim, so complained to Admiral. Mrs F also raised 
several other issues, including Ss report didnt record the presence of a family member 
when they visited the property; stated an incorrect length of time Mrs F had lived at the 
property; didnt include all damage that had occurred; and didnt include the criminal record 
of the neighbour and other neighbours having issues with the neighbour; and she hadnt 
received a written explanation for the decline. 
Admiral upheld the complaint in part, specifically the issues about the length of time Mrs F 
had been at the property and not being informed of the reason for decline of the claim. In 
recognition of this Admiral awarded:£50 for the upheld points, with a further £25 for calls Mrs 
F made regarding the claim and £50 for delays handling her complaint (a total of £125). 
But Admiral didnt uphold the other points, or the decline of the claim. They said the damage 
to Mrs Fs property couldnt be proven to be malicious (as opposed to poor workmanship by 
the neighbours contractors, which would need to be pursued by Mrs F as a civil case). 
Admiral also referred to the policy terms and conditions about the requirement to notify 
damage to a property immediately (given the damage dated back to 2020) and notified to the 
police within 24 hours of being identified. Admiral also referred to a general exclusion in the 
policy for late reported claims.
Mrs F then complained to this service. She disagreed with Admirals final response and their 
conclusions on the issues shed raised. Shed had no use of her outbuilding, greenhouse, 
and garden. Shed also lost privacy and had the worry of her land being removed. She 
wanted the use of her property back. 
Our investigator didnt uphold the complaint, concluding Admiral didnt need to take any 
action. On the decline of Mrs Fs claim, he thought the only insured peril that could potentially 
apply was for damage caused by vandalism or malicious acts. While Mrs F considered the 
damage to her property was malicious, there wasnt independent evidence to support that 
conclusion (notwithstanding what Mrs F had said about the aggressive behaviour of her 
neighbour). The damage to Mrs Fs property wasnt of a kind that would obviously (or only) 
be malicious. In the absence of a clear cause of damage due to an insured peril, he couldnt 
conclude Admiral unfairly declined the claim. On the other points Mrs F took issue with 
Admiral (covered in their final response) he didnt think they affected Admirals decision on 
the claim and Admirals offer of a total of £125 compensation was fair. 
Mrs F disagreed with the investigators view and asked that an ombudsman review the 
complaint. She said shed been in contact with Admiral from the date the damage first 
occurred, but it took two years for them to tell her to refer the matter under her insurance 
policy. She also took issue with the actions of S, saying they hadnt asked for evidence of the 
actions of her neighbour. Nor was their report consistent with the claim shed made. And 
shed provided evidence of the neighbours behaviour, showing it was aggressive, intentional 
and premeditated (to prevent her evidencing their taking her land and property, by moving 
the dividing line between the two properties).
In my findings I concluded it wasnt possible to say Mrs F notified Admiral of the damage (as 
the insurer of her home insurance policy) at the time of the damage (as distinct from 
notifying the insurer of the legal expenses section of the policy). But the police were notified.
Given this conclusion, while I didnt think the damage could conclusively be considered 
malicious, I wasnt persuaded Admiral properly considered whether the damage would 
therefore fall to be accidental, given the policy definition. So, I provisionally concluded 
Admiral hadnt acted fairly and reasonably towards Mrs F.
To put things right, I thought Admiral should assess the claim (if they still believed the 
damage wasnt malicious) under the provisions of the accidental damage section of the 
policy. That is, on the assumption Mrs F had accidental damage cover under her policy. Or, 
they should say why they consider the damage was neither malicious nor accidental.Because I reached different conclusions to those of our investigator, I issued a provisional 
decision to give both parties the opportunity to consider matters further. This is set out below.
.
What Ive provisionally decided  and why
Id first want to say to Mrs F that I recognise she feels strongly about what has happened, 
including the actions she says her neighbour has taken. Ive seen a video taken by Mrs F 
she says shows an altercation with her neighbour and I can appreciate the effect on her. 
Disputes between neighbours can be extremely distressing and stressful, and I dont doubt 
what Mrs F has told us in this respect. However, my role here is to decide whether Admiral 
have acted fairly towards Mrs F. It isnt to judge the actions and attitude of the neighbour. 
Mrs F clearly feels the actions have been aggressive, deliberate and malicious. Shes 
reported what she considers to be a crime to the police, and its for them to consider the 
appropriate response.
Coming back to Mrs Fs complaint, the key issue is Admiral declining her claim for the 
damage she says the neighbour has caused to her property. Ive noted the other issues in 
Mrs Fs complaint to Admiral (and their final response on those issues). Having done so, I 
dont think they affect the key issue of the decline of Mrs Fs claim, including the reasons for 
the decline. Ive also noted Admiral upheld the complaint in respect of two of the issues (and 
awarded compensation, in addition to compensation for calls Mrs F had to make about her 
claim and the time they took handling her complaint).
Mrs F says Admiral should cover the damage as it was malicious. And she reported the 
damage to them when it first occurred (and reported it to the police). Admiral say the 
damage wouldnt fall to be considered under one of the insured perils covered under the 
policy, didnt take place in one incident and couldnt be shown to be malicious. Admiral also 
say the claim wasnt made at the time the damage occurred, referring to specific policy terms 
and conditions.
Taking the second issue first, the timing of the notification of the claim, Ive first looked at the 
policy terms and conditions referred to by Admiral in their final response. They refer to a 
General Exclusion for Late reported claims that states:
A claim where you have failed to notify us of the insured incident within a reasonable 
time of it happening and where this failure adversely affects the reasonable 
prospects of a claim, or we consider our position has been prejudiced.
Theres a difference of view about when the damage was notified to Admiral. Mrs F 
maintains she told Admiral about it when it first occurred (November 2020). But Admiral say 
the first notification of loss to them as a home insurance claim was July 2022. Mrs F has 
provided evidence she contacted the legal team of the insurer of the legal expenses section 
of her policy in November 2020 to tell them about the incident and to make a claim. While 
this supports Mrs Fs view she notified the damage at the time it occurred, the 
acknowledgement is from the legal expenses cover insurer  not Admiral as the insurer of 
the home insurance policy insurer. Looking at the response from the legal expenses insurer, 
it asks for further information to support the claim. 
Given the nature of legal expenses cover, it suggests Mrs F was looking to use the legal 
expenses cover to obtain redress for the damage she says was caused by her neighbour. It 
doesnt show a claim was made (or registered by Admiral) under the home insurance policy. 
Admiral also refer in their final response to the requirement (under a heading Malicious 
damage: what is not covered) to notify the police of damage within 24 hours of damage 
occurring. Mrs F has provided evidence (an acknowledgement of a crime being reported) 
from the police at the same time as the response from the legal expenses cover insurer (November 2020). So, Ive concluded the damage was reported to the police at the time. So, 
I dont think Admiral can use this condition to decline the claim. Ill come on to the point 
about whether the damage would more generally fall to be considered malicious within the 
other policy terms and conditions.
Taking the two points together, Ive concluded it isnt possible to say Mrs F notified Admiral 
of the damage (as the insurer of her home insurance policy) at the time of the damage (as 
distinct from notifying the insurer of the legal expenses section of the policy). But the police 
were notified.
Coming back to the first issue, the reasons given by Admiral for the decline of the claim, Ive 
considered the information and evidence available. Admiral dont specifically refer to what 
the policy terms and conditions say about malicious damage (apart from the requirement to 
notify the police within 24 hours). The policy does not define what constitutes malicious 
damage but Section 1: Buildings includes the following under What is covered:
9) Vandalism or malicious acts 
What is not covered
Loss or damage:
That has not been reported to the police within 24 hours of discovery
As Ive concluded above, the evidence indicates the damage was reported to the police 
within 24 hours. 
So, the issue is whether the damage was the result of malicious acts (or vandalism). Mrs F 
says the actions of her neighbour were deliberate and malicious. While I can understand the 
reasons why she feels this is the case, I havent seen evidence that shows this was 
conclusively the case. While Ive seen an acknowledgement from the police of a crime being 
reported by Mrs F, Ive not seen a report from the police (or other indication) showing theyve 
concluded the actions of the neighbour constitute (or may have constituted) a criminal act, or 
otherwise reasonably considered to be malicious. As opposed to the damage having 
occurred inadvertently (through the actions of the neighbour, or their contractors).
However, while Admiral declined the claim on the basis it couldnt be shown the damage 
was covered under an insured peril (malicious damage) Ive considered whether the damage 
could be considered under another part of the policy. Specifically, whether the damage (if it 
wasnt considered to be malicious) could be considered accidental. 
From the information and documents Ive seen, it appears Mrs Fs policy included accidental 
damage cover, as the Policy Schedule states:
Buildings accidental damage Included
As part of our investigation of the complaint, our investigator asked Admiral to clarify or 
confirm the precise cover under Mrs Fs policy. They havent done so, so Ive proceeded 
based on what the Policy Schedule states, that accidental damage cover is included.
So, Ive looked at the policy definition of accidental damage. It states accidental damage is: 
Sudden, unexpected and visible loss, or damage which has not been caused wilfully 
or deliberately.Looking at this definition alongside the cover for vandalism or malicious acts, if the damage 
isnt considered to be malicious or vandalism, which would be caused wilfully or deliberately, 
then its not clear to me why the damage  if it wasnt considered malicious  wasnt 
considered to be accidental. That is, its either malicious or  if not  then its accidental (or 
inadvertent). Admirals claim notes state theyve considered the damage under accidental 
damage, but theres no detail about their consideration, or why they think the damage is 
neither malicious or accidental under the above policy definitions and terms and conditions.
Given this conclusion, while I dont think the damage can conclusively be considered 
malicious, Im not persuaded Admiral have properly considered whether the damage would 
therefore fall to be accidental, given the definition set out above. So, Ive provisionally 
concluded Admiral havent acted fairly and reasonably towards Mrs F.
To put things right, I think Admiral should assess the claim (if they still believe the damage 
wasnt malicious) under the provisions of the accidental damage section of the policy. That 
is, on the assumption Mrs F had accidental damage cover under her policy. Or, they should 
say why they consider the damage was neither malicious nor accidental.
My provisional decision
For the reasons set out above, my provisional decision is that I uphold Mrs Fs complaint in 
part. I intend to require Admiral Insurance (Gibraltar) Limited to:
Assess the claim (if they still believe the damage wasnt malicious) under the 
provisions of the accidental damage section of the policy. That is, on the 
assumption Mrs F had accidental damage cover under her policy. 
Mrs F responded to make a number of points.
First, she wasnt clear what the provisional decision was saying, asking for a simpler 
explanation of the decision. Second she asked about when she might receive the 
compensation Admiral had offered. Third, whether she would receive an answer or 
explanation from Admiral for their decision, as he hadnt had one. 
Fourth, she thought her property (her land) had been made unsafe by her neighbour and 
theyd asked her to remove property from that land. And theyd taken her property (her land) 
and left open water pipes theyd cut and exposed electricity cables. She maintained her 
neighbour had intended to enter and take her land, destroy the property on that land in order 
to build on it themselves.
Admiral didnt respond by the deadline requested.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
My role here is to decide whether Admiral have acted fairly towards Mrs F.
Ive considered each of Mrs Fs points in turn. On her first point, what the provisional 
decision was saying and asking for a simpler explanation, I would set this out as follows.
The provisional decision recognised Mrs F feels strongly the damage caused (by her 
neighbour) was intentional and malicious. However, in my view, I didnt think this was 
conclusively the case. However, I also didnt think Admiral had shown whether  if the damage wasnt malicious  theyd considered the damage as accidental damage. That is, 
the damage could be considered as either malicious or accidental  it didnt seem it could 
have been neither. In asking Admiral to assess the claim under the accidental damage 
section of the policy, the provisional decision wasnt seeking to assess the damage  it was 
asking Admiral, as the insurer of the policy, to do so.
On the second point, when she might receive the £125 compensation Admiral had offered, 
this suggests Admiral havent paid the compensation. While I didnt explicitly address this 
point in the provisional decision, having looked all the case, Ive concluded Admirals offer of 
compensation is fair in all the circumstances. On the assumption they havent already paid it, 
Admiral should now do so. 
On the third point, whether she would receive an answer or explanation from Admiral for 
their decision, as he hadnt had one, from what Ive seen Admiral have said they wont cover 
the claim as the damage hadnt been due to one incident and therefore wouldnt fall under 
an insured peril (including accidental damage). Nor could they confirm the damage was 
malicious (which would be an insured peril). Theyve concluded it was a legal issue (not a 
claims issue) between Mrs F and her neighbour. Admiral have set out their position in their 
final response issued to Mrs F, as set out above.
This is separate from my provisional decision Admiral should assess the claim (if they still 
believe the damage wasnt malicious) under the accidental damage section of the policy. 
That is, on the assumption Mrs F has accidental damage cover under her policy. It would be 
for Admiral to carry out that assessment and tell Mrs F the outcome.
On Mrs Fs fourth and fifth points, I recognise her strongly-held view her property (her land) 
has been made unsafe by her neighbour and theyve asked her to remove property from that 
land. And theyve taken her property (her land) and left open water pipes theyve cut and 
exposed electricity cables. I recognise Mrs F maintains her neighbour had intended to enter 
and take her land, destroy the property on that land in order to build on it themselves.
However, based on what Ive seen, I cant conclude this is clearly the case. Its also clearly a 
dispute between Mrs F and her neighbour, which isnt something that falls within the remit of 
this Service (which is to decide whether Admiral have acted fairly and reasonably towards 
Mrs F). If Mrs F feels her land and property have been taken and/or destroyed by her 
neighbour, I think thats something  Mrs F may want to consider taking legal advice about  
either through (as already seems to have been the case) the legal expenses cover section of 
her policy or seeking independent legal advice.
Taking all these points into account, my final decision remains the same as my provisional 
decision, with the addition of my conclusions about the compensation offered by Admiral.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, my final decision is that I uphold Mrs Fs complaint in part. I 
require Admiral Insurance (Gibraltar) Limited to:
Assess the claim (if they still believe the damage wasnt malicious) under the 
provisions of the accidental damage section of the policy. That is, on the 
assumption Mrs F had accidental damage cover under her policy. 
Admiral Insurance (Gibraltar) Limited have already made an offer to pay £125 compensation 
to Mrs F and I think this offer is fair in all the circumstances. So, on the assumption Admiral Insurance (Gibraltar) Limited havent already paid the 
compensation, they should pay Mrs F £125 compensation.
Admiral Insurance (Gibraltar) Limited must pay the compensation within 28 days of the date 
on which we tell them Mrs F accepts my final decision. If they pay later than this they must 
also pay interest on the compensation from the date of my final decision to the date of 
payment at 8% a year simple.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs F to accept or 
reject my decision before 1 December 2023.
 
Paul King
Ombudsman