DRN-4174213
The complaint
Mrs H is unhappy that Tesco Personal Finance PLC (Tesco) applied interest to her account 
following a balance transfer.
What happened
In the summer of 2022 Mrs H completed a balance transfer to her Tesco credit card account. 
She received a promotional rate of 0% interest for 28 months.
In January 2023 she completed a further balance transfer to her Tesco credit card. Upon 
checking her February statement, she noticed she had been charged interest on the second 
transfer. As she was expecting 0% interest on this transfer, she contacted Tesco.
Tesco said there wasnt any promotional rates at the time of the second balance transfer and 
upon seeing the advertisement Mrs H had seen on the mobile app, they confirmed that any 
0% offer wouldve been emailed to Mrs H to confirm the length of time the offer would remain 
in place. They were therefore satisfied interest had been applied correctly.
Mrs H brought her concerns to this service. Our investigator didnt think Tesco had done 
anything wrong. As Mrs H remained unhappy it has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The terms and conditions set out the agreement between Mrs H and Tesco and the credit 
information details any associated interest rates that may apply. The pre-contract credit 
information provided to Mrs H outline introductory rates at 0% for a period of time and 
standard rates for balance transfers detailed at 1.667% per month. 
Mrs H has said that the information Tesco provided at the point of application said: your 
standard interest rate would apply and she took this to mean she would pay the same rate 
she was already paying which was 0% for the initial 28-month promotional term. She feels it 
wouldve been clearer if it had referred to our standard rates.
Having reviewed the offer details Tesco provide around 0% and the information Mrs H had 
seen when applying for the second balance transfer, I can see they are very different. The 
promotional offer refers specifically to 0% and the time limits involved. Whereas the other 
one just references standard rates applying.
Whilst I understand Mrs Hs thoughts about this, she referenced herself the 0% offer she had 
was a promotional term. And I think it is clear from the pre-contract credit information that 
standard rates come with some sort of interest applied. 
Based on this I dont think Tesco have done anything wrong as I think the information 
provided was clear and not misleading. So it follows that I cant fairly ask them to apply 0% 
to the second balance transfer.
I understand that as Mrs H was expecting 0% on the second balance transfer this will have 
had an impact on her. But Tesco were clear in the advert that standard rates apply and the 
breakdown of this was outlined in the pre-contract information for Mrs H to see.
As a gesture of goodwill Tesco waived the interest on Mrs Hs statement for the month of 
March to give her time to consider what she wanted to do considering her confusion with the 
rates that applied. They didnt have to do this, but I hope it has been useful to Mrs H.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs H to accept or 
reject my decision before 4 July 2023.
 
Karin Hutchinson
Ombudsman