DRN-3430598
The complaint
Mr H complains that Vanquis Bank Limited recorded a default on his credit file in October 
2019.
What happened
In May 2016 Mr H took out a credit card with Vanquis. I wont detail the full history of the 
account. Rather, the key events I think are relevant to my determination. In October 2017 Mr 
H told Vanquis hed had an accident and would be unfit for work for at least three months. 
Unfortunately, his difficulties continued, and following intermittent payments in 2017 and 
2018, his account was defaulted in August 2018. 
Mr H complained about this and in December 2018 Vanquis agreed to remove the default. It 
said that, whilst there had been a breach of contract through non-payment, it shouldve done 
more to assist Mr H prior to this. It told Mr H his account remained closed and invited him to 
contact the Financial Difficulties Team to discuss options available to assist him in repaying 
his balance.
Following this, a payment was made to the account in January 2019, then again in early 
April 2019. As this was only a partial payment, the account remained in arrears. No further 
payments were received. In late April and May, Vanquis sent Mr H letters telling him that his 
payments were overdue and immediate action was needed. In June 2019 it issued a formal 
notice of default. Vanquis passed Mr Hs account to a debt collection agency in July and the 
default was reported again in October 2019.  
In July 2021 Mr H complained to Vanquis about that default. He thought it had been added 
incorrectly, referring back to previous complaints and saying hed asked for additional 
assistance. He wanted the default removed as it would affect his credit rating until 2025. 
In its response, Vanquis detailed the history of Mr Hs previous complaints and their 
outcomes. It didnt uphold the new complaint about the October 2019 default. It said the 
correct process had been followed and that multiple attempts to contact Mr H and encourage 
him to get in touch to discuss his account had been unsuccessful. Mr H referred his 
complaint to our service.
Our investigator looked into things. He explained to Mr H that he could only look at the 
current complaint about the 2019 default. And having done so, he didnt think Vanquis had 
acted unfairly in applying it. Mr H disagreed. He said he didnt think hed been given 
sufficient support to avoid the default and that his vulnerabilities hadnt been taken into 
account. So his complaint has come to me for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided not to uphold Mr Hs complaint. Ill explain why. 
Firstly, Id like to be clear about the scope of my decision. Mr H has made previous 
complaints to Vanquis about issues relating to his card. Vanquis responded to those 
complaints and gave Mr H referral rights to our service, which were not exercised. So my 
decision focuses solely on Mr Hs 2021 complaint about the 2019 default, although I will refer 
to previous events as part of the history and context to current matters. 
The relevant industry guidance recommends that a default is registered on a credit file when 
an account is between three and six months in arrears. As an overarching principle, a 
business must pay due regard to the interests of its customers and treat them fairly. And 
where a customer is having arrears difficulties, a business is required to treat that customer 
with forbearance and due consideration. So Ive thought about what happened after 
December 2018, when Vanquis agreed to remove the default previously applied to Mr Hs 
account.
Unfortunately, Mr Hs payment difficulties continued. A notice of default was issued in 
January 2019, but the required payment was subsequently made. Following missed 
payments in February and March, further letters were sent requiring action. A payment was 
made in April 2019, partly satisfying the outstanding amount. As no more payments were 
received and the account remained in arrears, further letters were sent in April and May 
2019. Mr H didnt respond to these letters, so a notice of default was sent in June 2019. That 
letter told Mr H hed missed payments and was in breach of his contract. It also invited Mr H 
to contact the bank to pay or to make an arrangement if he was experiencing financial 
difficulties. And it explained that if he failed to make a payment or set up an arrangement we 
may file a default to his account with credit reference agencies. 
Im satisfied the notice of default was sent to Mr Hs home address, in line with legal and 
regulatory requirements, along with other letters reporting the status of his account. In his 
complaint to us, Mr H said he didnt understand the consequences of the letters, and later, 
that he didnt receive them. On balance, Im satisfied they were most likely received, 
although I accept Mr H may not now recall receiving them. In any event, Im also satisfied, 
given the particular history of the account, that Mr H wouldve known he was behind with his 
payments and that thered be consequences should he fail to make payments or contact 
Vanquis and try to arrange a workable repayment plan. 
Ive also thought carefully about Mr Hs concern that he wasnt given sufficient support and 
his vulnerabilities werent taken into consideration. Its clear Mr H contacted Vanquis and 
asked for support shortly after his accident. Ive seen a note made on his account regarding 
his disclosure and subsequent ill-health. And some measures were put in place, relating to a 
repayment option plan on the account at the time. But this was not continued, due to lack of 
response from Mr H to requests for information, and the repayment option plan was 
subsequently cancelled and was the subject of a previous complaint. Ive not seen evidence 
of any further requests for support or disclosures of any additional vulnerabilities.   
Vanquis has provided evidence detailing a significant volume of call attempts made to Mr H 
over a period of months in the lead up to the June 2019 notice of default being issued. 
Almost invariably, call attempts were not successful. Im aware Mr H is unhappy about the 
number of calls and has said he specifically asked not to be contacted by phone. I can see 
that a call block was applied for four weeks in April 2019, to give Mr H a chance to contact 
Vanquis to set up a repayment plan. But no contact was made so collections calls resumed. 
I can appreciate Mr Hs point of view  that the calls were chasing him for the debt and 
causing him stress. But Im also mindful that Mr H was not engaging with Vanquis and that it 
wanted to talk to him to establish his financial circumstances and likelihood of being able to bring the account up to date or make a suitable repayment arrangement. Its difficult to see 
how further support could be offered when Mr H wasnt responding to letters or calls.  
Ive also thought about whether the default shouldve been applied earlier, particularly given 
the protracted history of payment difficulties. As Mr H didnt pay the full amount required in 
April 2019, the account remained in arrears. So possibly the default couldve been applied a 
month or two earlier. But overall, Vanquis had accepted mistakes were made in 2018 and 
removed the default applied that year, as Mr H had requested. That gave Mr H a further 
opportunity to repay the outstanding debt. Unfortunately, things didnt improve and Mr H 
didnt respond to Vanquis attempts to engage with him. I accept Vanquis was trying to 
engage with Mr H to reach an acceptable arrangement to pay. Given the history of the 
account and Mr Hs previous complaints, I think Vanquis treated Mr H fairly in giving him 
some additional time to engage and applying the default when it did. I appreciate Mr H is 
concerned about the impact on his credit file. But Vanquis has an obligation to report 
accurate information to credit reference agencies and Im satisfied the default was fairly 
applied. 
Finally, Mr H has also said that he was treated differently to his wife in respect of her 
account with Vanquis. Whilst I acknowledge his feelings, it wouldnt be appropriate for me to 
comment on Vanquis relationship with another customer. Every complaint is unique and 
assessed on its own facts and circumstances. The focus of my decision is solely on Mr Hs 
relationship with Vanquis and the operation of his account. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint against Vanquis Bank Limited.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 27 September 2022.
 
Jo Chilvers
Ombudsman