DRN-2794358
The complaint
Miss Z complains Sainsburys Bank Plc (Sainsburys) has unfairly declined a claim she made 
under section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974(CCA). She wants Sainsbury's to uphold 
her claim and provide a full refund.
What happened
I set out the background to this complaint in an earlier provisional decision. For clarity, I 
repeat it here.
On 27 April 2016, Miss Z purchased a desktop computer from company L via company 
Ts website. She paid £399.99 using her Sainsburys credit card.
On 20 March 2019, Miss Z contacted Sainsburys to raise a section 75 claim on the grounds 
the desktop computer was not of satisfactory quality. She said she was experiencing severe 
performance and reliability issues, which caused a great deal of inconvenience and 
disappointment - as she used the computer for both work and personal use. She said the 
computer is unreliable and unusable and she would like a full refund of the sum of £399.99.
Sainsbury's rejected Miss Zs claim because:
It said there was no valid debtor-creditor-supplier (DCS). 
The invoice for the desktop was addressed to Miss Zs limited company and;
There was no evidence of fault at sale as the length of time passed since purchase.
Miss Z appealed Sainsbury's decision and raised further issues about her correspondence
being ignored. Sainsbury's responded to her appeal. It didnt change its decision on rejecting 
the claim but offered compensation of £90 for the inconvenience Miss Z experienced, whilst 
it dealt with the claim.
Dissatisfied Miss Z brought her complaint to this service.
An investigator looked into things for Miss Z. She didnt uphold Miss Zs complaint. She 
found the d-c-s chain to be broken. She said this because Miss Z made the payment to 
Company T, who she said was acting as an intermediary for the supplier (company L). On 
this basis she didnt find Sainsburys had done anything wrong in rejecting the section 75 
claim. She agreed there had been some delays in responding to Miss Z but found the £90 
Sainsburys paid to be fair and reasonable and so she didnt ask it to do anything further.
Miss Z disagreed. She cites a number of legal precedents which she feels exemplifies the 
same circumstances and where a court found the d-c-s chain unbroken. She asks for an 
ombudsman review.
In my provisional decision, I set out my role when looking at a complaint brought under 
Section 75 legislation. I explained when considering a complaint about a financial services 
provider, Im not determining the outcome of a claim that a party might have under Section 
75. Rather, in deciding whats a fair way to resolve Miss Zs complaint, I have to take 
account of relevant law, amongst other things. Section 75 is relevant law. Therefore, Ive 
taken it into account. But that doesnt mean Im obliged to reach the same outcome as, for 
example, a court might reach if Miss Z pursued a claim for misrepresentation or breach of 
contract. Our service is an informal alternative to the courts. 
Section 75 says, amongst other things, that in certain circumstances if the debtor has, in 
relation to a transaction financed by a credit agreement, any claim against the supplier in 
respect of a misrepresentation or a breach of contract, then she has a like claim against the 
credit provider. But what Im deciding is whether Sainsbury did enough in considering Ms 
Zs complaint. And if they didnt, what else should they now do.
So, the first issue here is a dispute as to whether there is a valid d-c-s relationship. 
Section 75 provides that, under a very specific set of conditions, a consumer may seek to 
recover money paid under a contract with a supplier from their credit card provider. One of 
these conditions is that there must be a valid d-c-s relationship in place.
The first element of this relationship is the debtor. 
In this case Miss Z used her personal credit card to make the payment, but the invoice 
shows that the purchase was for a Limited company, Ill call Company F, a company 
owned by Miss Z and active at the time of the purchase (now dissolved). The delivery note 
shows the same company's name for the delivery address and Miss Z as the recipient. 
This means the contractual party with the supplier was Company F. Although I accept Miss Z 
used her personal credit card to make the payment, the invoice and delivery note clearly 
detail the limited company which is an entirely separate legal entity to her. So, I dont 
consider the d-c-s chain to be valid, for the purposes of section 75 on this basis. That also 
means I think I have no proper basis for saying that Sainsburys must take any responsibility 
here.
It follows as I have already established there is no valid d-c-s chain in respect of the debtor 
there is no requirement to consider other points that have been raised previously about the 
d-c-s relationship. I dont need to look at who I think was the supplier
Miss Z pointed to other legal cases that she says are like hers. But I must look at the 
individual circumstances of her case and make a decision based on what happened in this 
particular complaint. I recognise this is not the outcome Miss Z was looking for. But for the 
reasons I set out above I consider that she has no valid claim against Sainsburys under 
section 75.
For clarity, I would also point out that even if the d-c-s chain were to be valid for her 
complaint to be successful Miss Z would need to show there had been a breach of contract 
or misrepresentation and Im not persuaded she has done so in this case.
The law says that when goods are sold to a consumer they need to be of satisfactory quality 
when sold. And Ive already said I dont think Miss Z was the consumer here, the limited 
company was. And it is unlikely the limited company would fit the definition of a consumer for 
the relevant law in any event. The desktop was purchased in April 2016, but Miss Z didnt 
raise any claim of unsatisfactory quality with either the supplier (company L), manufacturer 
or Company T until 2019. The desktop was supplied with a one-year warranty and so had 
Miss Z raised the issues she said she has experienced from the inception with the desktop, 
she would have been able to remedy the situation. I accept that durability is an aspect of 
satisfactory quality, but I dont think if the faults were present at the point of sale, they would 
only have come to light four years down the line. On balance of probabilities, for all these 
reasons, I dont agree Miss Z has evidenced any of the faults she has experienced four 
years after purchase were present at the point of sale.Based on this information I said I cant fairly say Sainsburys has acted unfairly in rejecting 
her section 75 claim.
Sainsburys acknowledged there had been delays in responding to the letter of appeal Miss Z 
sent in following its final response. It agreed it could have provided a better service and 
offered Miss Z £90 in recognition of this. I said I considered £90 to be fair and reasonable 
and so I wont be asking it to do anything further.
I recognised Miss Z feels there is a legal case to answer here but as I have already said 
whilst I take the law into account that doesnt mean Im obliged to reach the same outcome 
as, for example, a court might reach if Miss Z pursued a claim for misrepresentation or 
breach of contract. This is because our service is an informal alternative to the courts. But 
my decision doesnt prevent Miss Z from pursuing this matter in the courts should she wish 
to do so.
In my provisional decision, I said that I dont intend to uphold this complaint. 
I invited both parties to make any further submissions they wish me to consider before I 
issued my final decision. All I would add is that any final submissions should be materially 
new. Neither party needs to repeat what its said to us before.
Both parties responded to my provisional decision.
Sainsburys agreed with the findings of my provisional decision and had no further 
submissions.
Miss Z thanked me for my provisional decision. She submitted that she had never been the 
owner of Company L. She provided evidence to show she was not a director or in anyway 
related to Company L. She said it appeared that Company Ls address had been used to 
deliver the product and that was the extent of its involvement and as a general note it is not 
an uncommon practice to have items delivered elsewhere. This of course doesnt 
necessarily create contractual relations with those parties.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I thank both parties for their submissions, I have looked at all the information from both 
parties afresh. Having done so, I havent seen any evidence to persuade me to depart from 
my earlier view. I appreciate this will come as a disappointment to Miss Z, please allow me 
to explain why.
First, Im very aware that Ive summarised this complaint in far less detail than the parties 
and Ive done so using my own words. Im not going to respond to every single point made 
by all the parties involved. No discourtesy is intended by this. Instead, Ive focussed on what 
I think are the key issues here. 
Our rules allow me to do this. This simply reflects the informal nature of our service as a free 
alternative to the courts. If theres something Ive not mentioned, it isnt because Ive ignored 
it. I havent. Im satisfied I dont need to comment on every individual argument to be able to 
reach what I think is the right outcome.
Where the evidence is unclear, or there are conflicts, I have made my decision based on the 
balance of probabilities. In other words, I have looked at what evidence we do have, and the surrounding circumstances, to help me decide what I think is more likely to, or should, have 
happened.
I have looked closely at the records provided by Miss Z and those from Company House, as 
they are a matter of public record. I can see from those Miss Z was a controlling shareholder 
and there are a number of other factors which have persuaded me that the relationship 
between Miss Z and Company L is more than an unrelated coincidence, not least because 
the invoice was in Company Ls name.
That said I make no legal determination about Miss Zs relationship to Company L but on a 
balance of probability I remain of the view there is no valid d-c-s chain for the reasons I have 
already given.
Further, as I have already said I havent seen any evidence to persuade me there were 
inherent faults at the point of sale and so even if Im wrong about the validity of the d-c-s 
chain, I have considered all the evidence regarding unsatisfactory quality of the goods 
and/or misrepresentation and Im not in agreement there is sufficient evidence to in either 
regard.
It follows, Ive reached the same view as in my earlier provision decision and I dont uphold 
this complaint.
My final decision
For the reasons I have given I dont uphold this complaint and I make no award.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss Z to accept or 
reject my decision before 24 June 2021.
 
Wendy Steele
Ombudsman