DRN-3153940
The complaint
Mr D is unhappy with how Oodle Financial Services Limited dealt with his request for 
assistance as a result of the Coronavirus (Covid-19) pandemic.
What happened
On 14 June 2019, Mr D was supplied with a car through a hire purchase agreement with 
Oodle. The agreement was for £22,500 over 60 months; with an initial payment of £565.63, 
58 monthly repayments of £515.63 and a final payment of £565.63.
On 15 January 2020, Mr D was supplied with a second car through a hire purchase 
agreement with Oodle. The agreement was for £23,990 over 60 months; with an initial 
payment of £574.78, 58 monthly repayments of £524.78 and a final payment of £574.78. 
In March 2020, Mr D contacted Oodle to tell them hed been furloughed from his job as a 
result of the Covid-19 pandemic and was experiencing financial difficulties because of this. 
The Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) issued temporary guidance, that came into effect on 
27 April 2020, about customers who were faced with payment difficulties as a result of 
Covid-19. This allowed financial businesses such as Oodle to grant a three-month payment 
deferral (otherwise known as a payment holiday) to people like Mr D. On 14 May 2020, 
Oodle gave Mr D a three-month payment deferral. This was backdated to April 2020.
On 24 June 2020, Mr D contacted Oodle again. Although hed returned to work, his income 
was reduced. Oodle gave Mr D a further payment deferral for July 2020 and agreed to 
accept a reduced payment of £50 a month for each agreement for August 2020; and £150 a 
month from each agreement from September to November 2020.
Mr D contacted Oodle again in November 2020. He explained that his income was still being 
affected by Covid-19 and he asked for a further three-month payment deferral. But Oodle 
said that, because Mr D had already received Covid-19 support, they couldnt do this. And, 
because Mr D hadnt made the agreed reduced payments for October 2020, Oodle referred 
him to their collections department to come to a short-term or long-term arrangement.
Mr D wasnt happy with how hed been dealt with by Oodle, and he brought his complaint to 
the financial ombudsman service for investigation.
Our investigator said he didnt think Oodle had done anything wrong with how they dealt with 
Mr Ds initial request for a payment deferral. And he said that Oodle hadnt done anything 
wrong by refusing a payment deferral in November 2020, because the Covid-19 payment 
deferral scheme had ended by this date.
The investigator also said that, even though Mr D has sold one of the cars and cleared the 
finance, he was still paying reduced payments of £100 a month for the other agreement. And 
this meant that the arrears were increasing monthly. He said that this meant that Oodle were 
treating Mr Ds situation with forbearance and consideration, especially as they couldve 
repossessed the car under the agreement Mr D had signed but had chosen not to do so.
Oodle had acknowledged that they shouldve offered Mr D a three-month payment deferral 
in July 2020, in line with the FCA guidelines, instead of a one-month deferral. And theyve 
offered to backdate a payment deferral for these missing two-months, refund the three 
months reduced payments Mr D had made during this period, and pay him an additional 
£250 for the distress and inconvenience that Mr D had been caused. The investigator 
thought that this offer was reasonable in the circumstances and didnt think Oodle needed to 
do anything more. But Mr D refused this offer.
Mr D didnt agree with the investigator. He thought the investigator was biased towards 
Oodle, and that the investigator wasnt impartial. This had been dealt with under our internal 
complaints process, and Mr D received a response to this on 17 November 2020. So, I 
wont be addressing this within my decision.
Mr D also asked for more time to provide evidence to support his complaint about Oodle. 
This was granted. But, to date, Mr D hasnt provided anything more. So, because Mr D didnt 
agree with the investigator, this has been passed to me to make a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive reached the same overall conclusions as the investigator, and for 
broadly the same reasons. If I havent commented on any specific point, its because I dont 
believe its affected what I think is the right outcome.
In considering this complaint Ive had regard to the relevant law and regulations; any 
regulators rules, guidance and standards, codes of practice, and (if appropriate) what I 
consider was good industry practice at the time. Mr D was supplied with a car under a hire 
purchase agreement. This is a regulated consumer credit agreement which means were 
able to look into complaints about it. 
The FCA published guidance on 24 April 2020, as to how regulated firms that issue 
regulated motor finance agreements should provide exceptional and immediate support to 
customers facing payment difficulties due to circumstances arising out of the coronavirus. It 
is intended to provide help to those who might be having temporary difficulty in making their 
finance or leasing payments due to a loss of or reduction in their income.
Based on the evidence Ive seen; Im satisfied that this guidance applied to the agreements 
Mr D had with Oodle.
The guidance said that a firm should grant the customer a payment deferral for 3 months 
unless the firm determines (acting reasonably) that it is obviously not in the customers 
interests to do so. The guidance also makes it clear that customers should be able to 
request a payment deferral at any point after the guidance comes into force.  The guidance 
came into force on 27 April 2020.
While Im aware that Mr D made his first request for a payment deferral in March 2020, given 
the above guidance, Im satisfied that Oodle acted reasonably by approving this in early May 
2020, and backdating it to April 2020. So, the payment deferral ran from April to June 2020. 
And, in June 2020, Oodle agreed a further months payment deferral for July 2020.
The FCA issued updated guidance on 15 July 2020. This guidance said that, Where, after 
an initial payment deferral, and at any time before their first payment is due, a customer indicates they remain in temporary payment difficulties and cannot resume full payments 
immediately, a firm should offer a full or partial payment deferral to reduce payments for a 
period of 3 months to a level the customer indicates they can afford. If the customer is in 
temporary payment difficulties but is unable to afford any payments, the firm should offer 
them a full payment deferral where this is in the customers interests.
The guidance was also clear that a firm that has dealt with customers at the end of a 
payment deferral period before this guidance came into force should review whether the 
outcome the customer has received is consistent with the outcome they would likely have 
received under this guidance. If it is not consistent, the firm should make all reasonable 
efforts to contact affected customers and give them an opportunity to take up any further 
help they may be eligible for under this guidance. 
Given this guidance, Im satisfied that Oodle shouldve contacted Mr D to discuss whether he 
wanted to take the option of the full three-months payment deferral, backdated to July 2020. 
But they didnt do so. Given that Mr D was only able to pay a nominal amount towards his 
agreements at this time, and given that he subsequently wanted a further payment deferral; 
Im satisfied that, if Oodle had contacted Mr D after this guidance was published, he 
wouldve taken the option of the full three-months payment deferral.
Oodle have acknowledged they shouldve acted differently. And theyve offered to 
retrospectively apply the two-months of the payment deferral that Mr D didnt have benefit of, 
refund the partial payments hed made during this time, and pay him an additional £250 for 
any distress and inconvenience hed been caused. Given the circumstances, I think that this 
offer is reasonable. And this is in line with what I wouldve asked them to do, had they not 
already made this offer.
The FCA didnt issue any further guidance allowing for a third payment deferral period for 
customers whose income was affected by Covid-19. Instead they made it clear they 
expected firms to apply the existing rules and treat these customers with forbearance and 
consideration. So, I dont think that Oodle did anything wrong by not giving Mr D a further 
payment deferral when he asked for it in November 2020.
Instead, Oodle agreed a longer-term payment arrangement with Mr D. And, despite Oodle 
having the right under the agreement to repossess the car, because of the level of arrears, 
they havent done so. So, Im satisfied that Oodle acted in line with the forbearance and 
consideration rules. 
Given the above, Im satisfied that Oodle acted reasonably when dealing with Mr Ds 
financial difficulties. And I wont be asking them to do anything more. Its now for Mr D to 
decide whether to accept their offer.
My final decision
For the reasons explained, I dont uphold Mr Ds complaint about Oodle Financial Services 
Limited.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision before 9 March 2022.
 
Andrew Burford
Ombudsman