DRN-3998861
The complaint
Mr S complains that Great Lakes Insurance SE declined his claim against his travel 
insurance policy. Reference to Great Lakes includes its agents. 
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here in full. In summary, Mr S has an annual travel insurance policy underwritten by 
Great Lakes. The policy started on 13 November 2021.
On 8 December 2021, Mr S went on a trip. He planned to return on 27 December 2021. 
Mr S says that he was taken ill on arrival at the airport for his return flight and went into 
hospital. He was diagnosed with malaria and enteric fever (typhoid). On                        
30 December 2021, Mr S contacted Great Lakes about making a claim on his policy.    
Mr S now says that he remained in hospital until 14 January 2022. 
On 20 January 2022, Mr S returned to the UK and made a claim against his policy in 
relation to medical and accommodation costs. Great Lakes declined the claim. It said 
that Mr S hadnt provided evidence to show that hed made the various payments, only 
that hed transferred the money between his own accounts. Great Lakes said that it 
required the invoice for the hotel accommodation showing the date of the trip and the 
payment made and evidence of withdrawal of cash or card payment to the hospital and 
to the provider of the additional accommodation.    
Mr S said that hed provided invoices and medical reports to show that he was in hospital 
and proof of transfer of money from his UK bank account to his overseas account.   
Great Lakes maintained its position and said that it requires proof of payment to the 
hospital and hotel. Mr S wants Great Lakes to reimburse his expenses and to pay 
compensation for his distress.
One of our investigators looked at what had happened. She said that Great Lakes had 
acted fairly in declining the part of Mr S claim for accommodation costs as he hadnt 
provided necessary evidence. But the investigator said that she was satisfied that Mr S 
used cash he transferred from his UK to his overseas bank account to pay his medical 
costs. She recommended that Great Lakes reimburse Mr S medical costs. 
Mr S agreed with the investigator. He said that his brother secured his hotel booking and 
paid the deposit. Mr S said that he wasnt sure what the room was like, so he arranged a 
pick-up from the airport on arrival and he planned to stay if he liked the room. 
Great Lakes asked that an ombudsman consider the matter as it has concerns about the 
validity of the claim. It said that it was making its own further internal enquiries. As there 
was no agreement between the parties, the complaint was passed to me to decide.  
My provisional decision
On 17 February 2023, I sent both parties my provisional decision in this case. I indicated 
that I didnt intent to uphold Mr S complaint. I said:
The policy provides cover for emergency medical expenses and additional accommodation 
costs following illness whilst on a trip. The following exclusion applies:
Exclusions applying to Section 1
A. What is not covered
[]
15. Expenses incurred as a result of a tropical disease when You have not had the 
recommended inoculations and/or taken the recommended medication.
The policy also includes the following:
Claims Conditions
[]
Making a claim
[]
2. Please remember to keep relevant original receipts and reports (not photocopies) as they 
will be required for any claim. 
You must be able to document all expenses incurred
[]
For medical emergency, medical related expenses, repatriation and evacuation claims
[]
6. You must retain and produce at Your own expense all receipts, reports and documentary 
evidence required by Us to support Your claim
has the claim been declined unfairly?
The relevant rules and industry guidance say that Great Lakes has a responsibility to handle 
claims promptly and fairly and it shouldnt reject a claim unreasonably. I dont intend to 
uphold Mr S complaint because I dont think that Great Lakes treated him unfairly or 
unreasonably. I say that because:   
Insurance policies arent designed to cover every eventuality or situation. An 
insurer will decide what risks its willing to cover and set these out in the terms and 
conditions of the policy document. The onus is on the consumer to show that the 
claim falls under one of the agreed areas of cover within the policy. If the event is 
covered in principle but is declined on the basis of an exclusion set out in the policy 
the onus shifts to the insurer to show how that exclusion applies.
Great Lakes says that it has concerns about the validity of the claim. It hasnt 
provided any further information about its concerns, so I dont comment on that 
further. 
Mr S claim included a claim for reimbursement of the cost of 22 days hotel 
accommodation. Mr S policy covers reasonable additional hotel accommodation 
expenses following an illness leading to a claim for emergency medical expenses. 
In the circumstances Mr S has described, his additional accommodation expenses 
were from 12 January 2022  when he left hospital  until his return to the UK on                   
20 January 2022. 
The policy provides that Mr S must be able to document all expenses incurred and 
I dont think hes done that in relation to additional accommodation costs. Ive noted what Mr S says about this  that his brother paid the deposit for his 
accommodation and the hotel wasnt on-line. But neither of those things prevent  
Mr S from providing documentation about additional accommodation costs. I dont 
think that Great Lakes acted unfairly or unreasonably in declining this part of Mr S 
claim.
In relation to Mr S claim for reimbursement of medical costs, he provided        
Great Lakes with a receipted medical bill dated 12 January 2022 for the amount of 
his claim. I dont think it was unreasonable for Great Lakes to ask Mr S for 
evidence of withdrawal of cash or card payment to the hospital. Mr S says that he 
cant provide that because he cant access his overseas bank account unless hes 
in his destination country and has a phone number there.      
Mr S has provided screenshots showing transfers of money from one of his 
accounts to another on 5, 9 and 15 January 2022. None of the amounts transferred 
are for the exact amount of the payment to the hospital. On balance, I dont think 
that those screenshots show that Mr S paid the hospital the amount hes claimed. 
The policy provides that Mr S must produce all documentary evidence required by           
Great Lakes. I dont think Mr S has done that in relation to his claim for 
reimbursement of medical expenses. I dont think that Great Lakes acted unfairly or 
unreasonably in declining this part of his claim.
In complaints like the one here, we look at the policy terms and conditions as a 
whole, as they set out the rights and obligations between the parties. Theres an 
exclusion in the policy which says that it doesnt cover expenses incurred as a 
result of a tropical disease when the policy holder hasnt had the recommended 
inoculations and/or taken the recommended medication. 
Mr S was diagnosed with malaria and typhoid. Weve asked Mr S about 
inoculations and medication. Mr S has provided a printout showing vaccinations in 
December 2020 which include a vaccination for typhoid. My understanding is that 
vaccination for typhoid isnt repeated annually. But Mr S hasnt provided anything 
to show that he took the recommended preventative medication for malaria. Even if 
I reached a different decision about whether Mr S has provided sufficient evidence 
to support his claim, I think that Great Lakes is entitled to rely on the exclusion Ive 
set out above and decline Mr S claim.
Responses to my provisional decision
Great Lakes agreed with my provisional decision, but Mr S didnt. He said, in summary:
Declining to uphold his complaint would open the flood gates for insurers to 
decline future valid claims. 
His claim falls within the agreed areas of cover provided by the policy, hes 
provided all the documentation and information necessary to support his claim 
and he didnt intentionally act within the policy exclusions.
 
If Great Lakes had legitimate concerns and reservations about his claim, it should 
have investigated and made its findings known. His claim for accommodation was from 27 December 2021 to 19 January 2022, 
he was admitted to hospital on 27 December 2021 and remained there until      
14 January 2022. 
I didnt mention that he had provided the original receipt for the hotel 
accommodation, the hotel sent its driver to collect him from the airport on arrival, 
he asked the hotel for a receipt for the accommodation and that hed provided 
screen shots of exchanges he had with the hotel.
He provided Great Lakes with what it asked for, namely the original medical 
report, receipts, invoice and overseas cheque book which he used to withdraw 
cash from his account. Great Lakes asked him for further information, which he 
provided. It didnt ask him for bank statements or evidence of methods of 
payment while he was still overseas. Great Lakes knew he was about to return to 
the UK and acted unfairly in failing to ask him to return with bank statements or 
evidence of payment. 
Whilst he was overseas, he asked Great Lakes which documents it wanted him 
to provide to support his claim. 
He asked Great Lakes to pay the hospital direct, but it said that it couldnt do so. 
He cant provide his overseas bank statements to show how the money was paid 
as he must be physically present in the overseas bank before it will issue his 
bank statements. And he needs an overseas phone number to download the app 
on his phone, which he doesnt have. It would cost him a disproportionate 
amount to return overseas to get his bank statements. 
In May 2021, his overseas doctor vaccinated him against malaria and typhoid.
He provided photographs of letters dated 24 February 2023 from the treating 
hospital which he says confirm that he paid his medical bills by cash on             
29 December 2021 and 13 January 2022 and that he was vaccinated for malaria 
and typhoid on 1 May 2021. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
We determine complaints individually and on their own merits, having regard to the particular 
circumstances and the available evidence. Our decisions dont set binding precedents. So, 
theres nothing in this decision that would enable an insurer to decline future claims by 
others. In response to the provisional decision, Mr S says that his claim for accommodation was 
from 27 December 2021 to 19 January 2022, he was admitted to hospital on                  
27 December 2021 and remained there until 14 January 2022. In his original claim form 
to Great Lakes and in the complaint form he completed for this service, Mr S said that he 
remained in hospital until 12 January 2022. In either case, Mr S wouldnt require 
additional accommodation whilst in hospital. Theres no basis for a claim for additional 
accommodation for the time Mr S was in hospital. So, any claim for additional 
accommodation would be from the date he was discharged from hospital to the date he 
started his return journey to the UK.
I remain of the view that Great Lakes didnt act unfairly or unreasonably in declining     
Mr S claim for additional accommodation costs on the basis that he hadnt provided 
what it reasonably asked for in support of his claim. I noted the information Mr S 
provided about his hotel accommodation. The policy doesnt cover his planned 
accommodation costs. So, reference to the receipt for the hotel accommodation, the 
transport provided by the hotel on arrival, the receipt for the planned accommodation or 
the screen shots showing exchanges between Mr S and the accommodation provider 
dont alter the outcome here.  
Mr S says that whilst he was overseas, he asked Great Lakes which documents it 
wanted him to provide to support his claim. I dont need to listen to that call as I accept 
Mr S recollection about that. I think that Great Lakes was entitled to ask Mr S to provide 
additional information and evidence to support his claim regardless of his earlier enquiry. 
Great Lakes wasnt obliged to explain to Mr S before he returned to the UK everything 
he needed to provide to support his claim. I dont think that Great Lakes treated Mr S 
unfairly in asking for further information when it did. It was entitled to consider the claim 
as presented then ask for what it reasonably required.  
I note the difficulties Mr S has in providing what Great Lakes has asked for, but it 
remains the case that its for Mr S to provide evidence required by Great Lakes. 
Im looking at whether Great Lakes treated Mr S fairly and reasonably in declining his 
claim based on the information Mr S provided to Great Lakes up to the point of its final 
response to him on 13 May 2022. For the reasons Ive explained, I dont think it did. The 
letter from the treating hospital dated 24 February 2023 wasnt available to Great Lakes 
when it made its decision to decline Mr S claim. On balance, I dont think I can fairly 
direct Great Lakes to settle Mr S claim on the basis of that letter. I think it was 
reasonable in this case for Great Lakes to ask Mr S for further evidence of payment to 
the hospital. Its open to Mr S to provide Great Lakes with the further evidence he now 
has and to ask it to reconsider his claim.   
Mr S has provided a letter dated 24 February 2023 from the treating hospital which says 
that he is a registered patient there and was vaccinated for malaria and typhoid on         
1 May 2021. Its not clear to me why Mr S repeated an inoculation for typhoid which he 
had in the UK in December 2020. I mentioned Mr S inoculation status when considering 
a relevant exclusion but further consideration of this matter wouldnt alter the outcome of 
this complaint. Thats because Great Lakes hasnt relied on that exclusion, and it 
remains the case that I dont think that Great Lakes was at fault in declining the claim on 
the basis that Mr S hadnt provided sufficient evidence. 
Ive considered all that Mr S has said and provided but for the reasons Ive explained, I 
remain of the view that Great Lakes didnt treat him unfairly or unreasonably when it 
declined his claim. My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold Mr S complaint.  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 10 May 2023.
 
Louise Povey
Ombudsman