DRN-2774908
The complaint
Mr and Mrs N complain that ERGO Reiseversicherung AG hasnt agreed to pay a
cancellation claim they made on their travel insurance policy.  
What happened
In March 2019, Mr and Mrs N booked a safari package holiday abroad through a provider
which Ill call A. They took out a single trip travel insurance policy through a broker to cover
their trip. They paid an additional premium for ERGOs Travel Disruption Extension (TDE)
cover. Mr and Mrs N paid the balance of their trip in February 2020 and they were due to
travel on 16 April 2020.
However, on 17 March 2020, the Foreign & Commonwealth Office (FCO) advised against all
but essential travel abroad due to the Covid-19 pandemic. So Mr and Mrs Ns safari trip had
to be cancelled. A told them that it couldnt provide them with a refund because itd already
paid all of its suppliers. So Mr and Mrs N made a claim to ERGO for the costs associated
with the cancellation of their trip.
ERGO considered the claim in line with the TDE, which provided extended cancellation
cover if the FCO advised against all but essential travel. But it said this section of the policy
only covered irrecoverable losses which a policyholder couldnt get back from elsewhere.
Mr and Mrs N had booked a package holiday through A. So ERGO concluded that A was
liable to refund Mr and Mrs Ns costs in line with the Package Travel and Linked Travel
Arrangements Regulations 2018 (PTR). On this basis, it didnt agree to cover Mr and Mrs
Ns cancellation costs.
Mr and Mrs N were unhappy with ERGOs decision and they asked us to look into their
complaint. A had maintained its decision not to refund Mr and Mrs Ns costs and said the
PTR were never intended to cover instances where the travel provider had prepaid in full for
holidays as it does.
Our investigator thought Mr and Mrs Ns complaint should be upheld. He felt that A had
clearly stated that it wasnt prepared to refund Mr and Mrs Ns costs. So he didnt think it was
reasonable for ERGO to expect him to pursue these any further. And he considered that Mr
and Mrs N would need to take legal action against A in order to recover these costs. He
didnt think this was reasonable. Overall, he felt Mr and Mrs Ns cancellation costs were now
irrecoverable.
ERGO disagreed. It maintained that A should be able to get refunds from the travel providers
(including a large, international airline). It said it would consider the smaller elements of the
claim if A can show where payments had gone and break them down. But it said if the
accommodation providers were large, it wouldnt look to cover these costs. It stated that Mr
and Mrs N have a contract with A and therefore A was responsible for reimbursing them in
line with the PTR. It felt the investigator was effectively saying that insurers had to pick up
the failings of the travel industry, which it felt was fundamentally incorrect.
I issued my provisional decision on 6 April 2021. In my provisional decision, I explained why 
I thought ERGOs offer to consider the smaller elements of the claim was fair. I said:
The relevant regulators rules say that insurers must handle claims promptly and fairly. And
they mustnt turn down claims unreasonably. So Ive considered, amongst other things, the
policy terms; the relevant law; the evidence both parties have provided and the
circumstances of the claim to decide whether ERGO treated Mr and Mrs N fairly.
What does the policy say?
Mr and Mrs N paid extra for the TDE. So Ive looked closely at this section of the contract to
consider what cover it provides. It says:
What is covered:
We will pay you up to a maximum of £500 for Basic cover (unless you have purchased the
optional £1,000/£3,000 additional cover option) or £5,000 for Comprehensive cover per
insured person for any irrecoverable unused travel and accommodation costs (and
other prepaid charges) which you have paid or are contracted to pay, plus any reasonable
additional travel expenses incurred if you were not able to travel and use your booked
accommodation or the trip was curtailed before completion as a result of the Travel Advice
Unit of the Foreign & Commonwealth Office (FCO) or the World Health Organisation (WHO)
or regulatory authority in a country to/from which you are travelling issuing a directive:
a) prohibiting all travel or all but essential travel to the country, or specific area or event
to which you were travelling, providing the directive came into force after you purchased, 
renewed or extended this insurance or booked the trip (whichever is the later).
Theres no dispute that Mr and Mrs Ns trip was cancelled as the result of the change in FCO
guidance on 17 March 2020. So I think the circumstances would fall for consideration within
this section of the policy.
But I also think the policy makes it clear that ERGO will only pay for costs that a policyholder
cant get back from elsewhere. So Ive thought about whether it was fair for ERGO to
conclude that Mr and Mrs N should be able to recover their costs from A.
Was the trip a package holiday and should the PTR apply?
Generally, a package holiday would be considered to be holiday contracts that include two or
more travel services, which are combined for the purposes of the same trip. The travel
provider is liable for the performance of these services. Ive looked closely at the booking
invoice A provided to Mr and Mrs N. I can see that they booked their flights; accommodation
and transfers through A as part of an overall trip. So I think it was fair for ERGO to treat the
trip as a package holiday.
The PTR provide protection for consumers who buy package holidays. Effectively, they say
that the travel provider is responsible for providing a full refund for holidays which cant be
provided.
In this case, it doesnt appear that A has offered Mr and Mrs N any refund of their trip costs.
Ive seen a copy of emails between A and Mr and Mrs N. A initially said:
I can confirm that all payments for the holiday were made to the airline and suppliers in
(country) in accordance with our contractual obligations.
They have refused a refund to us and accordingly we are unable to provide a refund to you.A also said that the PTR werent intended to cover no travel by anyone in the world or
instances where the tour operators had prepaid the holiday costs in full. It also relied to a
statement the Association of British Insurers issued on 17 March 2020. This statement said:
Generally, insurance cancellation or travel disruption will relate to FCO advice. This decision
will, therefore, allow many (or "the majority of") policyholders with cancellation or travel
disruption cover in place to claim for cancelled trips that were already booked and cannot
now go ahead.
A says that its understanding of this statement is that anyone who was due to travel during
the period of the FCO advising against all but essential travel, who had TDE or cancellation
cover should be able to recover their costs from their insurer.
But it doesnt seem that A has factored in PTR 13 (3) which is an implied term in every
package holiday contract. This says that travel providers should provide a full refund if they
terminate a contract. So ERGOs concluded that A has a legal obligation to provide Mr and
Mrs N with a refund of the costs associated with the cancellation of their trip. The
Competition and Markets Authority (CMA) also wrote an open letter in July 2020 to package
holiday providers reminding them of this obligation in light of the pandemic.
Paragraph 8 (d) of the CMA letter says:
d. Package travel organisers and/or retailers must not direct a consumer elsewhere if that
consumer requests a cash refund from the company in accordance with UK consumer
protection law, for example by asking them to claim from insurers or payment card
businesses.
It isnt clear to me why A isnt prepared to refund Mr and Mrs Ns full trip costs, given the
PTR suggests it has a legal obligation to do so and given the CMAs open letter.
Ive thought carefully about everything both parties have provided here. But I simply dont
think Ive seen a persuasive argument, either from Mr and Mrs N, or from A, why liability for
paying the full balance of the claim should fall on ERGO, given the legal obligations it
appears A has. I simply dont think, based on the evidence Ive seen, that Mr and Mrs N
have taken reasonable steps to recover their money from their provider.
The evidence Ive seen suggests its likely that A has taken the decision not to refund Mr and
Mrs N because it hasnt recovered any monies from third parties. But Ive not seen a
persuasive explanation as to why the PTR dont apply to Mr and Mrs Ns booking,
particularly given it seems that A cancelled the package holiday. Bearing in mind the policy
terms and conditions, and all of the above information, Im satisfied ERGO has acted
reasonably in now offering to consider the smaller elements of Mr and Mrs Ns claim that
cant be recovered from the suppliers etc. (like cleaning costs).
Ive also taken into account whats fair and reasonable to both parties in the circumstances.
And on the evidence to hand, I dont currently think it would be fair and reasonable for me to
direct ERGO to settle this claim in full in the specific circumstances of this case for the
reasons Ive outlined above.
If Mr and Mrs N are able to obtain further, new evidence in support of their claim, its open to
them to provide it to both me and ERGO for it to consider in response to this provisional
decision.
I asked both parties to send me any further information they wanted me to consider.
ERGO had nothing more to add.Mr and Mrs N disagreed. Ive summarised their response. They explained that they realised 
there was now little they could do to recover the costs of their holiday. The holiday theyd 
booked was designed and arranged by a specialist tour company and they hadnt 
considered it to be a package holiday. They dont see what further reasonable steps they 
couldve taken to recover their money from A, other than through the courts, which they dont 
have the financial resources for. They said the other members of their party had received a 
full refund from their insurer. They told us that theyd taken out insurance through a 
reputable company and if theyd known that the claim would be handled by a third-party, its 
possible theyd have looked elsewhere for insurance cover. And if theyd been advised to 
take out legal expenses insurance, theyd probably have done so. They didnt feel it was 
worth taking up ERGOs offer, as it would likely be very small and difficult to determine the 
amounts involved. And they said they felt sad that Id considered ERGOs offer to be fair and 
reasonable but considered that they hadnt taken reasonable steps to recover their money.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, while Im sorry to disappoint Mr and Mrs N, I still think ERGOs offer is fair 
and reasonable and Ill explain why.
First, Id like to reassure Mr and Mrs N that Ive considered their complaint independently 
and impartially. But in deciding whats fair and reasonable in the particular circumstances of 
a complaint, some of the key things I need to consider are the relevant law and industry 
guidance. I appreciate Mr and Mrs N didnt consider their holiday to be a package, but as 
Ive explained above, the trip A arranged was a contract which included two or more travel 
services which were combined for the purposes of the holiday. So it remains the case that I 
think it was fair for ERGO to treat Mr and Mrs Ns trip as a package holiday. This means that 
A was liable for the performance of the booking contract and that the PTR formed an implied 
term of it. The PTR also mean that A was responsible for refunding the costs of the trip when 
it terminated the contract. And as I set out above, the CMA reminded package holiday 
providers of their obligations in its open letter of July 2020.
In this case, I still havent seen a persuasive argument to show me why A considered it 
wasnt liable for paying Mr and Mrs N a refund of their costs, given the legal obligations it 
appears it has, or why it considered the responsibility for paying the claim should fall on 
ERGO. And I havent seen enough evidence to show me why A considered the PTR 
shouldnt apply to Mr and Mrs Ns booking. I think its open to Mr and Mrs N to approach A 
for further information if they choose to and to then pass this on to ERGO to review. If theyre 
unhappy with the outcome of such a review of any new evidence, they may be able to bring 
a new complaint to us about that issue.
I appreciate that the other members of Mr and Mrs Ns party have had their claim settled by 
their insurer. But most, if not all policies include differences in the cover they provide and I 
cant reasonably direct ERGO to pay this claim based on a decision taken by a third-party 
insurer, whose terms and conditions may vary to ERGOs.
Mr and Mrs N brought their policy through a broker. Its not unusual for insurance policies to 
be sold by third-party brokers and underwritten by insurance companies. I think both the 
policy schedule and terms and conditions clearly set out that the policy was underwritten by 
ERGO and not the broker. Ive also looked at the terms of Mr and Mrs Ns comprehensive 
policy. Legal expenses cover is included in this type of policy but doesnt cover this specific 
situation. Id add though that ERGO isnt responsible for any information the broker may 
have given Mr and Mrs N at the point of sale.I do have a great deal of sympathy with Mr and Mrs Ns position, because I appreciate that 
theyve been left substantially out of pocket. But for the reasons Ive set out above, I still 
think that ERGOs offer to consider the smaller, irrecoverable elements of the claim is a fair 
and reasonable one. I understand Mr and Mrs N consider that it might not be worth asking A 
for a breakdown of costs, but it is open to them to do so should they wish to.  
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above and in my provisional decision, my final decision is that I 
think ERGO Reiseversicherung AGs offer to consider the smaller, non-refundable elements 
of this claim on provision of a detailed breakdown from A is fair and reasonable.
Im not directing ERGO to pay this claim in full.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs N and Mr N to 
accept or reject my decision before 21 May 2021.
 
Lisa Barham
Ombudsman