DRN-4366038
The complaint
Mr M complains that NewDay Ltd (NewDay) declined to increase the limit on his NewDay 
credit card. He would like the limit increased
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties so I wont repeat them again 
here, instead I will focus on giving the reasons for my decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I have reached the following conclusions:-
I appreciate it must have been frustrating for Mr M that when the merchant whose 
credit card he held changed its provider to NewDay, that NewDay offered  Mr L  a 
much lower credit limit than he previously had. All the more so as Mr M has told us 
that he never missed any payments. However just because one provider offered a 
higher credit limit it doesnt mean NewDay has to honour or  match that. 
We expect businesses to act responsibly when offering credit. Businesses will have 
their own criteria for deciding on credit limits  this is confidential business 
information and its not for us to tell businesses what credit limits to offer individuals. 
Having caried out the checks that it did it wouldnt be appropriate for me to tell 
NewDay to raise Mr Ms credit limit.
I also appreciate Mr M has told us that he knows of other people who have been 
given higher credit limits  but their financial situations may not be identical to Mr Ms. 
However, in this complaint, I can only consider Mr Ms position not that of others.
Finally, Mr M has also commented he feels the lower credit levels might be due to 
NewDay not having sufficient funds to offer higher credit limits. As our investigator 
has properly explained this is not in our remit to comment on or to consider. I 
understand Mr M has been given details of the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA)  
should he wish to address any such concerns to them.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 9 January 2024.
 
Bridget Makins
Ombudsman