DRN-2780406
The complaint
 Mr B (via his representative) has complained that Gain Credit LLC (trading as Lending 
Stream) lent to him irresponsibly. 
What happened
Mr B took 10 instalment loans from Lending Stream between June and November 2019. A 
summary of his borrowing, based on the information provided to us from the lender, can be 
found below:
Loan Date Taken Date RepaidNo of 
InstalmentsAmount 
Borrowed
1 14/06/2019 24/06/2019 24* £600.00
2 29/06/2019 01/11/2019 24* £50.00
3 30/06/2019 01/11/2019 24* £50.00
4 02/07/2019 01/11/2019 24* £100.00
5 20/07/2019 outstanding 6 £70.00
6 23/07/2019 outstanding 6 £200.00
7 29/07/2019 outstanding 6 £100.00
8 04/11/2019 outstanding 6 £270.00
9 07/11/2019 outstanding 6 £250.00
10 08/11/2019 outstanding 6 £320.00
*Loans 1-4 were to be repaid in 24 weekly instalments. Whilst loans 5-10 were to be repaid 
in six monthly instalments.
The most recent correspondence from Lending Stream shows there is an outstanding 
balance on loans 5-10 and these loans were assigned to its recoveries team.
One of our adjudicators looked at Mr Bs complaint. He didnt think Lending Stream was 
wrong to approve Mr Bs first four loans based on the information it gathered about his 
financial circumstances. 
But the adjudicator thought that Lending Stream ought to have been completing more 
comprehensive checks by loan 5. And had it done this, it would have seen that Mr B was 
showing signs he was having problems managing his money. This is because Mr B had 
three outstanding loans with Lending Stream at this point, as well as an additional three 
loans with another lender. As a result, the adjudicator upheld loans 5 -10.
Lending Stream agreed with our adjudicators opinion as it made an offer in-line with our 
adjudicators recommendations for loans 5 -10. 
Mr Bs representative disagreed, stating that loans 2 to 4 should also be upheld, and 
provided the following points to consider;
Mr B was 18 at the time and did not have a permanant job.
Payday loans are for short term lending, but Lending Stream lent more and more to 
Mr B who was in a vulnerable position.
Mr B borrowed from other lenders and was able to borrow £5,000 in less than six 
months.
As no agreement could be reached the complaint has been passed to me for a final 
decision.
 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive also taken into account the law, any relevant regulatory rules and good industry practice 
at the time the facility was provided. 
Lending Stream needed to take reasonable steps to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. 
In practice this means that it should have carried out proportionate checks to make sure 
Mr B could repay these loans in a sustainable manner. These checks could take into 
account a number of different things, such as how much was being lent, the repayment 
amounts, and the consumers income and expenditure. 
With this in mind, in the early stages of a lending relationship, I think less thorough checks 
might be reasonable and proportionate. But certain factors might point to the fact that 
Lending Stream should fairly and reasonably have done more to establish that any lending 
was sustainable for the consumer. These factors include:
the lower a consumers income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make
any loan repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income);
the higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income);
the greater the number and frequency of loans, and the longer the period of time
during which a customer has been given loans (reflecting the risk that repeated
refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming,
unsustainable).
There may even come a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable.
Ive carefully considered all of the arguments, evidence and information provided in this
context and what this all means for Mr Bs complaint. 
Loan 1
Mr Bs first four loans were repayable in 24 weekly instalments. The amounts that he needed 
to repay each month were smaller than if hed taken a standard payday loan where the full 
amount that is borrowed is repaid plus interest in one lump sum. These loans are repaid 
over a longer period of time. Sometimes Mr B had more than one loan outstanding. So, Ive 
considered the total amount that Mr B needed to repay to Lending Stream every month, 
when deciding whether Lending Stream was right to conclude for his first four applications 
that he could sustain the repayments.Lending Stream carried out an income and expenditure check before approving each of 
Mr Bs loans. And for each loan, Lending Stream used national averages for expenses 
categories as a way of verifying Mr Bs declared expenses. And it increased Mr Bs 
expenditure where necessary.
When Mr B applied for his first loan, he declared he was employed part-time with a monthly 
income of £1,500 and his monthly expenditure amounted to £625 a month. Lending Stream 
revised his expenditure upwards by adding an extra £83 to this amount. This meant it 
recorded Mr Bs total expenditure as £708. This would have left Mr B with a disposable 
monthly income of £792 with which to meet the repayments of no more than £189.10 within 
a calendar month. So, I think Lending Stream could have reasonably concluded that Mr B 
could comfortably meet the repayments for loan one based on the information he declared.
Loans 2 - 4
When Mr B returned for loan two, he had repaid his first loan. Mr B declared he was now 
working full time and that his employer had changed. But I dont think this was necessarily 
something which shouldve concerned Lending Stream. Mr B declared that his monthly 
income was £1,800 for loans 2, 3 and 4. While this is slightly more than the first loan, I dont 
think this, on its own meant Lending Stream needed to do further checks to verify this, 
especially, as it seemed Mr B had declared a change of employer. 
I appreciate Mr Bs representative says that he didnt have a permanent job at the time and 
was only 18 years old. Mr B is over the age in which a loan can be granted by Lending 
Stream, so I dont think his age has a bearing on the outcome of this complaint. 
Mr B declared to Lending Stream that he was working, and was receiving a monthly wage, at 
this early part of the lending relationship, I think it was reasonable that it relied on the 
information that Mr B had declared  after all, it didnt have any information to suggest that 
Mr B wasnt working. 
Mr B also declared his monthly expenditure was no more than £425. Once Lending Stream 
had revised his expenditure using national averages, it recorded his expenditure as no more 
than £533. This is a slightly lower than the figures Lending Stream used for the first loan, but 
I dont think it is such a drastic change that it ought to have led it to verify Mr Bs expenditure 
further. 
Having considered the contractual monthly repayments Mr B was due to make for loans 2-4, 
along with the information Lending Stream gathered, I dont think it was unreasonable that 
Lending Stream deemed it fine to lend to Mr B. There was nothing in the information he 
provided which suggested he could not afford or sustain the repayments he was committing 
to make. 
Although the rapid uptake of lending, may have been a cause for concern - Mr B had taken 3 
loans within a matter of days the loans totalled £200, which was significantly less than the 
first loan he took. In that context, I dont think it needed to do more. 
Im sorry to hear that Mr B was struggling financially and repaying these loans has proved
difficult. And I accept that Mr Bs full financial circumstances may not have been reflected in
the information he provided. It might be that Mr Bs actual financial position may well
have been different if further information, such as bank statements, had been obtained.
But I dont think it had reached the point either in the lending relationship or based on what 
Lending Stream knew about Mr B, that meant it needed to further verify the information Mr B 
declared about his circumstances  such as checking his income and expenditure. However, I do think that Lending Stream would have needed to complete more 
comprehensive checks had Mr B opted to come back for further borrowing soon after taking 
out these loans. But I dont think Lending Stream were wrong to approve loans 1-4.
Loans 5-10
Lending Stream has already agreed to settle these loans in-line with our adjudicators 
recommendations. So, I have no reason to comment on this lending decision further. But for 
completeness Ive outlined what Lending Stream has agreed to do to put things right. 
Putting things right
When either a lender decides that something went wrong, or this service directs the lender to 
put things right. Our starting point is to put the consumer back into the position they wouldve 
been in had the error not been made. But that isnt always possible, especially in cases 
which involve unaffordable lending. 
This is because in these cases money has been lent, which has usually been spent, so its 
not always possible to just return the money. This means, our standard approach for putting 
things right, is to enable a consumer to have an interest free loan  so they shouldnt have to 
pay anything for the loans they were provided. 
In this case, Lending Stream agrees that loans 5  10 shouldnt have been granted. Mr B 
shouldnt therefore have to pay any interest, fees or changes for these loans, but we would 
expect whatever principal has been lent to be repaid. Which is what Lending Stream has 
agreed to do.  
If the debt has been sold to a third party, Lending Stream should, if it wishes, buy the debt
back and then carry out the redress below. If it isnt able to, or doesnt wish to buy the debt
back, then it needs to work with the third party to achieve the same results.
Remove all unpaid interest, fees and charges from the outstanding loan balance on 
loans 5-10.
Lending Stream should rework the loan so that Mr B only has to repay the principal
borrowed for loans 5-10. It should treat any repayments made by Mr B (and the third 
party if applicable) as if it went towards the principal balance.
If and when Mr B has repaid enough to repay the principal, then any overpayment
should be refunded to him. To this overpayment, 8% simple a year interest should
be added from the date of the overpayment came due to the date of settlement*;
However, if after doing the above, an outstanding principal balance remains, Lending
Stream should try and come to an affordable arrangement with Mr B to repay the
balance. But Id remind Lending Stream f its obligation to treat him fairly.
Lending Stream should remove any adverse information recorded on Mr Bs credit 
file about loans 5-10.
*HM Revenue & Customs requires you to deduct tax from this interest. Lending Stream 
should give Mr B a certificate showing how much tax is deducted, if he asks for one.
  My final decision
The offer that Lending Stream LLC has agreed to carry out to put things right for Mr B in 
relation to loans 5 - 10 is fair and reasonable, and it doesnt have to do anything more. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 25 May 2021.
 
Robert Walker
Ombudsman