DRN-4123124
The complaint
Mr and Mrs K complain about how China Taiping Insurance (UK) Co Ltd handled a 
subsidence claim they made on their home insurance policy.
Reference to China Taiping includes its agents.
What happened
Mr and Mrs K hold a home insurance policy with China Taiping. When their home suffered 
damage caused by subsidence in September 2018, they made a claim on their policy.
China Taiping accepted the claim and ultimately repaired the damage. But Mr and Mrs K 
complain about delays in settling the claim, and the costs associated with it. They also 
complain that China Taiping removed future cover for subsidence from the policy following 
the claim.
China Taiping didnt think had acted unfairly. So, Mr and Mrs K brought their complaint to us.
One of our investigators recommended it be upheld. She thought that while a claim of this 
nature was likely to cause distress and inconvenience, there were some delays that China 
Taiping could have avoided. For those, she recommended it pay Mr and Mrs K £400 
compensation. She didnt think China Taiping had acted unfairly in recording the cost of the 
claim. But she thought it should offer subsidence cover going forward.
Mr and Mrs K accepted our investigators findings, but China Taiping didnt and asked for an 
ombudsmans decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im upholding it. Ill explain why.
As this is an informal service Im not going to respond here to every point or piece of
evidence Mr and Mrs K and China Taiping provided. Instead Ive focused on those I consider 
to be key or central to the issue. But I would like to reassure both that I have considered 
everything provided.
The claim took a long time to be settled, but it wasnt a simple claim, and subsidence 
claims can take time to conclude. The coronavirus pandemic as well as planned 
holidays, added to the standard monitoring periods lengthening the claim. But I cant 
fairly hold China Taiping responsible for that.
That said, there were times where China Taiping could have been more proactive. I 
understand China Taiping feels differently, but between the period of July 2020 to 
June 2021 I think it could have done more on the claim. This may have reduced the 
time taken to complete, and therefore reduce the impact felt by Mr and Mrs K. For 
that, it should pay Mr and Mrs K £400 compensation.
Im satisfied China Taiping was entitled to record the actual costs of the claim, and 
whats more, I dont find those costs unreasonable in any case.
China Taiping should reinstate cover for subsidence. Regardless of whether its a 
member of the relevant ABI code, we think its good industry practice and therefore 
something China Taiping should do on a fair and reasonable basis to ensure its 
treating its customers fairly. China Taiping was the entity ultimately responsible for 
the rectification work for the subsidence claim, so theres no good reason for it not to 
carry on offering this cover.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I uphold this complaint. To put things right I require China 
Taiping Insurance (UK) Co Ltd to:
Pay Mr and Mrs K £400 compensation for the trouble and upset caused by delays
Reinstate cover for subsidence from the point it was removed
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr K and Mrs K to 
accept or reject my decision before 15 September 2023.
 
Joe Thornley
Ombudsman