DRN-3684770
The complaint
Ms M is unhappy that due to delays caused by Aviva Insurance Limited (Aviva), she was 
without heating and hot water for three weeks over the Christmas period.
What happened
Ms M had home emergency cover with Aviva. She reported a fault with her boiler and 
Avivas engineer investigated the problem. Aviva told Ms M that shed hear the next day 
whether the boiler could be repaired or whether it was beyond economical repair (BER).
She didnt hear anything, so Ms M called Aviva that evening. Aviva didnt have an answer for 
her. After explaining that she was without heating for her family, as a gesture of goodwill 
Aviva provided her with two heaters.
Over the weekend, Ms M got quotes for a boiler replacement in case Aviva said hers was 
BER. She was given an installation timeframe of a few days. 
Four days after the original appointment, Aviva confirmed that Ms Ms boiler was BER. Her 
policy provided for a replacement boiler, but she wouldve needed to pay the installation 
cost. 
The following day, Aviva surveyed the installation requirements by video call and confirmed 
that the work required scaffolding. As its scaffolding contractors had finished for Christmas, 
the earliest installation date would be after the holiday period.
Ms M was unhappy with the timeframe and the cost of installation, so she decided to use her 
own engineers. Ms Ms own engineer replaced the boiler three weeks after the fault started.
Ms M complained to Aviva. She said if it had told her the boiler was BER when it shouldve 
done, she couldve had a new boiler installed before Christmas. Instead her plans were 
spoiled, and she was without heating and hot water for three weeks over the festive period.
Aviva agreed that she hadnt had the best experience and offered her £250 by way of 
apology. Ms M didnt think it was enough.
Our investigator didnt uphold Ms Ms complaint. She said that Ms M couldnt get the boiler 
replaced privately until after the Christmas period, so she didnt think Aviva had caused a 
significant avoidable delay. Our investigator thought its offer of £250 for the delay in 
confirming the boiler was BER was enough.
Ms M didnt agree. She pointed out that if Aviva had told her the boiler was BER when it 
shouldve done, shed already found a private engineer who wouldve installed a new boiler 
for her just five days later. That wouldve meant her plans wouldnt have been spoiled and 
she wouldve had heating and hot water back within a week.
I issued a provisional decision in August 2022 explaining that I was intending to not uphold 
Ms Ms complaint. Heres what I said:
provisional findings
Ive provisionally decided not to uphold Ms Ms complaint. While this is no different to our 
investigators recommendation, Ive reached this decision for slightly different reasons and in 
consideration of Ms Ms further comments. Ill explain.
Theres no dispute that Aviva failed to contact Ms M when it shouldve done to tell her the 
boiler was BER. So, my role is to decide whether Aviva has done enough to put matters 
right.
The overriding issue is that Ms M thinks Avivas delays caused her to be without heating and 
hot water for three weeks. Although it offered compensation, she didnt think it was enough 
to recognise the distress and inconvenience caused, especially as it was over the Christmas 
period.
Aviva shouldve told Ms M that her boiler was BER on 17 December. It didnt tell her until 20 
December. The engineer had concluded the boiler was BER within the promised timeframe, 
so the delay of three days was avoidable. That was a shortfall in service. I should note here 
that Aviva went a little way to make up for the delays by providing two heaters for Ms M to 
use. That wasnt something available to her under her policy, so I accept it was a gesture of 
goodwill.
Ms M said she couldve had a new boiler installed privately on 22 December if shed been 
told sooner that hers was BER. I have no reason to doubt that, so I understand why she said 
the delay did cause her to be without heating and hot water longer than necessary. The 
availability of a private appointment was sooner than the one Aviva offered.
This is where my provisional decision differs from our investigators opinion. I agree with Ms 
Ms argument here, to a point. If Aviva hadnt delayed reporting that her boiler couldnt be 
fixed, she couldve made the private appointment for 22 December. However, I cant 
reasonably say that means Aviva was responsible for what ended up being three weeks 
delay. 
Aviva couldnt offer an appointment sooner due to lack of availability of scaffolding 
contractors. Its assessment concluded scaffolding was needed and I have no reason to 
doubt that.
Ms M said her private engineer installed the boiler without scaffolding. While that may be the 
case, it wouldnt be fair to say Aviva shouldve gone ahead without scaffolding if thats what it 
concluded was necessary for its engineers safety. 
What Im saying here is that the difference in availability for a private engineer and Avivas 
engineers was due to different requirements to complete the work. So, Aviva may have been 
able to provide an engineer and a new boiler within the same timescale as the private 
engineer or even sooner, but without the scaffolding it couldnt carry out the work. 
The time of year was of significance for Ms M and for the same reason, the scaffolding 
contractors werent available. I cant fairly hold Aviva responsible for that.
Ms M said a private engineer couldve installed a new boiler just a few days later. Yet, after 
just three days delay hearing back from Aviva, the private engineer couldnt instal the boiler 
until two weeks later. Its not clear why, but it may well be that the festive break affected 
availability there too. 
I think its worth pointing out, though, that Ms M didnt make a private appointment as soon 
as shed heard from Aviva. She had a video call with Aviva the following day to assess the requirements for a new boiler installation. So, she was prepared to wait for Avivas quote 
before going ahead with a private installation.
Confirmation that the boiler was BER would always have been followed by an assessment 
and quote for the installation cost. And theres no guarantee that wouldve happened any 
sooner than it did.
I realise Ms M will have been distressed and inconvenienced over what shouldve been an 
enjoyable holiday with her family. But I cant fairly hold Aviva responsible for the lack of 
engineers available due to the public holiday. 
Aviva offered Ms M £250 compensation which is to apologise for the three-day delay telling 
her the boiler was BER. Thats in addition to providing two heaters as a gesture of goodwill. 
Im satisfied that reasonably addresses its shortfalls identified here, so I dont propose to ask 
Aviva to do any more.
I asked both parties to send me any further comments and information they might want me 
to consider before I reached a final decision.
Aviva had nothing further to add, and Ms M didnt reply.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive looked again at the evidence but as neither party has made any further submissions or 
provided further evidence for me to consider, I see no reason to change my provisional 
findings.
So, my final decision is the same as my provisional decision and for the same reasons.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained above, and in my provisional decision, I dont uphold Ms Ms 
complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms M to accept or 
reject my decision before 3 October 2022.
 
Debra Vaughan
Ombudsman