DRN-4384016
The complaint
A limited company, that I will refer to as C, complains about the decision of Markel 
International Insurance Company Limited to decline its legal expenses insurance claim. 
What happened
The following is intended only as a brief summary of events. C operates as a childcare 
business and held a commercial insurance policy, underwritten as far is relevant by Markel. 
The policy provided cover for a number of areas of risk, including legal expenses. 
In late 2022, C submitted a tender to its local council in relation to early learning and 
childcare. This tender was not successful, and C had until 22 December 2022 to bring court 
proceedings to appeal the councils decision. On 13 December 2022, C contacted Markel to 
make a contract dispute claim under its policy to cover the costs of making this appeal. 
On 9 January 2023, Markel declined the claim. It said that the appeal process was by judicial 
review, and that the policy did not cover a claim where the issue related to a dispute before a 
contract had been entered. C complained about this decision and the delay in it being made. 
C said that the appeal did not involve a judicial review, and that it was already in contract 
with the council  that the tender related to a renewal of this contract.
Markel explained that the decision had taken longer than it would have hoped for, and 
apologised. It also said that C should provide a copy of the contract its dispute related to.
C was not satisfied with this and brought a complaint about the situation to the Financial 
Ombudsman Service. However, our Investigator did not recommend it be upheld. He didnt 
think that an application for funding could be a good or service. He also thought that Markels 
apology was sufficient for the inconvenience caused by any delays in the claim handling. 
C responded, saying that the dispute related to a contract for the provision of childcare 
services, and that this was a good or service. It also said that it was under contract with the 
council, and so a contract did exist. C also said that it suffered a great deal of inconvenience 
having to chase up Markel, and felt that monetary compensation was appropriate in the 
circumstances. 
Our Investigator then said that even if the dispute related to the provision of a service, the 
dispute was not about the existing contract C had with the council. The dispute was instead 
around the application for a contract.
C remained unsatisfied. It said the dispute related to the potential loss of the continuation of 
a long standing contract. And that nowhere in the wording does it say whether a contractual 
dispute must relate to an existing or future contract, or a continuation or renewal of that 
contract.
As our Investigator has been unable to resolve this complaint. It has been passed to me for 
a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I am not upholding this complaint. Ill explain why.
The relevant part of Cs policy says:
We agree to pay Costs in a dispute with a Contracting Party over a contract for the 
sale, hire or supply of goods and services
There are a number of further requirements that would have to be met for a claim under this 
cover to be successful. But the starting point is that a claimant must demonstrate that there 
is a dispute over a contract for (in this case) services between the claimant and the 
contracting party.
C did have a contract with the council. However, the dispute it wished to claim about did not 
arise directly from this contract. The existing contract related to the provision of childcare up 
to a certain point in time. There was not, for example, a dispute about the funding or service 
provided in relation to this contract.
The dispute related to a potential contract that had not been entered. This potential contract 
related to the provision of childcare after a certain point in time. At the time of the dispute, no 
contract existed in relation to providing childcare after this point in time. As this contract had 
not been entered (at least between C and the council) at the time of the claim, I consider C 
was unable to demonstrate that there was a dispute over a contract. 
I appreciate that C considers the tender it submitted, to which its claim relates, to be for the 
renewal of the existing contract. But I consider that this would be a new contract for the 
provision of childcare services. And as the dispute relates to this, potential, new contract  
which was not at the time in existence  I do not consider it to fall within the clause above. It 
follows that I consider Markel to have acted fairly and reasonably when declining Cs claim. 
C has also complained about the delays and communication issues it experienced. I do note 
that C expressed the urgency of the situation to Markel. And that C felt it necessary to chase 
Markel on a number of occasions. 
Markel has acknowledged that it took longer to provide C with a claim response that it would 
have hoped for. However, whilst I appreciate C needed a quick answer  and that this 
actually took just over four weeks  it often isnt possible for an insurer to review a matter 
and confirm cover immediately. Ultimately, C needed an answer to its claim within nine days 
of contacting Markel. And I dont think this is something I would expect Markel to have been 
able to provide. So, whilst I agree the claim decision did take a while, I dont think this would 
have greatly changed the situation. 
And making insurance claims is unfortunately often time consuming and inconvenient. Whilst 
I note that Markel could have been more proactive in contacting C  which led to C having to 
chase  I have not seen level of material inconvenience that I consider warrants monetary 
compensation in this case. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask C to accept or reject my decision before 20 December 2023.
 
Sam Thomas
Ombudsman