DRN-2822936
The complaint
Ms D complains about what happened when she wasnt able to answer security questions 
for her credit card account with Clydesdale Bank Plc trading as Virgin Money (Virgin).
What happened
Ms D had a transaction declined on her Virgin card. She contacted Virgin, and it said she 
failed security, although Ms D said she was asked her date of birth, her mothers maiden 
name and her card number, all of which were things she felt she couldnt have got wrong. 
Virgin asked Ms D to send it documents proving her identity. Ms D has explained why this is 
difficult for her. Shed guessed how much she owed, and had paid off most of the balance of 
the card. She said she just wanted to clear the rest of the account and close it. Our service 
got the outstanding balance for Ms D, she paid it, and the account was closed. 
Ms D asked for a refund of interest she was charged, of 34p, which accrued while she 
couldnt determine her balance. Virgin paid that back. 
A few months later, in February 2021, Ms D said shed been sent notification of a statement. 
Virgin said £400 had been paid back to her card, and it paid this money back to Ms D. 
Then another credit was paid into Ms Ds old card account, this time for £35.53. Virgin said it 
couldnt keep sending credits out of the account like this, as this was a security risk. So it 
asked Ms D again to send in some ID. But this time Virgin said it would accept photographs 
of her ID if this could be sent from the email address that it had on file for Ms D.
Ms D wouldnt do that. She said she didnt think it would help anyway, because Virgin 
mustnt have correct information about her, if it had refused to let her through security when 
she gave her date of birth and mothers maiden name. She said Virgin had sent a credit to 
her before, and it should do it again. But Virgin wouldnt. So Ms Ds complaint was then 
reopened by our investigator.
Our investigator didnt think this complaint should be upheld. He said that hed listened to the 
calls Ms D had where she failed security. On the first call, it was clear the answers given 
didnt match the information Virgin held. System notes show the security questions asked 
werent in relation to Ms Ds date of birth or mothers maiden name. Ms D rang again, and 
our investigator said she also failed security on that call, again not for the reasons Ms D had 
given us.
Our investigator said it wasnt unreasonable for Virgin to ask Ms D to provide documentation 
to verify who she was, after she had failed the security questions several times. And our 
investigator said it was reasonable now for Virgin to ask for photographs of documentation,
provided it could be sent in using the email address Virgin already holds. So our investigator 
thought that Virgin didnt have to release the outstanding credit on Ms Ds account without 
Ms D doing that. 
Ms D wanted her complaint to be considered by an ombudsman, so it was passed to me for 
a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I dont think that Virgin made a mistake by asking Ms D to clear security before it would 
speak to her about her account. Thats a reasonable approach for it to take. 
I have also listened to the calls that Ms D had with Virgin, and seen the relevant notes from 
those calls. Its clear from the calls and the notes that the answers that Virgin wouldnt 
accept werent solely in reference to Ms Ds date of birth, her mothers maiden name and her 
card number. I cant hear exactly what was asked each time (Virgin has redacted the 
questions and Ms Ds answers, when they are given, to protect her security). But I can hear 
that Ms D says there are questions she isnt able to answer. So I dont think that its likely 
that it was Virgins fault that Ms D failed security, or that this happened because Virgin has 
wrongly recorded Ms Ds details. 
Virgin asked Ms D to send either original ID documents, or certified copies. Ms D has 
explained why she doesnt want to do this. I have taken account of what she has said, but I 
still think it was reasonable for Virgin to ask Ms D to take further steps to prove her identity. 
When this complaint came to us, it seemed as if it would be resolved by the closure of Ms 
Ds account. But then Virgin said it wouldnt release a second credit which was paid into Ms 
Ds account without being sure of her identity. Its suggested a different way Ms D can prove 
her identity. Ms D doesnt want to do this, and she says that because Virgin has sent her a 
credit before, and also sent her a refund of interest, it can just do the same thing again.
I note that Ms D isnt using the same bank account that she was using when her Virgin credit 
card account was open. And Virgin says shes also using a different email address now to 
the one it held for her. So Virgin remains concerned about security, if its repeatedly 
releasing money to Ms D. I think thats a reasonable concern for Virgin to have, in the 
circumstances of this case. Virgin has twice paid money owed to Ms D into her new account. 
I dont think it has to keep doing this, just because its done so before. 
I think its reasonable for Virgin to ask now for further ID, and I think the options it has offered 
to Ms D do provide a fair and reasonable way forward, allowing it to resolve its security 
issues whilst taking account of the concerns shes raised. And so, although I know Ms D will 
be disappointed, I dont think this complaint should be upheld.My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms D to accept or 
reject my decision before 5 July 2021. 
Esther Absalom-Gough
Ombudsman