DRN-3773675
The complaint
Mr R and Ms S complain that Monzo Bank Ltd (Monzo) wont refund the money they lost to a 
scam.
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them all again 
here. But briefly: in 2021, Mr R and Ms S hired a builder to complete some work for them. 
Ms S made the following payments from their joint Monzo current account: 
Date Amount
22/07/2021 £3,000
22/08/2021 £6,500
25/08/2021 £3,000
26/08/2021 £2,250
27/08/2021 £5,000
01/09/2021 £5,000
04/09/2021 £5,000
06/09/2021 £10,000
07/09/2021 £4,000
07/09/2021 £6,000
08/09/2021 £9,000
13/09/2021 £7,500
01/10/2021 £4,000
Total £70,250
The builder completed some initial work such as stripping the floorboards. But he didnt 
complete the vast majority of the work Mr R and Ms S had paid him for. They also had to get 
work redone, such as laying the floorboards, due to its poor standard. 
Mr R and Ms S say they found out the builder was using an alias and had prior fraud 
convictions. They reported their concerns to the police, as well as Monzo and trading 
standards. The builder has since been arrested and charged with several counts of fraud 
and money laundering. 
Monzo wouldnt refund Mr R and Ms S. It said the matter was a civil dispute between them 
and the builder. But when our investigator looked into this complaint, she thought they had 
been the victim of fraud  and that Monzo should refund them in line with the 
provisions of the Lending Standards Board Contingent Reimbursement Model (the CRM 
code/the code), which it has agreed to follow. 
Monzo didnt agree with the investigator, so the case has been passed to me to decide. 
 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided to uphold this complaint. Ill explain why.
Ms S authorised these faster payments. But the starting position under the CRM code  
which Monzo has agreed to follow  is that firms should reimburse customers who fall victim 
to authorised push payment (APP) scams. 
Monzo argues that Mr R and Ms S werent the victim of an APP scam, and that this is simply 
a civil dispute between them and the builder they hired. The code doesnt apply to such 
disputes, where a customer has paid a legitimate supplier for services but hasnt received 
them; they are defective in some way; or the customer is otherwise dissatisfied with them. 
In line with the CRM code, the key here is whether Ms S paid the builder for what she 
believed were legitimate purposes  but which were in fact fraudulent. 
Ms S had researched the builder and found positive reviews online, so believed he was 
legitimate. Their messages (which shes shared with us and Monzo) show she was paying 
him for the work they had agreed he would complete. But Im persuaded the builder wasnt 
operating legitimately and instead set out to defraud her and Mr R. 
Ms S and Mr R have provided records from the police showing the builder has been charged 
with numerous counts of fraud, following receipt of a large number of complaints similar to 
theirs  suggesting this was part of a wider rogue builder scam he was operating.
Ms S and Mr R have provided evidence to the police to support the criminal case against the 
builder. The police seem to accept that they were the victims of fraud by him. I consider it 
reasonable to rely on that. 
The messages show the builder told Ms S to pay him for various orders he was placing with 
suppliers. But shes been in touch with several of those suppliers  and they have replied to 
confirm the builder never placed the orders (or got in touch at all). That supports the case 
that the builder was taking their money under false pretences.
I appreciate the very early stages of the works were started (such stripping the floors). In the 
wider circumstances, Im persuaded that was part of the scam. It helped convince Ms S and 
Mr R to pay him more money, for work I dont think he intended to complete. The 
photographs theyve provided show he left their house in disrepair. They had to get the 
minor work he did (such as starting to relay the floors) redone due to its poor standard. 
Overall, Im persuaded this was a scam, not a civil dispute. So the CRM code applies  
meaning the starting position is that Monzo should refund Mr R and Ms S. 
There are some exceptions under the code, where a firm may not be expected to fully 
reimburse a customer who hasnt met the standards expected of them. But Monzo hasnt 
argued that any such exceptions apply here.
And, in the interest of completeness, Im satisfied it wouldnt be fair to apply an exception 
relating to the actions Mr R and Ms S took. As Monzo has acknowledged, they had little 
reason to doubt the legitimacy of the builder at the time. It didnt become apparent that the 
work wouldnt completed until later on.Nor can I see they were shown an effective warning by Monzo, when making these 
payments, which ought to have alerted them that this was a scam. In all the circumstances, 
Ive therefore decided that Monzo ought to have refunded Mr R and Mr S when they raised 
their fraud claim.
Putting things right
For the reasons given above, Ive decided that Mr R and Ms S should be fully reimbursed. I 
therefore direct Monzo Bank to refund them the money they lost to the scam  which I 
understand to be £70,250. It should pay 8% simple interest per year (less any tax properly 
deductible) on this amount, from the date it declined to refund Mr R and Ms S to the date of 
settlement. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint and direct Monzo Bank Ltd to put things right 
in line with what Ive set out above. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr R and Ms S to 
accept or reject my decision before 30 April 2023.
 
Rachel Loughlin
Ombudsman