DRN-3594373
The complaint
A company that Ill refer to as D has complained that The National Farmers' Union Mutual 
Insurance Society Limited (NFUM) unfairly declined its business interruption insurance 
claim. 
Mr D, a director of D, has complained on Ds behalf. 
What happened
D held a commercial insurance policy with NFUM which included cover for business 
interruption. D claimed on its policy after its business was impacted by Covid-19 and the 
Governments response to the pandemic. 
NFUM turned down Ds claim as it said the policy didnt provide cover in the circumstances. 
Unhappy with NFUMs response, D brought its complaint to us. It didnt think NFUMs 
reliance on the policy terms to decline the claim was acceptable or in good faith. It said the 
policy provided a narrow list of diseases which were covered, most of which were unlikely to 
occur. It also said the policy included exclusions which were absurd, narrow, defied common 
sense and didnt provide any business interruption insurance cover. 
Our investigator looked into Ds complaint but didnt recommend it be upheld as she thought 
NFUM had acted fairly and reasonably in finding that the policy didnt provide cover. 
D asked for an ombudsmans decision.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im sorry to hear that the pandemic and the Governments related actions have had an
impact on Ds business. However, I wont be upholding its complaint. Ill explain why.
D has made a number of detailed points. While Id like to assure D that I have considered all 
its points Im not going to address them all in this decision and will focus on what I consider 
to be the central issues. 
Business interruption insurance offers protection from risks common to a business, but
different policies can provide different types of cover. What is and isnt covered is set out in
the policy terms and conditions. Ive therefore looked carefully at this particular policy to see
if NFUM have acted fairly, reasonably and in line with the terms and conditions of the policy
when declining Ds claim. Ive addressed the parts which appear most relevant. 
Damage
The core business interruption cover provided by the policy says:
WE will pay for the loss of INCOME occurring during the INDEMNITY PERIOD 
arising from DAMAGE to PROPERTY used by YOU at the PREMISES arising 
from an INSURED PERIL during the PERIOD OF INSURANCE.
The policy defines damage as Accidental physical loss, destruction or damage.
For this to provide cover, Ds loss of income would need to be due to accidental 
physical loss, destruction or damage to property used by D at its premises. I havent 
seen anything to indicate that Ds loss of income was due to accidental physical loss, 
destruction or damage to property at its premises. Therefore, there isnt cover under 
this part of the policy for its claim. 
Human Diseases
Cover is extended through various extensions. This extension says:
WE will pay for loss of INCOME caused by the occurrence of any of the following 
diseases at the PREMISES which results in closure or restriction in use of the 
PREMISES on the order or advice of a competent authority:
The extension includes a list of covered diseases. The list doesnt include Covid-19. 
Given Covid-19 might not have been in existence at the time the policy was drafted, I 
wouldnt expect it to be included in the list of diseases. But there were similar policies 
on the market that provided cover in the circumstances of the pandemic, for example 
policies which covered all notifiable diseases as set out and updated on a Government-
defined list. Ds policy is not like this  it sets out a defined list of the diseases which 
are covered. And there is nothing in the wording of the policy which implies it would 
provide cover for any new diseases which might emerge. 
While I appreciate that the likelihood of some of these diseases occurring may be low, I 
think NFUM specifically chose the risks they were willing to cover. So, I dont think the 
policy can fairly be read as covering all and any new diseases and therefore this 
doesnt provide cover for Ds claim.
Public emergency
This extension says:
WE will pay for loss of INCOME arising from the actions or advice of a 
competent Public Authority, due to an emergency likely to endanger life or 
property occurring within the vicinity of the PREMISES, which prevents or hinders 
the use of or access to the PREMISES for a period greater than four consecutive 
hours.
WE will not pay for any loss resulting from infectious or contagious disease or the 
suspected or actual presence of an incendiary or explosive device.
In reaching a decision, one of the things Im required to take into account, is the relevant law.
I think the High Court judgment in the Financial Conduct Authority Business Interruption 
Insurance test case is relevant to Ds complaint, because the High Court considered a similar term to that within Ds policy and this part of the judgment wasnt appealed to the 
Supreme Court.
Paragraph 376 of the judgment says:
The order or advice contained in the 20 and 23 March government advice and in
the 21 and 26 March Regulations was the order or advice of the competent local
authority, and was as a result of an occurrence (in fact many occurrences) of an
infectious disease. Accordingly, the carve-out applies and there is no cover under
either [this type of] wording in respect of the closure of or restriction in the use of
the premises.
I see no reason to depart from the position reached by the High Court. I think Ds loss of 
income was as a result of Covid-19, which the World Health Organisations website 
describes as an infectious disease. I appreciate D thinks the exclusion is unreasonable, but 
I think it clearly sets out that NFUM doesnt cover losses as a result of an infectious or 
contagious disease, which it is entitled to decide. Therefore, I think NFUM have acted fairly 
and reasonably in finding this doesnt cover the circumstances of Ds claim. 
I recognise this isnt the answer D was hoping for but, having considered the matter very 
carefully, I dont think I can fairly require NFUM to pay Ds claim. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask D to accept or 
reject my decision before 20 September 2022.
 
Sarann Taylor
Ombudsman