DRN-2808215
The complaint
Ms D has complained that Stagemount Limited (trading as Quid Market) gave her
unaffordable loans.
What happened
Our adjudicator partially upheld Ms Ds complaint. Quid Market disagreed with the 
adjudicators opinion. The complaint was then passed to me. 
I issued my provisional decision explaining the reasons why I was upholding Ms Ds 
complaint in part. A copy of the background to the complaint and my provisional findings 
follow this and form part of this final decision. Both parties were asked to submit any new 
comments or evidence they had by 7 May 2021. 
What I said in my provisional decision:
Ms D took 16 loans from Quid Market between August 2011 and June 2013. A summary of
her borrowing, based on the information provided to by Quid Market can be found below:
Loan Date Taken Date Repaid Amount Borrowed
1 04/08/2011 15/08/2011 £100
2 22/08/2011 16/09/2011 £150
3 22/09/2011 04/01/2012 £175
4 09/05/2012 15/05/2012 £150
5 18/05/2012 14/07/2012 £150
6 22/07/2012 15/08/2012 £150
7 29/08/2012 17/09/2012 £150
8 19/09/2012 15/07/2013 £225
9 17/10/2012 15/11/2012 £200
10 19/11/2012 14/12/2012 £225
11 18/12/2012 15/01/2013 £275
12 23/01/2013 15/02/2013 £225
13 22/02/2013 15/03/2013 £225
14 16/03/2013 17/06/2013 £225
15 28/05/2013 15/07/2013 £175
16 24/06/2013 18/10/2013 £150
In its final response letter, Quid Market offered to refund all the interest and charges that
Ms D paid on her final eight loans. Quid Market also offered to remove any negative
information recorded about these loans from Ms Ds credit file.
Ms D declined Quid Markets offer and asked our service to investigate her complaint.
One of our adjudicators looked at Ms Ds complaint. He didnt think Quid Market were wrong
to approve Ms Ds first three loans based on the information it gathered about her financial
circumstances at the time.
But when Ms D applied for loan 4, our adjudicator thought that Quid Market ought to have
been aware that she was having difficulties repaying her loans. By this point, Ms D had
rolled over her previous loan (loan 3) on three occasions. So, the adjudicator thought it was
unlikely Ms D wouldve been able to sustainably repay loans 4 and 5.
And by loan 6, the adjudicator thought Quid Market ought to have realised that Ms Ds
pattern of lending was showing signs that these loans had become unsustainable for her.
So, the adjudicator didnt think Quid Market shouldve approved any of the later loans.
Ms D agreed with our adjudicators opinion and outcome.
Quid Market disagreed saying the adjudicator had departed from our approach when
considering cases and Quid Market sign posted us to two examples of cases that are
published on our website. It also said that the offer it had made in the final response letter
was in line with our approach.
As no agreement could be reached the complaint has been passed to me for a decision.
What Ive provisionally decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive also taken into account the law, any relevant regulatory rules and good industry practice
at the time the loan was provided.
Quid Market needed to take reasonable steps to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In
practice this means that it should have carried out proportionate checks to make sure
Ms D could repay the loans in a sustainable manner. These checks could take into account
a number of different things, such as how much was being lent, the repayment amounts, and
the consumers income and expenditure. With this in mind, in the early stages of a lending
relationship, I think less thorough checks might be reasonable and proportionate.
But certain factors might point to the fact that Quid Market should fairly and reasonably have
done more to establish that any lending was sustainable for the consumer. These factors
include:
the lower a consumers income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make
any loan repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income);
the higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income);
the greater the number and frequency of loans, and the longer the period of time
during which a customer has been given loans (reflecting the risk that repeated
refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become or was becoming
unsustainable).
There may even come a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable.
I think that it is important for me to start by saying that Quid Market was required to establishwhether Ms D could sustainably repay her loans  not just whether the loan payments were
affordable on a strict pounds and pence calculation.
Of course, the loan payments being affordable on this basis might be an indication a
consumer could sustainably make their repayments. But it doesnt automatically follow this is
the case. This is because the relevant regulations define sustainable as being without undue
difficulties and in particular the customer should be able to make repayments on time, while
meeting other reasonable commitments; as well as without having to borrow to meet
the repayments. And it follows that a lender should realise, or it ought fairly and reasonably
to realise, that a borrower wont be able to make their repayments sustainably if theyre
unlikely to be able to do so without borrowing further.
Ive carefully considered all of the arguments, evidence and information provided in this
context and what this all means for Ms Ds complaint.
Loans 1-3
The adjudicator didnt think it was wrong of Quid Market to have provided Ms Ds first three
loans. Both Quid Market and Ms D appear to have accepted our adjudicators findings about
these loans.
So, I wont comment further on these loans, because there is no any ongoing disagreement
about them. But as these loans form part of the borrowing relationship Ms D had with Quid
Market, they are something I have taken into account when considering the later loans she
borrowed.
Loans 4 and 5
Ms D applied for her fourth loan around four months after repaying loan 3. Ms D had
requested to rollover loan 3, by just paying the interest due, on three occasions. This
suggested she was not in a position to repay her contractual repayment in full. And this, the
adjudicator said, was a reason why these loans should be upheld. I dont agree with this
assessment. But I do think Quid Market needed to carry out further checks.
It appears that Quid Market completed the same level of checks as it had done for Ms Ds
previous three loans. It completed a credit check and asked Ms D to declare her monthly
income and expenditure. Ms D declared that her monthly income and expenditure had not
changed - her monthly income was £1,300 and that she did not have any expenditure. So as
before, Ms D had a declared monthly disposable income of £1,300.
However, this was now Ms Ds fourth loan in just over nine months and Ms D had shown
signs that she was unable to repay her previous loan (loan 3) without difficulties. The
adjudicator said was enough to show that she couldnt repay the loans sustainably, But, I
dont think this on its own was enough. Loan four was slightly smaller and there was a small
gap between loans, so while there may have been problems, Ms D didnt return for a new
loan straightaway and when she did it was for a smaller amount.
Again, Ms D declared she had no monthly outgoings, but I find it unlikely that she didnt have
any outgoings at all  this just doesnt seem plausible. So, I think Quid Market needed to
take further steps then relaying on what Ms D told it.
Whilst Ms D had not needed to borrow from Quid Market for four months before she
requested her fourth loan, I think Quid Market ought to have now been verifying Ms Ds
circumstances to understand more about this and why she needed to continue taking out
further loans. I dont think it was enough for Quid Market to have relied on what Ms D wastelling it anymore. Quid Market could have verified Ms Ds circumstances by asking for her
bank statements. But I cant see that the lender did this.
In these circumstances, I would look at what proportionate checks would have looked like
had these checks been completed by the lender at the time of the loan applications. But
Ms D has been unable to provide us with her bank statements or a copy of her credit file.
So, I am unable to conclude that loans four and five were unaffordable at the time of Ms Ds
loan application. So, I am not upholding Ms Ds complaint about loans four and five.
Loans 6-16
I havent recreated individual, proportionate affordability checks for loans 6-16 because I
dont consider it necessary to do so. Indeed, Id still be inclined (for the same reasons Ive
outlined above) to think that from loan 6, Quid Markets checks really needed to go further
than just relying on the information Ms D told it.
By this point in the lending relationship, I think Quid Market ought to have been trying to
verify Ms Ds income and overall expenditure in order to have an accurate understanding of
her actual financial position.
So, in addition to assessing the circumstances behind each individual loan provided to
Ms D, Quid Market also needed to consider the overall pattern of lending and what unfolded
during the course of its lending relationship with Ms D.
Quid Market upheld Ms Ds complaint from loan 9 onwards. It has referred to two case
studies which can be found on our services website, and it says it used these case studies
show that the outcome it reached was correct.
But these case studies are there to provide examples to illustrate the reasoning behind the
decisions we reach. But each case is considered on its own merits and based on the
individual circumstances of each case. So even if the reasoning underpinning the decision
reached is similar it does not follow that the outcome will be the same due to the consumers
individual circumstances being different.
I think Quid Market was wrong to have provided loans 6-16 because Ms D wasnt in a
position to sustainably repay them for the following reasons:
By loan 6, Ms D had been indebted to Quid Market for just under a year. She had
taken six loans within this period and had rolled over her loan repayments for three
months. So Quid Market ought to have realised it was more likely than not Ms D was
having to borrow further to cover the hole repaying her previous borrowing was
leaving in her finances.
Ms D was taking out a new loan normally within a week after repaying one. So, Ms D
wasnt making any real improvements to the amount she owed Quid Market. She
went on to borrow a further 10 loans after loan 6 exhibiting the same pattern of
borrowing as her earlier loans.
The amount that Ms D borrowed for loan 6 of £150 had increased compared to her
first loan of £100. Over the remainder of the borrowing relationship, Ms D continued
to borrow at least £150.At the time of Ms Ds sixth loan application, she continued to declare that she had no
monthly expenditure, and that her disposable income was around £1,300. It appears
that Quid Market continued to rely on the information that Ms D told it, although she
kept coming back for further loans for roughly the same amount. So, I dont think
Quid Market did enough to check that loan 6 and onwards were affordable and
sustainable for her.
I think that Ms D lost out because Quid Market continued to provide borrowing from loan 6
onwards because:
these loans had the effect of unfairly prolonging Ms Ds indebtedness by allowing
her to take credit over an extended period of time.
the length of time coupled with the number of loans which Ms D borrowed was likely
to have had negative implications on Ms Ds ability to access mainstream credit and
so kept her in the market for these loans.
So overall, I think Quid Market were wrong to approve loans 6-16.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In response to the provisional decision Ms D told us she accepted the conclusions I had 
reached. However, no response has been received from Quid Market.
Given Ms D has accepted the findings of the provisional decision and Quid Market didnt 
respond. I see no reason to depart from the findings that I previously reached. So, I still think 
Quid Market shouldnt have lent loans 6  16 for the reasons Ive outlined in the provisional 
decision. 
Putting things right
In deciding what redress Quid Market should fairly pay in this case Ive thought about what 
might have happened had it stopped lending to Ms D from loan six, as Im satisfied it ought 
to have. Clearly there are a great many possible, and all hypothetical, answers to that 
question. 
For example, having been declined this lending Ms D may have simply left matters there, not 
attempting to obtain the funds from elsewhere  particularly as a relationship existed 
between them and this particular lender which they may not have had with others. If this 
wasnt a viable option, they may have looked to borrow the funds from a friend or relative  
assuming that was even possible.
Or, they may have decided to approach a third-party lender with the same application, or 
indeed a different application (i.e. for more or less borrowing). But even if they had done 
that, the information that would have been available to such a lender and how they would (or 
ought to have) treated an application which may or may not have been the same is 
impossible to now accurately reconstruct. From what Ive seen in this case, I certainly dont 
think I can fairly conclude there was a real and substantial chance that a new lender would 
have been able to lend to Ms D in a compliant way at this time.Having thought about all of these possibilities, Im not persuaded it would be fair or 
reasonable to conclude that Ms D would more likely than not have taken up any one of these 
options. So it wouldnt be fair to now reduce Quid Markets liability in this case for what Im 
satisfied it has done wrong and should put right.
I think Quid Market were wrong to approve loans 6-16. So, Quid Market should do the 
following to put things right:
Refund all interest, fees and charges paid on loans 6-16
Calculate 8% simple interest* on the individual payments made by Ms D from the
date Ms D originally made her payment, to the date the complaint is settled.
The overall pattern of Ms Ds borrowing for loans 6 - 16 means any information
recorded about them is adverse, so Quid Market should remove these loans entirely
from Ms Ds credit file.
*HM Revenue & Customs requires you to deduct tax from this interest. Quid Market should
give Ms D a certificate showing how much tax is deducted, if she asks for one.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained above and the reasons in my provisional decision, Im 
upholding Ms Ds complaint in part.
Stagemount Limited (trading as Quid Market) should put things right for Ms D as set out 
above. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms D to accept or 
reject my decision before 8 June 2021.
 
Robert Walker
Ombudsman