DRN-2739377
The complaint
Mr G complains that Bank of Scotland plc trading as Halifax wont refund a cash withdrawal 
he didnt receive.
What happened
Mr G says he tried to withdraw £340 from his account on 26 March 2020 from a cash 
machine but he didnt receive the money. He says that there had been problems with his 
card including with a similar cash withdrawal on 20 March 2020. That time Halifax had 
refunded him the £200 he says he didnt receive.
Halifax said it wouldnt be refunding this money. It had contacted the owner of the cash 
machine about the £340 withdrawal. And it had received evidence that the money had been 
correctly dispensed, that the machine was working and that it had balanced. It paid Mr G 
£150 for not sending a replacement card after this payment to the updated address.
Our investigator didnt recommend that the complaint be upheld. He said that we were 
looking at a disputed withdrawal made at a different machine to the one Mr G had used 
when hed received a refund before. And if there was an issue with the withdrawal this would 
be a problem with the cash machine and not his card. Thats because his card had been 
read and the PIN entered. So, what Mr G said about problems with payments using his card 
didnt have relevance to this withdrawal. The evidence from the owner of the machine did 
show that the notes - 15 £20 notes and 4 £10 notes - were correctly dispensed and taken. 
And the machine had balanced and was working correctly. Mr G said he had waited there for 
a while and had seen other people using it without incident. Our investigator thought it most 
likely that the notes were dispensed correctly.
Mr G didnt agree and wanted his complaint to be reviewed. He said there was a problem 
with his card, Halifax had admitted liability with the £200 payment, and he didnt receive this 
money. He had contacted police about this cash machine to see if there was a problem but 
had not heard back.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive reviewed the information Halifax has sent this service about the actual and attempted 
payments Mr G made from his account in the period 20 March 2020 to 26 March 2020. I can 
see that he did try a number of times to take £200 out on 20 March 2020. Whilst that 
withdrawal was approved Halifax had agreed he didnt get the money and so refunded him 
on 23 March 2020. I can see that on 23 March 2020 he used a different cash machine to 
take that refunded amount out without any reported problems.
As he rightly says card payments to a coffee shop and to a sports shop didnt go through 
and were declined. So thats why he says there was a problem with his card.
Ive listened to recordings of calls Mr G had with Halifax on 29 April 2020 and 25 June 2020. 
In the first he reported his card as being lost. He was told the account balance of £0.66 and 
he said that thered been no fraud on the account as he knew the amount available. He did 
not raise the issue then with the £340 withdrawal. He explained in the subsequent call that 
hed written to Halifax to complain but hadnt had any response. I havent seen copies of any 
letters about this or that any action was taken. The issue about the £340 was raised in this 
call and Halifax then investigated this.
The evidence about this withdrawal provided by the third party responsible for the machine 
covers the specific areas wed expect to see including the journal roll and confirmation of 
cash being dispensed. Its not impossible that a mistake was made by the machine. Like the 
investigator I dont see any basis to think that could be due to problems with the card itself 
and which as I say had been used to make a cash withdrawal of £200 on 23 March 2020. 
But Id expect to see that the machine had more notes than it should when it was next 
balanced if there was an error. And some record of the amount being purged back- say if 
the notes were damaged or not taken in time. The evidence does not support there was any 
such error. 
I wont be able to say exactly what happened here but Im thinking about what is most likely. 
And I dont think having considered what Mr G has said and the evidence from Halifax that 
its most likely he was the victim again of a machine error at a different cash machine and 
within a week of the first problem. None of the technical evidence supports that was the case 
here.
I appreciate the amount at stake for Mr G and the importance of this money to him but Im 
afraid I dont have a reasonable basis to require Halifax to do anything further.
My final decision
My decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision before 17 June 2021.
 
Michael Crewe
Ombudsman