DRN-2618638
The complaint
Ms M complains as a director of a company, N, that Society of Lloyd's rejected various 
claims made on Ns business protection insurance policy.
Where I refer to Society of Lloyds, this includes its agents and claims handlers acting on its 
behalf.
What happened
N took out insurance with Lloyds in 2012 and renewed this each year. In 2019 Ms M said 
she wanted to make a claim on the insurance on behalf of N, relating to
theft by employees and directors of N of both physical goods and intellectual property 
rights on numerous occasions between 2012 and 2019;
fraudulent accounting by an employee;
cyber attacks on N between 2016 and 2019;
extortion by a third party; and
legal costs.
Lloyds instructed agents to investigate the claims. After reviewing everything Lloyds said 
none of the claims were covered by the policy because, amongst other things,
cover for dishonesty of employees and for the Directors and Officers section of the 
policy only applied to claims made against N as a result of dishonesty or the actions 
of a director and, as there had been no such claims against N, the cover wouldnt 
apply;
there was cover under the 2019 policy for theft of contents by employees but N 
hadnt provided evidence of thefts or any losses suffered as a result;
the claim for cyber attack wasnt made at the time of the incident, N hadnt shown 
that the costs claimed arose as a result of an attack, and in any event costs had to be 
authorised before being incurred; 
N hadnt shown that a public relations consultant had been engaged to address the 
alleged harm to its reputation;
cover under the policy for extortion only applied where money had been paid out and 
N hadnt made any payment.
Ms M challenged the decision and provided further information on behalf of N but after 
reviewing this, Lloyds said its position hadnt changed.
When Ms M then brought the complaint to this service, our investigator didnt think it should 
be upheld. She reviewed each claim against the relevant sections of the policy and agreed 
with Lloyds conclusions in respect of each. 
Ms M disagreed and, on behalf of N, has requested an ombudsmans decision. She has 
made a number of points, including:
N is the victim of fraud and has insurance to cover this, so the claims should be paid 
 N has paid for a service but this hasnt been provided;
she asked to negotiate the claim on behalf of N in the same way she would negotiate 
claims for motor or home insurance, expecting the claim to be assessed to determine 
the damage and a loss adjuster to then determine the amount to be paid;
information she provided on behalf of N hasnt been considered  instead of 
assessing the claims, Lloyds instructed lawyers and expected her to instruct lawyers 
to act for N in order to argue the case;
N is not able to pay its suppliers as a result of the losses caused by dishonest 
employees  these losses should be covered so that N can settle its debts.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The relevant industry rules and guidance say an insurer must deal with a claim promptly and 
fairly; provide reasonable guidance to help a policyholder make a claim and appropriate 
information on its progress; and not unreasonably reject a claim. Ive considered the way 
Lloyds dealt with the claims taking into account these rules and the relevant policy wording, 
which forms the basis of the agreement between N and Lloyds.
N made a number of claims under different sections of the policy. I will deal with each 
section separately.
Dishonesty of employees and directors
This section of the policy provides cover for claims made against N as a result of theft or 
dishonesty by an employee or director. The precise wording has changed from one year to 
another, but it has always been limited to situations where a claim is made against N. For 
example, from 2012 the relevant section is as follows:
 We agree to pay on your behalf all sums which you become legally obliged to pay as a 
result of any claims first made against [N] and notified to us during the period of the policy 
arising out of any
e) dishonesty of your directors, partners, officers of employees
Similar wording is included in the policy terms from 2013 to 2017.
In 2018, the policy wording said:
We agree to pay on your behalf all sums which you become legally obliged to pay as a 
result of any claim first made against you during the period of the policy arising out of any 
dishonesty by any employee in the provision of your business activities.
So, while the wording changed slightly, the position has always been that to be able to claim, 
N has to show not just that there has been some dishonesty, but that this has led to another 
party making a claim against N as a result. Its only a claim made against N that will trigger 
this cover and bring it into effect.
There have been no claims against N, therefore there is nothing to claim for. Ms M says N 
has had demands for payment from suppliers that it cant meet because of the losses 
suffered through dishonest acts. But the policy doesnt cover such losses. It only provides 
cover where another party brings a claim against N as a result of the dishonesty. As that 
hasnt happened, there is no cover. So Lloyds decision in relation to this is line with the 
policy terms and in the circumstances I think its fair.From 2018 the policy also included a provision for replacing stolen items, as follows:
We agree to reimburse you for any reasonable sums necessarily incurred to replace your 
contents that have disappeared, or been destroyed, as a direct result of any dishonest or 
fraudulent act by an employee during the period of the policy.
So from 2018 onwards, if N can show that contents were stolen by an employee, it could 
claim for the cost of replacing these. But to do this, N would need to provide evidence of 
items being destroyed or lost as a direct result of dishonest acts by an employee. Although N 
has said there were such losses during that period, it hasnt provided evidence to 
substantiate this. Its for an insured to prove their claim and without any such evidence, it 
was reasonable for Lloyds not to make a payment in respect of this.
Directors and Officers liability
N claimed for losses arising out of the actions of a former director. Theres no specific 
section for Directors and Officers Liability in earlier versions of the policy wording but its 
covered by the dishonesty of employees section set out above. So again, there would need 
to be a claim against N for this cover to apply. And there wasnt any claim against N during 
that period. 
The policy wording from 2018 did include cover for this under a section for Company 
reimbursement cover which included cover for claims against N arising out of 
 any negligent act, error, omission, advice, misstatement or misrepresentation, breach of 
trust, neglect or breach of duty, including fiduciary or statutory duty, committed or alleged to 
have been committed by an insured person or any matter claimed against them solely by 
reason of them serving in this capacity as an insured person, but only to the extent that the 
company has indemnified the insured person for the claim.
A director would be an insured person. But once again, this cover only applies to claims 
made against N  so there would have to be a claim by a third party against N, where N is 
legally obliged to pay out as a result of the actions of the director. There hasnt been any 
such claim against N.
In addition, theres an exclusion for claims made by one insured person against another. The 
director would have been an insured person. So N couldnt make a claim against him. 
The purpose of this section is to cover N for claims made against it by someone else, not to 
deal with a dispute between N and one of its directors. 
Cyber-attacks and hacking of IT systems
N claimed it was the victim of cyber attacks and hacking of its systems from 2016 onwards. 
Two sections of the policy wording at that time provided cover that might be applicable to 
this  cover for cyber liability and for system damage. 
The policy provided cover for costs incurred, provided a claim is made and costs are agreed. 
The policy conditions say that on becoming aware of an incident, a senior officer must report 
this as soon as possible. Costs may be incurred without consent in the first 72 hours after 
discovering the incident but any further costs must be through a provider on an approved list 
and agreed in advance. So although N could claim for such incidents, there were conditions 
that had to be met. N provided some information to Lloyds but this didnt include details of costs showing they 
were directly related to dealing with a cyber incident. The costs werent reported at the time, 
and the provider N used wasnt one of the approved providers. 
Business interruption and reputational harm
The Policy provides system business interruption and reputational harm coverage for 
financial loss sustained during the indemnity period which arises as a direct result of a 
system outage first discovered during the policy period. This financial loss will only be 
covered where the system outage is a direct result of a cyber event. 
There is cover for reputation and brand protection, which will reimburse costs incurred (with 
Lloyds prior agreement) for the services of a public relations consultancy.
Lloyds considered these claims but didnt think a system outage had occurred at the alleged 
times and didnt agree that a financial loss had occurred because of the alleged cyber 
attacks. Lloyds also said N hadnt employed the services of a public relations consultant to 
assist with the reputation of N. Im satisfied Lloyds considered all the available evidence and 
I think its position that there wasnt a system outage and that no evidence of financial loss 
from the alleged cyber attack has been provided, is a fair conclusion. 
Ms M has said N did use a public relations consultancy because of the system outage. She 
provided details of a consultant that was used. But the information provided by the media 
company is unsigned and doesnt set out what services were used. So while it indicates that 
N used a media company for some work, it doesnt detail the nature of that work or provide 
evidence that the consultant was employed directly to deal with the effect on Ns reputation 
of a cyber attack.
Finally, Lloyds also considered the claim under the extortion section. This provides cover for 
any ransom paid by you, or on your behalf, in response to an extortion demand first 
discovered by you during the period of the policy as a direct result of any threat to:
a. introduce malware, or the actual introduction of malware, including Ransomware, into your 
computer systems;
b. prevent access to your computer systems or data or any third party systems hosting your 
applications or data, including cloud computing providers;
c. reveal your confidential information or confidential information entrusted to you; or
d. damage your brand or reputation by posting false or misleading comments about you on 
social media sites.
Lloyds didnt think the information N provided represented a threat. And in any event the 
policy would only reimburse N for any payment that has been made. N hasnt made any 
payment to anyone. So there is no payment to reimburse and this cover wouldnt come into 
effect.
Legal expenses
The policy includes cover for legal costs incurred in certain circumstances. Lloyds 
considered whether there was any claim under the legal expenses section but N hadnt 
incurred any legal costs. However, Lloyds explained the process for N to follow if it wanted 
to claim for legal costs that were incurred and so N could follow that up if necessary.
Fraudulent accounting
N claimed one of its employees cooked the books. This was considered by Lloyds in the 
context of the employee dishonesty section of cover. It reviewed all the evidence relating to this, which included information about a complaint N had made to the individuals 
professional body. 
Lloyds concluded that the evidence didnt support Ns claim and having reviewed it Im 
satisfied this was a reasonable conclusion for Lloyds to reach. I dont think N has provided 
evidence of loss in relation to this.
Summary
Ms M says information she provided on behalf of N wasnt considered and, instead of 
assessing the claims, Lloyds instructed lawyers and expected her to instruct lawyers to 
argue the case. Having reviewed everything carefully Im satisfied Lloyds did review all the 
information provided. It instructed agents to investigate the claims, which they did 
thoroughly. They also explained to Ms M what sort of evidence would be needed to prove 
the various claims and engaged with her through the process. Lawyers were instructed to 
review all the evidence. But I think this reflects the complex nature of the claims, the large 
volume of information to be assessed, and the need to ensure everything had been 
considered correctly against the relevant sections of the policy in force at the relevant times. 
The policy does potentially provide cover for the sorts of claims N wished to make. But as 
set out above, the cover only applies in certain situations and only where the policy 
conditions are met. I appreciate Ms M says these incidents have had a very serious effect on 
N and I dont doubt it has been difficult having to deal with all of this. But the policy does 
provide cover for every situation where N has suffered a loss, only those specific situations 
as set out above, and in circumstances where the relevant policy condition has been 
satisfied. Lloyds has reviewed all the claims and explained why the relevant conditions  
havent been met.
In my view, the claims were considered properly, the conclusions reached were in line with 
the policy terms and they were fair in the circumstances.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold the complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask N to accept or 
reject my decision before 10 September 2021.
 
Peter Whiteley
Ombudsman