DRN-3963952
The complaint
Mr J complains that National Westminster Bank Plc gave him misleading information about 
the process and requirements to switch his mortgage to interest only and hes unhappy his 
application has been declined. 
What happened
Mr J held a residential mortgage with NatWest. His mortgage was repayable on an interest 
and capital repayment term.
Mr J wanted to buy a second property. His intention was to live in the new property and rent 
out his existing one. In late April 2022 Mr J contacted NatWest on several occasions to 
discuss the various changes he was intending to make to his mortgage. 
Ultimately, he wanted to gain consent from NatWest to let out his existing property on 
interest only terms, whilst securing a new fixed interest rate on expiry of his current deal in 
late June 2022.
Mr J submitted an application for a new five-year fixed interest rate to commence in 
July 2022. Mr J says he did this on the understanding that he could make the other changes 
to his mortgage at a later date with little formality. 
There were delays in securing an available appointment to discuss the other changes Mr J 
wanted to make to his mortgage. The wrong type of appointment was also booked for Mr J 
which meant he had to wait even longer for a suitable appointment. Mr J complained about 
this, and NatWest was able to bring his appointment forward. 
Mr Js application to switch his mortgage to interest only was subsequently declined because 
his circumstances meant he didnt meet NatWests affordability criteria. 
Mr J remained unhappy. He says at the time of his initial enquires he wasnt told hed need 
an appointment to switch his mortgage to interest only or that heed to need to go through an 
affordability assessment. Mr J says that had he been aware that the ability to switch his 
mortgage to interest only wasnt guaranteed, he wouldnt have tied himself into a new fixed 
rate deal with NatWest and instead would have explored other options with different lenders.
At the time of complaint, Mr J said that because of NatWests actions he was concerned hed 
lose out on buying his dream home. Hed also incurred around £2,600 in wasted legal fees 
and the prospect of rental income estimated at around £2,500 per month on his current 
property. He wanted NatWest to waive the ERC applicable on his current deal, so he could 
exit his mortgage early and remortgage with a different lender to fulfil his plans. 
NatWest responded to Mr Js complaint and upheld it in part. NatWest agreed to pay Mr J 
£350 compensation for not responding to his complaint sooner and for the wait times 
involved in arranging appointments and mistakenly booking him in with a wrong advisor. 
NatWest didnt agree that it provided Mr J with misleading information about the process for 
switching to interest only or that his application had been unfairly declined. NatWest felt Mr J 
made an informed choice to secure a new fixed rate deal in July 2022 and as such it didnt 
agree to waive the ERC if he chose to end his mortgage early and remortgage elsewhere. 
Unhappy with NatWests response Mr W brought his complaint to our service. An 
investigator looked into things and didnt uphold the complaint. She thought NatWest had 
fairly settled Mr Js complaint and offered fair and reasonable compensation for the aspects 
of the complaint that she felt had gone wrong. 
NatWest accepted the investigators opinion. Mr J didnt agree and asked for the case to be 
decided by an ombudsman. He doesnt agree that he was given sufficient information about 
the process for switching to an interest only mortgage from the outset, including the need to 
satisfy an affordability assessment. 
During the time this complaint has been with our service, Mr Js situation has developed. 
Hes since told our service that he has ported his mortgage with NatWest to the new 
property and he has sold his previous home.
Because an agreement hasnt been reached, the case has been passed to me to issue a 
final decision on the matter. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive summarised events here in my own words and in less detail than presented by the 
parties to the complaint. No discourtesy is intended by that - this just echoes the informal 
service we were set up to provide. If Ive not mentioned something, its not because Ive 
ignored it, its because I dont think its material to the outcome of the complaint.
Ive given careful consideration to all the submissions made by both parties, but I wont
address each and every point that has been raised. Ill focus on the matters that I consider
most relevant to how Ive reached a fair outcome  in keeping with the informal nature of our
service.
In late April 2022 Mr J contacted NatWest on several occasions to discuss the changes he 
wanted to make to his mortgage. I can assure Mr J that Ive listened carefully to each of the 
calls that took place around this time.
On 27 April 2022 Mr J specifically called to ask about the process for switching to interest 
only. Mr J complains that he wasnt told about the need for an appointment to switch to 
interest only or that an affordability assessment would be carried out. Whilst I dont disagree 
that the requirement for an affordability assessment wasnt specifically mentioned, the call 
handler did make it clear that to proceed with a switch to interest only an appointment would 
need to be arranged with a mortgage advisor to complete the application and that the 
meeting would typically last two hours.  
The call hander checked Mr J met the minimum income criteria of £75,000 per year to 
proceed with an application to switch to interest only. To which Mr J replied he did. Mr J was 
then offered an appointment with a mortgage advisor  the earliest being in three weeks 
time. 
When Mr J asked about the timing of applying for a new interest rate and switching to 
interest only, the call handler explained he had two options. He could either book an 
appointment in three weeks time to discuss both options at the same time or if he wanted to apply for a new interest rate right away, hed have to wait until that came into effect on 1 July 
2022 before making an appointment to do the interest only switch.
It's clear from the conversations that took place that Mr J was keen to secure a new interest 
rate imminently. He subsequently went ahead with the rate switch application that day - 
opting for five-year fixed rate deal to commence when his existing deal expired on 30 June 
2022. His mortgage offer set out that if the mortgage is to be redeemed before 31 July 2027, 
Mr J will incur an early repayment charge.
Ive considered whether Mr J was given misleading information during the call that impacted 
his ability to make an informed choice about what to do next in relation to his mortgage. And 
if so what, if any, impact this had on Mr J.  
There are regulations that have flowed from the Financial Conduct Authoritys (FCA)
Mortgage Market Review (MMR). This has led to a series of major changes, effective since
2014, in the way residential mortgages are regulated. MMR regulations have brought about
requirements for stricter lending assessments  in particular around affordability and
repayment strategies for interest only mortgages  aimed to protect consumers and
encourage mortgage lenders to act more responsibly.
So, in these circumstances it was necessary for NatWest to assess the affordability of the 
changes Mr J wanted to make to his mortgage. Whilst it may not specifically have been 
explained to Mr J that hed need to go through an affordability assessment, it was explained 
to him that hed need to meet with a mortgage advisor to go through the next stage of the 
application. 
Its not the role of the case handler to go into the depths of the affordability requirements. 
She checked Mr J met the minimum threshold before agreeing to set up the next state of the 
application. Ive heard nothing during the calls that suggested a switch to interest only was 
by any means guaranteed. It was Mr Js choice to secure a new fixed rate ahead of receiving 
a mortgage offer from NatWest on interest only terms. 
That said, I do accept Mr J could have been given more specific information about what the 
appointment would involve. But Im not persuaded this would have made any difference in 
the circumstances. Ill explain why. 
Had Mr J been told about the need for an affordability assessment, I think its most likely he 
would have still gone ahead with the appointment  as that is the usual process when 
borrowers want to make changes to their mortgage.
Mr Js application went ahead and was subsequently declined. While its ultimately for 
NatWest to decide whether to lend, it must reach its decision fairly  having regard for the 
relevant rules and regulations. One of the steps taken because of MMR was to help ensure 
a consumer wasnt being given a mortgage that was unaffordable. Lenders are now required 
to take more things into account such as gather much more evidence of income and 
expenditure and are expected to apply stress tests as part of their affordability assessment. 
NatWest has explained that when applying the stress test, Mr Js application didnt meet its 
affordability criteria. So, NatWest has fairly considered Mr Js application and given a 
reasonable reason for its refusal. As such, regardless of the version of events described, 
Mr J was always going to end up in the same position  that being the switch to interest only 
not being approved. Mr Js recently told us that he was able to proceed with his purchase as intended by porting 
his NatWest mortgage. And he says hes happy with the mortgage and five-year fixed rate 
deal he has in place. So there hasnt been any loss to him in that respect. 
I appreciate Mr J is disappointed his application wasnt accepted but I cant reasonably hold 
NatWest responsible for the other losses hes described. If Mr J wanted to pursue his plans 
of owning two properties, hed need to explore his options of securing a second mortgage 
with a different lender  that is something outside of NatWests control. So, when 
considering everything, for the reasons Ive explained, Im not upholding this part of Mr Js 
complaint. 
NatWest accepts, and I agree, that Mr J received poor service in relation to the arrangement 
of the mortgage appointments  including the time wasted waiting to speak to an appropriate 
mortgage advisor. NatWest upheld this part of the complaint and offered Mr J £350 to 
compensate him for the trouble and upset caused. I uphold this part of the complaint and Im 
satisfied NatWests offer fairly compensates Mr J for the avoidable delays. So I wont be 
asking NatWest to do anything further aside from paying Mr J this amount if its not yet done 
so. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint and in the event that the £350 compensation 
payment is still outstanding, NatWest should pay this to Mr J. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr J to accept or 
reject my decision 6 July 2023.
 
Arazu Eid
Ombudsman