DRN-2869345
The complaint
Mr G complains about the quality of a car he has been financing through an agreement with 
BMW Financial Services (GB) Limited (BMWFS), trading as ALPHERA Financial Services.  
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here. Instead Ill focus on giving my reasons for my decision. 
  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I know it will disappoint Mr G, but I agree with the investigators opinion. Please let me 
explain why.
Where the information Ive got is incomplete, unclear or contradictory, as some of it is here I 
have to base my decision on the balance of probabilities.
Ive read and considered the whole file, but Ill concentrate my comments on what I think is 
relevant. If I dont comment on any specific point its not because Ive failed to take it on 
board and think about it but because I dont think I need to comment on it in order to reach 
what I think is the right outcome.
Mr G acquired his car under a hire purchase agreement. This is a regulated consumer credit 
agreement and as a result our service is able to look into complaints about it.  
The relevant law says, amongst other things, that the car should have been of satisfactory 
quality when supplied. If it wasnt then BMWFS, who are also the supplier of the car, are 
responsible. The relevant law also says the quality of goods is satisfactory if they meet the 
standard that a reasonable person would consider satisfactory taking into account any 
description of the goods, the price and all the other relevant circumstances. 
BMWFS have already accepted that the car they supplied to Mr G wasnt of satisfactory 
quality and its not disputed that the wrong gearbox was fitted to the car. Theyve taken the 
car back and settled the agreement, but they havent refunded any of the finance instalments 
Mr G paid as they say hes been able to complete a high mileage in the car and has had 
reasonable use of it.
Mr G disputes the mileage as he says the odometer hasnt worked properly as a result of the 
gearbox being the wrong one. I can understand that argument and I think its unlikely a 
consumer would travel almost 9,000 miles in the first 7 weeks of ownership or 22,000 during 
a period when pandemic restrictions limited travel.
Mr G has suggested hes had limited use of the car, but hes not been able to evidence that. 
So, Ive thought about what is fair in the circumstances.
Whilst Mr G has been able to drive the car I think its clear the use hes had from it has been 
impacted by the wrong gearbox being fitted. Ive seen complaints about it overheating for 
instance and the car not changing gears when it should on occasion. All told, I think the 
investigators suggestion that BMWFS refund 20% of all the payments Mr G made to them 
from inception to the point the car was returned, is a fair one.
Mr G has explained that hes had to get the car repaired. But Ive not seen evidence the 
costs of those repairs and in those circumstances it wouldnt be fair to ask BMWFS to 
provide any refund.
Putting things right
I think the fairest way to resolve this complaint is for BMWFS to provide a refund of 20% of 
all instalments paid. Theyll need to add 8% simple interest per year to that refund as Mr G 
has been deprived of that money. And, as Mr G has clearly been inconvenienced by having 
to take his car for inspections and having to drive a car with the wrong gearbox when he had 
reported the issue early on, I think BMWFS should pay him £50 compensation for the 
distress and inconvenience hes been caused.  
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above I uphold this complaint and tell BMW Financial Services 
(GB) Limited to:
refund 20% of all finance instalments paid by Mr G from the date the agreement 
started to the date of settlement and add 8% simple interest per year to that refund 
from the date of payment to the date of settlement;
pay Mr G £50 to compensate him for the distress and inconvenience hes 
experienced.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision before 13 July 2021.
 
Phillip McMahon
Ombudsman