DRN-2390319
The complaint
Mr D complains that Cynergy Bank Limited failed to allow him access to his online banking, 
gave him poor customer service when he asked it to solve this problem, and about related 
issues.
What happened
In February 2020 Cynergy wrote to all of its customers, including Mr D, to tell them that it 
was upgrading its security, with effect from March, and that from then on they would need to 
access their online banking via the new security procedures. There were two alternative 
ways to access a Cynergy account, but only one of these was available to Mr D, and this 
required him to use a Digipass. A new Digipass would have to be sent to him, to replace 
his existing one. So Mr D notified Cynergy in writing that he wished to be sent a new 
Digipass.
Unfortunately, the Digipasses are manufactured in China, and due to the outbreak of Covid-
19 there at the time, Cynergys supply chain was disrupted for some time. The result was 
that Mr D did not receive his Digipass until June, and meanwhile he was unable to access 
his account online for nearly three months. He could only give Cynergy instructions by 
telephone, and the number he had to call was not free but was charged at the standard rate. 
But when Cynergy promised to call him back, it failed to do so. Mr D also says that in one 
phone call on March, the call handler was arrogant and dismissive, so much so that Mr D 
was unable to continue with the call himself, and asked his partner to take over for him.
Mr D complained, and Cynergy apologised and offered him £50 as compensation, which it 
later increased to £100 after he brought this complaint to our Service. Our investigator 
thought the second offer was fair compensation, and for that reason she did not uphold this 
complaint. Mr D asked for an ombudsmans decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
While I have considered each complaint issue separately, I will consider the total amount of 
compensation in the round, rather than tallying up individual figures for each matter.
Mr Ds complaint encompasses everything that happened between February and June, but 
I think that the crux of his complaint is the lack of online access to his account, and the 
phone call in March. However, I have also considered the promised callbacks which did not 
happen, Mr Ds allegations of poor customer service generally, and his point that Cynergys 
emails do not include his own emails to which the bank was replying, which he says made it 
harder for him to organise and present his complaint.
Mr D has gone so far as to argue that the matters for which the bank has offered him 
compensation (and the matters which were addressed by our investigator) are very different 
matters to the issues he is really complaining about, but I dont agree with that. There are 
indeed some issues which were not covered in the final response letter, nor specifically 
singled out by my colleague, but the matters which were expressly mentioned were the 
access to online banking, the phone call and the callbacks, which I regard as the main 
issues in this case, having read all of Mr Ds correspondence with the bank and with us, and 
his complaint form. The remaining matters are those which I have summarised in the 
previous paragraph, and matters related to or arising out of the matters I have described. 
(For example, the fact that the bank apparently tried to call Mr D on the phone number he 
had given it for the purpose of receiving one-time passcodes, instead of on the number he 
had registered for contacting him generally, is really about the failure to call him back, rather 
than a free-standing issue.)
Cynergy has, sensibly in my view, not denied that it is liable for the failure to send Mr D his 
Digipass. So as far as that issue is concerned, it is only necessary for me to decide how 
much compensation is fair compensation. In deciding that, I have taken into account the fact 
that while this must have been inconvenient, Mr D was still able to give the bank instructions 
by telephone, and while that was not a free service, I think the cost of the calls would not 
have deterred Mr D from contacting the bank, and will be outweighed by the compensation. 
Ive seen no evidence to show that there was anything that telephone banking customers 
could not do which could only be done online.
Mr D has asked for a transcript of the phone call in March, but Cynergy says the recording is 
not available. However, for that reason Cynergy has accepted what Mr D says about the call, 
and has accepted responsibility for that issue too. Cynergy also accepts what he says about 
the promised callbacks which did not materialise.
Taking all of those matters together, I think that £100 is in line with what this Service would 
typically award.
I do not uphold Mr Ds complaint about the rest of the issues. I cannot require the bank to 
include in its own emails the emails to which it is replying. There is no regulation which 
compels it to do so, and so it is not for me to tell it to change its procedures.
I have read the online live chat messages between Mr D and the bank, and I can see why 
he feels that the staff were not being helpful, but I accept the explanation he was given at the 
time, in the absence of any evidence to contradict it: it was a security issue. That form of 
communication is not regarded by the bank as being sufficiently secure, and so some 
matters have to be discussed on the phone, instead of by live chat. Therefore all the staff 
could do was tell Mr D which number to call to discuss his account further. I recognise that 
he did not want to do that, because of the long waiting times, but due to the volume of calls 
Cynergy was receiving (probably due to the Digipass problem), that could not be helped.
My final decision
My decision is that I do not uphold this complaint. I leave it to Mr D to decide whether to bow 
accept the £100 which Cynergy Bank Limited has offered him.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision before 3 February 2021.
 
Richard Wood
Ombudsman