DRN-3354184
The complaint
Mr K complains Nationwide Building Society failed to offer him support to address his 
gambling, and they later froze an account and then closed all his accounts.
What happened
The facts below repeat much of what I said in my provisional decision. It is however 
necessary to repeat them again for the purposes of issuing a final decision.
Mr K held several accounts with Nationwide, including a basic account and a current
account.
Sadly, in October 2019 his fiance, and mother to his son, passed away, which resulted in
him receiving a large cash pay-out.
Mr K says the impact of losing his fiance exacerbated his gambling and led to him suffering
badly with depression and anxiety. He self-harmed, and at one point planned to spend all the
funds he received and commit suicide. His memory has also been affected. His father also
passed away in October 2020, which further impacted on his well-being.
Nationwide contacted Mr K in early February 2020 about payments out of his basic account.
He was unsure about several payments. He said he didnt know whether some payments
were to payment processors used by online gambling merchants, and while he recognised
certain gambling merchants, he didnt recognise some of the amounts as he gambled in
round numbers.
Mr K rang Nationwide several times during February 2020 and in April 2020 about the
above. He revealed he was experiencing a gambling problem, which had been made worse
by the loss of his fiance and the sudden access to a large amount of money.
Nationwide offered to put Mr K in touch with their specialist support team who might be able
to help. Mr K expressed his interest and said he had tried to get gambling payments blocked
six months before in a Nationwide branch but was told it wasnt possible. He said he wished
he had been offered support earlier as he mightve avoided spending a large amount of
money on gambling. He told our service that he went to the branch in July 2018 and August
2019 to request blocks on gambling payments on his accounts.
Nationwides specialist support team tried ringing Mr K several times in February 2020 to
discuss how they might be able to help, but they couldnt get in touch with him. They sent
him a follow up letter providing their telephone number.
Nationwide restricted Mr Ks current account in August 2020 which prompted a complaint
from him. Their final response letter said the account was being reviewed by their special
investigations team, and the team wouldnt contact him until their investigation was
complete. Mr K complained that he was meant to be given support during this time. He was
still able to use his basic account.
Nationwide decided to immediately close Mr Ks accounts in early December 2020. They
sent him a letter to confirm what they had done. Mr K rang them to ask why his accounts
were closed. The person he spoke to said they had received a fraud report about a scam.
Mr K said payments he received from third parties were winnings from poker, and he didnt
know they represented fraud. Nationwide said Mr K could still provide proof to show the
payments were poker winnings, and they could potentially reconsider whether to offer him an
account, but his accounts would remain closed for now.
Mr K feels he should have been involved in whatever investigation took place and contacted
before the decision was made to close his accounts. He also says there wasnt enough
contact and support from Nationwide, which was made worse by the impact of the
coronavirus and the national lockdown during 2020. He feels there needs to be a culture
change at Nationwide to help support vulnerable customers like himself and to treat them
fairly.
I issued a provisional decision on Mr Ks complaint earlier this month. I was inclined not to 
uphold the complaint. I said:
Mr K has been through a very difficult time. I was sorry to hear about the loss of both his
fiance and his father and how this affected him. Ive considered what hes said carefully. In
particular, Ive considered whether Nationwide shouldve understood how vulnerable he was
earlier than they did.
I have separated my findings on Nationwides actions between two different periods: before
Mr K received the large sum of money in January 2020 and afterwards. Ive also separately
addressed Nationwides actions in blocking one of his accounts and terminating their
relationship with him without notice.
Mr Ks gambling spend prior to January 2020
On reviewing Mr Ks activity on his basic account during 2018 and 2019, a pattern emerges
of him receiving his salary, sending regular payments to third parties, and then spending the
significant part of what was left on gambling.
Nationwide say they now have a clear policy in place to address gambling problems
experienced by their customers. But theyve confirmed they didnt have a specific policy in
place to identify gambling spending which didnt involve lending during 2018 and 2019. But
Nationwide still had a responsibility to pick up on account activity that might indicate potential
customer harm or vulnerability. And, regular and significant gambling spend is an
established indicator that someone might be vulnerable and at risk of financial harm.
The amount of funds Mr K regularly spent on gambling was significant - he often spent
hundreds of pounds each month on online gambling within a short period until he had a
minimal balance. I find Nationwide ought to have identified his spending as an indicator of
potential vulnerability and they shouldve tried to contact him in case he needed help. But,
importantly, I must also consider what if anything wouldve happened if Nationwide had
contacted Mr K.
I cannot know what Mr K would or wouldnt have done had he been contacted about his
gambling by Nationwide during 2018 and 2019. So, I need to decide whether its more or
less likely that he wouldve taken up an offer of support based on all the information Ive
available.
The wider information available to me shows Mr K raised a fraud claim with a different
account provider in early 2019. He told that provider that his young son had set up gamblingaccounts and gambled using his account without his permission. He said he didnt hold
gambling accounts. Clearly this contradicts what he is now saying about his gambling. So,
on balance, its not evident to me that Mr K would have acknowledged a gambling problem
earlier than he did or that he would have engaged with Nationwide had they contacted him
proactively.
Mr K says he went into a Nationwide branch to get gambling payments blocked on his
accounts in 2018 and 2019, but the staff he spoke to said they couldnt help. Its possible he
asked for help, but I must also consider what Nationwide has said.
Nationwide say their staff have no recollection of him asking for help, and they were trained
to pass matters to the specialist support team. Nationwide have records of when Mr K
attended branch, which differ to when Mr K said he attended branch. Those records dont
indicate he asked for help or that gambling was discussed on those occasions. So, on
balance, I find Nationwides position persuasive and its less likely that Mr K asked for
support in the way he remembers.
Mr Ks gambling spend from January 2020.
Im satisfied Nationwide offered Mr K appropriate support after he received the large sum
into his account. Ill explain why.
Ive listened to several calls Mr K had with Nationwide from February 2020. Most of the
conversations regarded restrictions Nationwide placed on some of his cards to check
particular payments. He raised concerns about some of the payments because he didnt
recognise the sums that were debited (as he gambled in round numbers) and some of the
payee names werent immediately recognisable. I find the following is clear:
Mr K revealed he had a gambling problem early on. He said this had worsened 
following receipt of the large sum of money. When the advisor said they could put 
him in touch with their specialist support team, he said he tried having gambling 
payments blocked in branch six months before but was told that they couldnt do this.
Nationwide made a referral to their support team to see what help they could provide 
Mr K. Their records show the team called him three times during February 2020, but 
they could only get through to him on the first occasion. Unfortunately, Mr K couldnt 
talk at that time because he was in the presence of his son, which is understandable.
The support team sent him a letter in February 2020 after they couldnt get hold of 
him. The letter gave him their number so he could ring them. Mr K says he didnt 
receive a letter. But although he said his sister opened his letters on his behalf during 
this time, and she would have told him about it, I find the letter was most likely sent, 
so Nationwide were trying to help.
Mr K rang Nationwide later in February 2020. The advisor gave him the support 
teams number to ring, as he had rung outside of the teams hours of operation. Mr K 
indicated he would ring the team but failed to do so.
Mr K rang Nationwide again in April 2020. During this call he said he hadnt been 
able to ring Nationwide due to his son being with him. He also said he had needed a 
good six months after his fiances passing, and he was now ready to address 
matters.
Since the last time Mr K had spoken to Nationwide they had blocked internet 
spending on his accounts. This was due to further payments being flagged by their systems. The advisor went through the payments and confirmed the reason why 
some of the payments werent round numbers was because they reflected non-
sterling payments made to companies abroad. They agreed to keep the block on 
internet payments to stop him gambling online, and they also provided the specialist 
support teams number again.
Im satisfied the above indicates Nationwide actively tried to offer Mr K help, and they did
agree to retain a block on his accounts to prevent internet spending, which would have
included online gambling payments.
Mr Ks contact with Nationwide was sporadic, which is understandable given his
bereavement. But I dont find Nationwide treated him unfairly. And, although Nationwides
final response letter contained a factual error, Mr K was aware he could contact the support
team and he had their telephone number, so I am not awarding him compensation.
Nationwide blocking the current account and terminating its relationship with Mr K
Nationwide have important legal and regulatory responsibilities to carry out when providing
accounts. They may need to review accounts and block them to ensure they comply with
those responsibilities. I have considered Nationwides reasons for conducting a review and I
find they were understandable and blocking the current account was a proportionate action.
The terms and conditions also permitted them to block the account.
I appreciate Mr K wanted to be involved in Nationwides investigation, but that was
Nationwides decision to make. Its not always the case that they need information from a
customer when reviewing an account, and sometimes there is a good reason not to discuss
their investigation with a customer. On balance, Im satisfied Nationwide didnt do anything
wrong when blocking the account.
Nationwide have a broad discretion to terminate a customer relationship, so they were not
obliged to keep Mr K as their customer. Our service will generally not interfere with the
exercise of that discretion unless the reasons behind terminating a relationship are likely to
be unlawful. I have considered Nationwides reason(s) and I find they were legitimate. As
they said to Mr K, they had received a report of someone being scammed into trying to send
money to his account.
Nationwide do, however, need to apply the terms of Mr Ks account correctly when deciding
to close accounts. Here, they closed his accounts with immediate effect, and only specific
terms apply in these circumstances. I have considered carefully whether Nationwide had
sufficient grounds to apply the immediate closure terms, and I find they did.
Mr K denies having any involvement in a scam, and this may be the case. But, considering
the nature of the report Nationwide received and the wider information available, I
understand their concern. And, I find they could fairly close his accounts without notice and
they didnt need to ask him further questions. Also, even if Nationwide had given Mr K a
longer notice period, it appears he had multiple other accounts he could use to carry out
everyday banking, so I am not persuaded the closure of his accounts resulted in a financial
loss he couldnt otherwise take action to avoid.Since my provisional decision Nationwide have accepted the outcome I reached. Mr K via 
his representative hasnt provided further information or evidence for me to consider within 
the deadline I set, which was extended. I find Mr K has had a reasonable amount of time to 
provide his response, so I have decided to make a final decision based on the information 
and evidence I have currently.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive decided not to uphold Mr Ks complaint for the reasons I gave in my provisional decision. 
Those reasons are stated in full above and form my findings for this final decision. 
In summary, I find Nationwide ought to have identified Mr Ks gambling spend earlier than 
January 2020, but I find it less likely Mr K would have taken up an offer of support. And, I 
find Nationwide made sufficient efforts to try to support Mr K with his gambling after January 
2020, and they were able to block an account and then close his accounts in the manner 
they did.
I am not directing Nationwide to pay Mr K compensation.
My final decision
I have decided not to uphold Mr Ks complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr K to accept or 
reject my decision before 24 August 2022.
 
Liam King
Ombudsman