DRN-3559947
The complaint
Mr A complains that Tesco Personal Finance PLC applied adverse information to his credit 
file when his debt management organisation didnt make the agreed repayments. He says 
he did nothing wrong and wants his credit file amended. 
What happened
In March 2021, Mr A applied for a Covid Payment Plan with a debt management 
organisation. He completed the relevant forms including a direct debit and the debt 
management organisation has confirmed that it received the go ahead for the payment plan 
and this was activated. Mr A was provided with a reference number and told that his 
creditors would be contacted. Payments of £320 were due to be taken each month. The debt 
management organisation has confirmed that due to an error, Mr As creditors werent 
contacted and Mr A nor his creditors were aware of this at the time.
Tesco Personal Finance was one of Mr As creditors. As it wasnt contacted by the debt 
management organisation it was unaware of the arrangement and as payments werent 
made Mr As account was defaulted. Mr A says it is unfair for him to have a default on his 
credit file when he wasnt at fault.
Tesco Personal Finance says that it didnt do anything wrong by applying the default. It 
noted the debt management organisation had admitted to making an error and not 
contacting it after Mr A set up his payment plan, but said it had tried to contact Mr A about 
his missed payments both by post and telephone but Mr A didnt respond. It said it hadnt 
been able to locate any evidence that Mr A had said not to send letters to his address and 
that he had declined the option to change his postal address.
Tesco Personal Finance said it spoke with Mr A on 3 May 2021, before the default was 
applied, to discuss the arrears on his account. It says Mr A understood the situation and 
agreed to make a payment by 10 May. However, this payment wasnt made and so the 
account default and termination process started. Tesco Personal Finance said that had 
contact been made by the debt management organisation the default and termination 
process would have started sooner due to the long-term nature of Mr As financial difficulty.
Our investigator didnt uphold this complaint. He said that Mr A hadnt made his payment to 
Tesco Personal Finance before he set up the payment plan and then didnt make the agreed 
payment in May 2021. He said Tesco Personal Finance followed the correct procedure when 
it didnt receive the agreed repayments. Because of this he didnt require Tesco Personal 
Finance to amend Mr As credit file. 
Mr A didnt agree with our investigators view. He reiterated that he hadnt done anything 
wrong and that he wanted his credit file amended.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I am sorry to hear of the issues Mr A has experienced and I can understand how the 
additional stress of this situation has been particularly difficult for him. However, for me to 
uphold this complaint I would need to find that Tesco Personal Finance had done something 
wrong. 
Mr A was in financial difficulties and hadnt made his contractual payments to Tesco 
Personal Finance since January 2021. Given the missed payments I do not find that Tesco 
Personal Finance did anything wrong by starting default proceedings. As Mr A didnt make 
the required payment to prevent the default I do not find I can say Tesco Personal Finance 
was wrong to take the actions it did and report the status of Mr As account to the credit 
reference agencies.
However, as it was then shown that Mr A had set up a payment plan and had reasonably 
expected that his creditors - including Tesco Personal Finance - would have been contacted 
about this I have considered whether, in light of the additional information provided, Tesco 
Personal Finance should amend Mr As credit file.
In this case, while I can see that the mistake made by the debt management organisation 
meant that creditors werent contacted and payments werent made and that this was no 
fault of Mr As, I do not find that I have enough to say that Tesco Personal Finance is 
required to amend Mr As credit file. I say this for the following reasons:
Mr A reasonably thought his payment plan had been set up in March 2021. He was 
told the monthly payment amount and Mr A has said that he had the funds available. 
However, Mr A has also said that the debt management organisation didnt take any 
money from his account. I think that Mr A should have been reasonably aware of this 
at the time the payments were due and could have questioned this. Without 
payments being made to the debt management organisation I do not think it 
reasonable to believe payments were being made to the creditors. I also note that 
Mr As statements showed the situation on his account.
Even if Mr A wasnt aware that his payments werent being made, Tesco Personal 
Finance tried to contact him about his account. A pre-default letter was sent in March 
2021 and a call took place in early May 2021. Mr As payment plan clearly set out 
that creditors can take different approaches to defaulting accounts and that 
communication from them shouldnt be ignored. 
I appreciate that Mr A may have thought the pre-default letter would be dealt with as 
he entered the payment plan around this time, but having listened to the call 
recording from May 2021, Mr A is clearly told the status of his account. On this call it 
is explained that Mr A's account is over its limit and that he is behind with his 
payments. Mr A doesnt mention the debt management organisation and given the 
information he is provided with I think it would have been reasonable for him to have 
checked whether the payment plan was in place. Mr A then discussed making a 
payment to enable his card to be used again and he agrees to do this. Mr A is told 
that there could be consequences if the payment isnt made and that he should 
contact Tesco Personal Finance if he isnt able to make the payment. Mr A didnt 
make the payment or the following payments. Given I find that Mr A had been made 
aware of the situation on his account and hadnt made the required payments, I do 
not find I can say Tesco Personal Finance was wrong to issue a default notice.
As previously noted, Mr As payment plan said that communication from creditors 
shouldnt be ignored and so I think he should have been aware he needed to take action when the default notice was received. I note Mr As comment about not living 
at the address Tesco Personal Finance held but as he was asked if he wished to 
change his address and declined to do so and confirmed the address held, I do not 
find Tesco Personal Finance did anything wrong by issuing the default notice to the 
address it had on file.
Overall, while I can understand how upsetting this situation has been for Mr A and I 
appreciate that he was let down by the debt management organisation I also find that he 
was provided with enough information by Tesco Personal Finance to understand the 
situation on his account. As he was notified about the arrears and risk of default and the 
action he needed to take, I do not find I can say that Tesco Personal Finance is required to 
remove the default from his credit file.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision before 10 November 2022.
 
Jane Archer
Ombudsman