DRN-1562461
The complaint
Mr N complains that Ageas Insurance Limited didnt repair his car properly after he claimed 
on his car insurance policy. 
What happened
Mr N was hit from behind when he was waiting at a pedestrian crossing. He claimed on his 
insurance and Ageas repaired his car for him. A few years later Mr N took his car to a 
garage to have some marks repaired. When his car was inspected the garage asked Mr N 
which colour red he would like them to use, as his car had two different ones on it. The 
garage said the rear bumper had been painted a different shade of red to the one used when 
the car was made. Mr N thought this was from when Ageas repaired his car. He was 
unhappy they hadnt repaired his car properly and complained.
Ageas arranged for an engineer to inspect Mr Ns car. The engineer inspected Mr Ns car 
and agreed the repair hadnt been completed properly. Ageas reviewed Mr Ns complaint 
and agreed the repair hadnt been completed properly, but said paintwork had a three-year 
warranty. And as Mr N hadnt noticed the issue until four years after the repair, it was out of 
warranty. Mr N didnt think this was fair and brought his complaint here. 
Our investigator reviewed Mr Ns complaint and recommended it was upheld. She found that 
the paint wasnt defective and therefore didnt think the time limit on the warranty mattered. 
She recommended Ageas repaint the bumper as outlined in the engineers report and pay Mr 
N £75 for the distress and inconvenience caused. 
Ageas didnt agree and asked for an ombudsmans decision. They said Mr N could have 
been involved in another accident and hed taken too long to notice the issue. 
As Ageas didnt agree the complaint has come to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr Ns policy says in the event his cars damaged in an accident Ageas will arrange for one 
of its approved repairers to repair his car or pay him a cash sum to replace the damaged 
car. Ageas agree it repaired Mr Ns car, so Ive looked into whether its carried out a lasting 
and effective repair. In this case Mr Ns cars been repaired and repainted but its been 
repainted in the wrong colour. So, Im not satisfied Ageas has repaired his car correctly in 
line with the policy terms. 
Ive considered Ageass point about the repairs being guaranteed for three years, but Im not 
persuaded its fair and reasonable to apply that here. I say that because the idea of that term 
is to ensure a repair is effective and lasting. The repair Ageas carried out has lasted but its 
just that Mr N noticed later that it was the wrong colour. Its also not unreasonable that to the 
untrained eye the colour difference may not have been that noticeable. But this doesnt 
change the fact that Ageas painted the bumper in the wrong colour. 
Ageas also said as its been four years since the repair Mr N could have been involved in 
another accident. Mr Ns said hes not been involved in another accident to the rear of the 
car. Our investigator also asked Ageas to check if there were any other claims on CUE for 
Mr N, but Ageas didnt respond. Im therefore not persuaded Mr Ns car been involved in 
another rear end accident. 
As Im satisfied Ageas hasnt repaired Mr Ns car properly, Ive looked at what it needs to do 
to put things right. The engineer said the rear bumper is a poor paint match and would 
require repainting to the correct colour with adjacent blends if required. Ageas should 
therefore arrange for this to be done to Mr Ns car. Ageas has also caused Mr N 
unnecessary distress and inconvenience by him having to have his car inspected and that it 
will also need to be repaired again. Because of this Ageas should also pay Mr N £75 for the 
unnecessary distress and inconvenience caused. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint. Ageas Insurance Limited needs to arrange 
for the repair to Mr Ns rear bumper, in line with the engineers comments. Ageas Insurance 
Limited also needs to pay Mr N £75 for the distress and inconvenience caused. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr N to accept or 
reject my decision before 8 October 2020.
 
Alex Newman
Ombudsman