DRN-3236531
The complaint
Mrs R complains that Computershare Investor Services Plc unreasonably delayed selling
some temporary rights she had to buy shares in a company (Ill call these her rights in this
decision). Mrs R says that as a result she received less money from the sale than she
should have.
What happened
Mrs R received a prospectus that explained how the sale of her rights would work. She 
needed to tell Computershare what she wanted to do by certain cut-off dates. If she did, the 
prospectus said Computershare would  as her agent  instruct a broker to sell her rights on 
the business day after the cut-off date shed met.
But there were other terms in the prospectus that explained Computershare might not 
instruct the broker by the date theyd said. The terms said they reserved a right to instruct a 
broker at any date before a Final Dealing Date.
The terms also said Computershare could put together  or aggregate  instructions from 
different customers, if they wanted to. In that case, each individual customer would receive 
an average price. The terms said that may result in a more or less favourable price for the 
customers.
A further term said that after instructing a broker, Computershare and the Broker will then 
take all sufficient steps to obtain the best possible results for the customer. 
Its agreed by both Mrs R and Computershare that she told them to sell her rights on 16 
September 2020. This was one day before the Interim Cut Off Date. But its also agreed 
Computershare didnt instruct a broker until 22 September. That was the final dealing date.
Unable to resolve her complaint with Computershare, Mrs R brought it to us. I wrote a 
provisional decision in November explaining how I found Computershare had caused an 
unreasonable delay in this case, and should now put that right by compensating Mrs R for 
the lost value of her right, with interest and compensation for the distress and inconvenience 
caused. 
Mrs R responded to say she accepted my findings as a compromise to resolve her 
complaint. Computershare havent responded, which Ive taken to mean theres nothing 
further they feel I need to consider in this case. 
As the responses to my provisional decision havent changed my view, Ive decided to 
repeat my reasoning here, and make it my final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Key for my decision has been trying to understand why Computershare delayed the 
instruction of the broker in this case. I understand their terms said they could, but in order for 
that to be fair, there should be a reason for that decision. And  to comply with the terms Ive 
seen  that reasoning should have aimed to achieve the best possible result for Mrs R.
When I asked them about the delay, Computershare told me about their decision to put the 
instructions theyd received from their customers together. Ive taken that to mean that 
Mrs Rs rights werent sold on 18 September  the working day after the cut-off date Mrs R 
had met  because the instruction was combined with others instead.
Computershare have also told me that due to the high volume of the number of trade 
instructions received all sale instructions were aggregated. That tells me the decision to 
put the instructions together was made because there were a lot of them, rather than any 
thoughts about the price that would be obtained.
But Computershare have also said:
Therefore, the aggregation of the trades was to ensure that Computershare met 
Section 4 clause XI, ensuring the best possible result was obtained for the 
shareholder.
Ive seen no evidence to justify that position. The prospectus itself said that putting 
instructions together could lead to a less favourable price being obtained for a customer. I 
cant see Computershare had any evidence to tell them Mrs R might get a more favourable 
price if they delayed the sale of her rights by putting her instruction to sell together with the 
sale of rights for other customers.
So while I accept the terms gave Computershare the ability to instruct a broker later than 
18 September, and to put Mrs Rs instruction together with those from other customers, 
those actions still had to be aimed at achieving the best possible outcome for her. In this 
case, I cant see they were. So I find Computershare have acted unreasonably.
Putting things right
My approach to putting things right is to consider how Mrs Rs position would be different if 
Computershare hadnt delayed instructing a broker.
The terms say the instruction to the broker should have been done on 18 September. Its not 
clear when that would actually have led to the rights being sold. But at the moment, Ive 
noted information Mrs R has provided showing a friend of hers was able to sell their rights 
within a few minutes on 17 September.
So taking that into account, I find it likely Mrs Rs rights would have been sold on 
18 September, had the service been more reasonable and a broker instructed that day.
Selling on 18 September would have seen Mrs R getting the price available on that date. An 
average price for that day should be considered, to reflect that we cant know exactly when 
Mrs Rs sale would have taken place. 
Mrs Rs provided information that shows the price varied that day from 64.94p per right to 
36.50p. Taking a simple average of those two figures gives 50.72p. 
So the remedy here will be for Computershare to pay Mrs R the difference between the 
money she got from selling her rights on 22 September at 12.415p per right, and what she 
would have got selling them on 18 September at 50.72p. I make this £982.52 - £15 lower than the amount Mrs R calculated in response to my provisional decision. I believe her 
calculation hasnt factored in Computershares £15 fee. 
To reflect that Mrs R could have then invested that money elsewhere, Computershare 
should pay simple interest of 8% per year on that payment, from the date she would have 
received the money in 2020 to the date its paid by Computershare.
Ive thought too about compensation for the trouble and upset Mrs R has experienced here. 
Ive been able to see from what shes written about this complaint that Mrs R feels strongly 
that Computershare havent treated her fairly. And I can appreciate its taken time and effort 
for her to pursue her complaint, first with Computershare and then with us.
But I note her recent comments focus on the fall in share value, caused by the company 
issuing the shares deciding to create new ones. While I appreciate it was disappointing for 
Mrs R to see the value of her shares fall as a result, that wasnt caused by Computershare. It 
was caused by the markets reaction to the share issuing companys decision to issue more 
shares. As such, Computershare dont need to compensate Mrs R for that upset. 
I find a modest payment of compensation will acknowledge the effort and the upset caused 
for Mrs R by Computershares unreasonable service. A payment of £100 suitably reflects 
that impact, while acknowledging this has been a loss of a profit for her, rather than a loss of 
money she held or was relying on having.
My final decision
Ive decided to uphold Mrs Rs complaint about Computershare Investor Services Plc. To put 
this matter right, they should pay Mrs R:
the difference between the money she got from selling her rights on 22 September, 
and what she would have got selling them on 18 September;
8% simple interest on that amount until its paid; and
£100 compensation for the trouble and upset caused.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs R to accept or 
reject my decision before 2 February 2022.
 
Paul Mellor
Ombudsman