DRN-3115983
The complaint
Mrs G is unhappy that she received a letter from Santander UK Plc advising her that there 
were two active debit cards present on her account when she only had one. 
What happened
Mrs G received a letter from Santander which explained that there were two active debit 
cards present on her Santander account, but that one of the cards wasnt being used.      
Mrs G was alarmed by this as she was only aware of one debit card. When she contacted 
Santander, she learned that the other debit card referred to a previous debit card that Mrs G 
had held but which shed destroyed when she received her newer card in the post. Mrs G 
wasnt happy at having received the letter from Santander and the alarm it had caused her, 
so she raised a complaint.
Santander looked at Mrs Gs complaint. They noted that Mrs G had requested a non-
contactless debit card, but that following the receipt of that new card, Mrs G hadnt 
requested the cancelation of her older contactless card. Santander also noted that they had 
sent the letter to Mrs G to make her aware that if she wanted to retain the second card that it 
would need to be used in order to remain active. Because of this, Santander didnt uphold Mr 
Gs complaint.
Mrs G wasnt satisfied with Santanders response, so she referred her complaint to this 
service. On of our investigators looked at this complaint, but they didnt feel that Santander 
had done anything wrong by writing to Mrs G about the two active cards, given that 
Santander hadnt been made aware by Mrs G that the second card wasnt needed and had 
already been destroyed. So, they didnt uphold Mrs Gs complaint.
Mrs G remained dissatisfied, so the matter was escalated to an ombudsman for a final 
decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I can appreciate that it must have been concerning for Mrs G to have received a letter from 
Santander referencing two existing debit cards on her Santander account when she herself 
was only aware of one such card.
But Santanders explanation as to why it retained a record of two active cards seems 
reasonable to me, and I accept that Santander wouldnt proactively cancel a debit card on an 
account without first receiving a request to do so from the account holder  which in this 
instance Mrs G didnt provide.
Furthermore, it would be expected by this service that Santander would have written to    
Mrs G in order to clarify the position of the cards active on the account in the manner that 
they did here. And I note that the result of the letter was that the position was clarified, and 
the relevant card cancelled on Santanders systems.
And while I can appreciate that Mrs G might have been initially alarmed at the receipt of 
such a letter, Im satisfied that the explanation that Santander gave to Mrs G as to why the 
letter was sent to her, as well as the subsequent discovery that the older card had already 
been destroyed by Mrs G and Santanders cancelling of that card, provided a fair and 
reasonable resolution to this issue.
Finally, its evident that there has been no breach of security of any form of financial loss 
here. And as such, an in consideration of everything thats happened here, its very difficult 
for me to conclude that Santander have acted unfairly or unreasonably towards Mrs G in any 
way. 
I realise that this wont be the outcome that Mrs G was wanting, but it follows from the above 
that I wont be upholding this complaint or instructing Santander to take any further action at 
this time. I trust that Mrs G will understand, given all that Ive explained, why Ive made the 
final decision that I have.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs G to accept or 
reject my decision before 1 December 2021.
 
Paul Cooper
Ombudsman