DRN-3616308
The complaint
Mr C, the sole director for L, a limited company, complains that New Wave Capital Limited 
(Capital) wont refund a transaction it didnt make. 
What happened
Mr C received a call from someone pretending to be from Capitals fraud team. He recalled 
they told him there was some suspicious transactions on Ls account and they requested 
onetime passcodes to stop them. Mr C said he didnt share any information. 
That day, Mr C saw a payment had been made from Ls account for £4,975.00. He 
contacted Capital to dispute the payment. It declined to refund Mr C  it said it couldnt see 
how the transaction was made unless Mr C shared the onetime passcode. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive reached the same outcome as our investigator for these reasons: 
Capitals concern is that Mr C hasnt provided evidence to suggest this transaction 
was completed fraudulently nor has he stated he shared the onetime passcode with 
an unauthorised third party. 
Where its not clear how things unfolded, I need to make a decision based on the 
balance of probabilities. In other words, I must decide whats more likely than not to 
have happened  I dont need to be sure. 
Here, Im persuaded its more likely than not that L didnt make this transaction and it 
was the victim of fraud. In reaching this, Ive reflected on how:
oThe payment is out of character with Ls spending  its more in value and its 
nature, jewellery, is very different to Ls typical business spending. 
oThe payment coincided with a call from someone pretending to be from 
Capitals fraud team who asked for information that wouldve allowed them to 
complete it.
oOther payments were attempted in quick succession with some declined. This 
fits the pattern wed typically expect to see with unauthorised spending.  
I also consider its more likely than not that Mr C did share a onetime passcode. Like 
Capital, Ive considered theres no other likely explanation for how this couldve 
happened. Thats not to say its impossible that something else happened but rather, 
I think its more likely that Mr C simply shared the information. 
I recognise Capitals concern that Mr C remains adamant he didnt share anything. 
But his stance doesnt mean it couldnt have happened. Our experience dealing with 
these scams shows how often people are cleverly coached and tricked into sharing 
sensitive information  often acting in the heat of the moment without fully 
appreciating what theyre doing. Im also mindful of the reasons why people arent 
forthcoming about their own involvement  for example, out of embarrassment or fear 
they wont get refunded. 
And I dont think this conclusion means that L will get something that it wouldnt have 
otherwise been entitled to. Afterall, Ive not given Mr C the benefit of the doubt here. 
My judgement is that he did share the information and its that which forms the basis 
of my assessment under the Payment Services Regulations 2017 (PSRs). 
The PSRs say L isnt liable for a payment it didnt authorise, unless it failed with 
gross negligence or intent to comply with the terms of the account or keep its 
personalised security details safe.
Ive already explained why I dont think L made this transaction. Instead I think it was 
the fraudster that went through the steps on the merchants website to make the 
payment. So, in line with the PSRs, Im satisfied it was unauthorised. 
And I dont think Mr C failed with intent. While the circumstances arent all clear, I 
think its likely any actions he took were in response to the fraudsters explanation 
that someone else was trying to use Ls account. I dont think he deliberately shared 
sensitive information. 
Im also not persuaded L has shown Mr C failed with gross negligence  in other 
words, that he was significantly careless; acted so far below what a reasonable 
person wouldve done; or seriously disregarded an obvious risk. 
Mr C received a call from Capitals fraud team, who knew information about L, 
including some of their card details. So I can see how they gained Mr Cs trust. 
Ive also noted that L had recently reported other fraud on its account. So I can see 
how the context of the call  that someone was trying to make transactions - made 
sense and likely concerned Mr C at the time.  
Mr C recalled he was asked for codes to stop the attempted transactions. In the heat 
of the moment, when he trusted the caller, I can understand why Mr C wouldve 
shared this information. Ive noted Mr Cs comments when he reported the fraud that 
he was told to expect the codes and these then genuinely came through from 
Capital. I can see how this wouldve added weight to his trust in the caller. 
So in all, I think its likely that Mr C was convinced into sharing information by a 
clever, well-timed scam. And I dont think Capital has shown Mr Cs actions meant L 
failed with gross negligence. So I conclude Capital need to put things right  by 
restoring Ls account to how it wouldve been had this unauthorised payment not 
been taken. Ive set out how Capital must do that below. 
Ive also noted Capital paid L £50 for its delays in its investigation, which I think is a 
fair reflection of Ls inconvenience. Ive not made a further award. 
My final decisionFor the reasons Ive explained, I uphold Ls complaint. New Wave Capital Limited must:
Refund L the total of the unauthorised transaction, less any amount recovered or 
refunded  I understand this to be £4,975.00.
Rework Ls account and refund any interest and charges, along with amending Ls 
credit report to remove any negative reporting, that were caused by the transaction. If 
L repaid the borrowing created by the transaction, Capital should also add 8% simple 
interest per year from the date it repaid the borrowing to the date of settlement (less 
any tax lawfully deductible). 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask L to accept or 
reject my decision before 27 January 2023.
 
Emma Szkolar
Ombudsman