DRN-1588560
The complaint
Miss B is unhappy Nationwide Building Society (Nationwide) wont reimburse her after an 
investment opportunity she paid money into turned out to be a scam.
What happened
In January 2018 Miss B made a payment of £50,000 to a business client of hers in what she 
understood was an investment opportunity. The client she gave the money to said she was 
an art dealer and would use the money to buy and sell artwork at a profit. Miss B signed a 
contract with them before handing over the money. It said she was guaranteed no loss on 
her investment and she needed to give six weeks notice if she wanted to withdraw funds.
A few months later Miss B received an update from her client who said shed made a profit 
on her £50,000 investment. Miss B requested the return of some of the money so she could 
buy a car and it was agreed it would be returned to her six weeks later on a date in 
October 2018. When the agreed date passed and she hadnt heard from her client she grew 
concerned and contacted Nationwide to tell it shed been the victim of a scam.
Nationwide investigated the matter but felt it had followed its processes correctly and wasnt 
liable for the loss. Miss B wasnt happy with how Nationwide had investigated the matter and 
made a complaint. She said that:
Nationwide shouldve recognised the payment Miss B was making was unusual and 
shouldve questioned her about it. Had it done so it wouldve uncovered she was the 
victim of a scam and the payment wouldnt have been made.
It didnt carry out sufficient checks on the receiving bank account to ensure the 
payment was legitimate.
It failed to recognise her client was a widely known international scammer and had 
appeared in the media.
It didnt do enough to retrieve the money from the receiving bank.
Nationwide didnt uphold the complaint. It said it had contacted the receiving bank but they 
had been given six weeks notice to remove funds so there was nothing more it couldve 
done. 
Miss B brought the complaint to our service but our investigator didnt uphold it. They agreed 
the withdrawal was significantly unusual activity for Miss B and that Nationwide ought to 
have questioned her about it. But they didnt think that if Nationwide had done so this 
wouldve prevented Miss B from making the payment as she was clearly convinced the 
investment was genuine and there was no media coverage or other information that 
wouldve alerted Nationwide to the crime at the time. 
Miss B didnt accept the investigators view. She felt Nationwides intervention wouldve 
prevented her from making the payment. She said:
A criminal complaint had been made by another victim when she made the payment 
and this wouldve been known by the receiving bank. So Nationwide wouldve known 
money shouldnt be sent to the receiving account.
Nationwide failed in its duty of care to her as a customer by not questioning the 
payment. Shed asked numerous people in her life who have all said questioning 
from the building society wouldve been enough to stop them making a payment. She 
felt this demonstrated that any reasonable person wouldnt continue with a payment 
when questioned by their bank.
As Miss B didnt accept the investigators view the complaint has been passed to me to 
make a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Should Nationwide have done more to prevent the payment Miss B made?
The payment Miss B made was authorised even though she was the victim of a 
sophisticated scam. She made the payment herself and under the Payment Services 
Regulations 2017, and the terms and conditions of her account, Miss B is presumed liable 
for the loss in the first instance. 
Miss B has said she was told by the receiving bank the account details she asked the 
payment to be made to were incorrect  one digit of the sort code had been written 
incorrectly on the paying-in slip and corrected above. So shes questioned whether she has 
in fact technically authorised the payment. But I wouldnt have expected Nationwide to have 
been able to check the sort code for a different bank was correct. And the receiving bank 
has confirmed the payment ultimately went to the account Miss B intended it to go to. So 
from Nationwides position, Miss B has followed the procedure outlined in the terms and 
conditions of her Nationwide account and in line with its polices in order to make a payment. 
So Im satisfied it was authorised. 
But Ive also taken into account the law, regulators rules and guidance, relevant codes of 
practice and what I consider to have been good industry practice at the time. As such I think 
Nationwide should fairly and reasonably:
Have been monitoring accounts and any payments made or received to counter 
various risks, including anti-money laundering, countering the financing of terrorism, 
and preventing fraud and scams.
Have had systems in place to look out for unusual transactions or other signs that 
might indicate that its customers were at risk of fraud (among other things). This is 
particularly so given the increase in sophisticated fraud and scams in recent years, 
which banks and building societies are generally more familiar with than the average 
customer.  
In some circumstances, irrespective of the payment channel used, have taken 
additional steps, or make additional checks, before processing a payment, or in some 
cases declined to make a payment altogether, to help protect customers from the 
possibility of financial harm from fraud. 
The cheque payment was for a significantly higher amount than any transaction on Miss Bs 
account in the year leading up to the transaction in question. It appeared to be all of her 
savings and the payment was being made to a new payee. So overall Im satisfied it was 
significantly unusual activity. Before allowing the money to leave her account, I think Nationwide ought to have contacted Miss B to discuss the payment with her and satisfy itself 
she wasnt the victim of a financial crime.
Would Nationwides intervention have made a difference?
When a building society intervenes in response to an unusual transaction its reasonable to 
expect it to ask probing questions about the payment, such as who its being made to and 
what its for. And it ought reasonably to test the plausibility of its customers answers. 
Id also expect it to use the benefit of its experience with fraud and scams to give them 
sufficient warnings and information about how to protect themselves against this type of 
crime. And, as Ive outlined above, if a building society has reasonable cause to believe the 
transaction is the result of a scam, it ought to refuse to make the payment. 
Had Miss B been asked about the payment I havent see any reason she wouldnt have told 
Nationwide what she understood at the time; that she was making an investment with an 
associate who would be buying art and reselling it at a profit. And on the face of it I think the 
circumstances described ought reasonably to have prompted further questioning. But had 
Nationwide tried to test the plausibility of her story and asked probing questions about the 
investment and how it came about I think Miss B wouldve likely provided plausible and 
persuasive answers to these questions. And Im not persuaded that asking those questions 
wouldve undone her apparent belief, at the time, that the investment was genuine. 
I say this because Miss B has told us she knew the person she was investing with through 
work and theyd known each other for a few months. She said this person  who turns out to 
be have been a scammer  was part of a family who were known to Miss B and others in the 
art industry as successful art dealers. Shes described the family as a famous name in the 
art world. Shes said the scammer showed her the art deals theyd been involved with in the 
past and Miss B carried out her own research to verify what she was told by checking the 
scammers personal website to confirm they were who they said they were. Shes said 
based on all the information publicly available at the time, the scammer was who they said 
they were.
Miss B feels Nationwide, due to its experience with scams and financial matters, shouldve 
known the investment wasnt legitimate. And I think its reasonable to expect Nationwide to 
have a good understanding of how investment scams generally work and what to look out 
for. But I dont think the situation Miss B has described is typical of the sort of scam 
Nationwide is likely to have seen. And I dont think there was any information Nationwide 
couldve uncovered at the time that wouldve revealed it as one.
People can and do legitimately invest in buying artwork and reselling it. So I wouldnt expect 
this fact alone to have alerted Nationwide to the scam. And I wouldnt reasonably have 
expected Nationwide to have a knowledge of the scammers family, their dealings in the art 
world or have an understanding of how this kind of opportunistic and unregulated investment 
might work. So I dont think it wouldve been able to successfully challenge the plausibility of 
the story Miss B likely wouldve given. Whilst I do think this kind of speculative investment 
opportunity could reasonably be considered a risk, Nationwide wasnt acting in the capacity 
of giving Miss B financial advice. Its role was limited to protecting her as best it could from 
financial crime.
Miss B has said Nationwide shouldve recognised the investment wasnt legitimate based on 
the fact shed been guaranteed no loss. But, this scam wasnt presented to Miss B as a 
regulated investment where a guarantee of no loss would be highly unusual. Miss B was 
giving money to someone in her personal life in a private arrangement between the two of them. I wouldnt expect Nationwide to have judged it against the standards it would expect in 
the case of regulated investments. 
I do think Nationwide ought to have given Miss B general warnings about the risks involved 
in making the payment she did and the importance of protecting herself against financial 
crime. But I dont think its likely Miss B wouldve thought general investment scam warnings 
applied to her as the scenarios Nationwide wouldve likely described wouldnt be all that 
similar to her situation. So I dont think its likely general fraud warnings wouldve alerted her 
to a problem. Especially given Miss B herself doesnt appear to have had any suspicions 
until around ten months later when she reported her concerns. 
Miss B has also said, when she made the payment, crimes committed by the scammer had 
already been reported. She feels this information wouldve been known to the scammers 
bank and to Nationwide. So it shouldve stopped the payment being made to a known 
scammers account. But the report that the scammers account was involved in a crime 
appears to have been made the day Miss B made her payment. Based on the evidence Ive 
seen, the scammers bank didnt refuse the payment, return it to Nationwide or alert it to any 
problem. So I havent seen anything to suggest Nationwide was aware of this, or ought to 
have been aware of this, when the payment was made. 
Ive also considered whether the incorrect sort code Miss B has said she used ought 
reasonably to have alerted Nationwide to a problem. But again, I havent seen anything to 
suggest the scammers bank refused or returned the payment. Nor does it appear to have 
alerted Nationwide to any problem with the account details. So, from what Ive seen, 
Nationwide wasnt aware, or ought to have been aware, of any problem with the account 
details.
Overall, on balance, and based on the information available, I dont think intervention from 
Nationwide likely wouldve stopped Miss B from making the payment she did. I also dont 
think theres anything Nationwide couldve uncovered at the time that ought to have given it 
reasonably cause to refuse her instruction.
Should Nationwide have done more to recover the funds?
Part of Miss Bs complaint is that she doesnt feel Nationwide did enough to try and recover 
the funds after she reported fraud had taken place and I dont feel Nationwide acted as Id 
expect when Miss B reported the scam. 
According to Nationwides records, Miss B reported the scam to it on 31 October 2018. 
Nationwide has confirmed it didnt contact the receiving bank to try and recall the funds until 
over six months later. Its also confirmed that when it did this initially the account details were 
incorrect so the receiving bank couldnt find the account. When it then did obtain the correct 
details, it didnt follow this up and try again to recall the funds.
So Nationwide didnt request the return of the funds as it should have and it did fail Miss B in 
this respect. When it was alerted to the scam I wouldve expected it to have acted 
immediately in contacting the receiving bank. Its said it likely didnt do so in this case 
because the payment had been made 10 months before the scam was reported. So it 
thought it was unlikely funds would still remain in the account. I dont think this is acceptable. 
Even if funds involved in a scam are commonly removed from the receiving account quickly, 
when a scam is reported I wouldve expected Nationwide to act immediately in trying to 
recall the funds involved. That said, although I do think Nationwide failed to act as Id expect in trying to recall the 
funds, I dont think that had it acted immediately it wouldve made a difference in this case. 
The receiving bank has confirmed the funds were removed from the account on 
26 April 2018  nearly six months before the scam was reported. So I cant say Nationwides 
failure to act prevented the successful return of Miss Bs money.
I cant imagine how difficult this situation mustve been for Miss B and Im sorry shes been 
through what she has. But it wouldnt be fair or reasonable to hold Nationwide liable for the 
loss shes suffered in this case.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss B to accept 
or reject my decision before 28 April 2021.
 
Faye Brownhill
Ombudsman