DRN-2909994
The complaint
Mr F is unhappy about problems he experienced when trying to access his account with 
Lloyds Bank PLC, using their online banking (OB) service.
What happened
During late 2020, Mr F had problems accessing his bank account with Lloyds using their OB 
service. He called them on a number of occasions to report the issue. Each time, they gave 
him a case reference number, but the problem wasnt resolved.
Mr F also spoke to a local computer expert to establish whether there was anything wrong 
with his computer. They suggested that the operating system he was using was out of date. 
They agreed to install a newer system hoping this would resolve Mr Fs problems. But it 
didnt.
In early December 2020, Mr F visited a branch of Lloyds to explain his problem. Lloyds tried 
to help but were unsuccessful. So, the branch registered a complaint for Mr F to try and 
resolve matters.
On 15 December 2020, Mr F received three telephone calls from Lloyds regarding his 
complaint. Each time Lloyds exchanged information with Mr F and investigated his problem. 
But they couldnt find anything wrong with their OB system. They said that there may be 
settings on Mr Fs own computer causing the problems. They suggested speaking to a 
computer expert to explore this.
Lloyds then wrote to Mr F on 17 December. They said that they couldnt see that theyd done 
anything wrong, so they didnt uphold Mr Fs complaint.
On 24 December 2020, Mr F called Lloyds again. He said that his OB access was now 
working normally. He asked why itd taken Lloyds five weeks to put things right and why they 
hadnt told him. Lloyds said that they hadnt changed anything with their systems. They 
explained that the problems hed experienced previously may have related to settings on his 
own computer. They suggested that these settings may now have changed allowing him to 
access his account through their OB service.
Mr F remained unhappy with Lloyds response. He said that hed been a long-standing 
customer and felt that Lloyds hadnt treated him fairly. So, he decided to refer his complaint 
to this service.
One of our investigators looked into Mr Fs complaint. He didnt think that Lloyds had done 
anything wrong. He didnt believe they needed to take any further action. Mr F disagreed. He 
said he hadnt changed anything on his computer. He believed that Lloyds had done 
something. He was annoyed that it had taken five weeks, with no explanation.
Mr F asked for his complaint to be referred to an ombudsman for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr Fs problems originally related to his inability to use Lloyds OB service. In a call on 15 
December 2020, he told Lloyds that hed been advised, by a computer expert, to upgrade 
the operating system on his computer. This person had agreed to do this for Mr F, subject to 
a charge. 
Having completed the upgrade, Mr F was still experiencing problems. Lloyds OB service was 
asking him to confirm that his computer was a Trusted Device. But he wasnt able to do this 
online. So, to access the OB system, Lloyds system generated a verification code each time 
and then called Mr F to verify this. This was the only way he could access the service.
During Mr Fs visit to a Lloyds branch in early December 2020, he was invited to attempt to 
access their OB service using one of their computers in the branch. Lloyds have said that 
this access attempt was successful, and Mr F experienced no problems with this.
Ive listened to four telephone calls Mr F had with Lloyds in relation to his complaint. Three of 
these took place on 14 December 2020. Each time, it seems Lloyds were trying to 
understand what was happening on Mr Fs computer and provide help and guidance. I think 
they tried as much as they could in the circumstances. 
Lloyds explained, in general terms, how certain computer settings might impact on his ability 
to access their OB system simply and quickly. They suggested that there may be an issue 
with his computer settings. They said that these couldve been set when the computer expert 
installed his computers new operating system. So, they suggested Mr F seek advice from 
that expert.
Lloyds didnt report any known system problems during the period that Mr F had his 
difficulties. Ive not seen anything to suggest thered been any problems.
The fourth call took place on 24 December 2020 when Mr F rang Lloyds again. He explained 
that his Lloyds OB access was now working without the need to go through the telephone 
verification process. He wanted Lloyds to explain what theyd changed and why it had taken 
so long. But Lloyds said that they hadnt changed anything on their systems. They explained 
to Mr F how their different security verification methods worked.
Its worth explaining that there have been increased requirements for banks to ensure the 
ongoing security of their OB systems. This is to protect against the growing problems of 
fraudulent access and transactions. To do this, banks have increased the levels of security 
required for customers to access their OB systems. Ultimately, these steps are as much to 
protect their customers as themselves.
Lloyds introduced such security enhancements. These focus on verifying the computer or 
device that is attempting to access Lloyds OB system. There are several ways this can be 
done. One of the more common is for Lloyds OB system to install a small file on Mr Fs 
computer. This means that when Mr F tries to access his account through the OB service, 
the Lloyds system recognises this file and verifies it. But the ongoing success of this method 
is reliant upon that unique file remaining on Mr Fs computer. If the settings on Mr Fs 
computer kept removing the file, this process would fail.
Lloyds confirmed theyd been no changes or adjustments to either their OB system or Mr Fs 
access throughout the period concerned. I havent seen anything during our investigations 
that would suggest otherwise.
Mr F has been clear that he hasnt knowingly changed anything on his computer that would 
now lead to his Lloyds OB access to start working normally. Ive no reason not to believe 
him. But Im also not a computer expert. Im not aware that Lloyds had any other significant 
reported problems. Also, Mr F was able to access Lloyds OB service successfully, when he 
used a computer in their branch. So, on the balance of probability and in the absence of any 
other evidence, its reasonable to conclude that the issue sat with Mr Fs own computer 
settings. I cant reasonably hold Lloyds responsible for that.I do sympathise with Mr Fs experiences here. During the period, he was having to manage 
this problem together with other personal pressures and distractions. Im sure that this made 
matters even more difficult and frustrating. But Im afraid I cant see that Lloyds have done 
anything wrong here. At all times, I think that they were genuinely trying to help Mr F to 
resolve his problem. Ive certainly not seen anything to suggest otherwise. 
I realise that Mr F will be disappointed, but I shant be asking Lloyds to do anything more 
here.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold Mr Fs complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr F to accept or 
reject my decision before 6 August 2021.
 
Dave Morgan
Ombudsman