DRN-1190135
Complaint
Mr B complains that Bank of Scotland plc trading as Halifax failed to understand his 
instructions for raising a chargeback, resulting in these being incorrectly refused. 
Background
Mr B requested chargebacks with Halifax over a dispute with a betting company. Mr B claims 
the betting company closed his account with them because it believed he was underage. Mr 
B says that Halifax failed to process his initial chargeback correctly or read his emails fully, 
which resulted in the chargebacks being incorrectly refused by the betting company.
Halifax disagreed and said although they didnt process the initial chargeback for the correct 
type of dispute with the betting company; Halifax did put this right and paid Mr B £50, as an 
apology. Halifax went on to say that the betting company had defended the chargeback and 
satisfied them that the services were provided so a refund wasnt due.  Mr B was unhappy 
with Halifax response and referred the matter to this service.
The investigator obtained the information needed but didnt uphold Mr Bs complaint, saying 
that Halifax had acknowledged their initial mistake and compensated him for any 
inconvenience caused. She felt Halifax had then followed the chargeback process correctly.  
Mr B was unhappy with this and asked for the case to be referred to an ombudsman.
My findings
Ive considered all the available information, evidence and arguments to decide whats fair 
and reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Im not upholding 
this complaint. Ill explain why.
The chargeback process allows customers to get their money back (in certain situations) if 
there is a problem with goods or services that they have paid for. Under the scheme rules 
Halifax (like other card issuers) do not have to process the chargeback - but we think its 
good practice to try if there is a good reason to do so. Its important to note that there is no 
guarantee that when a chargeback request is made that a refund will be successful or 
guaranteed.
I understand Mr Bs frustration with Halifaxs handling of the chargeback when they initially 
processed his request. Halifax did initially process a chargeback for the incorrect type of 
claim code and then resubmitted this under a different code. I can see they made a 
compensation payment of £50 for any inconvenience caused, which is in line with what I 
would expect here.
Ive also considered if Halifaxs handling of the chargeback claim, or any misunderstanding 
of Mr Bs emails, was the reason for Mr B not getting his money back - as this is a key part of 
Mr Bs complaint.  In this situation the chargeback was declined because the betting 
company provided Halifax with enough information to satisfy them that they had provided the 
services disputed by Mr B.  At this stage Halifax went back to Mr B and informed him that his 
chargeback requests had been declined and that he should deal directly with the betting company.  Given this ,Im satisfied Halifaxs earlier mistake wasnt the reason behind the 
refusal of the claim but that the betting company had refused the claim as it said it had 
provided the services for Mr B.  
I am satisfied Halifax did try to obtain a chargeback on Mr Bs behalf. While I can see its 
disappointing for Mr B that this didnt result in him getting his money back, Im satisfied 
Halifax have followed the chargeback process as far as the scheme allows in an effort to 
help. It is not for this service to decide whether or not the scheme rules or process are 
adequate but more about whether Halifax did what wed reasonably expect.    
I did also consider the chargebacks for additional transactions Mr B raised, but from the 
information I have available Halifax asked for additional information from Mr B to support this 
and I cant see this has been provided. 
I do understand that Mr B is disappointed with Halifaxs earlier handling of his request, but 
on balance I am satisfied that this wouldnt have affected the outcome of this chargeback. I 
dont think this is quite as straightforward as Mr B indicates. Noting everything, I think its 
questionable whether chargeback would have ever assisted Mr B in getting his money back 
in the circumstances relevant to his dispute with the betting company. In all the 
circumstances, I cant rightly say that Halifax has caused Mr Bs loss. Because as far as I 
can see, its still open to him to pursue his claim against the betting company to recover his 
funds by lodging a claim through the legal system.
If there is any fault directed at Halifax it is, in my view, their trying to help the customer by 
initiating a chargeback, when in hindsight they should have simply redirected Mr B back to 
the betting company before pursuing the chargeback. I dont feel I should penalize Halifax 
for trying to help as it wouldnt have altered the outcome here.
I can also understand that Mr B is upset and frustrated with the betting companys actions on 
his account but it isnt the responsibility of Halifax to resolve this under the chargeback 
process. Mr B has the opportunity to raise any grievance with the betting company to their 
regulatory body - these details were provided to him by Halifax and he may feel that this is 
an option for him. But overall, I am satisfied that Halifax did what they could to assist Mr B 
here. 
I know that my decision will come as a disappointment to Mr B but I cant ask Halifax to do 
anymore here. 
My Final Decision 
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 30 June 2020.
Barry White
Ombudsman