DRN-2484230
The complaint
Mr S on behalf of Mrs S has complained about the way Royal & Sun Alliance Insurance plc 
(RSA) handled a claim for water damage under her home insurance policy and the 
settlement it offered her.
What happened
Mrs S made a claim to RSA on 29 March 2019 after she discovered a leak in a pipe under 
the floor of her bungalow. There was significant damage to seven rooms in her home. Mrs S 
moved out of the property the next day. RSA paid for Mrs S to stay elsewhere while her 
property was being dried and repaired.
RSAs contractor took up the damaged flooring and stripped the property in order for it to dry 
out. Amongst other things it took out the base units and appliances from the kitchen together 
with the bath, toilet and basin from the bathroom. Due to various delays the property wasn't 
certified as dry until July. When the kitchen base units were returned to the property, various 
bits were found to be missing.
Mr S asked RSA for a cash settlement. At the end of August RSA offered Mrs S £7,665 to 
have all the repairs carried out. It paid her that amount plus interest in December 2019. Mr S 
wasnt happy with that. He thought RSAs offer had been based on an incomplete scope of 
works. He sent RSA a quote of £18,175 by Mrs Ss builder for the necessary repairs. This 
quote included a new bathroom and kitchen. RSA said the quote included works that werent 
necessary.
Mr S also complained to RSA about excessive delays and poor communication with regard 
to the claim. RSA accepted thered been poor service on its part and offered £250 
compensation for that.
Mr S brought a complaint to this service. He provided an invoice showing that Mrs S had 
paid £5,389 to have the bathroom repaired. The works carried out were different from those 
referred to in the original quote provided by Mr S. 
I issued a provisional decision upholding the complaint. An extract from my provisional 
findings is set out below:
Since September 2019 the parties have been in dispute about the scope of the works. RSA 
said it wouldnt pay for a bathroom suite or kitchen units since they hadnt been damaged by 
the water leak. In particular it denied that its contractor had removed Mrs Ss bath.
However, I can see from RSAs file a reference to it approving the removal of the bath and 
the fact that in the process some tiles were damaged. It may be that the contractor didnt 
think the bath was fit to be put back since the original leak had started under it. For whatever 
reason, photos show it was left to rust in Mrs Ss garden. So I think its reasonable that RSA 
should replace the bath.
The original scope of works prepared by Mrs Ss builder included £2,910 for works to the 
bathroom including a new bathroom suite. The invoice for works done to the bathroom 
comes to £5,389. This appears to include additional works including a change to the original 
layout, a new window, bricking up, a new shower and lighting. I dont think its reasonable to 
expect RSA to pay the additional cost of these works.
Ive seen photos of Mrs Ss kitchen after the base units were put back. I can see there are 
missing panels and plinths. Mr S says replacement parts arent available. RSA has referred 
to the fact that Mrs Ss policy doesnt cover matching sets and so it doesnt think it should be 
liable to replace the whole kitchen just because some parts wont match. However where 
loss or damage has been caused by an insurers agent, thats different from settling a claim 
under an insurance policy and the policy terms dont apply. 
I might have thought it reasonable if RSA had, for example, offered to replace the kitchen 
missing items with as good a match as possible and offered to replace the bath but not the 
toilet and basin. But now Im minded to say that over a year later its had more than enough 
time to consider this part of the claim. So I think it should settle the whole claim on the basis 
of the estimate of £18,175 from Mrs Ss builder. That means I intend to require RSA to pay 
£10,510 (being £18,175 less the £7,665 already paid) plus simple interest at 8% from 30 
August 2019 (being the date of the original settlement offer).
I can only look at the trouble and upset caused to Mrs S as the policyholder. Shes an elderly 
lady with some health issues. She had to move out of her home for over a year which was 
far longer than necessary due to delays on RSAs part and its failure to settle the claim fairly. 
I think RSA should pay her a further £350 compensation for that.
Mrs S agreed with my provisional findings. RSA made the following points:
The bath is plastic and so wouldnt have rusted. It had algae growing in it.
Its contractor had removed the bath but hadnt placed it in the garden.
It had chased Mrs Ss builder regarding the missing parts to the kitchen.
There was no cover for matching items under the policy.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
When RSAs contractor stripped the property, it took the other contents, including a number 
of bulky items, into storage. Im not sure why it didnt take the bath as well. I think it should 
have done if it was intended to reuse it. 
The bath may well have been put in the garden because it was in the way in the property. 
Since I think RSA was at fault for not taking it into storage, I think it should replace it. In my 
view few people would want to reuse a bath that had been standing in a garden for many 
months.
Mrs Ss builder quoted to replace Mrs Ss kitchen. Im not certain why RSA thought he could 
assist them regarding missing panels and plinths of the original kitchen. It might well not be 
in his interest to do so. Mr S first raised the issue of the missing kitchen parts with RSA in 
May 2020. The cost of new kitchen units in Mrs Ss original quote was £6,500. 
I wouldnt normally require an insurer to replace kitchen units for the sake of missing panels 
and plinths since these should be fairly straightforward to match even if exact replacements 
werent available. But since RSA hasnt taken any proactive steps to resolve this issue, for example, by getting quotes for replacements based on photos of the existing kitchen, I dont 
think its fair to expect Mrs S to wait any longer for her kitchen to be restored properly. RSA 
has had long enough to come up with a reasonable alternative to Mrs Ss quote. Since it 
hasnt done so, I think it should settle the claim on the basis of it.
As explained in my provisional findings, I agree that Mrs Ss policy doesnt cover matching 
sets. But this limitation only applies if the damage is caused by an insured event  in this 
case the original water leak. Where the kitchen is being replaced because of loss or damage 
by RSAs contractor, RSA isnt entitled to rely upon this exclusion.
Having carefully considered the points raised by RSA, I see no reason to change my 
provisional findings which now form part of this final decision.
My final decision
I uphold this complaint and require Royal & Sun Alliance Insurance plc to:
pay Mrs S £10,510 to settle her claim plus interest* from 30 August 2019 to the date of 
payment; and
pay Mrs S a further £350 compensation for trouble and upset.
*Interest is at a rate of 8% simple per year. If Royal & Sun Alliance Insurance plc considers 
that its required by HM Revenue & Customs to take off income tax from any interest due to 
Mrs S, it should tell her how much its taken off. It should also give Mrs S a certificate 
showing this if she asks for one, so she can reclaim the tax from HM Revenue & Customs if 
appropriate.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs S to accept or 
reject my decision before 9 February 2021.
 
Elizabeth Grant
Ombudsman