DRN-4191589
The complaint
Mr M complains that Lloyds Bank PLC registered a fraud marker about him at CIFAS.
What happened
Lloyds said it hadnt made a mistake. It received a report that funds paid into Mr Ms savings 
account in December 2018 were fraudulent. That money was transferred to his card 
account. And was all withdrawn using his debit card. A business decision was made to close 
his account and the marker was added. Lloyds said Mr M was provided with the opportunity 
to clarify events at the time. It didnt accept his version of events that this had happened 
because he lost his phone and card. So, the marker was maintained.
Our investigator didnt recommend that the complaint be upheld. She noted that Mr M said 
his laptop was stolen a few months earlier. And he said he had lost his card and phone. But 
she didnt agree that the marker was added incorrectly based on the information available.
Mr M didnt agree and wanted his complaint to be reviewed. He said that wed sided with 
Lloyds from the start. He wasnt happy with the outcome, and he was clearly the victim here 
and wants a referral to the ombudsman.
My provisional decision
I issued a provisional decision on 22 May 2023  as I wanted to explain how Id assessed the 
information Mr M had provided and allow him to comment. I set out below what I said.
I needed to consider whether the report to CIFAS was made fairly. On this point, Lloyds 
needs to have more than a suspicion or concern. It has to show it had reasonable grounds to 
believe that a fraud or financial crime had been committed or attempted. The evidence must 
be clear, relevant and rigorous.
What this means in practice is that a bank must first be able to show that fraudulent funds 
have entered the consumers account, whether they are retained or pass through the 
account. Secondly, the bank will need to have strong evidence to show that the consumer 
was deliberately dishonest in receiving the fraudulent payment and knew it was, or might 
be, an illegitimate payment. This can include allowing someone else to use their account in 
order to receive an illegitimate payment. But a marker shouldnt be registered against 
someone who was unwitting; there should be enough evidence to show deliberate 
complicity.
To meet the standard of proof required to register a CIFAS marker, the bank must carry out 
checks of sufficient depth and retain records of these checks. This should include giving 
the account holder the opportunity to explain the activity on their account in order to 
understand their level of knowledge and intention.
Id taken into account guidance from CIFAS about cases where someone receives 
fraudulent payments into their account like this  acting as a so called money mule. And 
that relevant factors in deciding whether Mr M was deliberately complicit in what happened 
include whether he knew or ought to have known that the money wasnt legitimate, whether 
he may have benefitted from the money by keeping part and whether he has provided 
generic or inconsistent explanations.
Id seen clear evidence that Mr Ms laptop and bicycle were stolen from a shed at his home 
in January 2018. He was compensated through court proceedings. In an email about his 
complaint in March 2022, he said he later lost his bank card and phone and that on 
realising he contacted Lloyds and was told that his account would be frozen. He was 16 at 
the time and a student. He says he also called Lloyds when he found out that it had 
decided to close his account and he went to a branch and discussed the fraud. He says 
that although he believed that things were resolved his account was closed. And even 
though hed paid back an overdraft of £53 his account was blocked again. Lloyds went on 
to consider his complaint and issued a final response in January 2023. 
We started investigating it and in a call with our investigator Mr M said that he lost his card 
and phone in mid-November 2018 and didnt remember the last time he used his card. He 
reported it to the school but not to police. He explained that his phone cover had a wallet 
for the card. His phone did have a passcode. He went to Lloyds with his father and 
reported this and his card was blocked, and he was issued with a new card. Mr M then also 
said to our investigator he might have mentioned his account number and sort code to 
friends online. His online banking was accessible from his laptop and phone, and he says 
had autofill for details. He later added in an email that he hardly even used the account. He 
also said that hed shared only his sort code and account number with an online friend in 
exchange for gaming coins at the end of October 2018.
Lloyds has no record of Mr M reporting his card lost before the payments on his account. I 
noted that a damaged card instead was recorded on 21 November 2018. And a card was 
reissued but no PIN sent out. I noted that the payments from his account in December 
2018 were made with the new card number. It discussed what happened with him in April 
2019 and he said that he had seen the credit on his statement but hadnt reported it. And 
that his card had been lost months earlier and he hadnt reported it. Mr M said he kept his 
PIN with his card.
Pulling things together Mr Ms version of events is that his phone and card were lost, and 
someone was able to access his account. While he clearly had a laptop stolen I didnt see 
the connection of this to what happened a number of months later. There is no record of 
him reporting his card lost before the payments. He didnt report any existing or new card 
lost. His phone did have a passcode and even if say a username was saved security 
information would still have been needed to access the online app. I noted that the money 
came into his savings account, was quickly transferred into a card account which required 
access to online banking and was then all withdrawn using the card and PIN. Mr M has 
admitted disclosing at least some of his account details for it seems gain. He hasnt given a 
consistent version of events. Taking all this into account I considered that its most likely he 
was complicit in what happened, and this could have involved him allowing someone else 
to use his bank details.
Lloyds says that it applied the CIFAS marker because Mr M  received fraudulent funds into 
his account. So, Id looked at whether it was fair to apply the marker, based on the evidence 
it had, and the investigation it carried out. CIFAS guidance says the business must have 
carried out checks of sufficient depth to meet the standard of proof set by CIFAS. 
Having reviewed Mr Ms account of events and the evidence he has provided, I was satisfied 
that Lloyds had sufficient evidence for the CIFAS marker to be recorded. In coming to this 
view, Id taken into account the following reasons:- Mr M received fraudulent funds into his account and didnt report this to Lloyds at the 
time.
- He authorised the withdrawal of the funds and so was in control of who had the 
benefit of this money.
- Lloyds had grounds to believe that Mr M had used fraudulently obtained funds based 
on the evidence it had.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Lloyds said that it didnt have any further comments to add.
Mr M didnt agree and stated that:
The second advisor failed to consider all circumstances, either you didnt mention to him, or 
he didnt consider ,as previously stated , in online game I shared account and sort code 
details with an online friend as he claimed he was closing his bank account and needed to 
transfer some money, I didnt think much of it and shared account and sort code as they 
werent confidential info.
I considered all the information that had been provided before I reached my provisional 
decision. Id taken into account a call Mr M had with our investigator. I referred to him saying 
that hed shared his account and sort code details online. But that this didnt explain how 
someone unknown could access his online banking and make a transfer between his 
accounts and also use the card and PIN to make a withdrawal. Having also taken into 
account what hes said in response to the provisional decision Im not persuaded that this 
makes any difference to the outcome and for the reasons Ive already given. I appreciate   
Mr M will be disappointed by my assessment.
My final decision
My decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 4 August 2023.
 
Michael Crewe
Ombudsman