DRN-3719458
The complaint
Ms K has complained about the service received from Cofunds Limited. Her complaint is 
about a transfer of her ISA funds from Cofunds to a third party. Ms K is unhappy with the 
transfer being cancelled and has said she has suffered financial loss because of this.
What happened
Ms K had a stocks and shares ISA with Cofunds. She decided she wanted to transfer the 
total value of this ISA, that being around £258,591 in cash to a cash ISA account with a third 
party. Ms K had plans to use the funds to purchase a retirement property. Ms K had already 
decided to sell all stock being held for the purposes of making it a cash transfer. She put in a 
transfer request form with the third party on 3 December 2021. 
Cofunds said it carried out the transfer using the details on the form on 13 December 2021 
and on the same day sent out a letter to say the transfer had been completed. It stated in 
this letter that it had transferred around £258,591. On 6 January 2022 the third party 
cancelled the transfer and sent a letter to Ms K confirming this. It said it had not received the 
funds.
Cofunds moved the total amount that was due to be transferred back to Ms Ks ISA account. 
She had an authority set up on her account that allowed Cofunds to buy and sell 
investments. This was called a Discretionary Fund Manager (DFM). Cofunds said this 
authority was still established and hadnt been cancelled, so after the funds were transferred 
back, automatically in February 2022 Ms Ks funds were reinvested back into stock. 
Since the transfer didnt happen, Ms K then requested that the money from her ISA be 
transferred to a current account and then onto a club saver account with the same third 
party. So again, Ms Ks stock needed to be sold to allow for a cash transfer. This took place 
on 30 March 2022 and this time the transfer completed. but by this stage Ms Ks total 
amount held with Cofunds had fallen to around £252,142. This was less than the total value 
of her stocks and shares ISA when she originally asked for the amount to be transferred. Ms 
K complained to Cofunds about this and said it was responsible for her investment losses 
here.
Cofunds responded to Ms K and said it transferred the cash to the third party, but the funds 
were sent back. It said it emailed the third party on 23 December 2021 to ask what it should 
do to transfer the money successfully and chased this request, but it didnt receive a reply 
from it until after it had cancelled the transfer. It then moved the money back to Ms Ks 
account and reinvested the money as the account still had an authority form attached to it 
that said it could do so. 
Ms K referred her complaint to our service as she was unhappy with Cofundss response. An 
investigator did not uphold Ms Ks complaint and said that Cofunds had transferred the 
money but had the funds returned. She said it looked like Cofunds had tried to resolve any 
problems with the transfer but didnt receive a reply. She also said there was an authority on 
the account and so Cofunds had not done anything wrong when it reinvested the cash 
before Ms K again sold the stock and then successfully completed the transfer.  
As the parties dont agree, Ms Ks complaint has been referred to me for a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ms K said there was a delay and cancellation of a transfer caused by Cofunds when she 
requested the total amount of her stocks and shares ISA be transferred to a third party in 
December 2021. Cofunds has not accepted responsibility for the cancellation and has said it 
received the funds back from the third party. It said it chased this up but didnt get a 
response until after the third party cancelled the transfer. So, I first need to consider what 
happened here and whether Cofunds was responsible for the transfer not going through.
Ms K says she put in a transfer request via the third party to Cofunds on 3 December 2021. 
10 days later Ms K received a letter from Cofunds saying the transfer was complete for 
£258,591 to the third party. Cofunds sent this letter because it says on that date it made 
payment for the total amount to the third party bank account details supplied to it. Cofunds 
stated that on 22 December 2021 the money was returned to it. I have looked at Cofunds 
notes on its system and it says on the 22 December 2021 that the money was returned from 
the third party.
Cofunds then states it made attempts to contact the third party and asked on one occasion, 
on 23 December 2021 whether it should attempt to transfer the funds again to the same 
account details or not. It then says it chased the third party on 5 January 2022. The third 
party said it did not receive the money from Cofunds, but that on balance, doesnt look like 
that is what happened here. I can see that according to the notes on Cofunds system and a 
screenshot, it tried to transfer the money and I can see that it has logged that the funds were 
returned to it. I have also read the email sent by Cofunds where it has asked the third party 
how it can transfer the money to it, and it has said it chased this up. I am satisfied that 
Cofunds both attempted to transfer the money and then tried to resolve things to make the 
transfer happen again.  
The third party then cancelled the transfer on 6 January 2022 as the 30-day transfer time 
frame it was working to had passed. It then sent a cancellation letter to Ms K and a day later 
emailed Cofunds asking it to call to discuss the transfer, albeit this was after it had cancelled 
everything, and it seems it was too late for the transfer to take place without all parties 
starting afresh.  
So, I think on balance, Cofunds are not responsible for the breakdown and eventual 
cancellation of Ms Ks transfer request put in on 3 December 2021. I say this because it has 
been able to show that it attempted to transfer the money and tried to chase up how it could 
do so again. 
 
Ms K feels she has incurred an investment loss, as the transfer delay caused the overall 
value of her ISA to fall. This is because once the transfer was cancelled the funds were 
returned to Ms Ks stocks and shares ISA by Cofunds. Ms K held an agreement where these 
funds would be invested and during the period from the cancellation of the transfer to the 
time, she was able to move the funds instead to the third party savings account on 30 March 
2022, the total value of her investment had fallen. This is because there was an automated 
reinvestment of her funds by Cofunds under the existing DFM agreement which remained in 
place for the account. I can see that this is covered by the agreement that she had in place. 
Cofunds has explained that the agreement was kept active on Ms Ks account, and under the terms and conditions would only have been cancelled by written instruction. Although I 
think Cofunds reinvesting the cash funds was clearly not what Ms K wanted it to do, and only 
occurred because of the breakdown of the cash transfer, I cant see that Cofunds did 
anything wrong when it reinvested.
In conclusion, I dont think Cofunds did anything wrong when it attempted to transfer Ms Ks 
cash to a third party for the reasons I have given. And although the reinvestment of cash 
back into stock was not something that Ms K wanted, there was an authority still in place and 
I dont think Cofunds did anything wrong here either. 
My final decision
For the reasons given, my decision is that I do not uphold Ms Ks complaint about Cofunds 
Limited.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms K to accept or 
reject my decision before 27 June 2023.
 
Mark Richardson
Ombudsman