DRN-4060845
The complaint
Mrs B complains that Aviva Life & Pensions UK Limited didnt send her information about her 
policy over the years. She complains that this has meant she missed an opportunity to keep 
her life and critical illness benefit at a higher level.
What happened
Mrs B took out a policy in 1996 with a life and critical illness benefit of around £37,000. The 
policy benefit increased for the first five years annually with indexation. The first review of the 
policy was in 2006 and no changes were required. The policy had further reviews in 2011 
where the sum assured reduced to around £37,000 and then in 2016 when the sum assured 
reduced to around £17,000.
Mrs B received an update in 2021 and realised her sum assured had reduced and 
complained. She explained that she hadnt received some of the reviews over the years, or 
annual statements, so was unaware her policy benefit had reduced. Aviva said it had sent 
out the reviews, but could see it failed to send out copies when it had agreed to do so. It paid 
her £150 compensation.
Our Investigator didnt think the complaint should be upheld. He explained that hed seen 
Aviva had sent out the reviews to the addresses it had on file and it had updated Mrs Bs 
address when shed asked it to. Our Investigator also explained that whilst Aviva had told 
Mrs B some of the letters werent sent automatically, hed seen evidence to show that the 
letters had been sent out manually. So, he was satisfied that Aviva had sent the right 
correspondence to Mrs B. The Investigator felt the £150 compensation was fair and 
reasonable.
Mrs B disagreed and asked for an Ombudsman to reach a decision. She provided messages 
to show shed asked for her address to be updated before but that Aviva had failed to do so.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The crux of this complaint is that Mrs B didnt receive her policy review letter in 2016 which 
told her that shed need to pay a higher premium otherwise her policy benefit would reduce 
to around £17,000. Mrs B has said that she didnt have the opportunity to take action and 
would have if shed received the review. So, Ive focused this decision on whether Aviva 
made a mistake here.
Ive seen a copy of the review from 2016 and it was sent to an address that Mrs B lived at 
from 2015 to 2016. I can see a confirmation was sent to Mrs B in November 2015 to show 
her address had been changed. The review letter was dated October 2016 and was sent to 
this address.
Mrs B has told us she moved to her new address in September 2016  a month prior to the 
review being sent. Mrs B says she prioritised updating her address with Aviva but I cant see 
evidence of this  and we have evidence of call notes spanning this time. Her address was 
updated successfully in April 2020 to her current address. Ive seen Mrs Bs emails to Aviva 
prior to this date showing shed obviously been trying for some time to ensure her address 
was the same across her policies  but Ive not been persuaded that she had updated Aviva 
of her address before the review went out. Because of this, I dont find Aviva is at fault if Mrs 
B didnt receive her review letter in 2016. It follows that because of this, I dont think it would 
be reasonable for Aviva to put the policy back in the position it would be in had Mrs B 
accepted an increase in premiums.
I can see that Aviva had manually sent out some reviews to Mrs B due to a system glitch, 
but Im satisfied the evidence Ive seen shows they were sent to her. In any event, these 
didnt contain her policy benefit  this was only included in the reviews. I can see the next 
review was sent in 2021 and it was this that prompted Mrs Bs complaint. And for the 
reasons Ive explained above, I dont think Aviva did anything wrong in sending the review to 
the address it had for Mrs B in October 2016.
I have noted that Aviva didnt send Mrs B the copies of the statements when it said it would. 
Im also mindful that Ive seen copies of some statements dated 2021 with her old address 
on it which wouldve caused frustration. Im satisfied from Mrs Bs receipt of her most recent 
review that Aviva does have the correct address on file for Mrs B, and I think the £150 
compensation it has sent her is fair and reasonable for the frustration this has caused. So, I 
wont be asking Aviva to do anything more.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs B to accept or 
reject my decision before 16 May 2023.
 
Charlotte Wilson
Ombudsman