DRN-2609403
The complaint
Miss T has complained about poor customer service from Target Servicing Limited in 
relation to its administration of a Help To Buy (HTB) loan. The loan was taken out jointly with 
Miss Ts former partner, Mr D. Mr D has signed the complaint form to give his consent, but 
the complaint concerns only Miss T and her dealings with Target. Miss T says that the 
mistakes and delays by Target resulted in her incurring financial loss, as well as 
considerable inconvenience and upset.
  
What happened
The events leading up to the complaint have been set out in detail in the correspondence 
between the parties and the Financial Ombudsman Service, so I will not set out all the 
details here.
Briefly, in 2017 Mr D and Miss T bought a property together, with both a first charge 
mortgage and a HTB loan from Homes England. The HTB loan is administered by Target. 
In July 2019 Miss T told Target that she wanted to substitute another party for Mr D on the 
HTB loan. Target explained that it wasnt possible to add a new party to the HTB loan, so 
this would have to continue in Miss Ts sole name. At the same time, Miss T was going 
through a Transfer of Equity and arranging a new mortgage product, which was to be in the 
joint names of Miss T and another party. Target confirmed that Miss T was able to change 
the first charge mortgage in this way. 
Target explained what Miss T needed to do and the documents it needed to see. Miss T 
instructed her solicitors in August 2019, and by November 2019 the solicitors had done 
everything necessary for the transaction to proceed. Miss T was keen to complete by the 
end of November 2019, because her existing mortgage was due to move onto Standard 
Variable Rate (SVR) on 1 December 2019, increasing her monthly mortgage payments by 
£541.76 per month.
Unfortunately, on 15 November 2019 Target sent the documentation Miss Ts solicitors 
needed to complete to an incorrect email address and Miss Ts solicitors didnt receive it.
On 18 December 2019 Homes England decided not to allow the addition of a third party to 
the first charge mortgage. Target neglected to let Miss T or her solicitors know this, even 
after the solicitors contacted Target twice, on 9 January 2020 and 23 January 2020 chasing 
the documentation.
In the meantime, Miss Ts mortgage had reverted to SVR and she was having to find another 
£541.76 each month. It wasnt until 9 May 2020 that the transfer of equity went through and 
Miss T and her new partner were able to move the mortgage onto a new fixed rate of 1.49%. 
Miss T also paid off the HTB loan at the same time as taking out the new mortgage.
In response to Miss Ts complaint, Target accepted it had made mistakes. Target 
reimbursed the solicitors, surveyors and administrative fees involved in paying off the HTB 
loan. Target asked Miss T to provide a copy of her original mortgage offer so that it could 
look at any other claim for compensation. Miss T provided this, but Target didnt reimburse 
Miss T for the higher mortgage payments shed had to make.
In total, Target paid £1,029 compensation for the fees incurred by Miss T in paying off the 
HTB loan. Miss T didnt think this had gone far enough, so she complained to the Financial 
Ombudsman Service.
Our investigator thought the complaint should succeed and that Target should reimburse 
Miss T for the higher payments shed had to make on SVR. She was satisfied that if Target 
hadnt made the mistake of sending documents to an incorrect email address in November 
2019, the transaction would, in all probability, have been completed before Homes England 
decided to withdraw its consent to changes to the first charge mortgage on 18 December 
2019.
With regard to the additional monthly mortgage payments, the investigator noted that Miss T 
had sent Target what it had asked for  a copy of her original mortgage offer to show when 
the fixed rate changed to a variable rate, plus her bank statements. But because Target 
didnt ask for a copy of Miss Ts new mortgage offer showing the repayments she would 
have made if Target hadnt made the error, the investigator found that Target had rejected 
Miss Ts claim for the additional payments without being in possession of all the information.
The investigator said that if Miss T provided details of her new mortgage offer, then Target 
should reimburse the difference between the payments shed had to make at SVR and those 
she would have made on the new mortgage if it had completed by 1 December 2019. She 
also thought Target should pay compensation of £200 for trouble and upset. This information 
was provided, but Target still declined to reimburse Miss T for the additional payments. 
Target also didnt think it should pay any compensation for trouble and upset, 
As the matter remains unresolved, it falls to me to issue a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Because Target has accepted it made errors, I dont have to establish whether it is at fault; 
this is not in dispute. What I have to decide is whether the redress already paid for 
reimbursement of fees in closing the HTB loan  a total of £1,029  is fair and reasonable, or 
whether Target should pay any further redress.
Specifically, the investigator thought Target should reimburse Miss T for the payments shed 
made on SVR until she was able to complete her new mortgage, but Target hasnt agreed to 
do so. Target also says that it has apologised to Miss T and doesnt agree to pay 
compensation for trouble and upset.
Im satisfied that, but for the mistakes made by Target, this transaction would have been 
completed before the end of November 2019, thus avoiding Miss T moving onto SVR and 
incurring significantly higher payments for several months. The error which caused this delay 
was Target sending documents to an incorrect email address. In addition, Target asked 
Miss T to send it a copy of her original mortgage offer so it could consider redress, but not 
her new mortgage offer, and then rejected her claim without all the evidence it needed to 
properly assess it. Im satisfied this caused Miss T trouble and upset.
Overall, Im satisfied that the service provided by Target fell short, and that Miss T has 
suffered financial loss and distress and inconvenience as a result.  
Putting things right
In the circumstances, in addition to the £1,029 already paid, Im satisfied that Target should 
reimburse Miss T for higher repayments she had to make for the months of December 2019 
to April 2020 inclusive  a total of five months. 
Target must also pay interest at 8% per annum simple on the additional mortgage payments, 
calculated on each amount of £541.76 from the 1st of each month the payment was due in 
the months of December 2019 to April 2020 inclusive, from the date the payment was due, 
up to the date of payment of this award of compensation. 
Im also satisfied that Targets actions caused Miss T distress and inconvenience for which a 
payment of compensation is warranted. I think £200 is fair and reasonable.
Total redress is therefore as follows:
Additional mortgage payments £541.76 x 5 £2,708.80
Interest at 8% per annum simple calculated as set out above*
Compensation for trouble and upset £   200.00
Total (not including interest) £2,908.80
* If Target considers that it is required by HM Revenue & Customs to withhold
income tax from any interest, it should tell Miss T how much it has taken off. Target should 
also give Miss T a tax deduction certificate if requested, so the tax can be reclaimed from 
HM Revenue & Customs if appropriate.
 
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint. I direct Target Servicing Limited to pay 
Miss T the redress and compensation set out above, in full and final settlement of this 
complaint.
 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr D and Miss T to 
accept or reject my decision before 6 July 2021.
 
Jan O'Leary
Ombudsman