DRN-3601233
The complaint
Mr H complains that Santander UK Plc unfairly closed his account and lodged a fraud 
marker against him with CIFAS.
What happened
Mr H received fraudulent funds into his account, after agreeing to help out someone who he 
shared accommodation with. Mr H explained that he was asked to receive the funds into his 
account and give his flatmate the cash. Mr H wasnt aware at the time the funds were from a 
fraudulent source and believed he was helping his flatmate out.
When Santander received information that the funds Mr H had received were from a 
fraudulent source, they attempted to ask Mr H about them in a phone call to him. Mr H 
thought the call was suspicious and ended the call.
Santander continued to look into the matter and decided to close the account and lodge a 
fraud marker with CIFAS - a national anti-fraud organisation. Santander advised Mr H that 
they were closing his account and gave him 30 days notice.
Mr H followed up this notice with a call to Santander where he explained what had happened 
and that he was also the victim of the actions of his flatmate. The Santander call handler 
who spoke with Mr H thought that Mr H had been spoken to earlier that day, but Mr H denied 
this. Mr H confirmed that hed ended a call some months earlier because he thought it was 
suspicious. Santander went ahead with the account closure and the lodgement of the CIFAS 
marker. 
Mr H complained to Santander who didnt change their position because they hadnt 
received any evidence that showed Mr H was entitled to the funds. Mr H then brought his 
complaint to the Financial Ombudsman Service for an independent review where it was 
looked into by one of our adjudicators. Both parties were asked for information about the 
complaint and Mr H repeated his explanation about what had happened. Santander provided 
details of their investigation and contacts theyd had with Mr H.
Our adjudicator didnt think that Santander had met the appropriate standards required by 
CIFAS when they lodged a marker, but he did consider theyd followed their terms and 
conditions when they closed the account. Mr Hs complaint was partly upheld, and 
Santander agreed to remove the CIFAS marker. They later agreed to offer Mr H £100.
Mr H disagreed with the outcome and wanted Santander to re-open his account and for any 
compensation payments to be reconsidered. Mr H wanted to address issues he had with the 
adjudicators review but hasnt added anything further.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Part of Mr Hs complaint was upheld, so I dont need to consider the issue concerning the 
lodgement of the CIFAS marker. But, Mr H wants Santander to re-open his account and for 
the compensation to be reviewed.
When Santander told Mr H his account was to be closed after 30 days, they were doing this 
based on the terms and conditions contained in the agreement between them and Mr H. Ive 
reviewed those conditions and they provide an option for Santander to reduce the notice 
they provide (which is usually 60 days) when they believe the account holder (here Mr H) 
has either:
  a) act abusively, offensively or violently towards our staff; or
 b) become bankrupt; or
 c) misuse your account; or
 d) act dishonestly with us; or
 e) act in any way to give rise to reasonable suspicion of fraud or other criminal activities.
Santander received the report from the sending bank that confirmed the funds Mr H had 
received were from a fraudulent source. Their review of the account showed that Mr H made 
a withdrawal the same day that corresponded closely to the amount received fraudulently. 
Santander were satisfied the account had been used to receive and move on fraudulent 
funds. I think at this point they had sufficient grounds to believe there was a significant 
breach of the terms of the account.
Ive thought about Mr Hs explanation of how he came to be involved with these funds and 
his story isnt an uncommon one. Mr H believed he was helping out a flatmate, but in fact 
was drawn into moving funds that had been received from a fraudulent source. 
Santander have the right, as do account holders, to close the account. Santander are 
required to follow the terms and conditions for the account and here they gave Mr H 30 days 
notice. Im satisfied that Santander met their terms and conditions when they closed it and I 
wont be asking them to do anything more concerning this.
Compensation
Mr H explained that hed incurred costs when dealing with Santander and they offered to pay 
him £100. I asked Santander about the levels of compensation theyd offered, and theyve 
increased this to a total of £200. Ive thought about this payment and whether it reflects an 
appropriate amount for how Mr H was treated and the impact it had on him. Mr H explained 
that there was no direct financial impact caused by the marker and hes told us that this 
wasnt about compensation. 
Mr H believed the marker and the closure of his account was linked to a business he was 
operating  that he was unable to continue with, in part, due to the actions related to his 
account. Having reviewed the evidence, and the fact that the account was a personal one in 
Mr Hs name, I havent seen anything that would suggest the actions of Santander were 
responsible for matters related to his business. Overall, I think that Santanders offer is a fair 
one and I wont be asking them to increase this beyond their revised offer of £200. 
Phone callThe Santander call handler who spoke with Mr H thought that Mr H had had an earlier call 
that same day. Mr H was adamant that he hadnt spoken with Santander apart from one a 
few months earlier. Having looked at Santanders records, they record only the one call to Mr 
Hs number on the day in question. But, there are notes recorded on the same day (as the 
call to Mr H) by Santanders investigator that refer to the earlier aborted call to Mr H. There 
are two dates within the records  one related to the investigators assessment and one for 
the date of the call. So, it appears that the details may well have been misread by the call 
handler who spoke with Mr H about the earlier call. I appreciate Mr H thought that the 
missing call was significant, but thats not my assessment of what happened. In any case, 
the facts of what went on and Mr Hs position have been well represented in the complaint 
and its this thats relevant to my considerations when making this decision.  
Putting things right
Santander have agreed to remove the CIFAS marker, which I think is the appropriate action 
for them to take. They also agreed to pay Mr H £200. I dont think that Santander were 
breaching their terms when they closed the account and wont be asking them to change 
this.
My final decision
My final decision is that Santander UK Plc are instructed to:
Remove the CIFAS marker if they havent already done so.
Pay Mr H £200.
For the avoidance of doubt, I dont uphold the account closure complaint and wont 
be instructing Santander to reopen it.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 August 2022.
 
David Perry
Ombudsman