DRN-2534684
The complaint
Mr S complains that a car he obtained through a hire purchase agreement with 
BMW Financial Services (GB) Limited was misrepresented to him. He also complains that he 
was forced into deciding to terminate the agreement.
Mr S wants BMW to refund the following, plus interest at 8%:
Cost of four tyres (£578.28).
Cost of repairs carried out prior to handing the car back (£589.55).
The amount paid on voluntary termination (£1.715.30).
Monthly payments paid under the terms of the hire purchase agreement (£14,004).
And he would like compensation equivalent to the cost of the new car hes obtained of 
around £51,000.
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties and were clearly set out by our 
investigator, so I wont repeat them again here. Instead Ill focus on giving my reasons for my 
decision.
Our investigator didnt recommend that the complaint should be upheld. She concluded, in 
summary, that:
She couldnt consider Mr Ss complaint about the complaint he raised in April 2018 
because Mr S accepted BMWs offer of four new tyres and he didnt bring his complaint 
to this service within six months of BMWs final response letter.
She hadnt seen evidence that there was a fault with the alloy wheels when the car was 
supplied.
BMW wasnt obliged to fit new tyres in November 2019.
The amount Mr S was asked to pay when he voluntarily terminated the agreement was 
in line with the terms and conditions.
Mr S didnt agree with our investigators conclusions. He said, in summary, that:
The car was mis-sold  it should have been brand new, but it was fitted with refurbished 
parts.
He accepted BMWs offer of new tyres in 2018, not realising there was a more deep-
rooted problem. The tyres needed replacing again in 2019. This wasnt due to wear and 
tear but because of the underlying fault with the alloy wheels.
The garage fitted bald tyres back onto the car which made it unsafe to drive.
BMW accepted the alloy wheels were refurbished. He should receive compensation.
He had to pay more than £2,000 to return the car. He was forced to voluntarily terminate 
the agreement to return the car for the safety of his family.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In considering what is fair and reasonable, I need to have regard to the relevant law and
regulations, regulators rules, guidance and standards, codes of practice and (where
appropriate) what I consider to have been good industry practice at the time.
Having considered everything, I agree with the conclusions reached by our investigator for 
these reasons:
Was the car misrepresented to Mr S?
The relevant law says, amongst other things, that the car should not have been 
misrepresented to Mr S. If it was, and if I thought Mr S would not have proceeded with the 
deal if hed been aware of the true facts, then I would think BMW was responsible and Id 
ask it to take some further action.
Mr S obtained a brand-new car. Within three years he says the alloys were blistering. Mr S 
says the member of staff at the servicing garage concluded that the car had been fitted with 
refurbished alloy wheels. The garage fitted new alloy wheels at no cost to Mr S. When he 
collected the car, another member of staff said the alloys hadnt been refurbished.
Whilst I wouldnt have expected the alloys to deteriorate as quickly as they did, Ive not seen 
enough evidence for me to conclude that the alloy wheels werent new when the car was 
supplied. And I havent seen anything else to suggest that the car wasnt new, as described.
Having concluded the alloy wheels were, in all likelihood, new when the car was supplied, 
Im not persuaded that the car was misrepresented to Mr S.
Was the car of satisfactory quality?
The relevant law says that under a contract to supply goods, there is an implied term that 
the quality of goods is satisfactory. As such, in order to uphold this complaint, I would have 
to be persuaded that the car wasnt of satisfactory quality and so a breach of contract has 
taken place.
In deciding whether a car is of satisfactory quality, some of the factors to consider are its age 
when it was supplied, how much mileage the car covered since it was supplied and how long 
after supply the fault materialised.
The car was brand new, so its reasonable to expect it to be fault free for a reasonable 
period of time.
Mr S complained about a noise around a year after the car had been supplied. BMW 
replaced the tyres which seemed to resolve the problem.But Mr S says this was linked to the issue with the alloy wheels  and that the tyres needed 
replacing again only a year later. Ive considered this carefully. But for me to require BMW to 
take further action, I would have to conclude that the alloy wheels were not of satisfactory 
quality when the car was supplied. Whilst I would not have expected the alloy wheels to 
blister, Ive not seen evidence  such as an independent report  to show that there was a 
fault when the car was supplied. Mr S has provided photos to show the worn tyres, but 
I cant be sure  in the absence of an inspection report  that this was caused by a fault 
rather than wear and tear.
I am aware Mr S feels very strongly about this issue and Im sorry to disappoint him, but Im 
not persuaded that the car was of unsatisfactory quality when it was supplied.
Voluntary termination of the agreement
Mr S says he felt he had no other option but to return the car and terminate the agreement. 
He was worried about the safety of the car, particularly when the servicing garage failed to fit 
new tyres when it changed the alloy wheels. 
Ive set out above why I cant conclude that the car was of unsatisfactory quality when it was 
supplied. So I cant hold BMW responsible for the actions of the servicing garage when it 
didnt replace the tyres in 2019. 
Mr S had lost faith in the garage by this point and was worried that the car was unsafe. 
I think the tyres needed replacing, but Ive not found that BMW was obliged to pay for the 
new tyres. Ive not seen anything else which would persuade me that Mr S couldnt drive the 
car. He chose to voluntarily terminate the agreement, which is a right allowed under the 
terms of the agreement.
Having done so, he was obliged to pay the amount due as set out in the terms of the 
agreement.
He was also obliged to return the car in roadworthy state and free from damage. So I dont 
find theres any obligation on BMW to refund the costs he incurred to ensure this.
I appreciate Mr S feels very strongly about this matter. And that this has been very stressful 
for him. He has mentioned that he intends to pursue this matter through the courts if this 
service does not uphold his complaint. And, if he rejects my decision, he will be free to do 
this.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, my final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 24 May 2021.
 
Elizabeth Dawes
Ombudsman