DRN-3620966
The complaint
Mr and Mrs M have complained about the service they received from Barclays Bank UK PLC
(Barclays) when they asked it to help them get a refund for flights that were cancelled due to 
the Covid-19 pandemic.
What happened
Mr and Mrs M bought flights, in November 2019, for £3,550.72, through an online travel
agent who I will refer to as O. They paid using Mr Ms Barclays debit card. The flights were
due to depart on 3 April 2020 but were cancelled by the airline. Mr and Mrs M tried to contact
O for a refund initially but without success. In March 2020 they contacted Barclays for help to
get a refund.
Barclays wrote to Mrs M on 30 March 2020. It said it had submitted a payment dispute with
Os bank and had temporarily refunded £3,550.72 pending the outcome of the investigation. 
Shortly after this Mr and Mrs M booked replacement flights at a similar cost. 
In April 2020 Barclays said the refund request was defended by O. It has said it wrote to Mrs
M and enclosed documents from O in support of its defence for her to review. Barclays said
if the documents didnt resolve her dispute, she should write and explain why within 10 days.
And if it didnt hear back, it said it would assume she no longer wanted the disputed payment
to be looked into. Mr and Mrs M have said they didnt receive this letter.
In June 2020 Barclays wrote to Mrs M. It said it hadnt been able to recover the disputed
funds from O so couldnt refund her.
In July 2020 Barclays debited £3,589.14 from Mr and Mrs Ms account. Mrs M called
Barclays and complained about this. She said the chargeback process hadnt been
explained and no updates had been provided after the chargeback was raised. Mrs M
said if shed known the credit was temporary, she wouldnt have booked new flights with the
funds.
On 18 July 2020 Barclays wrote to Mr and Mrs M and said their account was overdrawn and
as no payment had been received since its last contact, it had cancelled their debit cards.
On 24 July 2020 Barclays sent its final response not upholding Mr and Mrs Ms complaint. In
summary, it said having listened to the call of 30 March 2020, it had provided clear and
correct information regarding the chargeback. Barclays said it was unable to log the dispute
again as a dispute could only be raised once through VISA. Barclays re-credited the
difference between what it took in July 2020 and the original transaction amount (around
£39) which it put down to exchange rate discrepancies.
Mrs M continued to make several calls to Barclays between July and August 2020 to discuss
the chargeback claim further. Mrs M said that during this time she requested a copy of the
merchants defence to the chargeback but didnt receive this for several weeks, phone calls
werent returned and the emails from Barclays didnt answer the queries shed raised.
Mr and Mrs M continued to try and contact O directly to obtain a refund. Mrs M confirmed
they received a refund in November 2020 after they had instigated court proceedings against
O.
After the case was referred to our service, Barclays said it couldve done more to help Mr
and Mrs M and offered to pay them £100 for the distress and inconvenience it caused.
I issued a provisional decision in June 2022 setting out that Barclays needed to do more to 
put things right. I explained (in summary) that:
Some of the issues Mr and Mrs M experienced resulted from them rebooking new 
flights before a refund had been confirmed on the old ones. And Barclays had 
written to Mr and Mrs M to explain the credit was temporary. So not all of these 
issues were attributable to Barclays.
However, Barclays decision to accept the defence provided by O in response to 
the chargeback was not reasonable. 
Os defence said it was not responsible for any cancellations made by the airline 
as it was an agent and only responsible for booking the flights  which it had 
done. If Barclays had considered this in accordance with the chargeback scheme 
rules and guidance it would have seen this was a weak defence as agents were 
responsible for chargebacks where services had not been provided. So, it should 
have continued to pursue the chargeback.  
Barclays had therefore unfairly denied Mr and Mrs M the opportunity to get their 
money back. 
Mr and Mrs M would likely have received their money back if the chargeback had 
been pursued more robustly as it appeared the flights they booked were not 
provided.  
If this had happened in accordance with normal chargeback timescales, its most 
likely Mr and Mrs M would not have had to issue court proceedings against O and 
wouldnt have gone overdrawn in July 2020 (with the resultant loss of their debit 
cards). 
Barclays should pay Mr and Mrs M compensation of £250 to reflect the distress 
and inconvenience these issues caused them. 
It should also remove any adverse information that may have been recorded with 
the credit reference agencies in respect of the overdraft between July 2020 and 
November 2020.  
Barclays agreed with my provisional decision but said it couldnt guarantee that it would 
remove any adverse information recorded with the credit reference agencies.  
Mr and Mrs M said they reluctantly accepted my provisional decision but made the following 
points:
They believed Barclays communications in March 2020 were telling them the credit 
was temporary until O refunded them, so thought it was ok to use the money and 
rebook flights. 
The compensation awarded amounts to little over £1 per day and doesnt make up 
for what they went through.What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive considered what Mr and Mrs M said about what led them to believe they could spend the 
temporary credit. Barclays letter to them of 30 March 2020 said: 
We have looked into your disputed payment. We have now raised this with the 
company(s) for you.
We have temporarily refunded the amount of £3.550.72 in to your account pending 
the outcome of our investigation. Please be aware that an investigation like this 
usually takes between six and eight weeks.
Mr and Mrs M said they thought this meant the funds would be in their account until O 
refunded them. But I dont think this is what the letter is saying. I think the letter makes it 
clear enough the credit is contingent upon the result of an investigation. 
I explained in my provisional decision that while Barclays took longer than eight weeks to 
confirm the result of the investigation, Mr and Mrs M had already spent the credit a few days 
after receiving this letter. So, even if Barclays had responded within the timescales given, it 
wouldnt have changed the fact the money had already been spent. 
As I explained in my provisional decision however, I think things would have transpired 
differently if Barclays had continued to pursue a chargeback  as it should have done. And I 
still think it should pay compensation for the distress and inconvenience it caused Mr and 
Mrs M by failing to do this. 
I know Mr and Mrs M think the compensation should be higher but I still find £250 to be a fair 
reflection looking at everything that happened.  
Turning lastly to Barclays comments that it cant guarantee it will remove any adverse 
information recorded with the credit reference agencies; Ive seen Mr and Mrs Ms account 
statements and I am persuaded they went overdrawn in July 2020 because the sum in 
dispute was re-debited. And as Ive concluded this wouldnt have happened if Barclays had 
continued to pursue the chargeback, I still find it must remove any adverse information 
recorded with the credit reference agencies as a result. I remind Barclays this direction is 
binding on it if Mr and Mrs M accept my decision. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold Mr and Mrs Ms complaint. To put things right Barclays 
Bank UK PLC must:
Pay Mr and Mrs M £250 compensation for the distress and inconvenience it caused 
them, and;
remove any adverse information recorded with the credit reference agencies about 
Mr and Mrs Ms account between July 2020 and November 2020.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M and Mrs M to 
accept or reject my decision before 1 September 2022.
 
Michael BallOmbudsman