DRN-4234218
The complaint
Mr R complains about the way Tesco Personal Finance PLC handled his request for money 
back in respect of an annual golf membership he paid for using his Tesco credit card.
What happened
In July 2021 Mr R renewed an annual membership at a golf club Ill call C. He paid £430.50
using his Tesco credit card. The full cost of the membership was around £600, and also
included some additional affiliation costs of around £30. Mr R used £172.50 of credit with C 
towards the cost which hed accumulated as a result of the course being closed the previous 
year due to the Covid-19 pandemic.
Mr R has said there were a number of things that were unsatisfactory during his membership
including:
The course was poorly maintained throughout the year despite written promises 
before he renewed his membership that improvements would be made to it. In 
particular the greens, approaches and tee areas were either in poor condition or 
replaced with temporary greens  which were not proper putting surfaces. 
C went out of business in March 2022 and some of the benefits included with his 
membership were not honoured by the new company that took over  such as a 10% 
discount at the clubhouse.
One of the smaller courses on the complex was reduced from 18 to 9 holes and was 
also of a poor standard.
Mr R asked Tesco to help him get a refund of the membership fee, (less the affiliation costs 
of around £30) in June 2022.
Tesco considered its liability to Mr R under Section 75 Consumer Credit Act 1974. It offered 
to pay Mr R £116.61 to account for what it thought was the period between C going out of 
business and the end of his membership. But it didnt think it was liable to Mr R for the whole 
cost of the membership. It said that although improvements to the course might have been 
promised, they were not contractually guaranteed and the course was available to Mr R to 
use. So, it didnt think there had been a beach of contract by C, save for the period it thought 
his membership hadnt been available for him to use. 
I issued a provisional decision in June 2023 setting out the findings I planned to make. I said 
(in summary):
Id considered whether by way of its potential liability to Mr R under Section 75 
Consumer Credit Act 1974 (section 75) or via the chargeback process, Tesco 
should reasonably have met Mr Rs request for money back.
Tesco was only liable to Mr R under Section 75 if there had been a misrepresentation 
or breach of contract by C. 
I thought it was unlikely there had been a misrepresentation. I wasnt persuaded C 
had no intention of following through on the promises it made to Mr R before he 
renewed his membership in July 2021 that it would make improvements to the course 
and surrounding grounds. So, I didnt think C had said something that was untrue at 
the time it was said. 
I found that Mr Rs contract with C would have included terms implied by the 
Consumer Rights Act 2015 (CRA) that any service provided would be done so with 
reasonable care and skill. 
It seemed likely to me that reasonable care and skill in this case would include 
maintaining the golf course to the standard that other competent providers of the 
same kind of service would have given at the kind of price Mr R paid for his 
membership.
Research suggested that the average cost of annual golf club membership was £900 
so I thought Mr R had paid around a third less than average. While I didnt think this 
meant he should have expected the course to be of a poor standard, it was still a 
relevant consideration in considering what the standard of other competent providers 
might have looked like.
I thought Mr R had provided convincing evidence there had been problems with the 
greens, approaches and tee areas on the course in the year before he renewed his 
membership. But I didnt think hed provided much in support of those problems 
persisting during the period of his membership from July 2021 to July 2022.
Nevertheless, Id seen communications from the new operators of the course in May 
2022 appearing to acknowledge inconvenience to members as a result of the 
irrigation system not functioning properly. 
I found (on the balance of probabilities) that the problems Mr R had demonstrated 
were present in the previous year before he renewed his membership, were likely to 
have been the inconvenience referred to in Cs communication. So, I thought they 
were likely present to some extent until at least May 2022. 
I thought this meant it was likely the service Mr R bought wasnt always provided with 
reasonable care and skill. The course had not been maintained to the standard one 
might reasonably have expected. 
I didnt think the withdrawal of the 10% discount at the clubhouse was a breach of 
contract as it didnt appear from the available evidence that Mr R was contractually 
guaranteed to receive it.
I also didnt think the removal of 9 holes of the par 3 course was a breach of contract 
and I found it likely Mr R would have known about this before he decided to renew 
his membership. 
I thought that Mr R likely had the right to ask for a price reduction, as a result of Cs 
lack of conformity to the contract (it not being possible in the circumstances to require 
repeat performance of the service). 
I noted that Mr R had continued to use the course for the period of his membership  
albeit with impairment. I also thought that Mr R would likely have known from 
communications C had sent him shortly before he renewed his membership, that 
some of the problems with the course would not be resolved overnight and as such 
would persist for some of the period of his membership. 
I pointed out that although Tesco had offered to pay Mr R a sum of money to reflect 
the period it thought his membership was not available after C went into 
administration, the evidence Id seen suggested the golf course did not shut and that 
Mr Rs access to the course was not in fact interrupted. 
With everything considered I thought that £150 (which I said equated to around 25% 
of the cost of the membership) was likely an appropriate price reduction in the 
circumstances. I said I planned to ask Tesco to pay this sum to Mr R, less anything it 
already paid to him. 
I didnt think Mr R would have been able to secure more than this if Tesco had raised 
a chargeback. There were dispute conditions set out in the card schemes rules for 
where services werent as described or defective, but I didnt think the circumstances 
of Mr Rs dispute fitted neatly enough into any of these.Mr R did not agree with my provisional decision. He said, in summary:
C did not make the improvements to the course that it promised on several 
occasions.
C couldnt have had the intention to make these improvements as it went out of 
business during the membership so must not have had the money to make them. 
The average cost of golf memberships in his area was not £900 and was more like 
£750
He used the par 3 course extensively and would often take friends who were 
beginners to use it. The best part of the course, with the best layout, was the part that 
was built upon. No notice was provided by C that this would happen. He also only 
found the information about this on social media when he was researching about his 
complaint and not before he renewed his membership in July 2021.
The 10% discount at the clubhouse was a part of the contract and was listed on the 
membership form and club brochures as a part of membership.          
For the majority of the membership period the main greens were not available for use 
and poorly prepared areas of grass were used instead. He didnt submit any non-
competition handicap cards because of this.
He should be able to claim for considerably more than Id planned to tell Tesco to pay 
him. 
Tesco did not respond to my provisional decision within the time I asked it to. 
The complaint was therefore returned to me for a final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
There doesnt appear to be any disagreement from either party (in part due to Tesco not 
responding to my provisional decision in time) that C failed to provide some of the 
membership benefits with reasonable care and skill  it having failed to maintain the golf 
course(s) to a reasonable standard during Mr Rs period of membership. So, I see no reason 
to change my finding that C was likely in breach of contract in respect of the standard of the 
golf courses.
Where Mr R disagrees is whether there were other benefits of membership that he didnt 
receive which he should have, such as a 10% discount at the clubhouse and half of the par 3 
course for some of the membership period. He also disagreed with what I said an 
appropriate price reduction might have been in the circumstances.  
Ive thought very carefully about everything Mr R has said about these things in his response 
to my provisional decision. I asked Mr R for some more information about when half of the 
par 3 course became unavailable. He said he thought that building work began during the 
period of his 21/22 membership but hes not entirely sure when that part of the course 
became unavailable. From what Ive been provided, its not clear enough to me that the full 
18 holes of the par 3 course was a benefit that was available to Mr R when he renewed his 
membership in July 2021. So, I still dont find there to be persuasive evidence of a breach of 
contract in respect of this benefit.  
The membership brochure Mr R has provided (which is for the 2020/21 season) said that a 
discount in club was a benefit of membership  although it didnt specify how much. So, I 
accept on reflection that Mr R was likely promised a discount of some kind in the clubhouse. The terms and conditions of membership I have been provided with said that C was able to 
vary the terms of its contract  which might have been a defence to the removal of a benefit. 
Its very possible however that such a provision may have been considered unfair under the 
unfair contract terms provisions of the CRA as it provided for unilateral variation of the 
contract without agreement of both parties. And that would usually result in the term not 
being binding. Its possible therefore that the loss of this benefit was a breach of contract.
I asked Mr R about his average weekly spend in the clubhouse which he said was around 
£15-£20. The receipts he provided as part of his file of evidence suggest a spend on the 
lower end of that estimation. On that basis it appears Mr R lost out on around £24 from when 
the discount was no longer available until the end of his membership period (10% of £15 for 
around 16 weeks). 
Thinking about all of this, along with what Mr R told us about his overall use of the 
membership since my provisional decision (around two rounds of golf per week), and the 
impairment to that use, I still think the sum Im requiring Tesco to pay is fair compensation 
for what Mr R lost out on. 
I appreciate Mr R has given a detailed account of what C said it was going to do to improve 
the courses before he agreed to renew his membership. I still dont think this was a 
misrepresentation as I still havent seen enough to persuade me C had no intention of 
making the improvements. I take Mr Rs point that C went out of business. But that didnt 
happen until around eight or nine months into the membership. So, I dont think this is 
indicative of it having no intention around the time Mr R renewed his membership. 
It's possible, by way of section 50 of the CRA that the statements C made before Mr R 
renewed his membership became part of the contract. But even if that were the case, I still 
think it would be fair to assess the overall benefit Mr R received from the membership when 
deciding what an appropriate price reduction as a result of the failure to keep those promises 
might look like. 
Mr R pointed out the average cost of golf club membership was lower in his area than the 
figure I quoted in my provisional decision of around £900. The figure I quoted came from 
England Golf from a study it carried out 2018. But even if that figure was slightly lower in Mr 
Rs local area (Mr R said it was around £150 cheaper), I dont think it changes my findings 
as to what fair compensation looks like. I say this because the price was only one of a 
number of factors in determining what the standard of another competent provider might 
have looked like. And the difference between Mr Rs figure and the one I quoted is not 
significant. 
Overall therefore, I find it fair and reasonable that Tesco pay £150 to Mr R.
My final decision
For the reasons I have explained above, my final decision is that I uphold Mr Rs complaint 
in part. To put things right Tesco Personal Finance PLC must pay Mr R £150. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision before 17 August 2023.
 
Michael Ball
Ombudsman