DRN-3789051
The complaint
Mr and Mrs H complain that GE Money Consumer Lending Limited (GE Money) unfairly
turned down their claim under s.75 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974 (CCA).
What happened
Mr and Mrs H bought a timeshare membership from a business Ill call X in 2001. The
cost of the timeshare was $10,465 (£7,528.78) which was funded by a loan from First
National Bank Plc. As GE Money are now responsible for this complaint, I will refer to GE
Money throughout. The loan was in Mr and Mrs Hs joint names and set to run for 10
years. The loan was repaid in 2005.
Mr and Mrs H, together with their representative, have said that when they took out the
timeshare X misrepresented it to them. They say that had they known what X said
about the timeshare wasnt right, they would not have taken it out in the first place.
Additionally, theyve said X failed in its duty of care towards them and applied undue
pressure towards them during the sale. They say that X failed to assess the ongoing
implications of the maintenance fees on Mr and Mrs Hs circumstances. To support
these arguments, theyve raised s.75 CCA and s.56 CCA. Finally, they argue that X
wasnt an FCA authorised broker and in brokering this credit it breached provisions of
the Financial Services and Markets Act 2000 (FSMA).
In 2019 Mr and Mrs H complained to GE Money. To summarise, it responded to say as the
sale took place in 2001 and the complaint had been raised too late under the relevant
provisions contained in the Limitation Act 1980 (LA). It also argued that a number of the
other points raised were about information exchanged during the sale and as GE Money
wasnt present, these points needed to be raised with X directly.
One of our adjudicators looked into the complaint and didnt think GE Money needed to
do anything further. To summarise, they agreed that the claim under s.75 CCA had been
brought too late, so they didnt think GE Money needed to consider the substance of the 
claim. They also thought the s.140A CCA claim was raised too late and that the complaint
about the affordability of the loan fell outside the ombudsmans jurisdiction. This was
because the loan was taken before the ombudsman service had consumer credit
jurisdiction. As an agreement wasnt reached Mr and Mrs Hs representatives asked for
an ombudsmans decision.
I issued a provisional decision setting out why I wasnt minded to uphold this complaint. In 
my provisional decision, which forms part of this decision, I said: 
Mr and Mrs H say that X misrepresented the nature of the timeshare membership to 
them when they bought it. But under s.2 of the LA, Mr and Mrs H had to make this 
claim within six years of when they entered into the timeshare. This is because thats 
when they say they lost out having relied on false statements of fact. Mr and Mrs H 
purchased the timeshare in 2001 and didnt raise their claim until 2019, so they were 
outside the time limits set out by the LA. Ive also not seen any grounds to suggest 
that the limitation period should be extended in this case. So, it follows that Mr and 
Mrs H have complained too late and I dont think it was unfair of GE Money to decline 
their claim.
Ill now go on to address some of the other points Mr and Mrs Hs representative 
have raised. Ive noted theyve said that Mr and Mrs H were pressured by X during 
the sale and that this could be considered under s.56 CCA. However, s.56 CCA 
doesnt give a standalone cause of action for a claim to be made. It might be possible 
that the alleged pressure could have been relevant when considering whether there 
was a misrepresentation. However, Ive already explained above why I think that 
claim was made too late so I cant consider this further. Theyve said X failed in its 
duty of care towards Mr and Mrs H, however I dont agree that X owed Mr and Mrs H 
a duty of care in the way theyve described. And finally, theyve argued that X was 
not a Financial Conduct Authority authorised broker. However, this loan was 
brokered in 2001 and consumer credit brokering wasnt a regulated activity until 
2014. So X didnt need to be and FSMA didnt apply to the brokering of this loan.
I also appreciate the adjudicator provided an opinion on a s.140A CCA claim, 
however I cant see a s.140A CCA claim was raised. So I wont be considering it as 
part of this decision. (I would highlight that given when the loan was repaid, s.140A 
CCA is unlikely to apply to this agreement, although I make no finding on this.) I also 
cant see a complaint about the affordability of the loan/ loan repayments was raised, 
so again I wont be addressing this as part of this decision.
I asked both parties to provide me with anything further they would like me to consider 
before I reached a final decision. Neither party provided anything further in response. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I see no reason to depart from the findings made in my provisional decision. 
So it follows that I dont uphold this complaint. To summarise, I think the s.75 
misrepresentation claim was raised outside the relevant limitation period set out in the LA 
and as such, I dont think GE Money acted unfairly when it declined their claim. 
My final decision
For the reasons explained above, I dont uphold this complaint against GE Money Consumer 
Lending Limited.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr and Mrs H to 
accept or reject my decision before 2 December 2022.
 
Claire Lisle
Ombudsman
