DRN-4109824
The complaint
Mr N complains about the way his car insurance claim was handled and settled by Admiral 
Insurance (Gibraltar) Limited.
What happened
At the relevant times, Mr N had car insurance underwritten by Admiral. He made a claim in 
October 2021 after a tree fell on his car during a storm.
Admiral accepted the claim and declared Mr Ns car a total loss. They paid Mr N £5,666 in 
settlement, less an excess of £360.
Mr N wasnt happy with this and made a complaint to Admiral. He said his car has been 
undervalued. 
He also thought he shouldnt have to pay he excess  which applied based on who was in 
charge of the vehicle at the time - because he wasnt in charge of the vehicle at the time of 
the accident, it was parked on his drive. 
And he wanted Admiral to pay for the cost of removing the tree.
Admiral accepted the car has been undervalued and paid Mr N a further £71  plus interest 
on that amount (which came to 43p). But they said the excess had been properly applied. 
They had also refused to pay for the cost of removing the tree given that Mr N had removed 
it himself at no cost.
Mr N wasnt happy with this outcome and brought his complaint to us. Our investigator 
looked into it and upheld the complaint in part. He thought that even the second valuation 
Admiral came to was an undervaluation of the vehicle. 
He said Admiral should value the car at £6,496.75. And pay Mr N the difference between 
that figure and what hed already been paid (with interest). But he said the excess had been 
applied fairly and he didnt think Admiral should have to cover the cost (to Mr N) of removing 
the tree.  
Admiral agreed with the proposed outcome. Mr N disagreed and asked for a final decision 
from an ombudsman.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr N believes the car in still undervalued, at £6,496.75. He says he shouldnt have to pay 
the excess because of the way the policy terms are set out. And he wants Admiral to pay 
him for removing the tree so that the car could be salvaged. Ill consider each of those 
issues, in that order, below.
The valuation of the car
We believe that, where a vehicle has been written off, the correct way for an insurer to 
estimate the value of the car is by using the established motor industry trade price guides. 
These give valuations based on actual sale prices for vehicles in the current market.
Admiral say they used one of those guides (Glasss) to arrive at their original valuation of 
Mr Ns car. When he queried that, they upped the valuation by £71 after consulting another 
guide (CAP). This matched the highest of the two valuations.
Our investigator looked at two further guides (Cazoo and Autotrader) and asked Admiral to 
match the average price of the four guides. Admiral have agreed to do this. 
Thats now entirely in line with what we would expect from an insurer when valuing a vehicle 
thats been written off.
Mr N says he found a similar car for sale at £8,900 (its not clear from the information we 
have whether Mr N actually purchased that car).
That car was two years younger than Mr Ns written-off car. Mr N thinks that because the 
wording in the policy says Admiral will pay for him to replace his car with a similar one (not 
the same, but similar), he should be paid the market value of the younger car  which is 
similar but not the same.
The policy actually says that Admiral will pay the market value of the vehicle, defined as: 
 the cost of replacing your vehicle with one of a similar make, model, year, 
mileage and condition 
Mr N goes so far as to suggest he could have replaced his vehicle with any car at all  all 
cars being similar  and expected Admiral to pay for it.
I dont accept Mr Ns argument, which is somewhere beyond optimistic and somewhere 
beyond any reasonable reading or understanding of the policy terms. 
Any reasonable reading of the policy terms suggests Admiral will look to pay for a car which 
is a match for the vehicle being replaced. And theyve done this by estimating  using the 
accepted trade guides  the market value of Mr Ns car at the time of the accident. 
As Ive said, thats exactly what we would expect them to do. But its quite right that our 
investigator has asked them to re-assess their valuation looking at the full range of accepted 
industry guides rather than just two of them. And Admiral have now accepted that and 
agreed to pay the valuation that we came to.The excess
The excess charges relating to Mr Ns policy are set out in the policy schedule. Its arguable 
that these are rather more complicated than in most policies, though I suspect Admiral would 
say that gives better value and/or more choice for at least some of their customers.
There are three different claim situations set out in the section on excess charges. One 
relates to windscreen repairs and another to claims relating to fire or theft. Neither therefore 
applies in Mr Ns case.
The other sub-section says that where a claim is made (by implication at least any other 
claim than those specified in the two irrelevant  in this case - sub-sections) and the 
policyholder has comprehensive cover (which Mr N does), than an excess is payable based 
on who is in charge of the car at the time of the accident.
If that person is over 25 years of age (as is Mr N) and has had a full licence for more than a 
year (as has Mr N), theres a compulsory excess of £60 (there are higher compulsory 
excesses for younger and/or less experienced drivers). 
Mr N chose a voluntary excess of £300 on top of that. So, the total excess to be applied in 
the specified circumstances is £360  which is the excess Admiral have charged Mr N in this 
particular case.
Mr N says no-one was in charge of the vehicle at the time of the accident. He was inside his 
house, his car was parked on the drive, a tree fell on it because of the storm. Mr N says 
because no-one was in charge of the vehicle, no excess should be charged.
Again, I dont agree with Mr N. Although in this case, I can see why he thinks no-one was in 
charge of the vehicle. 
Even if hes right about that  and I dont think he is, for reasons Ill explain  I think most 
readers would assume that the intention of the policy wording is clear. In cases where a 
claim is made and its not about windscreens or about fire or theft, then an excess will apply. 
And then the policy tries to set out which excess will be applied. I dont think, in other words, 
it would be a natural reading of the policy terms to suggest no excess applies at all.
More fundamentally though, I think its mistaken to say Mr N wasnt in charge of the vehicle 
in the circumstances he sets out. I know he wasnt driving it  or indeed, in it at the time. 
But if we take an everyday meaning of being in charge of something, that means having 
control of or responsibility for that thing. And Mr N was of course responsible for his car at 
the time.
Legally, theres no absolutely clear definition of what being in charge of a thing means. But 
many legal commentators or experts suggest that being in charge of a vehicle means being 
the legal owner and/or being in possession of the vehicle (whether driving it or not) unless 
its being driven by someone else or control of it has been relinquished to someone else.
In other words, if no-ones driving a car, its in the charge of the owner. I think Mr N may - 
understandably perhaps - be thinking about what it means to commit an offence of being 
drunk (or otherwise intoxicated) in charge of a vehicle. But thats not entirely relevant when it 
comes to insurance claims, rather than criminal proceedings. And in any case, those 
proceedings will only be brought where the car is on a road or other public place.In summary, I dont think its unreasonable for Admiral to apply an excess charge in Mr Ns 
case. I think it would be relatively clear to anyone buying the policy that an excess would 
apply where a claim was made. And Admiral have applied the smallest excess from the 
range set out in their policy schedule on the basis of Mr Ns age and experience as a driver.
The tree removal
Mr N told Admiral hed got a quote from a company to remove the tree and dispose of it. The 
proposed cost being £600 plus VAT. But because that company couldnt give hm a definite 
time and date for the work, Mr N removed the tree himself. 
He thinks Admiral should pay him for the time and effort involved in carrying out the work. 
And it appears he thinks the starting point for any discussion about that payment would be 
the £600 plus VAT quoted by the company he spoke to.
Where a vehicle is written off, it becomes in effect the property of the insurer  who will often 
defray some of the cost of settling the claim by selling the vehicle for salvage. Thats the 
position reflected in Mr Ns policy. And its what happened to Mr Ns car in this case.
The policy says nothing about recovery of the vehicle so that it can be passed to the insurer. 
The terms set out what Admiral will cover  which is the damage to or loss of the vehicle 
and/or its contents. 
Theres no indication that Admiral will cover the cost associated with making the vehicle 
recoverable. Theres clearly no intention in the policy terms to remove trees or any other 
debris from Mr Ns property after a storm.
I dont think its unreasonable or unfair then for Admiral to refuse to pay for the cost of 
removing the tree. And in this particular case, Mr N incurred no costs in any case.
When Admiral put this to Mr N, he said that his company (he has an aviation business) had 
moved the tree and incurred the costs. As Admiral pointed out, it would be difficult for an 
aviation business to price the removal of a fallen tree, which is presumably not a part of their 
actual business activity.
So, I dont think Admiral need to cover any cost to Mr N (or his business) of removing the 
tree, which would have had to be done anyway irrespective of whether there as a car under 
it at the time or not. 
Putting things right
Im partly upholding this case because its only after our involvement that Admiral agreed to 
pay the valuation of the car estimated by our investigator. 
That being the case, Im going to require Admiral to pay the difference between what theyve 
already paid Mr N (which was less the excess) and the valuation we came to after 
researching the four trade guides (again, less the excess). 
Admiral were right to add the interest  at 8% simple  when they first reviewed Mr Ns 
settlement figure, from the date the claim was closed (23 November 2021) to the date the 
additional payment was made. And Im going to require them to do the same again in 
respect of the further amount were now telling them to pay.For the reasons Ive gvien above, Im satisfied it was reasonable for Admiral to charge the 
excess. Im also satisfied Admiral didnt act unfairly in refusing to pay Mr N for the removal of 
the tree. So, Im not going to ask Admiral to do anything more in relation to those aspects of 
Mr Ns complaint.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I uphold Mr Ns complaint in part.
Admiral Insurance (Gibraltar) Limited must now pay Mr N the difference between the sum 
already paid to him and £6,496.75  less the excess of £360. They must also add interest at 
8% a year simple to that amount  calculated from 23 November 2021 to the date the 
payment is made.
If Admiral Insurance (Gibraltar) Limited considers that they are required by HM Revenue & 
Customs to deduct income tax from that interest, they should tell Mr N how much theyve 
taken off. They should also give Mr N a tax deduction certificate if he asks for one, so he can 
reclaim the tax from HM Revenue & Customs if appropriate.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr N to accept or 
reject my decision before 7 June 2023.
 
Neil Marshall
Ombudsman