DRN-1958380
The complaint
Mr and Mrs R complain that the Co-operative Bank Plc (trading as Britannia) mis-sold them a 
payment protection insurance (PPI) policy alongside a mortgage. Ill refer to the business as 
the Co-op in the rest of this decision. 
What happened
Mr and Mrs R took out a mortgage through the Co-op in 1996. At the same time they took 
out a PPI policy covering Mr R only for unemployment, for up to 12 months per successful 
claim. The policy was free for the first 12 months. It covered their monthly mortgage 
repayment of £300 per month.
Our adjudicator didnt uphold the complaint. Mr and Mrs R didnt accept our adjudicators 
view, so their complaint comes to me to for a decision. They said the mortgage and PPI 
was sold through a broker and he told them that if they didnt take PPI, they wouldnt get 
the mortgage. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Our general approach to complaints about PPI is on our website and Ive followed it 
here. 
Ive decided not to uphold Mr and Mrs Rs complaint. Ill explain why.
I cant know what was discussed when the insurance was added. So, as well at taking into 
account what Mr and Mrs R recall from the time of sale, Ive looked at the paperwork that 
was used and signed at the time the mortgage and PPI was taken out. 
Looking at the paperwork, I can see that the mortgage application form made it clear that 
PPI was optional, and Mr and Mrs R signed to say they didnt want PPI. On the mortgage 
offer, PPI wasnt a condition of the mortgage. So, I think they wouldve understood from all 
of this that they didnt have to take PPI to get the mortgage.
Later, Mr R signed a separate application form to apply for PPI. So, looking at that 
application, I think it likely that PPI was discussed separately from the mortgage 
application and Mr R opted to take PPI and thats why it was added. 
Co-op says it didnt recommend the policy to Mr and Mrs R. Mr and Mrs R believed PPI had 
been recommended at the meeting with the broker. Again, I cant know what was 
discussed, but I think it more likely that the policy wasnt recommended to them as it wasnt 
Co-ops policy at the time to recommend PPI. But for the avoidance of doubt, I have also 
thought about whether the policy wouldve been unsuitable for their needs if this had been a 
recommended sale. And whether it was recommended or not, Co-op had to give Mr and   
Mrs R information that was clear, fair and not misleading about the PPI so that they could 
make an informed choice about whether it was right for them and they wanted to buy it. 
If there was a problem with the sale, then I need to consider whether I think Mr and Mrs R 
have lost out because of that.
Although only Mr R was covered under the policy, I have taken into account Mrs Rs 
circumstances too when deciding if PPI was right for them in their circumstances.
I cant see that this policy was unsuitable for their needs at the time of sale. Ill explain why.
 Mr R appeared eligible to take out PPI given his circumstances.
 Mr R was working at the time of sale and said he couldnt remember if he 
wouldve got any pay through work if he was made redundant. The policy 
wouldve paid out on top of any redundancy pay and for up to 12 months per 
successful claim. So, I think this couldve provided Mr R with a valuable benefit to 
protect their home, even more so if he had no cover through work. 
 They said they didnt have any savings or insurances. So, it looks like the policy 
couldve provided them with useful cover if Mr R was out of work. 
 The premium was paid monthly. They didnt have to pay anything for PPI for the 
first 12 months. They couldve cancelled it at any time without losing out 
financially. They didnt have to pay interest on the premiums. Given the policy 
was free, it was clearly affordable at the time they took it out.
Its possible Co-op couldve given Mr and Mrs R clearer information. But, for the 
reasons explained, I think they wouldve likely still taken out the policy because of the 
protection it afforded in their circumstances and it appeared suitable for their needs 
and affordable.
My final decision
My decision is I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr and Mrs R to 
accept or reject my decision before 16 October 2020.
 
Kim Parsons
Ombudsman