DRN-2620069
The complaint
Mr W held a current bank account, called a 123-account, with Santander UK Plc 
(Santander). According to certain conditions, Santander paid interest to customers with 123-
accounts. Mr W thinks Santander applied its conditions to him unfairly and declined to pay 
him all the interest that was due to him. He wants it to pay him the interest to which he thinks 
he is entitled at least in part. 
What happened
Mr W opened his 123-account during 2015. I understand he did so online. For quite a while, 
Santander paid him the interest he expected. However, several years later, when he 
checked his bank statements, he noticed that he had not received any interest since 
approximately May 2018. Santander hadnt told him about this lack of interest, which he 
thinks is unfair. 
One of our adjudicators has already looked into the complaint and didnt think that Santander 
had acted unfairly. The adjudicator didnt recommend that Santander should pay any interest 
to Mr W. Mr W didnt agree with the adjudicators findings and asked for an ombudsman to 
review his case. So, it has come to me to make a final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive looked into everything that M W and Santander have told us or sent us about the 
complaint, and Ive decided not to uphold it. Ill explain why. 
Santander charges customers a monthly fee for the 123-account. In return it provides 
several benefits. For example, customers can earn financial rewards, known as cashback 
for certain types of purchase they make with the account; and while an account is in credit 
by a certain amount, Santander pays a higher rate of interest than it usually offers to 
customers with other types of current account. 
To qualify for the interest (and cashback), Santander requires customers to meet certain 
conditions. It describes these in a document called Key Facts. I have seen a version of this 
from around the time Santander sold the 123-account to Mr W. On the first page it had a 
section called Interest and Cashback which set out the eligibility rules for these two 
benefits. These rules said that to qualify for the two benefits, customers must: 
Pay in at least £500 a month.
Have at least two active direct debits.
Pay the £2 monthly current account fee (*).
For earning credit interest only, have a minimum current account balance of at least 
£1,000.
(Santander changed some of these conditions, such as the monthly fee, from time-to-time, 
but these changes do not affect the outcome of this complaint).
Although I cant tell for sure what information Mr W saw when he bought the 123-account 
online, I understand that Santanders online process did bring the relevant rules to Mr Ws 
attention and made him aware of them. Indeed, he has largely accepted this. He also 
accepts that during the period Santander didnt pay him any interest, he didnt have two 
active direct debits. However, the crux of his complaint is that he thinks Santander should 
have alerted him to this so he could have corrected things and once again qualified for 
interest. 
Mr W has explained that the  reason  for (his) complaint  is if you pay a fee to manage  your 
account  (Santander)  should  keep  you informed  that you are not complying  (with the 
eligibility  rules  for interest)  which  Santander  never  did.
I accept  that Santander  did not specifically  inform  Mr W that he wasnt  earning  interest,  
although  this may have  been  apparent  his bank  statements  and online  account  records,  
but I dont  think  it was obliged  to do so. I havent  seen  anything  in its publicity  material  or 
terms  and conditions  which  implied  it would  do this. And as Im satisfied  that it brought  
the eligibility  rules  to Mr Ws attention,  I dont  think  it did anything  wrong.  
Mr W has made several further points to explain his case, amongst other things hes said 
that: 
during the time in question, Santander continued to provide cashback, so it was 
unfair not to continue with the interest,
Santander has reduced the frequency of postal bank statement from monthly to 
quarterly and has recently added new text about the eligibility rules for interest, 
Santander does write letters to customers if they fail to comply on bounced direct 
debits (and similar things); So, he thinks that it should do the same thing if they stop 
earning interest. 
I do not know why Santander continued to provide cashback to Mr W in the way he has 
described, but I dont think this meant it behaved unfairly when it stopped paying him 
interest. Similarly, I dont think that the changes it has made to the frequency and content of 
its statements, or the other letters that it may write to customers, show that it should have 
continued to pay Mr W interest. I think Santander behaved reasonably.
My final decision
For the reasons I have set out above, I am not upholding Mr Ws complaint about Santander 
UK Plc. I am not going to tell it to pay him any interest
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 11 April 2021. 
Steve Townsley
Ombudsman