DRN-4006691
The complaint
Ms E was a deferred member of an occupational pension scheme (OPS). She had accrued 
benefits with the scheme during service between 1992  2001.
In 2021, Ms Es scheme offered deferred members like her, an enhanced cash equivalent 
transfer value (CETV) in exchange for giving up any future claims to a pension from the 
scheme. Her options at the time enabled her to remain in the scheme without any changes. 
However, the OPS was essentially incentivising Ms E to consider transferring away to a type 
of personal pension arrangement. For this, there was a legal requirement to first obtain 
regulated financial advice.
As part of the incentive, a firm called WPS Advisory Limited was contracted to provide 
independent financial advice at no cost to members. To keep things simple therefore, Ill 
refer mainly to WPS.
The crux of Ms Es complaint is that there was a relationship breakdown between her and 
WPS. She says WPS acted unreasonably by ultimately ceasing to advise her anymore. She 
says this caused her to lose access to the free advice and so to get access to her CETV by 
transferring her pension, she had to pay another financial adviser. This cost her several 
thousand pounds which Ms E thinks is unfair. She thinks WPS should compensate her for 
this outlay which wouldnt have been necessary had WPS gone ahead and issued the 
advice as promised.
What happened
Between September and November 2021, Ms E engaged with WPS. She had several 
telephone and video call meetings with advisers at WPS in which her circumstances and 
objectives were discussed. The plan was that WPS would provide an advice report which 
would either recommend she should stay in the DB scheme she was already in, or transfer 
her benefits away to a type of personal pension arrangement. 
Ms Es CETV contained an enhanced element of £29,165 which meant if she transferred 
away by a certain date, then shed get around £416,460 which she could move to a personal 
scheme, provided she first obtained the necessary regulated financial advice; this was a 
requirement of pensions law. However, before the CETV offer was due to expire WPS told 
Ms E it didnt want to continue engaging with her any longer. It said it wouldnt be providing 
her with advice.
Ms E complained first to WPS saying this was unreasonable and also unduly close to the 
CETV enhancement deadline. WPS said it didnt do anything wrong and it was Ms Es 
difficult approach that caused the relationship problems. It provided reasons as to why it 
didnt want to continue advising her, which she didnt agree with. 
Having complained to our Ombudsman Service, one of our investigators comprehensively 
looked at Ms Es complaint. They said we shouldnt uphold it because they thought WPS had 
been reasonable with her. 
She still doesnt agree with this, so Ms Es complaint has been passed to me for an 
ombudsmans final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive taken into account relevant law and regulations, regulators rules, guidance and 
standards and codes of practice, and what I consider to have been good industry practice at 
the time. This includes the Principles for Business (PRIN) and the Conduct of Business 
Sourcebook (COBS). Where the evidence is incomplete, inconclusive or contradictory, I 
reach my conclusions on the balance of probabilities  that is, what I think is more likely than 
not to have happened based on the available evidence and the wider surrounding 
circumstances.
The applicable rules, regulations and requirements
The below is not a comprehensive list of the rules and regulations which applied at the time 
of the advice, but provides useful context for my assessment of WPS's actions here.
PRIN 6: A firm must pay due regard to the interests of its customers and treat them 
fairly.
PRIN 7: A firm must pay due regard to the information needs of its clients, and 
communicate information to them in a way which is clear, fair and not misleading.
COBS 2.1.1R: A firm must act honestly, fairly and professionally in accordance with 
the best interests of its client (the client's best interests rule).
The provisions in COBS 9 which deal with the obligations when giving a personal 
recommendation and assessing suitability and the provisions in COBS 19 which 
specifically relate to a DB pension transfer.
Having considered all the circumstances in this case, Ive decided not to uphold Ms Es 
complaint. 
Introduction
My starting point here is that I think the investigator provided a very detailed and 
comprehensive response to both parties. Ms E thinks there hasnt been a good enough 
investigation, but Im afraid I strongly disagree. I can see the investigator has clearly spent a 
great deal of time on this. They carefully set out the timeline of events and the various 
contacts the parties had with each other. Theres no real dispute about what happened from 
a timeline point of view and so I dont intend to set all this out again. The question is simply 
about whether WPS acted reasonably in terminating the relationship.
Nevertheless, Ive also carefully considered everything which has been said. Ive looked at 
the information and documentation from the time. And Ive personally listened to the 
telephone conversations and observed video meeting recordings which took place during the 
advice process between the parties. 
Like our investigator, its based on this evidence that Ive too reached the conclusion WPS 
doesnt need to take any further action. Our investigator referred to the General Client Agreement which set out the terms of 
business and so formed the basis of the advice service WPS provided. Ms E agreed to those 
terms. As regards the termination of services, it said:
You or we may terminate without penalty, our authority to act on your behalf at any 
time during this advice process.
In my view, this left the way open for either party to withdraw fairly easily from the process. 
As well as considering this, Im also able to take account of whether I think a firm has acted 
fairly and reasonably from a wider perspective. So, to explore this fully its important to 
understand WPSs regulatory obligations when advising on DB transfer advice.
The regulatory obligations and rules in place at the time
When considering whether or not to transfer a DB scheme, the regulator  the Financial 
Conduct Authority (FCA)  has made it clear that an adviser should  as a starting point  
assume that transferring would be unsuitable unless it could clearly be demonstrated to be in 
the clients best interests:
"When advising a retail client who is, or is eligible to be, a member of a defined 
benefits occupational pension scheme or other scheme with safeguarded benefits 
whether to transfer, convert or opt-out, a firm should start by assuming that a 
transfer, conversion or opt-out will not be suitable. A firm should only then consider a 
transfer conversion or opt- out to be suitable if it can clearly demonstrate, on 
contemporary evidence, that the transfer, conversion or opt-out is in the client's best 
Interests." (COBS 19.1.6).
COBS 19.1.2R also says:
A firm must: (1) compare the benefits likely (on reasonable assumptions) to be paid 
under a defined benefits pension scheme with the benefits afforded by a personal 
pension scheme or stakeholder pension scheme, before it advises a retail client to 
transfer out of a defined benefits pension scheme;
Quite rightly, these rules set a high bar for DB pension transfer advice. Typically, when 
exiting such a scheme, members give up valuable guarantees and benefits which often 
include index-linking, certain death benefits and a pension for life. 
As our investigator pointed out, this means that WPS could only provide a positive 
recommendation to transfer where it was satisfied doing so is in the clients best interests. In 
my view, it wouldnt be enough for WPS to have agreed simply to facilitate the transfer away 
from the DB scheme just because it was something Ms E thought was a good idea. It had a 
responsibility to really understand her needs and what she was intending to do with the 
transferred funds. 
So, WPS needed to think about wider considerations, for example, whether Ms E had 
considered an onward investment strategy for the large amount of money the transfer would 
release. And due to the importance the regulator places on the benefits in a DB scheme, it 
also wouldnt be enough for WPS to just facilitate a transfer in the knowledge the 
investments it had recommended for the new pension, werent going to be even considered 
by Ms E. In my view, this would indicate a financial vulnerability which WPS would need to 
think about mitigating.
In essence, not adopting this approach would have been similar to having recommended the 
transfer away from the scheme without assessing the appropriateness of the onward investments of the funds. I think its safe to say that WPS would most likely have been held 
accountable for such a failure if it had gone ahead on this basis. 
Did WPS act reasonably?
Ms Es central point supporting her complaint is that WPS acted unreasonably by deciding 
not to give her advice. It commenced the process, but didnt follow through, essentially 
because of a relationship breakdown with Ms E. 
But listening to the calls between the parties and also observing the video meetings, I dont 
agree WPSs behaviour towards Ms E was unreasonable. Instead, there were all sorts of 
arguments and disagreements between the two which I see no point in getting into. 
However, these can be summarised very briefly by WPS saying Ms E wouldnt listen and / or 
her being argumentative (my words). She of course disagrees with this, and says she was 
merely adopting her usual approach of probing and taking nothing for granted (again, my 
words).  
Having considered all the evidence with great care, I think WPS was only trying to generally 
explain to Ms E that it couldnt fulfil its regulatory responsibilities when she wouldnt listen to 
recommendations about how the funds ought to be managed after the transfer took place. 
And whether or not one agrees with WPSs stance, I think WPS was genuinely trying to 
properly navigate and fulfil its regulatory obligations, which were to act fully in Ms Es best 
interests.
I think one could also look at this situation through a different lens. For example, we know 
WPS stood to be paid for its dealings with Ms E no matter what its advice to her was; it 
therefore stood to gain nothing extra by acting in the cautious way it did. WPS could have 
simply taken Ms Es obvious preference to transfer away from her DB scheme and wave it 
through, still collecting its fee in the process. So, I think the logical conclusion about its 
refusal to do that does tend to strongly imply WPS was trying to follow the rules, rather than 
to blindly transact something Ms E thought she wanted.
Ive considered Ms Es further allegations that WPS drew the process out to a degree that 
when it eventually signalled it was terminating their relationship, she had very little time left 
before the CETV offer deadline expired. This was in mid-November 2021. However, again, I 
dont agree with this. The timescale was already quite tight, and its my view that the 
relationship difficulties put further pressure on this. So I dont think WPS was responsible for 
any failures in this regard. It also seems that having told Ms E that it wanted nothing more to 
do with her, WPS did help broker a sympathetic approach from the pension provider to the 
transfer deadline. Ms E then sought out the necessary regulated advice from another firm.
Summary
In this decision I have set out why I am not upholding Ms Es complaint. Although WPS was 
contracted to provide free advice, its terms of business did allow for the termination of the 
relationship. Ms E thinks the termination was unreasonable and Ive no doubt she honestly 
and genuinely believes this.
However, WPSs perspective is quite different. In listening to calls and reviewing video 
meetings, there were demonstrable differences between the parties in both approach and 
understanding. There were arguments and disagreements. Ultimately, WPS provided Ms E 
with a rationale for terminating its advice process to her. And from its perspective, it says the 
relationship had become fraught and it felt it couldnt properly meet its regulatory 
requirements as a result of the difficulties. Ms E wasnt compelled to transfer her DB pension, or to even seek advice to consider 
transferring. In fact, WPS in its early dealings with her explained the guarantees and benefits 
often associated with DB schemes and what she could be losing by transferring away. It 
started with good faith, setting these types of issues out and commissioning a transfer 
analysis document.
Im very sorry to disappoint Ms E. However, Im afraid I cant hold WPS responsible for her 
deciding to seek regulated financial advice from a different business. In my view, there was a 
point in time where the relationship could have been easily re-set and recovered which 
would have required Ms E to allow WPS to fully issue a recommendation, including what it 
thought about the post transfer investment strategy. Because this was resisted, this became 
the foundation for the relationship breakdown.
On balance, I dont think WPS acted unreasonably in ending the relationship, nor was it 
going against its original terms of business as agreed to by Ms E at the commencement of 
the advice process. In the end, Ms E says she paid for regulated financial advice which is 
required to enable the transfer of a DB scheme pension of the size she had. Ms E was free 
to seek out that advice, and in my experience the vast majority of people seeking to transfer 
from a DB scheme would incur charges and fees of a similar amount to those she eventually 
says she paid. To be clear, WPS isnt responsible for these fees and in any event, Ms E was 
provided with a professional service for which she was reasonably charged.
For these reasons I dont uphold Ms Es complaint. 
My final decision
I do not uphold this complaint.
I do not require WPS Advisory Limited to do anything more.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms E to accept or 
reject my decision before 26 April 2023.
 
Michael Campbell
Ombudsman