DRN-4271463
The complaint
Ms A complains NewDay Ltd (NewDay) failed to implement a promotional balance transfer 
offer on her credit card account. 
What happened
Ms A says she telephoned NewDay in early February 2023 and says she was eligible for a 
zero percent balance transfer offer. Ms A says she made a number of calls to NewDay that 
day as she changed her address details and activated a new credit card and was cut off 
more than once causing frustration. 
Ms A says when she checked her credit card account she discovered she hadnt been 
provided with the promotional balance transfer interest rate just at the existing rate on her 
credit card account. 
Ms A says if she had known she wasnt being offered the promotional interest rate she 
wouldnt have gone ahead with the transfer. Ms A wants NewDay to honour the zero percent 
balance transfer offer. 
NewDay says from the telephone call recordings it has located, the agent Ms A spoke to 
explained to her the interest rate on the balance transfer would be at its standard rate along 
with a 2.99% fee, which Ms A had acknowledged and agreed to. NewDay says it has done 
nothing wrong.
Ms A wasnt happy with NewDays response and referred the matter to this service. 
The investigator looked at all the available information but didnt uphold the complaint. The 
investigator says she had listened to all of the available call recordings in early February 
2023, and in one call it was explained to Ms A the balance transfer would be at the standard 
rate which Ms A had accepted. 
The investigator couldnt say she felt that Ms A had been misinformed.
Ms A didnt agree with the investigators view and asked for the matter to be referred to an 
ombudsman for a final decision.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I wont be upholding this complaint and I will explain how I have come to my 
decision. 
I can understand it would have been upsetting for Ms A to carry out a balance transfer only 
to find it wasnt at the promotional rate she believed had been agreed. 
When looking at this complaint I will consider if NewDay acted fairly when it carried out the 
balance transfer at its standard rate of interest and not at the preferential promotional zero 
percent offer that Ms A says had been agreed. 
Ms As complaint centres around the fact when she telephoned NewDay on 7 February 
2023, amongst a number of calls that day she spoke with an agent who had agreed a zero 
percent balance transfer, but the call was cut off and when she called back to the  same 
agent the balance transfer process was completed but un be-knowing to her this was at 
NewDays standard interest rate and not the previously agreed promotional interest rate. Ms 
A says she wouldnt have carried out the transfer if she had known that. 
I have listened to four separate telephone call recordings Ms A made on 7 February 2023 
and in one call the agent clearly states the balance transfer would be conducted at its 
standard rate along with a balance transfer fee of 2.99%, which Ms A acknowledges and 
accepts. 
Ms A says there was an earlier call with the same agent where the promotional rate was 
discussed but having requested all call recordings from NewDay it has checked its records 
and cannot locate that earlier call. While Im not disputing there may have been an earlier 
telephone conversation, I can only consider the evidence that has been made available to 
this service. Its not possible for me to insist a call recording is provided if NewDay have 
reassured this service it has checked its records, but the call cannot be located. 
Its also worth pointing out NewDay have informed this service that balance transfers can be 
arranged over the telephone at any time at the standard rate, but promotional offers are by 
personal invitation only and theres no evidence to show that Ms A received any such 
invitation here. 
I understand Ms A says there was mention of a zero percent balance on her statement and 
its possible this point may have been discussed with the agent before she was cut off, but 
thats not to say this was an invitation for a new balance transfer at zero percent. What I can 
say, is in the phone call I have listened to the agent does make clear the balance transfer 
would be at its standard rate and makes no reference to a promotional rate. 
While I have some sympathy with Ms A here and although she may not agree, the fact 
remains she was informed of the balance transfer rate being at a standard rate and she 
accepted that. Given that, on balance I am satisfied NewDay have implemented the balance 
transfer at the rate it told Ms A here. 
While Ms A will be disappointed with my decision, I wont be asking anymore of NewDay 
here.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms A to accept or 
reject my decision before 12 December 2023.
 
Barry White
Ombudsman