DRN-2069696
The complaint
Mr G has complained about Aviva Insurance Limiteds actions in connection with a motor 
insurance policy.
Reference to Aviva includes its agents.
What happened
Mr G took out a telematics (black box) policy underwritten by Aviva. It later contacted him 
and said some of the details hed given when he took out the policy werent accurate, and as 
a result his premium had increased by around £800. Mr G complained. Aviva replied and 
said Mr G could cancel the policy without penalty and at the same amount as the original 
premium when Mr G first took it out. 
Aviva sent the reply to the wrong address. The individual who received the letter, who Ill call 
Mr A, contacted Mr G. Mr A told Mr G he was a fraud officer and so wouldn't misuse the 
information but pointed out the letter could have given Mr A a route to find out other personal 
details about Mr G. Mr G complained again. Aviva apologised, explained the measures it 
had taken to put things right and paid Mr G a goodwill payment of £15.
Later because Mr Gs driving score - as recorded by his black box - wasn't high enough 
Aviva cancelled the policy. Mr G wasn't happy with the amounts it charged him at that point. 
As a goodwill gesture Aviva waived the outstanding costs, which amounted to around £85.
Mr G brought his complaint to us. One of our investigators looked into it and, in March 2020, 
he asked Aviva to provide him with further information. Aviva didn't provide that information. 
In June 2020 our investigator issued his assessment of the complaint based on the evidence 
he did have. He said, having considered the goodwill payment and the charges Aviva had 
waived, he thought it had done enough to address the issues of the incorrectly addressed 
letter and charges on cancellation. But as Aviva hadn't replied to his information request, he 
couldn't say whether or not it had fairly charged an additional premium. So he said Aviva 
should refund any portion of that additional premium Mr G had actually paid.
Aviva came back to us and said it would address the investigator's outstanding points. It 
wrote to Mr G again to explain why it had charged him an additional premium. And it gave us 
some information about how it had calculated that extra sum. But it didn't provide all the 
evidence our investigator had asked for.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I'm going to partly uphold it. 
Most of the actions on this case have been taken by an insurance intermediary which 
administers the policy rather than Aviva itself. But Aviva remains responsible for that 
intermediarys actions in respect of anything concerning underwriting decisions. And that 
includes things like calculating premiums or responding to complaints about those issues. So 
while it's been the intermediary, rather than Aviva itself, that has taken those actions, Im 
satisfied the intermediary was acting on Avivas behalf. 
Mr G originally applied for his policy through a price comparison website. And when he did 
so he said hed had a non-fault claim. But Aviva said the claim was recorded on a shared 
insurance database as being a fault claim. So it recalculated Mr Gs premium, which 
caused it to rise.
I should say that its usual for motor insurers to consider drivers with recent fault claims on 
their driving history as a higher risk than drivers with no claims or non-fault claims. So it's 
common for insurers to recognise that increased risk and charge higher premiums for drivers 
with a recent fault claim. But that doesn't mean Aviva can simply impose an additional 
premium.
In order to see if Aviva had dealt with Mr G fairly we asked it to show us the questions it put 
to him, concerning the previous claim, when he took out the policy. We also asked it to show 
us the evidence from the shared database that the incident was recorded as a fault rather 
than a non-fault claim. Aviva hasn't provided that evidence. Its told us that as Mr G applied 
for his policy via a comparison website it doesn't readily have access to the questions Mr G 
answered. But we asked for this evidence more than seven months ago. And I think that 
gave Aviva ample time to get this information directly from the comparison site. Further, 
Aviva hasn't been able to show us evidence from the shared database that the claim was 
recorded as fault rather than non-fault. And in those circumstances, I'm not satisfied it had 
sufficient evidence to be sure it was reasonable to consider charging Mr G an additional 
premium. So, I think it's fair that it should refund to Mr G any portion of that additional 
premium he paid before Aviva cancelled the policy.
For completeness Ill add that Mr G also complained about Avivas charges on cancellation 
and the fact it sent a letter containing his personal details to someone he didn't know. He 
didn't comment on our investigators views on those points, so I don't know if he accepted 
our investigators opinion or not. Whilst its certainly not acceptable for Aviva to have 
misaddressed a letter intended for Mr G in the way it did. Im satisfied Mr G didn't suffer any 
loss or harm - beyond being unhappy that it happened. And I note Aviva explained to Mr G 
the steps it had taken in response to the error and it gave him a goodwill payment. Also, 
while Aviva was entitled to apply specific charges when the policy was cancelled it waived 
those as a gesture of goodwill. In the circumstances I think Avivas response to these issues 
was reasonable.My final decision
For the reasons set out above I partly uphold this complaint. I require Aviva Insurance 
Limited to refund to Mr G any portion of the additional premium he paid after it was 
recalculated to amend previous claim information from fault to non-fault. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision before 9 December 2020.
 
Joe Scott
Ombudsman