DRN-1441200
 
The complaint
Mr and Mrs P complain that Royal & Sun Alliance Insurance Plc (RSA) has turned down a 
claim they made on their home insurance policy.
What happened
In August 2019, Mr and Mrs P suffered a theft from the boot of their car, while it was parked 
at a motorway service station. They made a claim on the personal possessions section of 
their policy for the items thatd been stolen. They told RSA the car had been locked securely 
and the items had been stored in the boot. They said the police had suggested the thief had 
gained entry by using a fob.
RSA turned down Mr and Mrs Ps claim. While it didnt doubt theyd suffered a genuine theft, 
it didnt think the claim was covered under the Personal Belongings, Money and Credit 
Cards section of the policy. It said this section includes a term specifically excluding theft 
from unattended motor vehicles unless force and violence were used to get into the vehicle. 
It accepted the thief mightve gained access using a keyless entry device, but it said this 
would be impossible to prove against someone simply forgetting to lock their car.
Mr and Mrs P werent happy with RSAs decision. They felt the term RSA was relying on to 
turn down their claim was out of date. They maintained theyd done everything they could to 
secure their car. They asked us to look into their complaint.
Our investigator thought Mr and Mrs Ps complaint should be upheld. He was persuaded the 
car had been locked at the time of the theft. He considered what Mr and Mrs P had told him, 
together with a report from the local police. This said thered been 34 thefts with no evidence 
of forcible and violent entry from the service station over the past year. So he thought it was 
most likely entry had been gained to the car by using a fob. 
He acknowledged the policy didnt strictly cover whatd happened. But he didnt think it would 
be fair and reasonable for RSA to rely on the force and violence exclusion in these 
circumstances. Overall, he recommended that RSA should settle the claim.
RSA disagreed. In summary, it referred to case law which set out what the courts had 
decided constituted force and violence. It didnt agree that the use of an electronic device to 
gain entry constituted force accompanied by a violent physical act. It felt the exclusion was 
clear and ambiguous.  It said Mr and Mrs P had had the choice to leave their possessions in 
the car or to take them with them. So it said theyd chosen to take the risk of loss. Its 
underwriters had intended to exclude thefts from unattended vehicles in the absence of 
forcible and violent entry. And it also referred to past decisions made by us which supported 
its view.
The complaints been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and whyIve considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Having done so, I dont think RSA has 
treated Mr and Mrs P fairly. Ill explain why.
Mr and Mrs Ps policy provides cover for theft from an unattended motor vehicle if force and 
violence was used to gain entry into the car and if the stolen items were out of sight in a boot 
or a closed compartment.
Mr and Mrs P have said that entry to the car was gained by using a remote electronic device. 
RSA seems to accept that this is at least a possibility, even if it thinks it would be impossible 
to prove.
Where a theft involves a device of this kind, I agree  that when taking account of the 
relevant case law  it wouldnt be considered to be forcible and violent entry. Thats because 
a device that wouldnt normally be used to gain entry to the car hasnt been used.
But my role is to consider whats fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of an individual 
complaint. 
Mr and Mrs Ps policy covers theft. In this case, Im satisfied (as is RSA) that a genuine theft 
has taken place. Mr and Mrs P told us they always lock their car. They said on this occasion, 
they parked at the services. Mr P pressed the key fob to lock the car and the locking light 
flashed to show it was locked. He tried the door handle to check it was locked. They said this 
is their usual routine.
Theyve told us the equipment was stored out of sight in the car boot. And theyve 
consistently said the police told them the car had likely been broken into using a remote 
electronic device. They provided a report from the police force which shows around 39% of 
thefts from the service station didnt include force and violence as the means of getting into 
the car. 
I accept what Mr and Mrs P have told me. I find their account of what happened plausible 
and persuasive. I think its most likely Mr and Mrs P stored their luggage in the boot and 
locked their car. On balance, I think the theft was carried out by someone using an electronic 
device. 
RSA thinks Mr and Mrs P chose to take the risk of leaving their things in the boot rather than 
take them with them into the service station. I think though that Mr and Mrs P acted 
reasonably. I think that by keeping the items out of sight and locking the car, they took care 
to protect their items. 
Overall, I think Mr and Mrs P did everything they could reasonably do to make sure  their car 
was locked. So I dont think it would produce a fair and reasonable outcome if I allowed RSA 
to rely on there not being forcible and violent entry to not deal with the claim
 
 
 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above, my final decision is that I uphold Mr and Mrs Ps     
complaint.I direct Royal & Sun Alliance Insurance Plc to reconsider Mr and Mrs Ps claim under the 
Personal Belongings, Money and Credit Cards section of the policy, in line with the 
remaining terms and conditions of the policy. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs P and Mr P to 
accept or reject my decision before 3 July 2020.
Lisa Barham
Ombudsman