DRN-2654462
The complaint
Mr B complains as a director of B, a company, that Aviva Insurance Limited has rejected its
commercial property owners insurance claim for malicious damage.
What happened
In February 2019 B through its letting agency, let its property consisting of an apartment in a
converted house to a tenant. The tenant who was a foreign national, produced an identity
card and a letter from his prospective employer. He explained that his bank account had not
yet been set up so he paid the first months rent and deposit by cash.
Three weeks after the tenant moved in, during an inspection, the letting agent noticed that
the tenant had caused malicious damage to the apartments walls, ceilings, floors and
compromised the electricity supply to the unit and the house as a whole. It appeared that he
had carried out illegal cultivation of drugs. A substantial amount of damage was done. B
made a claim to Aviva.
Aviva declined the claim because of the breach of a specific condition in the policy where
damage was caused by the illegal cultivation of drugs. That required that the policyholder
obtain and record details of Your tenants bank account and verify those details by receiving
at least one payment from such account. Mr B explained that B wasnt able to do that for the
reasons stated. He said that B had followed normal practices regarding letting to foreign
nationals and that a receipt would be sufficient evidence for the first month, then the rent
payments would be made from the tenants bank account for the ensuing months. It also
pointed out that the inspection within the first month had identified the damage quickly.
However Aviva wouldnt change its decision.
On referral to this service our investigator thought that Aviva hadnt acted reasonably, in that
theres no connection between the lack of a bank account and the setting up of illegal drug
cultivation.
I issued a provisional decision. In it I said that I thought that B was in breach of the condition 
in the policy requiring the policyholder to record details of the tenants bank account and 
obtain at latest one payment. I thought that the breach increased their risk of the loss 
occurring so Aviva was entitled to decline the claim.
Aviva had no further comments to make.
B disagreed. It said:
The letter wasnt from the tenants prospective employer but from his then current 
employer.
A colleague of the tenant had also taken up a tenancy in the same block, a few months 
earlier. He also paid his rent by cash for the first month then obtained a bank account 
and had been a satisfactory tenant. He had recommended the tenant in question.
His employer had agreed that if the tenant didnt have a bank account by the end of the 
first month it would pay the rent directly from the tenants earnings.
It has complied with all UK legislation in taking a de minimis cash payment for the first 
month. It had told the tenant he would have to vacate if he didnt pay the second months 
rent through a bank account or by his employer.
My stance would jeopardise lettings to foreign nationals or foreign students coming to the 
UK.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The following were my provisional findings:
I recognise that the quick inspection probably mitigated any further damage occurring, but I
have to decide whether the breach of the condition regarding the bank account was material
to the claim.
The condition in the policy specifically related to illegal cultivation of drugs, which Mr B
doesnt deny knowing about, is that:
If in relation to Damage to any Residential Unit caused by Your tenants manufacturing,
cultivating, harvesting or processing by any other method, drugs, classed as a controlled
substance under the Misuse of Drugs Act (1971), You, or anyone acting on Your behalf,
have failed to fulfil the following conditions, We will not pay that claim
You must
((3) obtain and record written formal identification of any prospective tenant, retain a
written employers reference for any new tenant and obtain and record details of Your
tenants bank account and verify those details by receiving at least one payment from such
account.
There are other conditions relating to inspections and subletting but B has either complied
with those or they arent relevant here. Although the tenant produced an identity card, he
had no bank account. So on the face of it whilst B may have acted in compliance with
legislation, it was in breach of the condition. So in all the circumstances of the case was it
fair for Aviva to apply that condition?
S11 of the Insurance Act 2015 says the insurer may not rely on non-compliance to exclude,
limit or discharge its liability if an insured:
(3) shows that the non-compliance with the term could not have increased the risk of the
loss which actually occurred in the circumstances in which it occurred.
Here it seems to me that its most likely that the tenant himself caused or allowed the
damage to be caused. Whilst the tenant may or may not have set up the illegal drug making
whether or not he had a bank account, the risk of him not being genuine was so much
greater if there was no such account. It also has to be considered that no account would
have made him harder to trace so there would likely be no prospect for Aviva of recovery.
Here the tenant had apparently only just started work with the employer at a disclosed
salary, though I would question whether a genuine employer would be prepared to pay cash.
The actual rent looked to be more than half of his declared salary and Aviva questioned in itsclaim handling notes whether that would have been affordable. The employers letter didnt
appear to be on headed paper.
The tenant presumably had a bank account in his home country and while I appreciate that it
is awkward to transfer money where there are different currencies, nevertheless it doesnt
appear to have been considered. Nor was any guarantor asked for.
Mr B has said that Bs associated lettings agency operates in a university town where its
normal practice so far as foreign nationals are concerned to take the initial deposit by cash,
as it takes time to set up a bank account. That may be the case for students, but the tenant
here wasnt a student and the apartment wasnt in a university town. Whilst I appreciate that
it couldnt have been anticipated that such damage would happen within three weeks, I think
the lack of a bank account did increase the risk of the tenant causing damage and/or
absconding. And as the condition is so specific to illegal drug cultivation, I have to say that
the risk of not complying with the condition was directly linked to the likelihood of such an
offence taking place. I bear in mind that had B insisted on having bank details the tenancy
may likely have fallen through altogether. But B chose not to comply with the condition in the
policy concerning illegal drug cultivation, the tenancy did go ahead and damage was caused.
I think it was fair for Aviva to decline the claim.
I said the letter was from the prospective employer as it said the tenant will be employed 
not has been employed, although it was dated after the start date. I accept that B assured 
itself the employer was genuine.
I have to bear in mind that this was a condition put on the policy by Aviva. Its not a general 
condition affecting the whole policy or indeed the cover for malicious damage. It is a 
condition specifically related to illegal drug cultivation. I think it fair to assume that the 
condition was put in place so as to minimise the risk of such activity taking place. So it is 
aimed at ensuring that a genuine tenant is put in place.
I appreciate that B has complied with UK legalisation and again I would point out that Im 
concerned here with the policy condition regarding illegal drug cultivation. And it is 
unfortunate that the illegal drug making was set up in the first month of the tenancy. I also 
appreciate that B thought it appropriate to take a cash payment for the first month and that it 
took steps to ensure payment of rent for the next month, and that this appears to be its 
practice when dealing with foreign nationals. 
Nevertheless B took a risk and the tenant turned out not to be genuine. But B will be well 
aware that asking the tenant to leave once they are in place isnt that simple. And I dont 
think its fair and reasonable to expect the insurer to take on that risk when it has specifically 
put the condition in its policy. B has chosen to insure through Aviva, so agreed to the terms 
and conditions.
As for whether this might make it more difficult to take on foreign nationals, thats a matter 
for B to take up with its insurers. Though Id suggest that a tenant posing as a genuine 
foreign national is the problem here. 
Ive set out in my provisional findings above clearly why I thought the lack of a bank account 
increased the risk of loss, so I dont intend to comment any further on that.
Having considered Bs points, I remain persuaded by my provisional findings. Those findings 
are now final and and form part of this final decision.
My final decisionI dont uphold the complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask B to accept or 
reject my decision before 2 April 2021.
 
Ray Lawley
Ombudsman