DRN-2960146
The complaint
A company Ill refer to as R has complained that Aviva Insurance Limited turned down its
commercial motor insurance claim.
Mr L, a director of R, has brought the complaint on Rs behalf.  
What happened
R held a commercial motor insurance policy with Aviva. R claimed on its policy after Mr L
was involved in an accident. Avivas engineer went out to inspect the car and said the tyre
tread was 1mm which was below the legal limit. As a result of this, Aviva turned down Rs
claim as they said R had a responsibility to keep the car in roadworthy condition and take
reasonable steps to safeguard it from loss or damage.
Aviva said Rs MOTs from both of the previous two years noted the tyre depth as advisories.
They said the last MOT was only five weeks before the accident and it didnt appear that R
had changed the tyres despite driving just under 200 miles. Aviva didnt think R had taken
reasonable steps to prevent loss or damage or kept the car in a roadworthy condition and
said this had been the proximate cause of the accident as the tyres didnt have enough tread
when coming into contact with surface water on the road.
R asked three garages to check the tyres. The first garage - who specialise in tyres and are
also an MOT centre - said the tread depth on both rear tyres was 1.6mm and the front tyres
were 1.6mm-2mm and 2mm-3mm. The garage said in their opinion these tyres are on the
legal tread limit.
The second garage said the average tread depth for rear tyres were between 1.6mm and
1.8mm and in their opinion fall within the legal limit. The garage also provided a video
showing a reading of the rear offside tyre being taken. The letter from this garage also says
that another garage, who are also an MOT centre, confirmed that they pass the legal limit
for MOT.
R complained to Aviva. Aviva said Rs garage had only shown one reading of one tyre and if
the gauge had been moved forward then a reading wouldnt have been possible. They said
their engineers evidence clearly showed the tread being worn across the tyre.
As Aviva refused to change their decision, R brought its complaint to our service. I issued a 
provisional decision on this complaint on 21 July 2021 explaining why I intended to uphold 
Rs complaint. I said:
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Its a general condition of Rs policy that:
You shall at all times take all reasonable steps to safeguard your vehicle from
loss or damage. You shall maintain your vehicle in a roadworthy condition and
we shall have at all times free access to examine such vehicle.
Having reviewed the information provided, I dont think Aviva has done enough to persuade
me that R has breached this condition.
Avivas engineer said the tyre tread was 1mm. However, I havent seen any photos of the
measurements being taken, only photos of the tyres which isnt enough for me to conclude
they were below the legal limit.
The last MOT took place only five weeks and less than 200 miles before the accident and
while the tyres were noted as advisories, theyre noted as being close to the legal limit,
therefore must have been above the legal limit to have passed the MOT. This means that to
get to 1mm the tyres would have needed to have worn at least 0.6mm in five weeks and 189
miles.
R has provided information from three separate garages who have all said that the rear tyres
were above the legal limit. This has included a video from one of the garages showing how
one reading was taken. I do think it would have been helpful for this video to have shown all
the readings being taken, as it only shows one point on one tyre. But on balance, I dont
think Aviva have done enough to show the tyres were below the legal limit given the amount
of information R has provided to show they were within the limit.
As I dont think Aviva have done enough to show the tyres were below the legal limit, I dont
think theyve shown R didnt take reasonable steps to safeguard his vehicle or didnt keep it
in a roadworthy condition. I therefore dont think its fair and reasonable for Aviva to rely on a
breach of this condition to turn down Rs claim.
To put things right, I intend to require Aviva to pay Rs claim in line with the remaining terms
and conditions of the policy. Due to the time R has been without money it should have had
Aviva should add interest on the settlement amount at a rate of 8% simple interest per year,
from the date of the claim to the date it makes payment.
Neither R nor Aviva responded to my provisional decision by the required date.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As neither R nor Aviva responded by the required date, I see no reason to depart from my 
provisional findings. Therefore, I remain satisfied that the fair and reasonable outcome to this 
particular complaint is for Aviva to pay Rs claim in line with the remaining terms and 
conditions of the policy, adding interest at a rate of 8% simple per year from the date of Rs 
claim to the date Aviva makes payment.  
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, and in my provisional decision, I uphold this complaint and 
require Aviva Insurance Limited to pay Rs claim in line with the remaining terms and 
conditions of the policy, plus interest on the settlement amount at a rate of 8% simple per 
year, from the date of the claim to the date Aviva makes payment.  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask R to accept or 
reject my decision before 2 September 2021.
 Sarann Taylor
Ombudsman