DRN-3363634
The complaint
Mrs P complains that Standard Life Savings Limited (SL) incorrectly advised her that only 
part of her Self-Invested Personal Pension (SIPP) investment would have to be encashed 
after she removed her Independent financial Adviser (IFA) as her servicing agent on the 
account. In fact, a far larger investment had to be encashed. 
Mrs P says the subsequent reinvestment of the funds was delayed and SL didnt keep her 
up to date. She says that if shed been told that such a large investment would be encashed 
she wouldve retained her IFA for a while longer so she couldve sold off her investment 
gradually - and reinvested immediately. Mrs P considers the incorrect advice and failure to 
keep her up to date has caused her a financial loss. And has also caused her distress and 
inconvenience.
What happened
Mrs P used an IFA from a different business as the servicing agent on her SIPP account with 
SL. She also held an ISA with SL. She wanted to remove her IFA from her account. On 1 
October 2020, she asked SL to arrange this. 
The same day, SL told Mrs P that if the IFA was removed from her account, she couldnt 
remain invested in the managed portfolio. They said this was described in the terms and 
conditions. SL said that they: would move the investments that make up the managed 
portfolio so you can retain them in your wrap, within 10 business days of this email. This 
would be 15 October 2020. They also said that some of the investments might not be 
available on their platform and therefore they couldnt be retained. They said that these 
investments would automatically be sold and the proceeds paid into the relevant cash 
account.
Mrs P found this response appalling. She didnt want SL to encash her investment at a time 
she couldnt choose. She said she should be given more time in which to encash the 
investments. 
On 2 October 2020, SL told Mrs P that it was possible to defer the encashment. But that if 
she wanted to remain invested in the model portfolio, shed have to retain her existing IFA. 
They also told Mrs P that there were three funds  worth about £68,000  that would have to 
be sold to cash. SL said that Mrs P would receive fund prices based on the next available 
pricing point of the fund that was being sold, which was usually the following business day. 
Mrs P said she felt she could deal with that amount of encashment, so told SL to go ahead 
on 2 October 2020. She also told SL she had no online access to her SIPP account. She 
asked for new login details. But had repeated problems with access to her account. She felt 
shed been repeatedly given the wrong information. 
Mrs P said the IFA was removed and that the sale of investments took place on 5 October 
2020 but that SL didnt tell her. The value of the investments sold was around £225,000, not 
the £68,000 SL had advised. 
SL reset Mrs Ps online password and sent her a new one in the post. They told her it would 
take between five and ten working days to receive. But they sent the password to her old 
address. 
Mrs P told SL on 14 October 2020 that she was still unable to access her account online. 
She told them she wanted to know what was happening with her transfer and with the 
encashment. 
On 17 October 2020, Mrs P chased SL for an update. She said it had gone past 15 October 
2020, but she had no idea what had happened to her investment because no one had told 
her and she still couldnt access her account. She also wanted to arrange her annual 
pension withdrawal.
Mrs P said she wasnt made aware about how much of her investment had been moved into 
cash until her online account was activated on 19 October 2020.  The funds were reinvested 
the next day.
Mrs P complained to SL. She said shed finally got online access to her account, and 
questioned why her access hadnt been arranged earlier. She said the lack of access had 
left her frustrated and worried, and that shed been left without information at a crucial time. 
She also said shed asked to be told when the encashment had taken place as she didnt 
want to be exposed to out of market risk for a prolonged period. But said that SL hadnt told 
her about the encashments. She also said that she hadnt been told that £225,000 would be 
encashed. As she hadnt known about the encashment, she said she hadnt had the 
opportunity to reinvest until now. She felt shed lost money. 
SL issued their final response to the complaint on 14 December 2020. They upheld it and 
apologised, as they acknowledged that theyd given Mrs P incorrect information about the 
number of funds that would be sold down. But they didnt offer any compensation for their 
error. They said that the encashments had been correctly made under the terms and 
conditions of the SIPP. They said that Mrs P hadnt been entitled to hold the investments 
theyd encashed after her IFA had been removed. 
Mrs P didnt think that SL had covered the main points of her complaint. She said that if 
shed been given the correct information about the amount that would be sold to cash, she 
wouldve retained her IFA for a while longer. She also said that she thought shed be able to 
check her account on a daily basis. And that shed be told when the encashments had taken 
place. And that she would therefore have been able to take reinvestment action very 
promptly. Mrs P brought her complaint to this service.
Our investigator felt that the complaint should be upheld. He didnt consider that SLs 
apology was fair and reasonable redress under the circumstances of the complaint. He felt 
that if Mrs P had been told that around £225,000 would be encashed, she wouldve had the 
opportunity to reinvest that money sooner. He considered that SL should calculate the 
position of the additional funds that had been sold, over and above those that SL had told 
Mrs P about, if theyd been sold on 5 October 2020 and reinvested on 6 October 2020. 
He felt SL should then compare the performance of the notional value with the actual value 
of the transfer. And if the notional value was greater than the actual value, he felt that 
compensation should be paid to cover the loss, ideally into Mrs Ps pension plan. Our 
investigator also felt that SL should pay Mrs P £250 for the trouble and upset theyd caused 
her.
Mrs P didnt agree with our investigator. She felt that the loss calculation hed recommended 
should be carried out on the full £225,000 encashed. She said this was because shed had no online access and therefore didnt know when the funds were available in cash. She also 
noted that she didnt pay tax. And asked to see and agree to SLs detailed calculations. 
SL said they generally agreed with our investigators findings. But made the following points:
They evidenced that theyd only received the monies from the sale of funds on 8 
October 2020. And said that they were never going to be able to process any further 
buys before this date. So they felt it was reasonable to assume in their calculations 
that the cash was reinvested on 8 October 2020, rather than 6 October 2020 as our 
investigator had recommended.
They said that Mrs P had only invested £200,000 of the full amount available from 
the sale of funds. 
They said theyd told Mrs P that around £68,000 would be sold to cash, so she was 
aware that these monies were available. They said theyd emailed her on 5 October 
to confirm the encashment had taken place. So felt shed been aware that this money 
would be available to be reinvested, but had chosen not to.
Having considered SLs settlement offer and Mrs Ps further points, our investigator issued a 
further view on the complaint. He felt that SL had evidenced that the cash wasnt returned to 
them by the fund manager until 8 October 2020. And that even if standing investment 
instructions had been provided in advance of the disinvestment, the earliest possible date 
that they couldve been reinvested wouldve been 8 October 2020. He noted that the total 
value of assets sold was £224,776, of which £200,000 was subsequently reinvested. 
Although our investigator had initially recommended that the loss calculation to be arranged 
on the difference between the £224,776 less the £67,736 he felt Mrs P had agreed to be 
encashed, he noted that SL had offered to do a price comparison on the full £200,000 that 
was subsequently reinvested. He said that Mrs P had agreed to this revised loss 
assessment methodology. And therefore recommended that SL should compare the unit 
value purchased with the £200,000 against the number of units that wouldve been bought, 
had the transactions happened on the 8 October 2020. And that compensation should be 
paid into Mrs Ps pension plan if the calculation showed a loss. He also said that SL should 
pay Mrs P £250 for distress and inconvenience.
Mrs P said she didnt think the calculations were fair. She said that they ignored what had 
happened between the 5th and the 8th of October. She also still didnt agree that the 
£67,736 should be excluded from the redress calculations. She felt that the loss on that 
amount should be calculated from 8 October 2020. But that it should be calculated from 5 
October 2020 for the balance, which she said was £200,000 - £67,736, or £132,264. Mrs P 
also questioned whether the £250 our investigator had recommended for distress and 
inconvenience was enough under the circumstances. She said shed been caused 
considerable stress during the process due to the enforced sale and being locked out of her 
online account. 
SL said that their offer would put Mrs P back into the position she should be in to ensure no 
financial loss. They said the date theyd proposed for the comparison was the first possible 
date Mrs P couldve reinvested. And that theyd also offered to base the calculation on the 
full £200,000 that was reinvested. They disputed Mrs Ps assertion that she wouldve 
retained her adviser rather than sell the assets to cash. They said shed told them that she 
was removing her adviser because shed raised a complaint about the fees they charged. SL 
said the assets hadnt been incorrectly sold, as Mrs P hadnt been entitled to retain them. 
And that shed known that £67,736 was being sold on 5 October 2020 and would 
subsequently be available for reinvestment within a few days. They said that regardless of any online issues, this wouldnt have prevented her from providing an instruction to reinvest. 
But that she didnt reinvest this cash until 19 October 2020. So they didnt believe the 
£67,736 should be included in any comparison. And felt that their offer was fair. 
I understand that in a subsequent phone call with our investigator Mrs P said she wanted SL 
to do a loss calculation on the whole amount sold down to cash (including monies that were 
not subsequently re-invested). 
As agreement couldnt be reached, the complaint has come to me for a review.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im going to uphold it. But I agree with our investigator that SLs settlement 
offer is fair and reasonable under the circumstances of the complaint. Ill explain why. 
I understand that Mrs P has two remaining points of disagreement about SLs offer 
settlement offer. These are:
The offer isnt fair as it leaves her exposed to market movements between 5 October 
and 8 October 2020. 
The offer isnt fair as the loss calculation doesnt cover the whole amount sold down 
to cash, just the £200,000 Mrs P subsequently reinvested. Mrs P considers that as 
she had no online access during the sale period she didnt know when the funds 
were available in cash. 
From what Ive seen, SL had no option but to encash the funds held in the managed portfolio 
once Mrs P had removed her IFA as her servicing agent on the account. They 
acknowledged they gave Mrs P incorrect information about the amount of her investment 
that would have to be encashed. Ive gone on to consider whether the settlement offer 
theyve made to Mrs P in light of this mistake goes far enough to put things right.
I first considered Mrs Ps point that SL should provide redress for the lost investment return 
between 5 October and 8 October 2020. 
I acknowledge that Mrs P considers that SL should be held responsible for her loss over that 
period. But I dont agree. I say this because SL have provided evidence that they only 
received the monies from the sale of funds on 8 October 2020. And that even if standing 
investment instructions had been provided in advance of the disinvestment, the earliest 
possible date that they couldve been reinvested wouldve been 8 October 2020. Therefore 
SL were never going to be in a position to reinvest the money until that date at the earliest. 
As I accept that the encashments had to go ahead once Mrs P had removed her IFA as 
servicing agent on her account, it wouldnt be fair or reasonable for me to hold SL 
responsible for any market movements between 5 October and 8 October 2020. Mrs P was 
always going to be out of the market over this period, whatever action SL took. Therefore I 
dont agree that SL should change the date theyve proposed for the redress calculation.
I then considered Mrs Ps point that SL should calculate her loss on the entire amount they 
encashed, rather than simply the £200,000 she reinvested.
Mrs P said that SL made an error on the approximately £68,000 shed accepted would have 
to be encashed. She said that theyd failed to inform her when the encashment had been made. She said that SL knew that she wanted this information and why she wanted it. And 
that they knew that she couldnt access the information online. She said if SL had informed 
her in good time, she wouldnt have suffered the loss on this money.
SL said that they told Mrs P that around £68,000 would be sold to cash, so she was aware 
that these monies were available. And they said theyd emailed her on 5 October 2020 to 
confirm the encashment had taken place. Therefore they considered that Mrs P had been 
aware that this amount of money would be available to be reinvested. They felt this showed 
theyd given her the opportunity to reinvest that money, but shed chosen not to. They said 
that shed known that the funds had to be encashed and that she needed to select new 
funds to invest in. And that she could've given them a new investment instruction at any 
time. SL also said that theyd issued contract notes when the sales were processed, so Mrs 
P would've known the sells had been placed.
SL said that although £224,776 of assets had been encashed, Mrs P had only chosen to 
reinvest £200,000. They offered to conduct a price comparison for £200,000. 
Ive not been provided with the email SL said they sent on 5 October 2020, or any proof that 
contract notes were sent to Mrs P. So I cant be certain about whether SL did send these to 
Mrs P. However, I agree with SL that Mrs P was made aware that she would have to sell 
around £68,000 of assets to cash. They told her in an email dated 2 October 2020, which 
she replied to. So I agree with SL that Mrs P couldve given them a new investment 
instruction for that disinvestment in advance. Therefore I dont agree that SL should be 
required to cover the whole amount sold down in their redress calculations. 
I acknowledge that it mustve been very frustrating for Mrs P when she couldnt access her 
account online. From what Ive seen, SL did take steps to give Mrs P access, but this was 
largely unsuccessful. So it wasnt until 19 October 2020 that Mrs P had access to her 
account. 
However, SL have made a settlement offer which covers all of the money Mrs P eventually 
reinvested. I consider that this is more than fair under the circumstances. Overall, Im 
satisfied that SLs offer of redress for the financial losses Mrs P has suffered are fair and 
reasonable.
Ive also considered Mrs Ps point that £250 is not enough for the distress and 
inconvenience shes suffered. She said shed been caused considerable stress during the 
process due to the enforced sale and being locked out of her online account. 
From what Ive seen, Mrs P had a two-week period where she couldnt access her online 
account. SL unsuccessfully tried to fix this for her. I acknowledge it wouldve been a shock 
when Mrs P found out that almost £225,000 of her assets had been encashed, when she 
was expecting a much smaller amount. But I cant say that SL acted incorrectly when they 
sold the additional assets. SL acknowledged their mistake was telling Mrs P that a smaller 
amount would need be encashed. So I consider that £250 is reasonable compensation for 
the distress and inconvenience she faced. 
In summary, I consider that SLs settlement offer is fair and reasonable under the 
circumstances of the complaint. And although I uphold the complaint, I dont require SL to 
change their settlement offer.
Putting things right
I require Standard Life Savings Limited to compare the unit value purchased with the 
£200,000 against the number of units that wouldve been bought, had the transactions happened on the 8 October 2020.
If the fair value is greater than the actual value, there is a loss and compensation is payable. 
If the actual value is greater than the fair value, no compensation is payable.
If there is a loss, Standard Life Savings Limited should pay into Mrs Ps pension plan, to 
increase its value by the amount of the compensation. The payment should allow for the 
effect of charges and any available tax relief. They shouldnt pay the compensation into the 
pension plan if it would conflict with any existing protection or allowance.
If Standard Life are unable to pay the compensation into the pension plan, they should pay 
that amount direct to Mrs P. But had it been possible to pay into the plan, it wouldve 
provided a taxable income. Therefore, the compensation should be reduced to notionally 
allow for any income tax that would otherwise have been paid. I understand that Mrs P has 
told this service that she is a non-taxpayer.
Standard Life Savings Limited should also pay Mrs P £250 for distress and inconvenience.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I uphold this complaint. I require Standard Life Savings Limited 
to take the actions detailed in the Putting things right section above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs P to accept or 
reject my decision before 18 July 2022.
 
Jo Occleshaw
Ombudsman