DRN-3456305
The complaint
Mr and Mrs P have complained that Lloyds Bank PLC (Lloyds) didnt inform them that the 
fee-waiver on their Gold Service account was being removed. 
What happened
One of our adjudicators assessed the complaint, and he didnt think that Lloyds had acted 
unfairly or unreasonably in this matter.
Mr and Mrs P disagreed, so the matter was referred for an ombudsmans decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve explained our approach to complaints about packaged accounts on our website, and 
Ive used that to help me decide this complaint. And having done so, I dont uphold this 
complaint.
In this case, I understand that in October 2021, Mr and Mrs P noticed that theyd been 
charged £14.95 on their Gold Service account. They queried this with Lloyds and Lloyds 
explained that they were charged that fee because it had withdrawn the fee-waiver on their 
account, which meant that theyd be charged a monthly account fee going forwards, if they 
kept the Gold Service account. Mr and Mrs P say that they were not informed about this, and 
therefore want the Gold Service account fee to be refunded.
Conversely, Lloyds says that it had written to Mr and Mrs P in June 2021, to explain that the 
fee-waiver would be removed in September 2021. And therefore says that it had given Mr 
and Mrs P notice of the changes and the account fee was correctly applied.
Lloyds has provided a copy of the letter it says it sent to Mr and Mrs P. The letter is dated 
June 2021, and it explains that from 1 September 2021 the fee-waiver on the Gold account 
would be removed, with the first fee being charged to the account on 1 October 2021. 
Having seen a copy of this letter, I can see that it was sent to the correct address. 
So as Lloyds has been able to provide a copy of the letter from the sent correspondence 
records for Mr and Mrs P, and as neither party has suggested that there were any issues 
with Mr and Mrs P receiving mail at the time, I think it was more likely than not sent to them 
in June 2021. Because of this, I think that Lloyds did what it needed to do to inform Mr and 
Mrs P about the change that was due to take place on the account, and gave them 
reasonable notice of the changes that were due to take place.
Having said that, I appreciate that Mr and Mrs P may well have not have received the letter. 
Indeed, I can see in their response to the adjudicators assessment, Mr and Mrs P say its 
possible that it got lost in the post. However, I cant reasonably say that Lloyds has done 
anything wrong or acted unfairly, if the letter did get lost in the post. As it has done what it 
was required to do based on the terms and conditions of the account. Because of this, Im 
unable to say that Lloyds should refund the Gold Service account fee that was applied to Mr 
and Mrs Ps account in October 2021.   
My final decision
Because of the reasons given above, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs P and Mr P to 
accept or reject my decision before 3 August 2022.
 
Thomas White
Ombudsman