DRN-2004769
The complaint
The estate of Mr H complains that Lloyds Bank PLC refunded a pension overpayment 
without the consent of the executors. 
What happened
Mr H passed away on 23 February 2019. Mrs P and Mrs M were appointed as executors of 
estate of Mr H and have told us they notified the Department for Works and Pension (DWP) 
on 25 February 2019. 
Mrs P and Mrs M met with Lloyds on 27 March 2019 and were told the late Mr Hs accounts 
had been frozen, along with access to his funds. 
On 4 April 2019 the DWP wrote to Lloyds to explain it had continued to pay Mr Hs pension 
after he passed away. The DWP said it had made payments for the period 25 February 2019 
to 3 March 2019 totalling £288.16 and asked Lloyds to repay it. 
On 17 April 2019 Lloyds refunded the overpayment to the DWP. Lloyds systems sent a text 
message to say a new payment recipient had been set up. 
Mrs P and Mrs M contacted Lloyds and explained that neither had received correspondence 
from the DWP regarding a pension overpayment. Mrs P and Mrs M also said their solicitor 
had advised Lloyds had no legal power to refund the overpayment without the written 
authority of the executors. Mrs P and Mrs M complained on behalf of the estate of Mr H. 
Lloyds responded on 17 May 2019 but didnt agree it had made an error by refunding the 
overpayment. But Lloyds did agree that it shouldn't have told the estate of Mr Hs solicitor to 
make a complaint in order to obtain a refund of the overpayment. Lloyds also said that the 
text message was sent out as part of an automated process and apologised for any distress 
caused. Lloyds offered the estate of Mr H £100 and apologised. 
Mrs P and Mrs M referred the complaint to our service and it was passed to an investigator. 
The investigator thought Lloyds had dealt with the complaint fairly and that its offer of £100 
was reasonable. Mrs P and Mrs M responded to say they didnt agree and asked to appeal. 
As a result, the complaint has been passed to me to make a decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mrs P and Mrs M have said that their solicitor has advised Lloyds shouldnt have settled the 
overpayment with the DWP as it wasnt acting as the executor. Whilst Lloyds wasnt acting 
as the executor, I dont agree it acted in error by refunding the DWP overpayment. Ill explain 
why. 
Ive seen the DWPs letter to Lloyds dated 4 April 2019. It didn't ask Lloyds to contact the 
estate of Mr Hs executors, it asked it to refund the overpayment. And Lloyds says that its normal approach is to process refund requests of this nature without recourse to an estates 
executors. 
Mrs P and Mrs M say that, as executors, they should have been contacted to authorise the 
refund. But Im not persuaded Lloyds actions were unreasonable. The overpayment related 
to payments received for a period of around a week after Mr H passed away. Its unclear 
whether the overpayment formed part of the estates assets considering it related to a period 
after Mr Hs death. I think the pension overpayment would more reasonably be considered 
an administrative error by the DWP. So I dont think the decision to issue the refund without 
first contacting the executors was unreasonable. 
Whilst I note Mrs P and Mrs M obtained some legal advice, were an informal dispute 
resolution service and an alternative to the courts. That means we decide complaints on a 
fair and reasonable basis. In this case, Im satisfied that Lloyds decision to refund the 
pension overpayment to the DWP without first contacting the estate of Mr Hs executors was 
reasonable. 
Lloyds says its systems automatically sent a text message when it set up the DWP as a 
payment recipient. I understand this may have caused some concern to the executors. 
Lloyds has apologised for any distress caused to the executors and Im satisfied thats fair. 
Lloyds says it incorrectly notified the solicitor acting for the estate of Mr H that if a complaint 
was made it would refund the pension overpayment. But Lloyds has confirmed that 
information was wrong. Id only expect Lloyds to refund a payment that had been made in 
error. And, for the reasons I've given above, I'm satisfied Lloyds acted correctly when it 
refunded the pension overpayment. That being said, I agree that Lloyds gave the solicitor 
the wrong information when they called. 
As I havent been persuaded Lloyds was wrong to refund the pension overpayment without 
contacting the executors, Im not telling it to take any further action. Lloyds offered the estate 
of Mr H £100 and apologised for giving the solicitor the wrong information. Im satisfied that 
Lloyds offer is a fair way to resolve this complaint. I leave it to Mrs P and Mrs M to decide 
whether to accept Lloyds offer on behalf of the estate.
My final decision
My decision is that I don't uphold this complaint because Lloyds Bank PLC has already 
made an offer that is fair and reasonable. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask the estate of Mr H 
to accept or reject my decision before 10 August 2020.
Marco Manente
Ombudsman