DRN-2921246
The complaint
Miss C complains that National Westminster Bank plc closed her account with immediate 
notice.
What happened
In August 2020, Miss C opened a current account with NatWest. Miss C also had a savings 
account with NatWest. In January 2021, NatWest closed these accounts. NatWest told 
Miss C that it had reviewed her banking arrangements and decided it could no longer offer 
her banking facilities. It said the terms of Miss Cs account allowed it to close the account 
immediately  it instead gave her 14 days notice.
Miss C is unhappy NatWest closed her account. Shed like an explanation. 
Our investigator looked at this and thought that what NatWest had done was in line with the 
terms of the account  and thought it was fair. Miss C doesnt agree. The complaint has 
been referred to me to decide.
Miss C has also complained separately about the difficulties shes had withdrawing her funds 
and receiving her final statements. Were looking at these complaints separately, and so I 
wont be considering those aspects or commenting on them in my decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
NatWest decided to close Miss Cs account following a review of her banking facilities. 
Banks in the UK are strictly regulated and must take certain actions in order to meet their 
legal and regulatory obligations. This means they may carry out a review of accounts they 
hold at any time  and dont need to tell the customer why the review is being carried out.
Following the review, NatWest decided to close Miss Cs account with 14 days notice. The 
terms that applied to Miss Cs account said that We can close [Miss Cs] account 
immediately if:
we reasonably suspect that youve given us false information, which was a significant 
factor in our decision to open your account (or to continue to provide it to you);
we reasonably suspect that your account (or any other account you hold with us) is 
being used, or is planned to be used, for an illegal purpose;
you behave in a threatening or violent manner towards our staff;
were required to do so by law or regulation;
youre declared bankrupt;
youve entered into a voluntary arrangement with your creditors to repay your debts; 
or
youve used your account for business purposes.
Where a business closes an account on that basis, it doesnt need to give reasons or an 
explanation. I see that NatWest also sent Miss C a text message, followed by a letter, to let 
her know what had happened. Our rules allow us to receive some information in confidence. 
So while I cant share the reasons with Miss C, Ive carefully considered the information 
NatWest has provided. Based on what Ive seen, Im satisfied NatWest could close the 
account without giving notice. I hope this reassures Miss C that I have considered the 
circumstances and I dont find she has been treated unfairly.
Overall, Im satisfied that NatWest acted reasonably and in line with the terms and conditions 
of the account. So I wont be asking them to do anything.
My final decision
For the reasons above, my final decision is that I dont uphold Miss Cs complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss C to accept 
or reject my decision before 27 August 2021.
 
Rebecca Hardman
Ombudsman