DRN-3472356
The complaint
Mr C complains about the advice given by Pensionhelp Limited to transfer the benefits from 
his defined-benefit (DB) occupational pension scheme with British Steel (BSPS) to a 
personal pension. He says the advice was unsuitable for him and believes this has caused a 
financial loss.
What happened
In March 2016, Mr Cs employer announced that it would be examining options to restructure 
its business, including decoupling the BSPS (the employers DB scheme) from the company. 
The consultation with members referred to possible outcomes regarding their preserved 
benefits, which included transferring the scheme to the Pension Protection Fund (PPF), or a 
new defined-benefit scheme (BSPS2). Alternatively, members were informed they could 
transfer their benefits to a private pension arrangement.
In October 2017, members of the BSPS were sent a Time to Choose letter which gave 
them the options to either stay in BSPS and move with it to the PPF, move to BSPS2 or 
transfer their BSPS benefits elsewhere. The deadline to make their choice was 
11 December 2017 (and was later extended to 22 December 2017).
Mr C was concerned about what the announcement by his employer meant for the security 
of his pension, so he contacted a financial adviser for advice. Because this financial adviser 
didnt hold the relevant permission from the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) to advise on 
the transfer of his DB scheme, it referred Mr C to Pensionhelp. 
My understanding is that the original financial adviser completed a fact-find to gather 
information about Mr Cs circumstances and objectives, which was sent to Pensionhelp for it 
to use as the basis of its advice. This documented, amongst other things, that Mr C was 41; 
he was married with two dependent children; he jointly owned the family home valued at 
around £480,000, which had an outstanding mortgage of around £149,000; he owned an 
investment property worth £250,000, which provided an income of around £700 a month  
this had an outstanding mortgage of just under £100,000; he and his wife had savings, which 
jointly came to around £110,000; Mr Cs new workplace defined-contribution (DC) pension 
scheme was receiving contributions of £700 a month; and his objective was to retire at 60 on 
an income of £20,000 - £25,000 a year. 
Pensionhelp carried out an assessment of Mr Cs attitude to risk, which it initially deemed to 
be a score of 8 on a scale of 1-10  but was revised to a score of 6 or a balanced approach. 
On 20 November 2017, Pensionhelp advised Mr C to transfer his pension benefits into a 
personal pension and invest the proceeds in a range of investment funds, which it deemed 
matched Mr Cs attitude to risk. In summary, the suitability report said the reasons for this 
recommendation were to provide Mr C with flexibility as to how and when he accessed his 
benefits; to provide control over the fund; and provide better death benefits and the ability to 
pass on a tax-free lump sum to his nominated beneficiaries.
Mr C accepted the recommendation and shortly afterwards around £303,000 was transferred 
to his new personal pension.
Mr C complained in 2021 to Pensionhelp about the suitability of the transfer advice. Mr C 
said that he didnt remember speaking to anyone at Pensionhelp and believes the advice to 
transfer from a guaranteed pension to an investment-based environment was unsuitable for 
him.
Pensionhelp didnt uphold Mr Cs complaint. It provided a substantive 17-page response. I 
havent set out everything it said here  but in summary it said:
Remaining in the DB scheme would not have given Mr C, by itself, the income he 
needed to meet his core expenditure needs up to state pension age. The only way to 
achieve things was via drawdown which required a transfer.
While Mr C had his DC workplace pension, this was based on contributions 
continuing through to retirement some 19 years away.
Remaining in the DB scheme wouldve meant at state retirement age, Mr C would be 
in receipt of more income than he needed and would pay more tax as a result.
Transferring improved the potential benefits at Mr Cs retirement age of 60.
Better death benefits could only be achieved by transferring.
If the BSPS moved to the PPF, Mr C wouldve lost his right to transfer. And if Mr C 
had opted for the BSPS2, the transfer value was expected to be lower.
Overall, the transfer met Mr Cs aims and objectives and it was appropriate for his 
stated attitude to risk.
Dissatisfied with its response Mr C referred his complaint to our service. An investigator 
upheld the complaint and required Pensionhelp to pay compensation. In summary, the 
investigator said the transfer wasnt financially viable because the growth rate required to 
match Mr Cs DB scheme benefits wasnt likely achievable. They said Mr C was likely to 
receive lower retirement benefits as a result. They also said there were no other compelling 
reasons to justify the transfer to outweigh this  Mr C was 41 at the time so his plans for 
retirement werent set; he didnt need flexibility; death benefits shouldnt have been 
prioritised over Mr Cs security in retirement; and his income needs couldve been met by 
remaining in the DB scheme and using his workplace DC scheme. They said if suitable 
advice had been given, Mr C wouldve likely remained in the DB scheme and opted to join 
the BSPS2.  
Pensionhelp disagreed. It provided a substantive 13-page response, which I have read in 
detail. But I havent set everything out here. The key points of its response can be 
summarised as follows:
It believes a transfer was what Mr C wanted and that it was in his best interests 
based on what was known at the time  it believes it has comfortably demonstrated 
this in its final response to Mr Cs complaint.
The regulatory environment was different in 2017, when it provided Mr C with advice. 
The FCA provided significant clarification in 2018 around transfers and made much 
clearer its expectation on firms.
It believes the Financial Ombudsman Services approach of focusing on the absolute 
need for a fixed and guaranteed income is out of date  the advent of pension 
freedoms and peoples desire to access their pensions flexibly taking account of their 
individual needs should not be readily dismissed by the Financial Ombudsman 
Service.
It believes investigators refer to COBS 19.1.6 to immediately reach the conclusion 
that all DB pension transfers are unsuitable.The situation surrounding BSPS at the time of this advice should not be 
underestimated or ignored  there were legitimate concerns around BSPS2 (it was 
not a certainty at the time) and the PPF, and it is unreasonable for the Financial 
Ombudsman Service simply to assume that a transfer to BSPS2 or the PPF was a 
straightforward advice issue.
Mr C was being advised based on retiring early at 60. In this case, had the transfer 
not been suitable it wouldve recommended Mr C move with the scheme to the PPF  
this was a better solution than the proposed but non-existent BSPS2.
The cashflow analysis produced shows sufficient income in retirement and a 
potentially significant lump sum Mr C could leave as a legacy. This is a clear indicator 
the transfer was affordable and no reason financially why a transfer could not be 
recommended.
Reference to the critical yield is a red herring and should not be used as a basis for 
upholding the complaint. Also reference to discount rates is unreasonable because 
advisers werent required to refer to them.
The investigator made no reference to the drawdown sustainability calculations which 
showed that, assuming Mr C took an equal income to the projected benefits of the 
DB scheme at age 60, increasing by RPI each year, Mr Cs pension wouldnt run out 
until he was 113 years old.
In terms of redress - any calculation should be measured against the PPF because at 
the time of advice, details of the BSPS2 were unknown and it didnt exist. 
The investigator wasnt persuaded to change their opinion, so the complaint was referred to 
me to make a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive taken into account relevant law and regulations, regulators rules, guidance and 
standards and codes of practice, and what I consider to have been good industry practice at 
the time. This includes the Principles for Businesses (PRIN) and the Conduct of Business 
Sourcebook (COBS). And where the evidence is incomplete, inconclusive or contradictory, 
I reach my conclusions on the balance of probabilities  that is, what I think is more likely 
than not to have happened based on the available evidence and the wider surrounding 
circumstances.
The applicable rules, regulations and requirements
The below is not a comprehensive list of the rules and regulations which applied at the time 
of the advice, but provides useful context for my assessment of BUSINESS's actions here.
PRIN 6: A firm must pay due regard to the interests of its customers and treat them fairly.
PRIN 7: A firm must pay due regard to the information needs of its clients, and communicate 
information to them in a way which is clear, fair and not misleading.
COBS 2.1.1R: A firm must act honestly, fairly and professionally in accordance with the best 
interests of its client (the client's best interests rule).
The provisions in COBS 9 which deal with the obligations when giving a personal 
recommendation and assessing suitability. And the provisions in COBS 19 which specifically 
relate to a DB pension transfer.Having considered all of this and the evidence in this case, Ive decided to uphold the 
complaint for largely the same reasons given by the investigator. My reasons are set out 
below.
The regulator, the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA), states in COBS 19.1.6G that the 
starting assumption for a transfer from a DB scheme is that it is unsuitable. So, Pensionhelp 
should have only considered a transfer if it could clearly demonstrate that the transfer was in 
Mr Cs best interests. And having looked at all the evidence available, Im not satisfied it was 
in his best interests.
Financial viability 
Pensionhelp carried out a transfer value analysis report (as required by the regulator) 
showing how much Mr Cs pension fund would need to grow by each year in order to provide 
the same benefits as his DB scheme (the critical yield). I can see this was based on Mr Cs 
existing scheme benefits under the BSPS. But at the time of the advice Mr C didnt have the 
option to remain in the BSPS  hed received his Time to Choose information, so he either 
needed to opt into the BSPS2 or move with the scheme to the PPF.
Pensionhelp has argued that the BSPS2 wasnt certain to go ahead, so as the terms were 
unclear, they were unable to confidently compare this against the transfer option. But I think 
Pensionhelp overestimated the chance of this not happening. Mr C had received his Time to 
Choose pack by the time the advice was given. And details of the scheme had been 
provided - the BSPS2 wouldve offered the same income benefits but the annual increases 
wouldve been lower. Of course, its possible this may not have gone ahead, but I still think 
the benefits available to Mr C through the BSPS2 shouldve been factored in with this advice 
so that he was able to make an informed decision. Basing the analysis on the existing BSPS 
benefits was, in my view, somewhat redundant and wasnt helpful to Mr C.
The advice was given after the regulator gave instructions in Final Guidance FG17/9 as to 
how businesses could calculate future 'discount rates' in loss assessments where a 
complaint about a past pension transfer was being upheld. Prior to October 2017 similar 
rates were published by the Financial Ombudsman Service on our website. Whilst 
businesses weren't required to refer to these rates when giving advice on pension transfers, 
they provide a useful indication of what growth rates would have been considered 
reasonably achievable for a typical investor.
Mr C was 41 at the time of the advice and its recorded that he wanted to retire at 60. The 
TVAS dated 14 November 2017 set out the relevant critical yields: at age 60 it was 8.32% 
assuming Mr C took a full pension and 7.06% if he took a cash lump sum and a reduced 
pension. Critical yields were also produced at age 65  these were 6.84% and 5.85% 
respectively. The critical yields to match the benefits available through the PPF at age 60 
and 65 were quoted as 5.55% and 5.3% respectively (60) and 4.87% and 4.63% 
respectively (65).
But as Ive said above, Mr C remaining in the existing DB scheme wasnt an option. 
So, the critical yields applicable to the BSPS2 benefits shouldve been provided. The lower 
annual increases under the BSPS2 wouldve likely decreased the critical yields somewhat. 
But I still think they wouldve likely been higher than those reflecting the PPF benefits.
The relevant discount rate closest to when the advice was given which I can refer to was 
published by the Financial Ombudsman Service for the period before 1 October 2017, and 
was 4.4% per year for 18 years to retirement (age 60). Ive kept in mind that the regulator's projection rates had also remained unchanged since 2014: the regulator's upper projection 
rate at the time was 8%, the middle projection rate 5%, and the lower projection rate 2%. 
I've taken this into account, along with the composition of assets in the discount rate, Mr Cs 
balanced attitude to risk and also the term to retirement. In my view, there would be little 
point in Mr C giving up the guarantees available to him through his DB scheme only to 
achieve, at best, the same level of benefits outside the scheme. 
Here, the lowest critical yield based on a retirement age of 60 was 5.3%, which was based 
on Mr C taking a lump sum and a reduced pension through the PPF. The critical yield if Mr C 
took the same benefits through his existing scheme at age 60 was 7.06%. So, if Mr C were 
to opt into the BSPS2 and take the same benefits at age 60, the critical yield wouldve been 
somewhere between those figures, and likely closer to 7.06%. Given the discount rate of 
4.4% and the regulators middle projection rate of 5%, I think Mr C was most likely to receive 
benefits of a lower overall value than those provided by either the BSPS2 or the PPF at age 
60 if he transferred to a personal pension, as a result of investing in line with a balanced 
attitude to risk. In my view to have come close to achieving the desired returns to match the 
benefits available to him through his DB scheme, let alone exceed them, wouldve required 
Mr C to adopt a greater level of investment risk than he was prepared to take.
I can see Pensionhelp says that it is unreasonable to base any findings on the discount rate 
because taking this into account was not required by the regulator when giving advice. While 
I havent based my findings on this, I think it is a reasonable additional consideration when 
seeking to determine what level of growth was reasonably achievable at the time of the 
advice. Under COBS 19.1.2 the regulator required businesses to compare the benefits likely 
to be paid under a DB scheme with those payable under a personal pension by using 
reasonable assumptions. So, businesses were free to use the discount rate as this would be 
considered a reasonable assumption of the likely returns. And in any event, this has been 
considered in tandem with the regulators published projection rates, which providers were 
required to refer to. And it is this combination, along with Mr Cs attitude to risk, which leads 
me to be believe hed likely be worse off in retirement if he transferred out of the DB scheme.
Pensionhelp also questions the importance or relevance of the critical yield because it is 
based on the growth required to produce a fund large enough to purchase an annuity on the 
same basis as the benefits provided by the DB scheme. Pensionhelp says Mr C didnt want 
guaranteed benefits like an annuity - it said he wanted to take his benefits flexibly. But the 
regulator required Pensionhelp to consider the rate of investment growth that would have to 
be achieved to replicate the benefits being given up. So, it needed to provide an analysis 
based on the critical yield and I do think it is a relevant consideration here, particularly as I 
dont think Mr C could realistically say with any certainty whether he would want to take a 
regular income at retirement or not. He wasnt expecting to retire for almost another 20 
years. I think its entirely possible that Mr C would want at least some guaranteed income in 
retirement (which he could achieve by taking benefits from the DB scheme).
Pensionhelp has pointed to the drawdown sustainability calculations as being a better way of 
demonstrating suitability and the viability of the transfer. Ive already said why I think the 
critical yield figures are still important in DB transfer cases like Mr Cs. 
But looking at this analysis, I can see the key assumptions Pensionhelp used to determine 
that Mr Cs fund wouldnt run out until he was well over 100 years old, were based on an 
investment return of 5.9% each year and an income withdrawal at the same level as Mr Cs 
DB scheme would provide, increasing in line with inflation. Notwithstanding my view on the 
likelihood of Mr C being able to achieve a consistent investment return at this level each any 
every year his fund was invested, as I said above, in my view, there would be little point in 
Mr C giving up the guarantees available to him through his DB scheme only to achieve, at 
best, the same level of benefits outside the scheme. So why would Mr C take on investment risk if he was only going to take the same level of income he could enjoy without that risk by 
staying in the DB scheme? His DB scheme would pay him a guaranteed and escalating 
income for life  so Im not persuaded this analysis demonstrates it was in Mr Cs best 
interests to transfer out of the BSPS. 
Pensionhelp has also referred to and provided a cashflow analysis, which I have considered. 
Its not clear to me whether this was produced and discussed with Mr C at the time  
Pensionhelp has indicated it wasnt a requirement to produce this kind of analysis at the 
time. But in any event, this appears to demonstrate the potential for Mr C to meet his income 
need and leave a significant lump sum for his family upon his death. Looking at this, I can 
see Pensionhelp has assumed the same level of investment growth as the analysis above 
and assumed that from age 60 Mr C would withdraw around £18,000 a year to supplement 
his rental income to meet his indicated target income. And then from age 67 onwards when 
his state pension is payable, his withdrawals reduce to around £4,000 a year leaving a 
residual pension pot of around £500,000 as a legacy upon his death. 
Again, notwithstanding the point I made above about the assumed investment return, or that 
the cashflow analysis does not include any stress testing scenarios to account for periods of 
poor investment performance and/or spikes in inflation to show how this might affect things, 
this scenario is one in which Mr C accepts or takes a lower retirement income in exchange 
for / prioritising lump sum death benefits. As I will go on to explain later on, I dont think this 
shouldve been prioritised over his security in retirement, particularly when it appears that 
Mr Cs family would already be well taken care of through existing means in the event of his 
death - something Pensionhelp documented in the advice paperwork at the time. And 
crucially as I will also go on to explain, it seems Mr Cs income needs could be met too by 
remaining in his DB scheme. So again, Im not persuaded this clearly demonstrates it was in 
Mr Cs best interests to transfer his pension.
So overall, given Mr C was likely to receive lower overall retirement benefits by transferring 
to a personal pension, for this reason alone I dont think a transfer out of the DB scheme was 
in his best interests. But I accept that financial viability isnt the only consideration when 
giving transfer advice, as Pensionhelp has argued in this case. There might be other 
considerations which mean a transfer is suitable and in Mr Cs best interests, despite 
providing overall lower benefits. Ive considered these below.
Flexibility and income needs
It seems that the primary reason Pensionhelp recommended the transfer was to provide 
Mr C with flexibility  the ability to draw a flexible income of between £20,000 to £25,000 a 
year.
But Im not persuaded that Mr C knew with any certainty whether he required flexibility in 
retirement. And in any event, I dont think he needed to transfer his DB scheme benefits to 
achieve flexibility, if thats what he ultimately required.
Mr C was 41 at the time of the advice. And while I accept he might have given some thought 
to his retirement, given it was still many years away, I dont think he had anything that could 
reasonably be described as a concrete retirement plan. I accept Mr C might have liked the 
idea of retiring early and before the schemes normal retirement age of 65. But Mr C already 
had this option available to him - he didnt have to transfer out to achieve this. I also accept 
that Mr C couldnt take his DB scheme benefits flexibly. Although he could choose to take a 
cash lump sum and a reduced annual pension, Mr C had to take those benefits at the same 
time. But nothing indicates that Mr C had a likely future need to take a cash lump sum and then defer taking his income. I also havent seen anything to indicate that Mr C had a strong 
need to vary his income throughout retirement. 
Pensionhelps advice and analysis as I referred to above, was based on giving Mr C the 
flexibility to reduce the income he took from his personal pension when his state pension 
became payable. But as I will discuss below, this appears to be tied into prioritising lump 
sum death benefits, which I dont think was necessary or suitable in the circumstances.
Importantly, as I referred to earlier on, I think Mr Cs retirement income need could be met by 
remaining in the DB scheme. Pensionhelps analysis indicated Mr C would be entitled to an 
annual pension income of around £17,800 based on the the existing BSPS benefits. 
Because of the reduced revaluation factors, under the BSPS2 this figure would be lower, but 
in my view still close to it. While this would cover what Mr C indicated was his core annual 
expenditure of around £16,500, on its own it wouldnt meet his desired annual income of up 
to £25,000. But the shortfall could be made up from Mr Cs rental income, which was around 
£700 a month or £8,400 a year. 
It's possible that Mr C might not be able to consistently rely in his rental income to make up 
the shortfall - for example, there might be periods where he wasnt able to let the property. 
But Mr C and his employer were contributing to his workplace DC pension scheme  an 
amount of around £8,400 a year. So not accounting for any investment growth, changes in 
Mr Cs salary or changes to his pension contribution rate, this had the potential to be worth in 
excess of £160,000 assuming around 20 years contributions. This means that at age 60, 
Mr C would likely have a not insignificant pension to draw on flexibly, as and when he 
needed, to supplement his DB scheme income (this ignores joint savings, Mr Cs wifes 
pension provision and from age 67 both their state pensions.) So it wasnt the case that Mr C 
had to sacrifice flexibility in retirement by opting into the BSPS2.
Pensionhelp says that if Mr C remained in his DB scheme, once his and his wifes state 
pensions were payable, he would have more income than he needed and as a result would 
pay more tax. But it seems to me this would be a nice problem to have  Im not persuaded 
Mr C would turn down the possibility of having a greater level of income throughout his 
retirement  an income that was guaranteed and would escalate. A greater income could 
mean Mr Cs standard of living improved, or if he didnt want the extra income he could save 
/ invest it for later on, or it could be used for legacy planning purposes. So Im not persuaded 
Pensionhelps argument demonstrates Mr C had a clear need for flexibility in retirement or 
that a transfer out of the scheme was in his best interests.
If Mr C had opted into the BSPS2 and it hadnt gone ahead, he wouldve moved with the 
scheme to the PPF. At age 60, according to Pensionhelps analysis, Mr C wouldve been 
entitled to a pension of just under £14,000 per year. This was lower than the pension hed 
likely be entitled to under the BSPS2 - but I dont think it was substantially lower such that it 
shouldve made a difference to the recommendation. As Ive said above, Mr C had his rental 
income, his DC scheme as well as his wifes pension to supplement their household income. 
So, I still think Mr C couldve met his needs in retirement even if the BSPS2 hadnt gone 
ahead and hed had to move with the scheme to the PPF.
Overall, I think Mr Cs income need in retirement could be met by either the BSPS2 or the 
PPF. And Im not persuaded it was in Mr Cs best interests to transfer to a personal pension 
arrangement at this time just to have flexibility that Im not persuaded he really needed.
Death benefits
Pensionhelp recorded that Mr C preferred to have a potentially tax-free lump sum death 
benefit paid to his wife and children rather than the taxable reduced spouses pension 
provided by the DB scheme.Death benefits are an emotive subject and of course when asked, most people would like 
their loved ones to be taken care of when they die. The lump sum death benefits on offer 
through a personal pension was likely an attractive feature to Mr C. But whilst I appreciate 
death benefits are important to consumers, and Mr C might have thought it was a good idea 
to transfer his DB scheme to a personal pension because of this, the priority here was to 
advise Mr C about what was best for his retirement provisions. A pension is primarily 
designed to provide income in retirement  not a lump sum to family after death. 
I also think the existing death benefits attached to the DB scheme were underplayed. Mr C 
was married and so the spouses pension provided by the BSPS2 scheme wouldve been 
useful to his spouse if Mr C predeceased her. I dont think Pensionhelp made the value of 
this benefit clear enough to Mr C. It was guaranteed and escalated and under the BSPS2 it 
would also be calculated as if no tax-free cash had been taken. Furthermore, it was not 
dependent on investment performance, whereas the sum remaining on death in a personal 
pension was.
In any event, Mr C already had lump sum death benefits available. Pensionhelp knew that 
Mr C had generous death-in-service cover if he died before retirement. And it also knew he 
was contributing to his workplace DC pension scheme, which Mr C could nominate his wife 
as beneficiary of - if he hadnt already done so.
Im also mindful that Pensionhelp documented in the advice paperwork that Mr Cs wife 
would most likely have sufficient existing means to meet her income need in the event of 
Mr Cs death. So, it strikes me as a little odd why provision of lump sum death benefits were 
prioritised and led to Pensionhelp recommending the transfer. But, if Mr C genuinely wanted 
to leave a legacy to his wife and family over and above that which was already available, 
and which didnt depend on investment returns, I think Pensionhelp ought to have better 
explored and ultimately recommended additional life cover. I can see Pensionhelp referred 
to this, albeit relatively briefly, as an option and it produced quotes for a whole of life 
insurance policy ranging from £56 a month up to £354 a month. And this was based on a 
sum assured reflecting the full transfer value. 
But I dont think this was a balanced way of presenting things. I say this because, basing the 
quote on the transfer value of Mr Cs pension benefits essentially assumed that he would 
pass away on day one following the transfer. And I dont think thats realistic. Ultimately, 
Mr C wanted to leave whatever remained of his pension to his family, which could be a lot 
less than this if he lived a long life and/or if investment returns were poor. So, the starting 
point ought to have been to ask Mr C how much he would ideally like to leave to his family 
after taking into account what was already available. And this couldve been explored on a 
whole of life or term assurance basis, which in my view was likely to be cheaper to provide  
albeit Ive seen nothing to indicate that Mr C couldnt afford a premium of £56 a month or 
more. 
Overall, I dont think different death benefits available through a transfer to a personal 
pension justified the likely decrease of retirement benefits for Mr C. And I dont think that 
insurance was properly or fully explored as an alternative.
Control or concerns over the BSPS
I understand that one of the drivers for Mr C seeking advice was concerns he had about the 
scheme moving to the PPF. 
I appreciate that Mr C, like many of his colleague no doubt, was concerned about his 
pension. His employer had recently made the announcement about its plans for the scheme 
and he was worried his pension would end up in the PPF. There was lots of negative sentiment about the PPF. So its quite possible that Mr C was leaning towards the decision 
to transfer because of the concerns he had about his employer and his negative perception 
of the PPF. However, it was Pensionhelps obligation to give Mr C an objective picture and 
recommend what was in his best interests.
As Ive explained, by this point details of BSPS2 were known and it seemed likely it was 
going ahead. So, the advice shouldve properly taken the benefits available to Mr C through 
the BSPS2 into account and I think this shouldve alleviated Mr Cs concerns to a greater 
extent about the scheme moving to the PPF.
But even if there was a chance the BSPS2 wouldnt go ahead, I think that Pensionhelp 
shouldve reassured Mr C that the scheme moving to the PPF wasnt as concerning as he 
thought. The income available to Mr C through the PPF wouldve still provided a significant 
portion of the income he thought he needed at retirement, and he was unlikely to be able to 
exceed this by transferring out. And although the increases in payment in the PPF were 
lower, the income was still guaranteed and was not subject to any investment risk. Mr C 
might not have been able to later transfer out of the PPF  but for the reasons I set out 
earlier, there was no apparent need for him to do so. 
So, I dont think that Mr Cs concerns were a compelling reason to recommend the transfer 
out of the DB scheme altogether.
Summary
I dont doubt that the flexibility, control and potential for higher death benefits on offer 
through a personal pension would have sounded like attractive features to Mr C. But 
Pensionhelp wasnt there to just transact what Mr C might have thought he wanted. The 
advisers role was to really understand what Mr C needed and recommend what was in his 
best interests.
Ultimately, I dont think the advice given to Mr C was suitable. He was giving up a 
guaranteed, risk-free and increasing income. By transferring, Mr C was very likely to obtain 
lower retirement benefits and in my view, there were no other particular reasons which would 
justify a transfer and outweigh this. Mr C shouldnt have been advised to transfer out of the 
scheme just to have flexibility that Im not persuaded he really needed (he already had 
flexibility in any event) and the potential for higher death benefits wasnt worth giving up the 
guarantees associated with his DB scheme, particularly as it appears his beneficiaries 
already had sufficient means in the event of Mr Cs death. So, I dont think it was in Mr Cs 
best interests for him to transfer his DB scheme to a personal pension at this time when he 
had the opportunity of opting into the BSPS2.
I appreciate that the BSPS2 hadnt been confirmed when the advice was given. And 
Pensionhelp has made much of this point. But as Ive already said, I think it was clear to all 
parties that it was likely to go ahead. Mr C had around 20 years before he expected to retire, 
and I dont think he could be certain at this time exactly when he would retire. So, I don't 
think that it would've been in his interest to accept the reduction in benefits he would've 
faced by the scheme entering the PPF, as it wouldn't be offset by the more favourable 
reduction for very early retirement. And by opting into the BSPS2, Mr C wouldve retained 
the ability to transfer out of the scheme nearer to his retirement age if he needed to. Also, Mr 
C was married, and his wifes pension would be set at 50% of his pension at the date of 
death, and this would be calculated as if no lump sum was taken at retirement (if Mr C chose 
to do so). The annual indexation of his pension when in payment was also more 
advantageous under the BSPS2. So, I think Pensionhelp shouldve advised Mr C to opt into the BSPS2.
Of course, I have to consider whether Mr C would've gone ahead anyway, against 
Pensionhelp's advice.
Ive considered this carefully - but Im not persuaded that Mr C wouldve insisted on 
transferring out of the BSPS against Pensionhelps advice. I say this because, while as Ive 
already said, Mr C was likely motivated to transfer when he approached Pensionhelp, I still 
think Mr C wouldve listened to and followed Pensionhelps advice if things had happened as 
they should have and it recommended he not transfer out of the scheme. Mr C was not, in 
my view an experienced investor  so I dont think he was someone who possessed the 
requisite skill, knowledge or confidence to against the advice they were given, particularly in 
complex pension matters. Mr Cs pension accounted for the majority of his private retirement 
provision at this time, so if Pensionhelp had provided him with clear advice against  
transferring, explaining why it wasnt in his best interests, I think he wouldve accepted that 
advice.
Im not persuaded that Mr Cs concerns about his employer and the scheme or his desire for 
lump sum death benefits were so great that he wouldve insisted on the transfer knowing that 
a professional adviser, whose expertise he had sought out and was paying for, didnt think it 
was suitable for him or in his best interests. If Pensionhelp had explained that Mr C could 
likely meet all of his objectives, including crucially meeting his desired income need without 
risking his guaranteed pension, I think that wouldve carried significant weight. So, I dont 
think Mr C wouldve insisted on transferring out of the BSPS against Pensionhelps advice.
In light of the above, I think Pensionhelp should compensate Mr C for the unsuitable advice, 
using the regulator's defined benefits pension transfer redress methodology. And as per the
above, it is the benefits available to him through the BSPS2 that should be used for 
comparison purposes.
I can see the investigator also recommended an award of £250 for the distress and
inconvenience the matter has caused Mr C. So Ive also thought about whether its fair to 
award compensation for distress and inconvenience - this isnt intended to fine or punish 
Pensionhelp  which is the job of the regulator. But I think its fair to recognise the emotional 
and practical impact this had on Mr C. Taking everything into account, I think the unsuitable 
advice has caused him some distress. So I think an award of £250 is fair in all the 
circumstances.
Putting things right
A fair and reasonable outcome would be for the business to put Mr C, as far as possible, into 
the position he would now be in but for the unsuitable advice. 
I consider Mr C would most likely have remained in the occupational pension scheme and 
opted to join the BSPS2 if suitable advice had been given. 
Pensionhelp must therefore undertake a redress calculation in line with the rules for 
calculating redress for non-compliant pension transfer advice, as detailed in policy statement 
PS22/13 and set out in the regulators handbook in DISP App 4: 
https://www.handbook.fca.org.uk/handbook/DISP/App/4/?view=chapter. 
Pensionhelp should use the FCAs BSPS-specific redress calculator to calculate the redress. 
A copy of the BSPS calculator output should be sent to Mr C and our Service upon 
completion of the calculation.For clarity, Mr C has not yet retired and has no plans to do so at present. So, compensation 
should be based on the schemes normal retirement age, as per the usual assumptions in 
the FCA's guidance.
This calculation should be carried out using the most recent financial assumptions in line 
with DISP App 4. In accordance with the regulators expectations, this should be undertaken 
or submitted to an appropriate provider promptly following receipt of notification of 
Mr Cs acceptance of my final decision.
If the redress calculation demonstrates a loss, as explained in policy statement PS22/13 and 
set out in DISP App 4, Pensionhelp should:
calculate and offer Mr C redress as a cash lump sum payment,
explain to Mr C before starting the redress calculation that:
- their redress will be calculated on the basis that it will be invested prudently 
(in line with the cautious investment return assumption used in the 
calculation), and
- a straightforward way to invest their redress prudently is to use it to augment 
their DC pension
offer to calculate how much of any redress Mr C receives could be augmented rather 
than receiving it all as a cash lump sum,
if Mr C accepts Pensionhelps offer to calculate how much of their redress could be 
augmented, request the necessary information and not charge Mr C for the 
calculation, even if he ultimately decides not to have any of their redress augmented, 
and
take a prudent approach when calculating how much redress could be augmented, 
given the inherent uncertainty around Mr Cs end of year tax position.
Redress paid to Mr C as a cash lump sum will be treated as income for tax purposes. So, in 
line with DISP App 4, Pensionhelp may make a notional deduction to cash lump sum 
payments to take account of tax that consumers would otherwise pay on income from their 
pension. Typically, 25% of the loss could have been taken as tax-free cash and 75% would 
have been taxed according to Mr Cs likely income tax rate in retirement  presumed to be 
20%. So making a notional deduction of 15% overall from the loss adequately reflects this. 
Where I uphold a complaint, I can award fair compensation of up to £160,000, plus any
interest and/or costs that I consider are appropriate. Where I consider that fair compensation
requires payment of an amount that might exceed £160,000, I may recommend that the
business pays the balance.
My final decision
Determination and money award: I uphold this complaint and require  Pensionhelp Limited to 
pay Mr C the compensation amount as set out in the steps above, up to a maximum of 
£160,000.
Recommendation: If the compensation amount exceeds £160,000, I also recommend that 
Pensionhelp Limited pays Mr C the balance.
If Mr C accepts this decision, the money award becomes binding on Pensionhelp Limited.
My recommendation would not be binding. Further, its unlikely that Mr C can accept my 
decision and go to court to ask for the balance. Mr C may want to consider getting 
independent legal advice before deciding whether to accept any final decision.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 11 August 2023. 
Paul Featherstone
Ombudsman