DRN-2788336
The complaint
Miss C, through a representative, says Bamboo Limited lent to her irresponsibly.
What happened
Miss C took out two guarantor loans from Bamboo. This means they were given on the basis 
Miss C had a guarantor who would be responsible for making the repayments if she failed to. 
A summary of her borrowing follows. Loan 2 was used in part to repay loan 1.
loan taken out value, £monthly 
repayment, £total 
repayable, £
1 27/04/2016 2,500 106.69 5,120.95
2 06/02/2018 3,502.04 149.45 7,173.51 
She says Bamboo did not carry out effective affordability checks, had it done so it would not 
have lent to her. It failed to provide appropriate money management advice and its final 
response letter was sent outside the regulators time limit of eight weeks.
Our investigator said the complaint should be upheld as Bamboo had not made fair lending 
decisions based on the checks it completed.
Bamboo disagreed. It said, in summary, its checks showed Miss C was managing her 
finances well, the only adverse information - a County Court Judgment (CCJ) - was 11 
months old. The large loan taken between loans 1 and 2 was a hire purchase agreement, its 
not unusual for a consumer to borrow for a car and it had taken into account the £350 
repayment. Miss C has a good payment history with Bamboo. And it was reasonable to use 
national statistics to estimate Miss Cs living costs given her personal circumstances. It has 
seen no evidence that its lending caused financial detriment to Miss C. 
Bamboo asked for an ombudsman to review the complaint so the case was passed to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Our approach to unaffordable/irresponsible lending complaints is set out on our website and
Ive followed it here.
The rules and regulations when Bamboo lent to Miss C required it to carry out a reasonable
and proportionate assessment of whether she could afford to repay what she owed in a
sustainable manner. This is sometimes referred to as an affordability assessment or an
affordability check.
The checks also had to be borrower-focused. So Bamboo had to think about whether
repaying the credit sustainably would cause any difficulties or adverse consequences for
Miss C. In other words, it wasnt enough for Bamboo to simply think about the likelihood of it
getting its money back, it had to consider the impact of the repayments on Miss C.
Checks also had to be proportionate to the specific circumstances of each loan application.
In general, what makes up a proportionate affordability check will be dependent upon a
number of factors including  but not limited to  the particular circumstances of the
consumer (e.g. their financial history, current situation and outlook, and any indications of
vulnerability or financial difficulty) and the amount, type and cost of credit they have applied
for. In light of this, I think that a reasonable and proportionate check ought generally to have
been more thorough:
- the lower a customers income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make any
repayments to credit from a lower level of income);
- the higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to
meet higher repayments from a particular level of income);
- the longer the period of time a borrower will be indebted for (reflecting the fact that
the total cost of the credit is likely to be greater and the customer is required to make
repayments for an extended period).
There may also be other factors which could influence how detailed a proportionate check
shouldve been for a given application  including (but not limited to) any indications of
borrower vulnerability and any foreseeable changes in future circumstances. Ive kept all of
this in mind when thinking about whether Bamboo did what it needed to before agreeing to
lend to Miss C. So to reach my conclusion I have considered the following questions:
- did Bamboo complete reasonable and proportionate checks when assessing 
Miss Cs loan applications to satisfy itself that she would be able to repay the loans in 
a sustainable way?
- if not, what would reasonable and proportionate checks have shown?
- did Bamboo make a fair lending decision?
- did Bamboo act unfairly or unreasonably in some other way?
I can see Bamboo asked for some information from Miss C before it approved the loans. It
asked about her income, residential and employment status, and number of dependents. It 
asked how much she paid towards the joint mortgage she was party to. It also checked 
Miss Cs credit file to understand her current credit commitments and credit history. It 
checked her declared income using both a third-party income verification tool and a copy of 
a payslip and screenshot of her benefit payment crediting her bank account. It made some 
assumptions about her living expenses based on national averages. It asked about the 
purpose of the loans, the first was for home improvements and the second was for car 
repairs. From these checks combined Bamboo concluded Miss C had enough monthly 
disposable income to afford to repay the loans. 
Im not wholly persuaded Bamboos affordability checks were proportionate given it needed 
to know the loans would be sustainably affordable or Miss C over a four-year term and its 
initial checks showed some concerning information. For example, she would have very 
limited disposable income for loan 1 (just under £5 a month) and her indebtedness had 
increased from an already significant level by loan 2. However, I wont comment further on 
this as I think even from the information it gathered it ought to have realised there was a risk 
the loans would not be sustainably affordable for Miss C. Ill explain why. I have carefully 
considered the comments Bamboo sent in response to our investigators assessment but for 
the reasons set out below they do not change my conclusion.Loan 1
The checks Bamboo carried out showed that Miss C would have less than £5 disposable 
income each month. I do not find this to be sufficient. She was repaying the loan over four 
years and this left her with no way to cover any unplanned expenditure or seasonal 
expenses. In addition, I disagree with Bamboos analysis that Miss C may have experienced 
financial difficulties in the past but was now managing her credit well. The CCJ was for a 
significant amount (£3,514) and was registered in the last 12 months - so not that long ago. 
And Bamboo could see from its credit check Miss C had just over £25,000 of unsecured debt 
across a number of accounts. 
She was already having to spend around half her income to service this debt each month  
and this didnt include her mortgage commitment. Miss C had made the minimum payment 
on her credit card debt 36 times in the previous 12 months, frequently an indicator of 
financial duress. So in the round, I think there were signs Miss Cs finances remained under 
pressure and Bamboo ought to have realised it was unlikely loan 1 would be sustainably 
unaffordable for Miss C. And that she would most likely need to borrow to repay, or suffer 
other harmful financial consequences. 
It follows I think Bamboo was wrong to give loan 1 to Miss C.
Loan 2
Miss C applied for a top-up loan 21 months into the term of loan 1. At this time the credit 
check Bamboo completed showed she had nearly £32,000 of unsecured debt and was 
spending £979 each month on repayments out of an income of £1,846, again excluding her 
mortgage commitment. Spending such a high percentage of income on repaying credit is 
often an indicator of financial instability. And this time Miss C had made the minimum 
repayment on her credit card debt 46 times in the previous 12 months. So again I think 
Bamboo ought to have realised it was likely loan 2 wouldnt be sustainably affordable for 
Miss C. It need to consider the sustainability, not just the monthly pounds and pence 
affordability, to meet its obligations. 
It argues that Miss Cs excellent payment history shows she could afford both loans, but it 
hasnt provided any evidence to show that she made her repayments without suffering any 
adverse financial consequences, so this does not change my conclusion. Overall, I think 
giving loan 2 to Miss C unfairly prolonged her reliance on high-cost credit.
It follows I think Bamboo was wrong to give loan 2 to Miss C.
I have not found evidence that Bamboo acted unfairly or unreasonably in any other way. 
Miss C says it did not offer her alternative money management advice, Bamboo says she 
never contacted it saying she was having financial difficulties. Miss C didnt provide much 
detail about this aspect of her complaint, and I note it is a point her representative often 
presents, so based on the available evidence I cant fairly conclude Bamboo was at fault in 
this regard. Finally, Bamboo replied to Miss Cs complaint of 12 October 2020 on 30 
November 2020  so within the time limit for a final response as set out by the regulator. The 
Financial Conduct Authoritys Dispute Resolution Rule DISP 1.6.2 stipulates that a final 
response to a complaint needs to be sent by the end of eight weeks after its receipt.
Putting things right
I think its fair and reasonable for Miss C to repay the capital that she borrowed, because she
had the benefit of that money. But she has paid interest and charges on loans that shouldnt
have been provided to her. Bamboo must put this right.It should:
Add up the total amount of money Miss C received as a result of being given loans 1 
and 2. Deduct all repayments Miss C made from this amount. 
If reworking Miss Cs loan accounts results in her having effectively made payments
above the original capital borrowed, then Bamboo should refund these overpayments 
with 8% simple interest calculated on the overpayments, from the date the 
overpayments would have arisen, to the date of settlement*.
If reworking Miss Cs loan accounts leaves a capital balance outstanding Bamboo
should try to agree an affordable repayment plan with Miss C.
Remove any adverse information recorded on Miss Cs credit file in relation to the
loans.
*HM Revenue & Customs requires Bamboo to deduct tax from this interest. Bamboo should give 
Miss C a certificate showing how much tax its deducted, if she asks for one. 
My final decision
I am upholding Miss Cs complaint. Bamboo Loans Limited must put things right as set out 
above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss C to accept 
or reject my decision before 28 March 2022.
 
Rebecca Connelley
Ombudsman