DRN-4079565
The complaint
Miss D complains that Evergreen Finance London Limited, trading as MoneyBoat.co.uk, lent 
to her irresponsibly. 
Miss D also complains that the internal MoneyBoat application system is wrong and that 
information she says she inputted at application stage for one of the loans was incorrectly 
captured. 
What happened
Miss D took three loans and using information MoneyBoat has provided here is a brief table 
of the approved loans. 
Loan Approved Amount Repayment terms repaid
1 11 December 2021 £200 3 x £90.88 28 February 2022
2 11 March 2022 £200 4 x £74.23 30 June 2022
3 1 July 2022 £500 6 x £154.60 Due to end 30 
December 2022
At the time that MoneyBoat had submitted its records to us Miss D had repaid all the 
instalments on time. Loan 3 was due to be repaid in instalments up to 30 December 2022 
and so it may well have been paid. 
Miss D complained on 8 August 2022 through an on-line complaint handling service and she 
made the complaint soon after shed had obtained the third loan. Miss D had received the 
initial response from MoneyBoat in which it had said that to investigate her complaint fully it 
would need her copy bank account statements and it warned Miss D that if shed lied on the 
application forms then that would be a serious matter for MoneyBoat. Miss D took exception 
to this and it has become part of her complaint. I address this in the decision. 
MoneyBoat issued Miss D with its final response letter (FRL) dated 11 August 2022. It gave 
reasons why it did not consider it had done anything wrong. 
Miss Ds complaint letter had mentioned loans 1 and 2 only for the complaint but the FRL 
covered all three and Miss Ds complaint form to us included a handwritten additional note in 
which she did claim irresponsible lending for the three loans. 
One of our adjudicators looked at the complaint and thought that MoneyBoat had not lent to 
Miss D irresponsibly. 
Miss D responded to say that Moneyboat didnt do any adequate checks when lending the 
money as they would have identified that their records were wrong.  And Miss D had 
expressed concern earlier that the dates MoneyBoat had did not add up. Miss D explained:
I don't believe there is any evidence of me submitting 3 months employment history 
in December 2021 as I didn't do it.
The unresolved complaint was passed to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about this type of lending - including all 
the relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice - on our website.
MoneyBoat had to assess the lending to check if Miss D could afford to pay back the 
amounts shed borrowed without undue difficulty. It needed to do this in a way which was 
proportionate to the circumstances. MoneyBoats checks couldve taken into account a 
number of different things, such as how much was being lent, the size of the repayments, 
and Consumers income and expenditure. 
With this in mind, I think in the early stages of a lending relationship, less thorough checks 
might have been proportionate. But certain factors might suggest MoneyBoat should have 
done more to establish that any lending was sustainable for Consumer. These factors 
include:
Miss D having a low income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make any loan 
repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income);
The amounts to be repaid being especially high (reflecting that it could be more 
difficult to meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income);
Miss D having a large number of loans and/or having these loans over a long period 
of time (reflecting the risk that repeated refinancing may signal that the borrowing 
had become, or was becoming, unsustainable);
Miss D coming back for loans shortly after previous borrowing had been repaid (also 
suggestive of the borrowing becoming unsustainable).
There may even come a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly 
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable for Consumer. 
MoneyBoat was required to establish whether Miss D could sustainably repay the loans  
not just whether she technically had enough money to make her repayments. Having 
enough money to make the repayments could of course be an indicator that Miss D was able 
to repay her loans sustainably. But it doesnt automatically follow that this is the case. 
Industry regulations say that payments are sustainable if they are made without undue 
difficulties and, made on time, while meeting other reasonable commitments and without 
having to borrow to make them. If a lender realises, or ought reasonably to have realised, 
that a borrower wont be able to make their repayments without borrowing further, then it 
follows that it should conclude those repayments are unsustainable.
Ive considered all the arguments, evidence and information provided in this context, and
thought about what this means for Consumers complaint.
Loan 1 
There are a few issues that Miss D has raised specifically in relation to loan 1. She has said:
The first loan was 4 days after I started a new job. I had not been working since 
October. MoneyBoat were irresponsible for lending money to me when there was no 
evidence to show I could afford it I did not have the money to afford to pay for the 
loan as I had to work 4 weeks before I received any payment from my new employer. This was clear when the first payment failed and I had to find funds to pay later that 
day on 31/12/2021
And the quotations from Miss D I have duplicated in the what happened part of this decision 
also relate to loan 1. 
My view is that there was evidence that Miss D could afford to make the repayments of just 
under £91 a month as Miss D had informed MoneyBoat she was living at home with her 
parents, that she was employed (which was correct), she had a monthly salary of £2,000 a 
month and her next payday was 31 December 2021. 
Miss D had declared expenditure of £698 a month which had included house expenses, 
credit expenses, utilities, transport and food. She had told MoneyBoat that the reason for the 
loan was for a one-off expense. 
In the FRL MoneyBoat has explained that it verified Miss Ds salary using a credit reference 
agency tool and it obtained a credit search which led it to increase her expenditure figures by 
£152 each month. 
For a first loan of £200 and for a short term such as three months then Id not have expected 
MoneyBoat to do more.
In relation to the concern raised by Miss D about the capturing of her data when she inputted 
information for the application at loan 1 then whether MoneyBoats system or the options 
offered on an on-line application form was correct or MoneyBoat got it wrong is not 
something the Financial Ombudsman Service would look into. The internal systems of a 
lending business is beyond what we would be expected to investigate. 
In any event, MoneyBoat did make some checks including obtaining details about her credit 
history. It was entitled to rely on the information Miss D had given to it. 
If it had telephoned her employer or had obtained some copy of a letter from her employers 
HR department to demonstrate her gainful and professional employment and/or her start 
date, then that would not have made a difference to the lending decision. It would have 
confirmed what it had already established. And as the first repayment date was also the date 
of her first salary payday then I doubt that MoneyBoat would have been concerned.
Miss D says that the first payment on 31 December 2021 initially did not go through, but it 
did go through later that same date. Miss D has sent to us no evidence of that. And I doubt 
MoneyBoat has, or would, have recorded that as a late payment as the payment was made 
on the due date. I do not uphold Miss Ds complaint about loan 1.
Loan 2
Loan 2 was for £200 which was a modest sum and for a short term and it was early in the 
lending relationship. MoneyBoat was entitled to rely on the information she gave to it in her 
application. 
Miss Ds income and expenditure was much the same as for loan 1 and this time MoneyBoat 
had obtained a payslip which confirmed her salary and net pay. These demonstrated that 
she had enough disposable income to cover the repayment costs for loan 2. 
I have reviewed the MoneyBoat credit search results it carried out before approving loan 2,  
and I had seen for loan 1 and again for loan 2 that she had at least one loan which had had 
arrears on it. But overall, her credit situation was relatively good and MoneyBoat was a lender used to lending to individuals with some adverse credit file entries.
I do not uphold Miss Ds complaint about loan 2.
Loan 3
Miss D applied for a larger loan - £500. Miss D provided a payslip for loan 3 as well. By this 
time Miss D had successfully repaid two loans and so Miss Ds application or a higher loan 
sum was processed with that brief history in the background. A lenders creditworthiness 
assessment is meant to include the repayment history on previous loans. 
MoneyBoat has explained in its FRL that it increased Miss Ds monthly expenditure by £150 
after having carried out the checks it did. 
I have reviewed the MoneyBoat credit search it did at loan 3, and there was a marked 
increase in the loan sum debt figure overall, whereas her credit card debt had reduced. But 
the detail shows that she had run a car in the past (she had motor insurance entries on the 
credit searches done for loans 1 and 2). Here Miss D had applied for and obtained a new car 
on Hire Purchase (HP) for around £15,000 in April 2022. 
Overall, I think that the checks MoneyBoat had carried out before lending to Miss D at loan 3 
were proportionate and in line with what I would have expected it to have done.
The increase in the debt was explained in the new car purchase and so overall Id consider 
that MoneyBoat did not lend irresponsibly at loan 3.  
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold Miss Ds complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss D to accept 
or reject my decision before 13 June 2023.
 
Rachael Williams
Ombudsman