DRN-3418847
The complaint
Mr Q complains that Barclays Bank UK PLC sent him correspondence incorrectly stating that 
he had chosen to receive paperless statements for his account.
What happened
Mr Q received a letter from Barclays dated June 2021, explaining that a new account 
statement was available to be viewed. It further explained that because Mr Q had opted to 
receive paperless statements, it would email him each time a new statement was available. 
The letter also outlined it had tried to contact Mr Q by email and text, however his email 
address and mobile number were either missing or incorrect.
Mr Q said he hadnt chosen to receive paperless statements for his account and suspected 
that this may be a fraud attempt. Mr Q says he would like Barclays to stop sending paperless 
statements, correct the error it made and also retrieve any information that was mis-sent. 
Mr Q ultimately raised a complaint with this service. He also provided an example of another 
letter some months later, which outlined similar information.
After this service informed Barclays of Mr Qs concerns, Barclays wrote to Mr Q in 
November 2021. In summary, it explained it had taken the initiative to try and reduce the 
amount of paper it sent out each month. It further outlined that research carried out with its 
digitally active customers indicated that most would be happy to switch to paperless 
statements. It apologised for any worry caused and explained how Mr Q could request to be 
switched back to paper-based statements. 
In further correspondence with this service, Barclays ultimately explained that the 
information in the letter from November 2021 was incorrect, as was its letter from June 2021 
 which was sent to Mr Q in error. And it offered Mr Q £50 compensation for the distress this 
caused. 
One of our investigators reviewed matters. In summary, she understood why Barclays 
correspondence wouldve caused Mr Q upset, given he hadnt opted to receive paperless 
statements. However, Barclays had provided information which showed that there were no 
amendments made to his account settings, which showed his preference was paper 
statements, sent quarterly. She didnt think there was any evidence of fraud and, ultimately, 
she thought Barclays offer of £50 was fair.
Barclays didnt dispute our investigators findings, but Mr Q did and, in summary, mostly 
repeated his earlier points. He thought his losses hadnt properly been considered and that 
hed suffered monetary losses. And, he also pointed out that if changes werent made to his 
account settings, this would suggest Barclays systems were faulty. 
As an agreement couldnt be reached, the case has come to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr Q has other complaints with this service. However, this decision will only address his 
complaint related to his account statements and the issues I consider to be materially 
relevant to the crux of that complaint. However, Ive given careful consideration to all of the 
submissions made to date, in relation to this complaint. 
As I understand it, Mr Q wanted more time to make further submissions. Its unclear to me 
whether this was in relation to this complaint, or other complaints with this service. However, 
I dont think this is necessary in relation to this complaint. I say this because I think Mr Q was 
given a reasonable amount of time to make any final submissions before this case was 
passed to me to decide. And, I have enough information to reach my decision. Ill now set 
out my reasoning below.
Barclays has explained that the information in the correspondence it sent Mr Q was incorrect 
and has agreed that Mr Q didnt opt to receive paperless statements. So, it seems there is 
no dispute that incorrect information was provided to Mr Q. As I understand it, Mr Q suspects 
that this is indicative of fraud that has occurred. In its correspondence with this service, 
Barclays has provided a screenshot of its systems which show that Mr Qs recorded 
preference is for statements to be sent by post on a quarterly basis. Given that the system 
appears to be unchanged, on balance, Im more persuaded that the correspondence sent 
was a genuine error on the part of Barclays, as it has explained, rather than any attempt to 
alter Mr Qs recorded information. 
However, that being said, I can understand why Mr Q would have been concerned to receive 
this information and how this might cause alarm. In its responses to Mr Qs complaint, 
Barclays apologised for the worry it caused. It also subsequently offered Mr Q £50 
compensation for the distress caused by its error. So, it seems Barclays doesnt dispute that 
things could have gone better.
In the overall circumstances of what happened, whilst I dont doubt that the matter wouldve 
been upsetting, I think Barclays offer of compensation is enough to recognise the distress 
and inconvenience Mr Q suffered as a result of its error. And, having reviewed screenshots 
of its internal system, Im satisfied it holds correct information about Mr Qs statement 
preferences.
As I understand it, Mr Q has raised concerns about potential fraud that might happen in the 
future, as a result of Barclays error. Some of the incorrect correspondence suggested 
Barclays had unsuccessfully attempted to contact Mr Q by email and phone. I understand 
why Mr Q might be concerned about where his information may have been sent. However, 
as our investigator explained, Barclays has told this service it doesnt hold a phone number 
or email address for Mr Q. So, on balance, Im more persuaded that Barclays simply 
included incorrect information in its letter. And, Ive not been provided with any information to 
persuade me that Mr Qs information has gone astray.
So, overall, whilst I appreciate the matter would have been upsetting for Mr Q, Im satisfied 
that Barclays offer is enough to put matters right in the circumstances. 
My final decision
I uphold this complaint and direct Barclays Bank UK PLC to pay Mr Q £50 compensation for 
the distress it caused him.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr Q to accept or 
reject my decision before 23 June 2022.
 
Hana Yousef
Ombudsman