DRN-4302559
Complaint
Mr B has complained about a loan Everyday Lending Limited (trading as Everyday Loans) 
provided to him. He says the loan was unaffordable.
Background
Everyday Loans provided Mr B with a loan for £1,300.00 in June 2021. This loan had an 
APR of 249.5% and a term of 24 months. This meant that the total amount to be repaid of 
£3,839.52, including interest, fees and charges of £2,539.52, was due to be repaid in 24 
monthly instalments of £159.98. 
One of our adjudicators reviewed Mr Bs complaint and he thought Everyday Loans shouldnt 
have provided Mr B with his loan. So he thought that Mr Bs complaint should be upheld. 
Everyday Loans disagreed with our adjudicators assessment so the case was passed to an 
ombudsman for a final decision.
My findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve explained how we handle complaints about unaffordable and irresponsible lending on
our website. And Ive used this approach to help me decide Mr Bs complaint. 
Having carefully considered everything Ive decided to uphold Mr Bs complaint. Ill explain 
why in a little more detail.
Everyday Loans needed to make sure it didnt lend irresponsibly. In practice, what this 
means is Everyday Loans needed to carry out proportionate checks to be able to understand 
whether Mr B could afford to repay any credit it provided. 
Our website sets out what we typically think about when deciding whether a lenders checks 
were proportionate. Generally, we think its reasonable for a lenders checks to be less 
thorough  in terms of how much information it gathers and what it does to verify it  in the 
early stages of a lending relationship.
But we might think it needed to do more if, for example, a borrowers income was low or the
amount lent was high. And the longer the lending relationship goes on, the greater the risk of
it becoming unsustainable and the borrower experiencing financial difficulty. So wed expect
a lender to be able to show that it didnt continue to lend to a customer irresponsibly.
The information Everyday Loans has provided suggested that it carried out a credit check 
before this loan was provided. The results of which showed that Mr B was already 
significantly indebted and had a number of accounts with debt collection agencies. 
Ive seen that Everyday Loans notes suggest that Mr B explained that hed fallen into a 
cycle of short-term lending as a result of his divorce. However, I dont think that it was 
reasonable to proceed with this application given the amount of short-term lending and the 
sheer number of accounts with debt collection agencies too.
I also have concerns that this was going to consolidate high-cost short term credit. Everyday 
Loans argues that this loan was going to take Mr B out of a cycle of loans that were more 
expensive than its loan. I accept that the loans Mr B was going to consolidate did have high 
headline APRs. However, Everyday Loans is overlooking the fact that the total amount to be 
repaid on high-cost short term credit is capped at twice the amount borrowed. This 
effectively means that a borrower can only pay a maximum of the amount they borrowed in 
interest. 
So, by way of comparison, if that same cap applied to this loan Mr B could only pay a 
maximum of £1,300.00 in interest and a total amount of £2,600.00. And the interest on this 
loan, which to be cleat while not at high-cost short term credit levels still had an incredibly 
high APR, was not capped in that way. 
This meant that this loan was always going to be far more expensive for Mr B in the long run. 
And even then it was going to be for a small saving on the monthly amount Mr B had to pay 
on his existing loans. So its unclear to me how this loan, which was on such 
disadvantageous terms, was going to improve Mr Bs already precarious financial position 
going forward.
Im therefore persuaded by what Mr B has said about his already difficult financial position at 
the time of this application being worsened by him being approved for this loan. And while 
its possible Mr Bs difficulties reflected his choices rather than financial difficulty, Id add that 
my experience of these types of cases suggest this is unlikely, in the absence of any 
plausible counter arguments from Everyday Loans, Ive been persuaded to accept Mr Bs 
version of events. 
As this is the case, I do think that Mr Bs existing financial position meant that he was 
unlikely to be able to afford the payments to this loan, without undue difficulty or borrowing 
further. And Im satisfied that it wasnt fair and reasonable to provide this loan to Mr B. As 
Everyday Loans provided Mr B with this loan, notwithstanding this, Im satisfied it failed to 
act fairly and reasonably towards him. 
Mr B ended up paying interest, fees and charges on a loan he shouldnt have been provided 
with. So Im satisfied that Mr B lost out because of what Everyday Loans did wrong and that 
it should put things right.
Fair compensation  what Everyday Loans needs to do to put things right for Mr B
Having thought about everything, Everyday Loans should put things right for Mr B by:
removing all interest, fees and charges applied to the loan from the outset. The 
payments Mr B made should be deducted from the new starting balance  the 
£1,300.00 originally lent. If the amount Mr B has already repaid exceeds £1,300.00 
then Everyday Loans should treat any extra as overpayments. And any 
overpayments should be refunded to Mr B;
adding interest at 8% per year simple on any overpayments, if any, from the date 
they were made by Mr B to the date of settlementif no outstanding balance remains after all adjustments have been made, all adverse 
information Everyday Loans recorded about this loan should be removed from Mr Bs 
credit file.
 HM Revenue & Customs requires Everyday Loans to take off tax from this interest. 
Everyday Loans must give Mr B a certificate showing how much tax it has taken off if he 
asks for one.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, Im upholding Mr Bs complaint. Everyday Lending Limited 
should put things right in the way Ive set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 30 October 2023.
 
Jeshen Narayanan
Ombudsman