DRN-2559473
The complaint
Mr T is unhappy with the service he received from TSB Bank plc when he tried to access  
online banking. 
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I will not repeat them again 
here. The facts are not in dispute so I will focus on giving the reasons for my decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the conclusions reached by the investigator for these reasons:
I can see why Mr T is frustrated here. It strikes me that given his account holding with 
TSB, online banking wasnt going to be particularly useful for him  he couldve only 
used it to see his balance, when he wanted it to transfer money. Ideally, TSB 
wouldve explained its limits in its letter in March, so Mr T couldve avoided the 
trouble of trying to set it up. 
Ive thought about the impact this had on Mr T. To be clear, my role as an 
ombudsman is to look at someones individual complaint  and to compensate for 
any individual losses. I cant tell TSB to make broader changes or punish them for 
how it operates  thats for the Financial Conduct Authority. 
Here, Mr T couldnt access online banking, so he called TSB. After waiting on hold, 
his call was disconnected. He called again, but after 20 minutes, he registered his 
complaint with TSB online. It responded in April, where it explained that he couldnt 
use online banking to transfer money, and sent him a cheque for £36  for the call 
costs alongside the distress and inconvenience.  
I know Mr T felt insulted by that amount. But I do think it reflects the inconvenience 
he was caused, given the time it took and the nature of the problem. 
In saying this, Ive not been persuaded that Mr Ts problems accessing online 
banking were TSBs fault. I cant say for certain, because there wasnt a detailed 
investigation that got to the root of the problem. But civil disputes like these are only 
ever decided on the balance of probabilities  in other words, whats more likely than 
not. And here, it doesnt seem lots of other customers experienced the same issue as 
Mr T, which does suggest this was to do with Mr Ts set-up. 
Mr T also doesnt think TSB addressed what happened after it sent its response in 
April  namely that he didnt hear back from TSB, and when he did, it didnt add 
anything further. But at this point, TSB had made it clear what online banking could 
do, and it had told him he could approach out service if he wasnt happy. So while I 
appreciate how this added to Mr Ts frustration, given the overall impact, I dont think 
it justifies a further award here. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint about TSB Bank plc.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr T to accept or 
reject my decision before 13 October 2021.
 
Emma Szkolar
Ombudsman