DRN-1164217
 
The complaint
Miss C complains that Lloyds Bank PLC didnt offer support when she had difficulty paying 
her mortgage. She asks that Lloyds provides recordings of phone calls and copies of letters, 
and pays compensation for her being on a buy to let interest rate when the property was 
vacant.
What happened
Miss C had a residential mortgage with Lloyds. In mid 2012 Miss C moved overseas and 
asked for consent to let her property out. Lloyds agreed and the property was let out later 
that year. However the tenants rent payment were erratic and they stopped paying rent in 
May 2013. The tenants were evicted in October 2013. Without rental income, Miss C 
couldnt maintain monthly mortgage payments and the account fell into arrears. By the end 
of March 2014 the arrears were nearly £5,000. Miss C accepted an offer for her property in 
December 2013 and the sale completed in April 2014. 
Miss C complains that Lloyds:
refused to allow her a payment holiday because she was living abroad.
sent standard letters which didnt take account of her situation, for instance 
suggesting she take advice from the Citizens Advice Bureau when it knew she was 
overseas.
asked her to make monthly payments in full, even though it knew she couldnt. It 
suggested she borrow from family and friends.
didnt suggest she switch back to a residential mortgage after her tenants were 
evicted, which would have been cheaper. 
 
Our adjudicator didnt recommend that the complaint be upheld. He said there was no 
evidence Miss C had contacted Lloyds at that time to ask for a payment holiday, or that 
Lloyds had told her to borrow money to pay the mortgage. And it was unlikely Lloyds would 
have agreed to a payment holiday as the mortgage was in arrears. He said Lloyds didnt do 
anything wrong in keeping Miss C up to date with her arrears. And it was for Miss C to 
contact Lloyds if she was no longer letting the property and wanted to switch to a residential 
mortgage. 
Miss C didnt agree. She said letters from Lloyds dated late 2013 and early 2014 show she 
discussed the account with Lloyds.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Where the evidence is incomplete, 
inconclusive or contradictory, I reach my decision on the balance of probabilities  in other words, what I consider is most likely to have happened in light of the available evidence and 
the wider circumstances. 
I sympathise with the position Miss C was in. Her property was let out and the tenants didnt 
pay rent when due. This left her without enough income to meet the mortgage payments. It 
must have been difficult to deal with this while overseas. And Miss C has also described the 
upsetting family circumstances she was dealing with at the time.  
Lloyds says it cant provide call recordings or its collections teams notes from this time. I 
cant reasonably require Lloyds to provide this when it says it cant do so. I think I can reach 
a fair decision using the information and evidence that is available.
Miss C agreed a payment arrangement with Lloyds in June 2013. The payment arrangement 
ended in October 2013. Miss C made payments after this, but the available evidence 
suggests a new payment arrangement wasnt agreed. 
I think Miss C was making efforts to repay the mortgage, by selling the property and making 
payments when she could in the meantime. However, some of the letters Lloyds sent asked 
Miss C to get in touch. This suggests it wanted to contact her about what was happening 
with the arrears and had difficulty doing so. I dont think it was wrong for Lloyds to send a 
field agent to the property. Miss C wasnt there to discuss the account with the agent  which 
would often be the case with a property that had been let out, even if the owner wasnt 
overseas. But the visit also allowed the agent to check the property, and Lloyds says this a 
normal part of its recovery process.
Lloyds wrote to Miss C about her arrears. I dont think that was wrong. I appreciate that 
receiving letters about arrears  and the action that might be taken  is upsetting. But Lloyds 
had to keep Miss C informed about her account. 
The letters Lloyds sent to Miss C included contact details for bodies that can offer advice to 
people in financial difficulty. Theyre based in the UK. Miss C couldnt easily use these 
services while she was overseas. But I dont think it was wrong for Lloyds to include the 
information, which she might have found helpful. 
Miss C asked Lloyds for consent to let the property when she moved overseas, which Lloyds 
agreed. Lloyds applied a new product with an increased interest rate  in line with its policy 
when it gives consent to let. Im sorry that Miss C had such a difficult experience with her 
tenants, and I can understand why she didnt want to let the property out again. But once 
shed decided not to let the property again, Miss C could have asked Lloyds about switching 
to a residential product. I dont think its reasonable to say that Lloyds should have contacted 
Miss C and suggest she switch products.
Lloyds cant provide recordings of phone calls or notes made by its collections team from 
2013 onwards. Ive no doubt that Miss C would have found the conversations upsetting, 
given the circumstances. I dont think I can fairly find that Lloyds made suggestions about 
paying the mortgage that were inappropriate without some evidence of what was discussed.
Lloyds has a policy about when it allows payment holidays. It wont usually offer a payment 
holiday if a customer is in financial difficulty, as Miss C was at that time. So a payment 
holiday wouldnt have been available to Miss C. Lloyds did offer a payment arrangement to 
Miss C in mid 2013. I havent seen anything to suggest it unfairly declined to offer another 
payment arrangement after this. I can understand that Miss C found this a difficult time. But based on the available evidence I 
dont think Lloyds acted unfairly or made errors which would make it fair and reasonable for 
me to require it to pay compensation.
My final decision
My decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
 Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss C to accept 
or reject my decision before 14 May 2020.
Ruth Stevenson
Ombudsman