DRN-3720368
The complaint
Mrs A has complained that National Westminster Bank Plc (NatWest) disclosed personal 
and sensitive information about her, and the affect this had.
What happened
Mrs A was living at her mortgaged address with her children having separated from her 
partner. Having missed mortgage payments Mrs A was being evicted from her home so 
moved to stay at a friends home with her children.
Due to domestic issues Mrs A did not want her ex-partner to know where she was living and 
had explained this to the bank.
Mrs A later received a call from a NatWest branch and was asked several questions that 
included her current address information. Mrs A answered the questions and has told us she 
then realised her ex-partner was in the background at the branch. Mrs A immediately ended 
the call. 
Mrs A also made a subject access request from NatWest that was incorrectly sent to her old 
address, where at the time her ex-partner was living. Mrs As ex-partner saw the information 
that was meant for her which included information about the domestic issues she had 
experienced.
Mrs A has further explained that her ex-partner had previously verbally agreed to leave the 
mortgaged property to Mrs A and walk away taking nothing for himself. But after realising 
Mrs A had shared information about their domestic issues with NatWest decided he would 
no longer give up the property.
NatWest apologised to Mrs A and offered her £300 compensation for the errors it had made.
One of our Investigators considered Mrs As complaint, and thought the errors made by 
NatWest were significant and that NatWest should increase its compensation offer to 
£3,000. After some discussion NatWest agreed to pay Mrs A the £3,000 that had been 
suggested.
Mrs A explained that she was not willing to accept £3,000 as a resolution to her complaint as 
this amount did not reflect her loss as she would now need to pay legal costs to recover the 
property from her ex-partner, an amount she wouldnt have had to pay had it not been for 
NatWest sending her information to the incorrect address. Mrs A estimated that this could 
cost up to £7,500.
As Mrs A disagreed with the resolution suggested by our Investigator this complaint has 
been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
NatWest has not disputed the errors Mrs A claims it made in releasing personal information 
about her, and that releasing this information amplified the amount of stress Mrs A was 
under. Its very clear that this had a very serious impact on her at what was already a difficult 
time.
Mrs A has explained she moved in with a friend following being evicted from her family 
home. When her ex-partner found out where she was staying, following her address being 
released during a call with NatWest, she moved to a family members home where she had 
to stay in a single room with her two children. 
I understand the steps Mrs A took to feel safe following the release of her personal 
information. That will have caused her some considerable inconvenience. This is alongside 
the significant distress, worry and upset that she has told us about too. The starting point 
here is that any compensation that NatWest should pay should be proportionate to that.  In 
my view the amount NatWest has agreed to pay her in compensation is significant and in 
line with what I would have asked it to pay her if it had not previously agreed to do so.
I realise that Mrs A thinks NatWest should pay more. But this service is impartial and we 
have to consider both sides of a complaint. In the circumstances here  I dont think its 
possible to know what Mrs As partners actions would have been had he not seen the 
information released by NatWest. I have not seen any evidence of a written agreement being 
made at any time for example.
From the information available it appears Mrs As relationship with her ex-partner was 
difficult and there was no guarantee that the rights to their family home would not have 
needed to be decided in a court setting even without the information being released.
However, this does not take away from the ordeal Mrs A experienced because of the errors 
made by NatWest. As a service we are not designed to punish a business for errors it makes 
or to enforce penalties. Instead, our role is to look at whats fair and reasonable in all the 
circumstances of a complaint and, in my view, the £3,000 award our Investigator suggested 
and NatWest agreed to is significant. I think it fairly compensates Mrs A for the impact 
NatWests errors had on Mrs A.
Putting things right
If it hasnt already, National Westminster Bank Plc should now pay Mrs A £3,000 
compensation for the impact the errors it made had on her.
My final decision
I uphold this complaint and require National Westminster Bank Plc to put things right by 
paying Mrs A the compensation outlined above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs A to accept or 
reject my decision before 13 January 2023.
 
Terry Woodham
Ombudsman