DRN-4217769
The complaint
Mr and Mrs G complain that Bank of Scotland plc trading as Halifax made an error with their 
payment request which had an impact on them.
What happened
Mr and Mrs G say that they contacted Halifax on 21 March 2023 to have their savings 
account transferred to a third party provider. They say Halifax confirmed the transfer would 
be completed, but when Mrs G had problems making payments from her current account, 
they contacted Halifax about this, and it transpired that the payment Halifax sent to the new 
provider couldnt be honoured as it didnt contain their unique building society number along 
with the payment details, which resulted in the current account being overdrawn as Halifax 
paid a draft into their account which the funds hadnt cleared. Mr and Mrs G made a 
complaint to Halifax. 
Halifax upheld Mr and Mrs Gs complaint. They said that they were disappointed they didnt 
provide their unique building society account number along with the payment details on 21 
March 2023, which resulted in the payment being returned to a Halifax branch. They said 
they understand how difficult it was for them to try and obtain assistance over the phone as 
this was a branch based issue. But when the branch contacted them on 27 March 2023, they 
were able to correct this and arrange for the payment to go to the third party provider again. 
Halifax said that during the correction process their joint current account fell into a debit 
status for a short period during 27 March 2023, but correcting entries were made to ensure 
the account was returned to a credit balance status on the same day.
Halifax said the delay meant Mr and Mrs G didnt have access to their funds and they lost 
out on interest being accrued. Therefore, they paid 8% interest from 21 March 2023 to 30 
March 2023 (they said they used this date to allow time for the payment to reach the third 
party provider). Halifax said they offered £200 compensation on top of the £20 they had 
already paid them, and interest of £62.85. Mr and Mrs G brought their complaint to our 
service. 
Our investigator said that the offer Halifax made was fair. He said the savings account was 
closed and transferred on 21 March 2023 in a visit to a branch. The branch made an error 
resulting in the payment being rejected back to Halifax, however, due to the originating 
account being closed the funds went into a Halifax suspense account. Our investigator said 
further errors were made by the branch on 27 March 2023 when attempting to correct the 
transfer for Mr and Mrs G. 
Mr and Mrs G asked for an ombudsman to review their complaint. They made a number of 
points. In summary, they said the compensation doesnt reflect the upset caused to them 
over the three days with Halifax. They wanted the phone calls listened to, and they said they 
were refused help when they asked if Halifax could deposit a little amount of money into their 
account while they were waiting for the issues to be sorted out, but they were refused. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr and Mrs G have made a number of points to this service, and Ive considered and read 
everything theyve said and sent us. But, in line with this services role as a quick and 
informal body Ill be focusing on the crux of their complaint in deciding whats fair and 
reasonable here. 
It's clear that Halifax have made a number of errors with what happened to Mr and Mrs G. 
These errors involve not including the building society reference for the payment to the third 
party, which caused the transfer to be rejected back to Halifax (into a suspense account 
since the savings account had been closed), when the funds were attempted to be credited 
to Mr and Mrs Gs current account the cashier credited an incorrect amount, which meant 
this needed to be rectified, and they also paid the funds in as a draft. 
As the funds were paid in by a draft, this meant that the funds were uncleared. This caused 
the account to go overdrawn when it shouldnt have been. Halifax said the account was 
overdrawn for a day and Mr and Mrs G say that it was overdrawn for three days. So Ive 
looked into how long the account was overdrawn by.
I can confirm the account was overdrawn for more than one day. The confusion around the 
overdrawn balance was based on the statement entries as this looks like the account was 
overdrawn for less than a day, and this is what Halifax had based their answer on. But as the 
draft hadnt cleared on the same day, this is why Mr and Mrs G were overdrawn for more 
than one day. Ive also seen a text Mr and Mrs G were sent on 28 March 2023 advising them 
they have payments due which may take them into an unarranged overdraft, and this text 
was sent by Halifax at 8:26am. So I can fairly conclude they were still overdrawn by the time 
the text was sent.
Halifax have sent me evidence that the unclear effects of the draft were removed from the 
account on 28 March 2023. But there is no time stamp on the evidence. So it could be up to 
23:59pm and 59 seconds that the unclear effects were removed. So Im not persuaded there 
were uncleared funds on 29 March 2023. So it does appear the impact was for a maximum 
of two days, and not one day like Halifax originally said or three days like Mr and Mrs G have 
said, although I can see that Mr and Mrs G used their account again on 30 March, so this is 
why they might be under the impression that their account was overdrawn for three days 
instead of two.
But regardless of this, what happened here would have an impact on Mr and Mrs G. So I 
have requested the phone calls from Halifax between 21 March 2023, when the transfer was 
first made, to 5 April 2023, as I know how important it was for Mr and Mrs G for me to listen 
to the calls. As their interactions in the branch arent recorded, Im unable to say for certainty 
what happened with any conversations they had in the branch, but I do have a testimony 
from the branch manager. 
The first call I listened to was on 24 March 2023. Mrs G phoned Halifax as she was unable 
to get through to the branch when she rang them. She explains the transfer hadnt 
completed with the building society due to Halifax not completing the correct details. As the 
call handler was unable to get through to the savings team or the branch, then she said she 
would leave a message for the branch for them to contact Mrs G. She offered to log a 
complaint for Mrs G and Mr G took over the call as Mrs G needed to do something else. The 
call handler says she will credit £20 to the joint current account for what has happened. The next call Ive listened to was on 27 March 2023. Mrs G tells the call handler her card had 
been declined. The call handler tells Mrs G her card has declined because she had 
insufficient funds. As Mrs G couldnt understand what the call handler was saying it appears 
she disconnected the call and rang back, and Ive listened to this call also. 
The call handler tells Mrs G that the account balance is -£23,805.34. The call handler tells 
Mr and Mrs G that the cheque (draft) hadnt cleared, and it would be available from 29 
March. Its clear that the call handler didnt originally understand what had happened here, 
and he thought that Mr and Mrs G completed the transfer and not the branch. The call 
handler advises if Mr and Mrs G want to get money out they could go into a branch, but both 
Mr and Mrs G tell him they dont live near a branch. Mr and Mrs G raise a complaint and the 
call adviser asks them to put it in their own words what has happened, which Mr G does. 
The next call I listened to was when Mrs G received a letter from Halifax on 31 March 2023 
which told her that the complaint was resolved. This was the original complaint where the 
call handler said she would pay £20 to Mr and Mrs Gs joint account. The call handler tells 
Mrs G that she will reopen the complaint. On the next call (3 April 2023) Mrs G says she 
tried to ring through to the head office, but it seems she got through to customer services. 
Mrs G was given a telephone number from the call handler to ring. 
On 4 April 2023 Ive listened to a call that Mrs G had with Halifax. She says she was trying to 
get higher up within the company as she had an ongoing complaint. The call handler 
explains they sent her a letter on 29 March 2023 explaining that they are looking into the 
complaint, but it can take up to eight weeks to be resolved. The call handler confirms the 
complaint has been escalated to higher than himself and higher than his manager. 
The last call Ive listened to is also from 4 April 2023. This was the call between Mrs G and 
the complaint handler. They mentioned a call with the branch manager. Mrs G confirms she 
hadnt been back in the branch, and she has spoken to them over the phone. They discuss 
the impact of what happened, Mrs G tells her that they had no money, and they couldnt put 
petrol in the car. Mrs G confirms she isnt aware of any charges shes had from any missed 
bills. Mrs G confirms the branch rang her to let her know the money went back into her 
account on either Wednesday (29 March 2023) or Thursday (30 March), but she couldnt 
remember. 
I dont have access to branch calls as it doesnt appear they are recorded. Halifax have sent 
me evidence of the call recordings they have, and Ive listened to all of these, but there are 
no branch recordings on the calls they have available to listen to, which it is not uncommon 
for branch calls to be unrecorded. Halifax reached out to the branch manager Mrs G spoke 
to. The branch manager says when she spoke to Mr and Mrs G, she apologised for the error 
and she stressed if Mrs G needed any money out this could be arranged, but customer had 
advised was ok and no additional money was needed.
Ive considered what would be a fair outcome for this complaint. Halifax have offered Mr and 
Mrs G £220 in total for distress and inconvenience and £62.85 for lost interest. Im satisfied 
that the £62.85 for lost interest was fair as Halifax have calculated this at 8% and theyve 
calculated this for the time period of 21 March-30 March 2023. 
Ive considered whether £220 is proportionate for the impact Halifaxs errors and customer 
service had on Mr and Mrs G. Halifax made errors with the transfer which caused the funds 
to bounce back. Then they made an error with paying the funds into Mr and Mrs Gs current 
account to transfer to the funds to the third party building society. Mr and Mrs G only found 
out about being overdrawn when Mrs G tried to make a purchase, and it would have been 
embarrassing for her to find out the payment had been declined, especially when she thought she had over £11,000 in the joint account. So she feared the account had been 
hacked into.
It was only when Mrs G phoned Halifax that she found out the account was over £23,000 
overdrawn. This was very distressing for Mr and Mrs G as this did not occur from actions 
they took - they were Halifax errors. Then they were told the draft wouldnt clear until 29 
March. They were told this over the phone on 27 March 2023. So they were without funds for 
up to two whole days which would be distressing especially as Mr and Mrs G told the 
complaint handler they couldnt put petrol in the car.
One of the call handlers did suggest that cash could be made available to Mr and Mrs G if 
they could travel to the branch. And there is a statement from the branch manager offering 
them cash also. But I am sympathetic to Mr and Mrs Gs situation that if they couldnt access 
money to put petrol in their car before they got to Halifax then they might not have been able 
to get to the branch, when theyve said they live a long way from the branch. 
I must make Mr and Mrs G aware that our awards arent designed to punish a business. The 
£220 in total that Halifax have offered is in line with our awards for what happened here. It 
recognises several errors over a period of several days, taking into account the customer 
service and Mr and Mrs G being inconvenienced speaking to Halifax over the phone for 
hours, and them being without access to funds for a maximum of two days. So Halifax 
should pay Mr and Mrs G what they offered them, less anything they have already paid 
them. But I dont require them to do anything further. 
My final decision
Bank of Scotland plc trading as Halifax has already made an offer to pay a total of £220 for 
distress and inconvenience and £62.85 in lost interest to settle the complaint and I think this 
offer is fair in all the circumstances.
So my decision is that Bank of Scotland plc trading as Halifax should pay Mr and Mrs G 
£220 for distress and inconvenience (less anything they have already paid them) and £62.85 
for lost interest (less anything they have already paid them). But I wont be requiring them to 
do anything further. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr G and Mrs G to 
accept or reject my decision before 9 January 2024.
 
Gregory Sloanes
Ombudsman