DRN-4367352
The complaint
Ms D complains J D Williams & Company Limited (JDW) irresponsibly gave her a running 
account credit agreement she couldnt afford.
What happened
In 2015, Ms D applied for a catalogue shopping account with JDW. It was an open-ended 
running credit account, and she was given an initial credit limit of £200. The limit was 
increased twice in as many months so that it reached a total of £500.
Ms D stopped using the account in 2015 and resumed again in August 2019. JDW increased 
the credit limit in September and October 2019 to £800 and then £1,300. A final limit 
increase was applied in February 2021 to £1,800.
Ms D complained to JDW in January 2023 to say the account had been unaffordable to her 
and in increasing the credit limit, JDW had made her financial circumstances worse. JDW 
didnt think it had acted unfairly in advancing her credit.
I sent Ms D and JDW my provisional decision on 5 September 2023. I explained why I was 
minded to uphold the complaint in part. I said:
Prior to granting Ms D with credit JDW were required to ensure she could sustainably 
afford to repay what she borrowed. There isnt a set list of checks JDW had to 
complete, however, it needed to make sure the checks it carried out were 
proportionate in the circumstances. What is considered proportionate will vary, and in 
circumstances such as this where JDW increases the availability of credit over time, 
its more likely that more thorough checks will be required later in the lending 
relationship than at the beginning, to take account of the differences in the amount of 
credit being lent.
In deciding what was proportionate each time it extended credit to Ms D, JDW 
needed to take into account things such as (but not limited to): the amount of credit, 
the size of any regular payments (taking into consideration the rules and guidance in 
CONC relating to assumptions concerning running account credit agreements), the 
cost of credit and the consumers circumstances.
JDW hasnt been able to provide much information about Ms Ds application for the 
account in 2015. However, given the amount of time thats passed, I dont find that 
particularly concerning or surprising. Ms D has given us a copy of her credit file, but 
Ive not seen anything on there to indicate that any credit checks JDW might have 
done at the time would have alerted it to any affordability concerns.
As I dont know exactly what checks JDW did, or what it saw when it did those 
checks, I cant be certain it completed reasonable and proportionate affordability 
checks when it granted credit to Ms D in 2015. However, from all the available 
evidence presented to me from both parties, Ive not seen anything to indicate it 
made an unfair lending decision as Ive seen nothing to persuade me the credit was 
unaffordable at that time.
I note that Ms D appears to have borrowed less than £100 on the account in 2015 
and repaid it within two months without using the account again until 2019. It appears 
she was charged less than £6 in interest during that time. Therefore, in any event, Im 
not satisfied shes suffered any significant detriment due to those early lending 
decisions.
When Ms D started using her account again in 2019, I think JDW made an unfair 
lending decision when it decided to increase her existing credit limit. It did so within a 
month of her starting to use the account again after nearly a four year break in 
account activity. Further, as soon as she began to use it, she came close to utilising 
all of her available credit limit, something she hadnt done previously. This ought to 
have been of some concern to JDW.
JDW has provided us with some data of the checks it did monthly with credit 
reference agencies. However, it appears the data is incomplete for the months up to 
and including September 2019, when it increased the credit limit to £800. Ive noted 
that the following month, when JDW increased the limit again to £1,300, its checks 
showed that Ms D had a recent default recorded on her credit file (from January 
2019). As this showed in that particular check, Im persuaded it was likely visible to 
JDW the previous month too where its data submission to us was incomplete.
This default was actually two defaults, again something Im satisfied JDW would 
likely have seen. Both defaults were for Ms Ds current accounts. This ought to have 
indicated to JDW that she was likely in significant financial trouble very recently. I 
note that Ms Ds credit file also shows that at this time she had other defaulted debts 
dating further back where she still owed in excess of £9,000 at the point JDW 
increased her limit, as well as evidence of arrears and late payments on other credit. 
I think, on balance, all of this information would have been visible to JDW when it 
completed its credit check at that time, and if it wasnt, it ought to have been as part 
of any proportionate affordability check.
JDW ought therefore to have been aware that Ms D had very recently been unable to 
maintain two current accounts, indicating she wasnt sustainably managing her 
existing finances. It ought to have also seen that Ms D had a history of defaulted 
credit and missed payments on other accounts since the JDW account had opened 
in 2015. And, that she still owed significant amounts of debt across a number of other 
unsecured loans as well as being responsible for a mortgage. This coupled with 
Ms Ds sudden and dramatic increase in credit utilisation on her JDW account ought 
to have indicated that extending further credit to Ms D would likely cause her financial 
difficulty, or more likely, make her existing financial difficulty worse. I therefore dont 
think JDW made a fair lending decision when it increased her credit limit above £500.
As I think JDW acted unfairly, it should now put things right. It isnt possible to undo 
the lending that has happened. However, as I think Ms D should never have been in 
a position where her credit limit exceeded £500, I consider it fair that JDW reworks 
the account to remove all interest and charges that applied to balances that 
exceeded that amount (it can still charge interest up to balances of £500). As Ms D 
did borrow on the account, I think its fair she pays back the capital amounts she 
borrowed. Once the capital is repaid, JDW should also ensure it removes any 
adverse information it may have recorded on Ms Ds credit file when her balance 
exceeded £500.
Neither JDW nor Ms D responded to my provisional decision. What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As neither party has provided any further comments or evidence in response to my 
provisional decision, Ive seen no reason to reach any different conclusion. Im therefore 
satisfied that JDW made an unfair lending decision when it increased Ms Ds credit limit 
above £500. It should therefore put things right in the way I set out in my provisional 
decision. 
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I uphold this complaint in part and direct 
J D Williams & Company Limited to:
Rework the account, removing all interest, fees, charges and insurances that were 
applied to balances exceeding £500.
If the rework results in a credit balance, JDW should refund any overpayments, 
adding 8% simple interest per year to those refunds from the date of each 
overpayment to the date of settlement. JDW should also remove any adverse 
information it may have recorded on Ms Ds credit file.
Or
If the rework results in there still being a capital balance outstanding JDW should set 
up an affordable repayment plan with Ms D for the remaining amount. Once Ms D 
has paid back the balance, JDW should remove any adverse information it may have 
recorded on her credit file.
If JDW considers tax should be deducted from the interest element of my award it should 
provide Ms D with a certificate showing how much it has taken off, so she can reclaim that 
amount, if she is eligible to do so.
If any outstanding debt has been sold to a third party, JDW should either buy the debt back 
so that it can carry out these directions or ensure the third party does so on its behalf.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms D to accept or 
reject my decision before 24 October 2023.
 
Tero Hiltunen
Ombudsman