DRN-2104053
The complaint
Mrs H has complained that Scottish Friendly Assurance Society Limited has on several 
occasions paid her an incorrect annuity amount. In particular, it paid the wrong amount in 
February 2019, August 2019, February 2020 and April 2020.
Mrs H has said that she shouldnt need to keep contacting Scottish Friendly to ensure that 
shes paid the correct amounts and, despite assurances, shes concerned that this may 
continue into the future.
What happened
Mrs Hs annuity was set up in February 1998 as a result of pension provision her late 
husband had put in place for her. The annuity was due to increase by 4% pa on each 
anniversary. However, Scottish Friendly paid Mrs H the wrong amounts in the months listed 
above and so Mrs H complained to it on the above basis in February 2020.
Scottish Friendly responded to Mrs Hs complaint in April 2020, upholding it and issuing a 
payment of 98p to cover Februarys shortfall. It also assured Mrs H that the payment due in 
March 2020 would be correct.
Scottish Friendly also offered Mrs H £25 in respect of the trouble and upset it had caused to 
her, but Mrs H said that the response was inadequate. So she referred the complaint to this 
service.
One of our investigators looked at Mrs Hs complaint and agreed that Scottish Friendly had 
applied the 4% escalation to her annuity a month late in both 2019 and 2020. However, she 
was of the view that the business response and actions had been appropriate. She said the 
following in summary:
Mrs Hs annuity should have increased from £24.45 to £25.43 in February 2020, but 
due to a technical issue, she was paid the lower amount. The business also 
acknowledged that the same issue had occurred in 2019.
The March 2020 payment was correct, as was that due in April 2020, but a small tax 
deduction had been applied on the basis of a change in the tax code Scottish 
Friendly held for Mrs H. It said that it had been informed by HMRC that the code had 
changed from 30T to 26T with effect from April 2020 and that Mrs H would have 
received confirmation from HMRC about this.
The investigator also noted that Mrs H had made a complaint under a separate 
reference number over three years ago, but according to Scottish Friendly it had 
been a similar matter of delayed annuity payments, which it said it had resolved with 
Mrs H by way of a goodwill payment.
The investigator said that she understood the matter would have been upsetting to 
Mrs H due to it having been put in place by her late husband and that she wouldnt 
want this issue recurring every year. But she was satisfied that Scottish Friendly had 
now paid Mrs H the correct annuity and that it had also offered £25 in recognition of 
the upset it had caused.
She also noted that Scottish Friendly had put measures in place to ensure that the 
error didnt happen again.
Overall, the investigator thought that the steps taken by Scottish Friendly to resolve the 
matter were appropriate.
Mrs H disagreed, however, saying that Scottish Friendly couldnt say that they had made 
reasonable attempts to put the matter right when it remained a recurring issue. She 
explained that she had two annuities and each year, although the letters might state the right 
amount, the payments themselves were wrong.
She said that she hadnt accepted the £25 payment but had been unable to return the 
cheque due to the pandemic. With regard to the tax codes, Mrs H said that she had spoken 
to HMRC and they were reissuing the correct tax code to both her and Scottish Friendly. 
Mrs H said that, although her previous complaint had resulted in the £10 payment, Scottish 
Friendly had said that this was in respect of the phone calls shed had to make. But the issue 
wasnt with the phone calls shed needed to make  it was the recurring nature of the 
problem.
Mrs H said that, although her complaints are upheld each time she needs to make them, 
Scottish Friendly still hadnt fixed the problem.
The investigator responded to say that this complaint had only dealt with one of the annuities 
as this was the complaint which had been submitted to this service. The investigator 
suggested that Mrs H raise a separate complaint with Scottish Friendly about the other 
annuity. If Mrs H was to put this in writing, the investigator would be able to do so on her 
behalf.
With regard to this complaint, the investigator said that she remained of the same view  that 
Scottish Friendly had taken reasonable steps to put matters right. It had explained that it 
would manually ensure that the correct annuity was paid to Mrs H after future yearly 
increases.
And in relation to the tax code, the investigator didnt think that Scottish Widows could be 
faulted for acting on information it had received from HMRC.
In a further phone call with our investigator, it was agreed that Mrs H had in fact mentioned 
both annuities in her initial call with our service. Unfortunately, Scottish Friendly had only 
dealt with one of the annuities in its final response letter, but the investigator apologised for 
the confusion caused. She said that she would inform the business that it needed to address 
the second annuity as well.
Mrs H said that she wouldnt encash the £25 cheque as Scottish Friendly would simply make 
the same mistakes next year. She didnt want the money, Mrs H said. She wanted the issue 
to be resolved, as every time she needed to contact Scottish Friendly it reminded her of her 
husband.
As agreement hasnt been reached on the matter, its been referred to me for review.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.I have great sympathy with Mrs Hs position here. As shes said, its not about the money 
and I can see that the actual amounts of the discrepancy each time are relatively minor. But 
they are nevertheless meaningful. 
The annuity was set up for Mrs H by her late husband and so carries with it an extra 
poignancy. And each time that a mistake is made in the payment, I can understand the upset 
caused by this, and in then needing to contact Scottish Friendly to resolve it.
And so I think what Scottish Friendly primarily needed to do here, as well as ensuring that 
the right annuity amounts had been paid to Mrs H, was put in place a mechanism for also 
ensuring that the correct annuity payments are made in the future.
Although I understand Mrs Hs scepticism as to whether this has been done, I think for now 
both she and this service will need to take Scottish Friendly at its word that it will ensure the 
correct annuity payments are made in the future. There would be little else which we could in 
any case do at present, other than seek confirmation from Scottish Friendly that it has put 
measures in place to ensure that it pays the right future amounts.
And if it fails again to pay the correct amounts, Mrs H should refer the matter back to this 
service and well be able to appropriate action.
The issue of the tax codes doesnt seem to be a problem of Scottish Friendlys making  as 
it and the investigator have noted, its reliant upon information received from HMRC. Now 
that Mrs H has discussed this with HMRC, it seems that it has confirmed the correct tax code 
to both Mrs H and Scottish Friendly so the same problem shouldnt recur.
As to the amount offered by Scottish Friendly, Ive noted Mrs Hs reluctance to encash the 
£25 cheque. As shes said, its not the monetary compensation which is at issue here. And 
so whilst Ive considered directing Scottish Friendly to pay a higher amount, I dont think this 
would be appropriate or necessary. Ill simply leave it to Mrs H to decide whether to accept 
the amount already offered.
My final decision
My final decision is that the steps taken by Scottish Friendly are adequate, and so I dont 
uphold the complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs H to accept or 
reject my decision before 6 October 2020.
 
Philip Miller
Ombudsman