DRN-4310907
The complaint
Miss R complains that Aioi Nissay Dowa Insurance UK Limited (trading as insure the box) 
mishandled her motor insurance policy. 
What happened
Miss R had a policy with Aioi Nissay Dowa to cover a car for the year from early November 
2022. It was a telematics or black box policy.
The policy covered Miss R as policyholder. It also covered her mother and father as named 
drivers.
In February 2023, Miss R contacted Aioi Nissay Dowa about changing the car on the policy. 
Aioi Nissay Dowa quoted an additional premium of about £230.00 plus an amendment 
charge of £90.00. 
Miss Rs mother paid the additional total of about £320.00. She complained to Aioi Nissay 
Dowa about the increased premium.
By a final response dated late April 2023, Aioi Nissay Dowa turned down the complaint.
Miss Rs mother brought her complaint to us in late May 2023. We treated it as a complaint 
by Miss R as she was the policyholder.
Our investigator didnt recommend that the complaint should be upheld. He didnt think that 
Aioi Nissay Dowa had done anything wrong. 
Miss R disagreed with the investigators opinion. She asked for an ombudsman to review the 
complaint. She says, in summary, that: 
The insurer advertised the policy as follows:
The black box data from our customers gives us a lot more information than 
traditional insurers have so were able to give accurate pricing with a solid 
estimate of each customers risk of having an accident. Driving safely can 
help you bring down the cost of your premium at renewal. On average our 
safer drivers paid a third less at their first renewal. 
She was making a mid-term adjustment.
 The vehicle was identical, bar the colour. 
The box recorded the good quality of driving. 
She had improved as a driver and therefore did not pose any further risk.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
When Miss R took out the policy in early November 2022, she had one years no-claims 
discount (NCD). It almost goes without saying that (leaving aside any extra miles) she 
wouldnt have to pay any more than the premium agreed. 
Miss R had an expectation that, by November 2023, she wouldve earned two years NCD. 
Safer driving is important, and I accept that it tends to keep down renewal premiums.
When Miss Rs mother completed our complaint form, she complained about the extra 
premium of about £230.00. She said that her daughter had been aware of the amendment 
fee of £90.00. I think that she was complaining to us about the £230.00 rather than the 
£90.00 or the overall total of about £320.00.
I accept that Miss R had a record of safer driving, and her new car was similar to her old car. 
However, different insurers assess and price risk differently at different times. Aioi Nissay 
Dowa didnt have to take the November 2022 premium as a starting point and make 
adjustments from there. Rather it could apply its assessment and pricing criteria as they 
were by late February 2023. 
Its pricing criteria are likely to have been changed in the light of factors that were nothing to 
do with Miss R. Such factors might include, for example, general price inflation or price 
inflation specific to the cost of repairs, hire cars or personal injury claims.
Insofar as Aioi Nissay Dowa applied criteria that were specific to Miss R, most of them hadnt 
changed. But (compared to November 2022) there had been a change in the length of time 
for which Miss R or her parents had owned the car. I recognise that, of all the criteria, this 
length of time will usually be shorter where there is a mid-term change of vehicle.
However, its not my role to assess the risk. In particular, I cant tell the insurer that it should  
treat drivers who change their car for an identical model as having continuity of ownership.
From the evidence its provided, Im satisfied that Aioi Nissay Dowa assessed the risk and 
set the premium for Miss R in the same way it wouldve done for any other policyholder in 
her situation. So I cant say that Aioi Nissay Dowa treated Miss R unfairly. 
She couldve cancelled the policy and sough a better price elsewhere. I accept that Miss R 
was reluctant to cancel the policy, and take out a new one, losing the benefit of some 
months NCD. 
Whilst I understand Miss Rs surprise and concern at the additional premium, I dont find it 
fair and reasonable direct Aioi Nissay Dowa to make any refund or to do any more in 
response to this complaint.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. I dont 
direct Aioi Nissay Dowa Insurance UK Limited to do any more in response to this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss R to accept 
or reject my decision before 25 December 2023.  Christopher Gilbert
Ombudsman