DRN-3012075
The complaint
Mr S complains about the way Hastings Insurance Services Limited (Hastings) handled the 
renewal of his car insurance policy.
What happened
The background to this complaint is well known to both parties, and largely not in dispute so 
Ill only summarise it here.
Mr S arranged his car insurance with Hastings and singed up for auto renewal.
At renewal Hastings say they generated renewal documents for Mr S but made an 
error and didnt send these to him or upload them to his online account.
Mr S was unaware his policy hadnt been auto renewed and continued to drive his 
car for approximately 2 weeks after the renewal date.
Mr S contacted Hastings and to express his concern and made alternative 
arrangements to insure his car.
Hastings has paid Mr S £100 compensation for its error
Mr S tells us he was very upset to find out he hadnt been insured for a period of 
time, and was concerned as to the potential consequences had he been involved in 
an accident or been stopped by the police.
Our investigator agreed that Hastings had made an error but felt that the level of 
compensation it had paid was reasonable. She added that it would be unfair to 
compensate for things that might have happened, such as being stopped by the 
police, but didnt actually happen.
Mr S wasnt happy with our investigators view and asked that an ombudsman decide 
his case.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I agree with our investigator and for largely the same reasons. 
Hastings has accepted it made an error and has paid compensation in recognition of its 
failings. So I dont need to consider if Hastings shouldve handled the renewal better than it 
did. My role here is to decide if the level of compensation it paid is fair and reasonable.
Mr S has described occasions when he was parked near police vehicles and police 
headquarters. And describes how upset he was when he looks back and thinks about what 
could have happened.
It will have been upsetting and worrying for Mr S to find out that his car insurance hadnt 
been auto renewed, and I can understand his concerns. However, I have to look at what 
happened rather than what might have happened. In this case Mr S didnt have an accident 
or make a claim. And he wasnt stopped by the police so hasnt faced any court 
appearances, had his car seized or had point put on his licence. That is not to say Mr S 
didnt suffer any distress or inconvenience, simply that it will only have been for the short 
period from finding out his policy hadnt been renewed to when he made alternative 
arrangements.
Mr S has expressed his concern that Hastings may repeat this error with other consumers 
and will get away with it. This isnt something I can comment on, the role of this service is 
to decide individual cases. We are not the regulator and its not our role to punish 
businesses for errors.
In circumstances of this case Im satisfied that £100 is fair and reasonable compensation for 
the distress and inconvenience Mr S suffered.
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 24 December 2021.
 
Martyn Tomkins
Ombudsman