DRN-2004289
The complaint
Mr F says London & Colonial Services Limited (LCSL)  with whom he holds his Self-
Invested Personal Pension (SIPP)  executed his request for remittance of £25,000 from 
the SIPP contrary to his instructions. He says LCSL remitted the funds, in January 2020, to 
the wrong bank account, in the wrong country and in the wrong currency; and that it is 
responsible for the following:
The tax consequences of its erroneous payment  given that he is resident outside of 
the UK and holds a non-tax payer (UK) status, the erroneous payment has put that 
UK status at risk, has put his tax free allowance status (in his resident country) at risk 
and has created (and/or will create) tax enquiries focused upon him. [claim a]
The currency exchange consequences of its error  that is, the loss of the value that 
the remittance should have had in the correct currency. [claim b]
Application of an attachment, in his resident country, for a disputed debt to the funds 
paid into the wrong bank account  which has resulted in him incurring an enforced 
deduction from those funds to service the disputed debt. [claim c]
The trouble and upset (T&U) the matter has caused him.
What happened
 One of our investigators looked into the complaint and into the matters raised. He initially 
found as follows: 
LCSL accepts that it committed the relevant error (as descried by Mr F), so the 
complaint should be upheld. LCSL has already compensated Mr F for claim b, but it 
says it is not responsible for claims a and c, and it had made no offer for T&U.
With regards to claim a, the letter LCSL promised to send Mr F in order to support 
clarification of the matter for tax purposes had not been sent and should be sent; 
beyond this, it is in neither LCSLs nor our services remit or responsibility to get 
directly involved in resolving an individuals tax matters.
With regards to claim c, there is a nexus between LCSLs erroneous remittance to 
the wrong bank account and attachment of the disputed debt to the funds transferred 
into that account, so LCSL is responsible for the deductions made from those funds 
to satisfy the disputed debt. It should refund those deductions to Mr F.
LCSL should pay Mr F £250 for the trouble and upset the matter has caused him. In 
addition, the sequence of events  that is, the erroneous remittance on 14 January 
2020; Mr Fs inability to get through to LCSL until 20 January 2020; Mr Fs transfer of 
the funds from the wrong account to the correct account on 22 January 2020; and 
LCSLs payment to him, on 28 January 2020, of £1,003.86 for claim b  shows that 
he should also be compensated for the delayed access to his money (in its true 
value) caused by LCSLs error(s). As such, LCSL should pay Mr F interest on the 
£25,000 sum at the rate of 8% simple for the period between 14 and 22 January 
2020, and interest on the £1,003.86 sum at the same rate for the period between 22 
and 28 January 2020.
Mr F appears to have considered that this outcome could be acceptable, but he made some 
queries about claim a and about how redress would be treated for tax. He also invited the 
investigator to review and increase the T&U award.
LCSL mainly disputed the finding on claim c. It argued that neither it nor this service should 
place itself within the remote matter of Mr Fs disputed debt, that the attachment he refers to 
was in place and was effective before the erroneous remittance, and that it was effective in 
relation to Mr Fs assets as a whole so it could or would have applied to the remitted funds 
regardless of where they were deposited.
The investigator was persuaded by this argument. He issued a revised view in which he 
retained his previous findings, except his finding on claim c. He concluded that claim c 
should not be upheld for the reasons submitted by LCSL and because compensation for it 
and a refund of the deduction from the account would essentially enrich Mr F unjustly, as 
part of the disputed debt would effectively have been paid at no cost to him. He confirmed 
that this service would not make an award that goes beyond restoring his position and that 
puts him in a better position.
The investigators second view also explained, in response to Mr Fs queries about claim a, 
that he had seen evidence that the £25,000 payment was treated in the context of Mr Fs 
non-tax payer (UK) status and unless he can show evidence of the opposite and/or of losing 
any aspect of his tax free allowance status (in his resident country) there is no tax related 
loss to compensate.
Mr F disagreed strongly with the revised view. To mitigate the matter in claim a he decided 
that he would return the funds to LCSL in order for LCSL to reverse the remittance and the 
SIPP withdrawal transaction (in real terms and for tax purposes). LCSL agreed to do this and 
to inform the relevant tax authority(ies), but it undertook no responsibility for how the tax 
authorities would treat the reversal. Mr F also said LCSL had compounded the issue in claim 
a by an additional disclosure it had made to the tax authorities around the time we were 
addressing the complaint.
In terms of claim c, Mr F considered that the investigator had been misguided by LCSL. He 
asserted that the issue is not that it caused the attachment for the disputed debt but that its 
erroneous remittance directly facilitated the deduction made under the attachment, which 
would not have happened but for the erroneous payment. He also maintained that the T&U 
award should be increased.
The matter was referred to an ombudsman.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Claim b
I am satisfied with evidence, undisputed by Mr F, that LCSL has paid him compensation for 
this claim. The merits of the claim therefore do not need to be addressed further. I agree with 
the investigators finding about LCSL paying interest on the compensation amount. The aim 
is to restore Mr F to the position he would be in had the funds been received by him in the 
correct currency. 
He first appears to have acknowledged receipt of the funds on 22 January 2020, when he 
transferred them from the wrong to the correct bank account. Prior to that, evidence suggests he was reluctant to receive the funds because of the implications of doing so. I 
am satisfied that 22 January 2020 marks the date on which he should have had access to 
the true value of the remittance but did not, because it was in the wrong currency. LCSL 
rectified that on 28 January 2020 with the compensation it paid him, so it is responsible for 
the loss of that value during the period between both dates. To compensate Mr F for that 
loss, he must receive, from LCSL, interest on the [paid] claim b compensation amount at the 
rate of 8% simple per year for the period between 22 January 2020 and 28 January 2020.
T&U and Delayed Access to the Remittance
I agree with the investigators proposal of £250, as compensation for the trouble and upset 
the matter has caused Mr F. It is an amount that is broadly consistent with the level of 
awards given in this service for trouble and upset in comparable cases. Mr F seeks more 
because of what he considers he has faced in claims a and c, because he considers that 
LCSL should be penalised for its conduct and because of the impact upon him of having to 
pursue the present complaint all the way to decision stage.
Our awards for trouble and upset do not include punitive elements, and it is not the intention 
of such awards to penalise a firm  such penalties are for the industry regulator to consider 
or address, and not for this service. Our awards aim to provide monetary compensation to 
reflect the distress and inconvenience a complainant has faced in a case, and as I said 
above the £250 award is consistent with the awards we have made in cases comparable to 
Mr Fs. The case has reached our services decision stage because Mr F rejected the 
investigators revised view. He is entitled to a decision and I do not suggest that he bears 
any blame for rejecting the view, but the point to note is that application of our due process 
does not create a ground to increase a T&U award. Furthermore, I have not seen evidence 
that LCSL misconducted itself during our process, so it has not caused distress and 
inconvenience to Mr F in this context.
The funds were paid on 14 January 2020 and it might be argued that Mr F had access to 
them from then, but I disagree. As is the basis of the complaint and as is not in dispute, the 
payment was made to the wrong bank account, in the wrong country and in the wrong 
currency. In this context, it cannot fairly be said that Mr F had access on the above date to 
the remittance he had instructed. He did not. He was able to achieve contact with LCSL on 
20 January 2020, after earlier attempts, and by 22 January 2020 he appears to have applied 
one of the options discussed with LCSL to mitigate the matter. Given how erroneous the 
payment was, I do not consider that it was unreasonable for him to query the matter between 
20 and 22 January 2020.
Overall, on balance and for the above reasons I agree with the investigators view that Mr F 
should be compensated for the delay in having access to the funds between 14 January 
2020 and 22 January 2020. To compensate him for this he must receive, from LCSL, interest 
on the £25,000 sum (which is what he should have had access to on 22 January 2020) at 
the rate of 8% simple per year from 14 January 2020 to 22 January 2020.
Claims a and c
I endorse LCSLs offer to write the clarification letter it expressly offered Mr F, in terms of 
meaningfully clarifying, on record, its erroneous payment from the SIPP. LCSL must provide 
that letter to Mr F without undue delay, if it has not already done so. If both parties reach an 
agreement  or have reached an agreement  on reversing the payment from the SIPP the 
letter must include meaningful clarification about this too. There is no dispute about LCSL 
committing the erroneous payment so production of this letter and the fact-based contents it 
must include does not appear to be controversial and should not be so.In terms of claim a, I do not consider that LCSL can reasonably do any more than produce 
the above letter. I expect that Mr F will, in response to any enquiries from tax authorities, 
explain the facts of the entire event. The only other main party in the event is LCSL and its 
letter will do the same, in terms of explaining the facts of the entire event. Neither LCSL nor 
this service has a role to play in the due process the tax authorities will apply in the course of 
any enquiries they make, but I am satisfied that the above letter is as far as LCSL can 
reasonably go to support Mr F in such enquiries.
Like the investigator said, in the absence of evidence that Mr Fs UK tax status has been lost 
(or has been diminished) as a direct result of LCSLs error, and in the absence of evidence 
that his tax allowance status in his resident country has been lost (or has been diminished) 
as a direct result of LCSLs error, there is no call for a tax related compensation. No such 
evidence appears to have been submitted. I have noted Mr Fs request for provisions in our 
findings which leave-the-door-open for compensation from LCSL in the event that either or 
both detriments arise in the future. That would be both impractical and unreasonable. If such 
detriments were to happen in the future, the full circumstances in which they do cannot 
presently be forecasted. Furthermore, I have not seen evidence that either or both 
detriments are more likely (than not) to happen in the future.
I understand Mr Fs core argument about claim c and it appears to me that the investigator 
understood it too, hence his initial view on the claim. It is a matter of fact that the relevant 
attachment was in place and was effective before the remittance  nobody appears to 
dispute this. It is also a matter of fact that the funds sent to the wrong bank account were 
subjected to the attachment related deduction(s). The question that arises in claim c is 
whether (or not) LCSL can be held solely, or even mainly, responsible for the deduction(s).
LCSL is correct in saying that neither it nor this service has a place within Mr Fs dispute of 
the debt related to attachment, and to his credit I do not consider that he says we do. He has 
summarised to this service the history, to-date, of the disputed debt and the attachment, but 
he did that to ensure we were sufficiently informed to determine claim c. His issue is that the 
payment into the wrong account facilitated the deduction(s), but, on balance, I disagree.
I will not breach the confidentiality Mr F is entitled to with regards to the disputed debt and 
attachment, so I will not repeat the summary he gave us. However, it is enough to state that, 
despite his ongoing dispute against it, the attachment holds legal force over him and his 
assets  at least, it appears, his cash assets. Evidence confirms that LCSL was unaware of 
these circumstances until after the erroneous payment was made. Without prior awareness, 
I do not consider it reasonable to conclude that it ought to have been foreseeable to LCSL 
that Mr Fs cash assets were under threat from such an attachment. A firm might reasonably 
be expected to foresee tax implications of a payment to a client in a particular manner, but 
that cannot reasonably extend to foreseeing risks from recovery of a disputed debt and 
disputed debt-based attachment that had not been disclosed. My first finding is that it would 
not be fair to hold LCSL responsible for consequences it did not foresee and could not 
reasonably have foreseen.
Based on the summary information about the disputed attachment, it appears to have been 
applicable to Mr Fs cash assets that were within access to the attachment. It is not quite 
clear why he implicitly, at least, argues that the funds would have been safer in the correct 
bank account than in the wrong bank account, but the reason appears to relate to the 
difference in the national jurisdictions related to both. In any case, I repeat my agreement 
that this service does not have a place within the disputed debt and attachment matter, so I 
go no further into it than this observation. However, the second finding that arises from this is 
that it has not quite been established that cash in the correct bank account was beyond 
access to the attachment, so it does not appear to have been established that the 
attachment and deduction would not have applied but for the payment into the wrong bank account.
My third finding on claim c endorses what the investigator said in terms of unjustly enriching 
Mr F. Even if the two findings above are wrong and even if I were to consider LCSL 
responsible for compensating Mr F for the deductions, it appears inevitable that he would 
thereafter end up in a better position, which goes beyond and conflicts with this services 
approach to redress. If he receives a sum from LCSL compensating for the deductions, he 
will proceed to continue his ongoing dispute over the attachment; if he wins that dispute, the 
relevant legal process will more likely (than not) refund the deductions made under the 
attachment, thereby duplicating the compensation he would have received from LCSL; and if 
he loses the dispute no such refund would happen but, as the investigator noted, his receipt 
of the compensation from LCSL would mean a part of the relevant debt would have been 
serviced at no cost to him.
Overall, on balance and for the reasons given above, I do not uphold Mr Fs claim c.
Putting things right
To put things right for Mr F, LCSL must:
Send him, without delay, the letter it promised him with regards to claim a and do so 
as I set out above  assuming this has not already been done.
Pay him £250 for the trouble and upset caused to him.
For the reasons stated above, pay him interest on the [paid] claim b compensation 
amount (£1,003.86) at the rate of 8% simple per year for the period between 22 
January 2020 and 28 January 2020.
For the reasons stated above, pay him interest on the £25,000 sum (which is what he 
should have had access to on 22 January 2020) at the rate of 8% simple per year 
from 14 January 2020 to 22 January 2020. 
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I uphold Mr Fs complaint but not all the compensation claims 
he made. I order London & Colonial Services Limited to pay him redress as set out above 
and to provide him with a calculation of the payment in a clear and simple format. It must 
also send him the letter referred to above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr F to accept or 
reject my decision before 9 September 2021.
 
Roy Kuku
Ombudsman