DRN-3576753
The complaint
Mr and Mrs B complain that GE Money Consumer Lending Limited turned down their claim 
under the Consumer Credit Act 1974 (CCA) unfairly. 
What happened
Mr and Mrs B bought a timeshare membership from a business, Business X, in October 
2006. It was paid for with a loan of £10,909 taken with GE Money, which was in joint names 
and set to run for 15 years.  
In February 2020, Mr and Mrs B made a claim against GE Money, via a professional 
representative, for the problems theyd had with the timeshare. In summary, they said:
The nature of the timeshare had been misrepresented to them.
There was an unfair debtor-creditor relationship under s.140A CCA, for reasons 
including the rate of interest on the loan.
The timeshare agreement was null and void due to an EU Directive.
The associated loan with GE Money was also null and void due to breaches of the 
CCA and the Unfair Terms in Consumer Contracts Regulations 1999.
GE Money didnt complete adequate credit checks before granting them the loan.
GE Money responded to say that as the sale took place many years before the complaint, 
that meant the complaint had been brought too late under the relevant provisions contained 
in the Limitation Act 1980 (LA). 
Mr and Mrs B disagreed and brought their complaint to our service saying that GE Money 
had unfairly turned down their claim. Their representatives argued that any claim had been 
made in time and explained that Mr and Mrs B only became aware of the problems with the 
timeshare and loan after they had been engaged to represent them, and so they complained 
within the 3 years date of knowledge rule.
One of our investigators looked into the complaint and didnt think GE Money needed to do 
anything further. They agreed that the claim under s.75 and s.140A CCA had been brought 
too late, so they didnt think GE Money needed to consider the substance of the claim.
As Mr and Mrs B disagreed, the complaint was passed to me for a decision. I came to the 
same outcome as the investigator, but for different reasons. So I wrote a provisional decision 
setting out my findings, then gave both parties the chance to respond. My provisional was 
along the following lines: 
Was the claim under s.75 CCA brought in time?
Mr and Mrs B said that the timeshare supplier misrepresented the nature of the membership 
to them when they bought it. I said that under the LA, they had to make that claim within six 
years of when they entered into the timeshare and credit agreements  which was in 
October 2006  because they entered into an agreement based, they say, on the 
misrepresentations of Business X. They say, had the misrepresentations not been made, 
they wouldnt have bought the timeshare. And it was on that day that they suffered a loss, as 
they took out the loan agreement with GE Money.
But Mr and Mrs B didnt try to contact GE Money about their claim until February 2020, 
which was outside of the time limits set out in the LA.
The claim under s.140A CCA
Under this section a court may make an order under section 140B in connection with a credit 
agreement if it decides that the relationship between the lender and the creditor arising out 
of the agreement is unfair. Only a court has the power to make such a determination, but I 
thought this is relevant law that I needed to take into account.
The LA applies to a claim under s.140A CCA too. Under s.9 LA, the time for limitation 
purposes ran from the date that the credit agreement ended if it was not still running at the 
time the claim was made. As with an action under s.75 CCA, the limitation period is six 
years, so Mr and Mrs B would have to bring an action within six years of November 2011. As 
they didnt do that, I though they brought their claim too late.
Could the time limitations be extended?
I appreciated that Mr and Mrs B said they didnt know about the time limits Ive referred to 
above in the LA, but thats not generally accepted as grounds for extending the limitation 
period. Mr and Mrs Bs representatives made several arguments as to why they didnt think 
our investigator was correct about limitations. 
They argued that time didnt start to run for limitation purposes for Mr and Mrs B until they 
first had knowledge that they could start proceedings against GE Money, and they pointed to 
s.14A LA that they say increased the time to bring a claim. I was not persuaded that s. 14A 
LA applied to Mr and Mrs Bs claim. That provision provides for a second period in which a 
claim for negligence can be made. Looking at what happened, when Mr and Mrs B 
purchased the timeshare and took out the finance, there was an obligation to give them 
sufficient, appropriate and timely information to enable them to make an informed choice 
about whether to take out the loan. But I was not persuaded a duty of care arose or advice 
was provided that could give rise to a claim to which s.14A LA could apply.
Our investigator also considered s.32 LA, which states that in cases of fraud, concealment or 
mistake, the limitation period only starts to run from when a claimant discovers the fraud, 
concealment or mistake (or could have discovered it using reasonable diligence). But I 
couldnt see that Mr and Mrs Bs representatives raised this. So, I didnt consider it further. 
Mr and Mrs Bs representatives referenced our own rules, which state a consumer can make 
a complaint to a business within six years of the event happening or three years of when a 
consumer realised they had a reason to complain. But the rules the representatives referred 
to set out the time limits within which a consumer needs to complain to a business about a 
regulated financial activity. Those rules apply to Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) 
governed complaint handling, which in the current context, is a complaint that GE Money 
unfairly turned down their claim. But the reason it decided to turn down the claim was 
because it didnt think it was legally liable due to the operation of the LA, so that is why I 
didnt consider that legislation.
Overall, I thought GE Money fairly considered the things it needed to when it said the claim 
was brought too late. Its ultimately for the courts to decide whether or not any claim that Mr 
and Mrs B may have against the supplier or GE Money has expired under the LA. But, as far 
as I could see from the information available, any claim that Mr and Mrs B might have against the supplier and/or GE Money had most likely exceeded the time limits set out in the 
LA. I thought it was reasonable to take this into account in these circumstances. And I was 
not persuaded that GE Money acted unfairly in declining the claims.
Other issues
Mr and Mrs Bs representatives asked me to consider an EU Directive, Spanish laws and a 
Spanish legal judgment that they said meant Mr and Mrs Bs timeshare was null and void. 
But the timeshare contract wasnt governed by Spanish law, it was governed by English law. 
I was not asked to look at any English law or judgment that meant the contract was null and 
void. Not only that, I thought timeshares like Mr and Mrs Bs were common and normal 
types of timeshare, which was noted in the recent House of Commons Library Briefing 
Paper, Timeshares: common problems faced by UK owners. The author said a floating 
week or points based timeshare was a basic timeshare model and this type of contract was 
not described as being a problem in and of itself. And I didnt think the Spanish law Id been 
asked to consider changed this.
Unaffordable lending
Our investigator also considered Mr and Mrs Bs claims that it was irresponsible of GE 
Money to provide this loan and proper credit checks were not carried out. But as the loan 
was taken out in October 2006, which predates our jurisdiction to consider unaffordable 
lending within consumer credit, I was unable to consider this further. 
Conclusion
For the reasons set out above, I thought GE Money acted fairly in turning down Mr Bs 
claims under s.75 and s.140A CCA as they were brought too late. I did not think the loan 
agreement was voidable, and I didnt think I could further consider the unaffordable lending. 
What has happened since my provisional decision?
GE Money did not provide any additional comments for me to consider. 
Mr and Mrs Bs representative provided a number of points and resubmitted evidence for me 
to consider. They attached two EU Directives  94/47/EC (the 1994 Directive) and 
2008/122/EC (the 2008 Directive) as well as Mr and Mrs Bs timeshare agreement with 
Business X.
In summary, theyve said that the 2008 directive was transposed into UK law through The 
Timeshare, Holiday Products, Resale and Exchange contracts Regulations 2010 (the 2010 
Regulations). They highlighted that the Spanish Supreme court made a ruling in a specific 
case saying that the timeshare agreement was null and void due to it being a floating week 
timeshare and this was a result of the court implementing the 1994 directive.
Mr and Mrs Bs representative highlighted various sections of the 1994 directive which it felt 
applied to Mr and Mrs Bs case. Namely that certain information should be included in a 
purchase contract and allowed a consumer to cancel a contract within three months of taking 
it out if that information was not supplied. And that no advance payments could be made 
prior to the end of the withdrawal period. 
They highlighted that Mr and Mrs B are not legally trained so they wouldnt have known 
about the directives or the regulations. And that because their purchase agreement did not 
include information required in the 1994 directive, the purchase contract is therefore null and 
void. The representatives said that Mr and Mrs B only became aware of the 1994 directive when they got in contact with them and explained it. Meaning Mr and Mrs B raised their 
complaint within three years of being told they had one.
Theyve also set out that the timeshare provider was sent the advance by GE Money within 
three weeks of signing the agreement, which was in breach of the 1994 Directive that 
prohibited payment within three months of the signing of the agreement.
Ultimately, they feel that the timeshare agreement itself is null and void and therefore the 
related credit agreement is null and void. And as a result, the relationship between Mr and 
Mrs B and GE Money was unfair. Finally, theyve said that GE Money breached its duty of 
care to Mr and Mrs B when it provided finance for the sale of a timeshare that breached the 
1994 Directive because it did not conduct proper due diligence. This means s.14A LA 
applied to Mr and Mrs Bs claim, which lengthened the time they had to make it.    
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I dont think GE Money needs to do anything further to remedy this 
complaint.
As I set out in my provisional decision, I did consider the EU directive, Spanish Law and the 
Spanish judgement when assessing this case, but I concluded they didnt apply to Mr and 
Mrs Bs complaint in the way their representative thought they did. Mr and Mrs Bs 
representatives have now highlighted the 1994 directive in more detail and explained how it 
thinks the directive has been implemented into English Law. 
The 1994 Directive was implemented into English law in the Timeshare Regulations 1997, 
which in turn amended the Timeshare Act 1992 (the 1992 Act). Although Mr and Mrs Bs 
representative has not mentioned the 1997 Regulations or the 1992 Act, as this is the law 
that applied to Mr and Mrs Bs purchase, I think it is relevant to his complaint. 1
While both the 1994 directive and the 1992 act set out that certain information should be 
included in a timeshare agreement, neither states that an agreement was voidable should 
the information not be provided. So, I dont think the 1994 directive makes the timeshare 
agreement null and void as Mr and Mrs Bs representative has suggested. 
As mentioned in my provisional decision, I think that the Spanish judgment dealt with a 
different timeshare agreement, governed by a different legal jurisdiction, so I dont think it 
applies in this case. This is because Mr and Mrs B took out a timeshare agreement which 
was governed by English Law. And as explained previously, there is nothing in the 1994 
Directive that makes me think an English court would come to the conclusion that Mr and 
Mrs Bs timeshare agreement was voidable. 
Mr and Mrs Bs representative have again referenced our own rules which state a consumer 
can make a complaint to a business within six years of the event happening or three years 
from when a consumer realised they had a reason to complain. But Ive already set out in my 
provisional decision why this does not apply in Mr and Mrs Bs case.
Mr and Mrs Bs representative has said that GE Money breached the 1994 Directive 
because it did not conduct proper due diligence. Meaning s.14A LA applied to Mr and        
1 Mr and Mrs Bs representatives have also mentioned the 2008 Directive and the 2010 Regulations, 
but as these didnt come into effect until after Mr and Mrs B took out their timeshare in 2006, I havent 
considered them furtherMrs Bs claim, which lengthened the time to make it. Ive already set out in my provisional 
decision why I think s.14 LA does not apply in Mr and Mrs Bs case. And I dont think the 
additional points raised about due diligence and the 1994 directive changes this. 
Conclusion
For the reasons set out above, I think GE Money acted fairly when it turned down Mr and 
Mrs Bs claims under s.75 and s.140A CCA as they were brought too late. I do not think the 
loan agreement was voidable, nor do I think there is any evidence to suggest the lending 
was irresponsible or unaffordable.  
My final decision
I do not uphold Mr Bs complaint against GE Money Consumer Lending Limited.    
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B and Mrs B to 
accept or reject my decision before 6 September 2022. 
Rebecca Norris
Ombudsman