DRN-2543053
The complaint
Mr H complains Barclays Bank UK PLC is unfairly holding him responsible for a debt which 
is not his.  He also complains it unfairly sold the debt onto a debt recovery company despite 
being told the debt was not his.  Finally, he complains about the service he received when 
he complained.
What happened
Mr H complained about a debt owed on a Barclays credit card.  The account was opened in 
branch in October 2012 and was opened in Mr Hs correct name, address and email 
address.  But Mr H said he didnt think he had opened this account.  He confirmed the 
address was correct but said he had lived at that address with his former partner.  He thinks 
he recalls a credit card but thought it was hers.
Barclays told us the account was used regularly until 2015.  Regular payments were made 
until June 2015 and since then there had not been any payments at all.  The account was 
defaulted in January 2016 and sold on to debt collecting agency in February 2016.  It said it 
had written to the address it had on record to advise it was doing this but received no 
response.
When Barclays did not uphold Mr Hs complaint, he came to this service.  In summary, he 
told us he couldnt remember making the application in 2012 but it was such a long time ago 
and he may have done so.  He recalls a credit card being used but assumed it was his 
partners.  We were also told that Mr H had attempted to contact his ex-partner, but this had 
been unsuccessful  and that Mr H suffered from memory problems due to suffering from 
epilepsy.
Our investigator didnt uphold his complaint.  She thought the evidence showed it was more 
likely than not that Mr H had completed the credit card application in branch in 2012.  
Looking at the spending on the account, she noted it was general household expenditure  
so thought Mr H would have benefitted from this.  She also explained how Mr H, in the 
circumstances, had provided his ex-partner with his authority to use the account.  Ultimately, 
our investigator couldnt say Barclays had done anything wrong in holding Mr H liable for the 
balance.
In response to our investigators view, Mr H said he didnt have the mental capacity at the 
time to fully understand the ramifications of taking out such a product.  He thought Barclays 
had failed in this regard.  He also didnt dispute he had benefitted from some of the 
transactions but said Barclays had failed to make it clear that the account was solely in his 
name and that he would be liable for the full balance. 
He asked for an ombudsmans decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Based on what I have seen, I cant fairly say Barclays has done anything wrong here.
I found Mr Hs comments surrounding the actual credit application to be slightly 
contradictory.  He told this service in his initial complaint form that he had not made the 
application.  He then said he couldnt really remember  and that he may have made it.  in 
response to the investigators view, his comments suggested to me that he had in fact made 
the application, but that Barclays were at fault because he didnt possess the relevant mental 
capacity.
To be clear, I think its more likely than not that Mr H made the application.  It was opened 
with his correct details, statements were sent regularly to the address until at least June 
2015 and repayments were being made.  This service has not seen anything to suggest Mr 
H lacked capacity at the time and in fact, I cant see that this argument was ever raised with 
Barclays.
In terms of the transactions on the account and the outstanding balance, the rules relevant 
applicable to Mr Hs case are the Payment Services Regulations 2009 (PSRs).  These rules 
say that banks must refund transactions if the evidence shows its more likely than not that 
the customer did not authorise them.  So, if the evidence shows Mr H had not authorised the 
transactions on the account, Barclays cannot hold him liable.
I cant say for sure that Mr H made each transaction on this account.  But this doesnt mean I 
can tell Barclays to refund them either.  I think its likely Mr H gave his ex-partner his 
apparent authority to make transactions.  In other words, allowed her to use the card. What 
this means is that these transactions would be deemed to be transactions carried out by the 
authorised account holder  and therefore authorised for the purposes of the PSRs.
Ive considered Mr Hs comments that he lacked the mental capacity at the time  but I cant 
fairly say Barclays has done anything wrong here because I cant see that this issue was 
ever raised  either at the account opening or during the course of this complaint.
In terms of defaulting the account and transferring the debt on, I cant see anything to 
suggest Barclays has done anything wrong.  It wrote to the address which Mr H confirmed 
he had been living at and notified him of the late payments and then the default.  It said it 
received no response from Mr H.
And I cant see that it was notified by Mr H before the debt was sold onto a debt collection 
company.  Of course, this was in February 2016 and Mr H only raised his complaint with 
Barclays more recently.
Finally, I cant see anything to suggest that level of service from Barclays fell below what 
was expected of it.  Specifically, Ive seen nothing to suggest that it refused to register a 
complaint.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 8 June 2021.
 
Shazia AhmedOmbudsman