DRN-3413206
The complaint
Ms H is unhappy that Hoist Finance UK Limited didnt provide her with the documents she 
requested. 
What happened
In May 2013, Hoist bought a debt in Ms Hs name from a business I will refer to as O. In 
March 2021, Ms H asked for a statement of account as shed been repaying the debt for 
around 17 years by this point.
Hoist didnt send Ms H the statement. In July 2021, Ms H sent Hoist a £1 fee and asked 
again for the statement together with a copy of her original credit agreement. 
Hoist told Ms H that she didnt have to pay £1 and offered to return the money to her. Ms H 
asked Hoist to credit the £1 payment towards her debt.
Ms H chased Hoist for an update in August and September 2021. In October 2021, Hoist 
sent Ms H some statements and apologised for not sending them to her back in March 2021. 
Hoist confirmed that it had asked O for a copy of her original credit agreement.
Ms H cant understand why she still owes a large amount on the debt and is unhappy that 
Hoist still hasnt been able to give her a copy of her original credit agreement.
The investigator thought that to put things right, Hoist should apologise again and apply the 
£1 to Ms Hs outstanding balance. He also asked Hoist for more details about the balance.
Ms H remains unhappy with the length of time it took Hoist to respond to her requests. And 
shes concerned that Hoist says shes missed a payment when shes not.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The investigator has given Ms H a detailed explanation of why he doesnt think that Hoist 
has got the balance wrong. Ive had a look at the information which Hoist has supplied and I 
cant find any reason to conclude that its made a mistake with the outstanding balance.
I appreciate that Ms H is unhappy with the length of time that it took Hoist to respond to her 
requests for documents. I agree that Hoist shouldve actioned her request for the statements 
when she sent it in March 2021. But Im satisfied that Hoists apology was enough  
particularly as when Ms H chased Hoist in August 2021, she also asked to see her credit 
agreement. So, it seems that Ms H wouldve always had to send a further letter to Hoist even 
if it had sent her the statement sooner. 
Hoist cant give Ms H a copy of her original credit agreement but Ive seen evidence that it 
asked O for a copy in August 2021. Although it took a long time for Hoist to confirm it 
couldnt get a copy of Ms Hs credit agreement, it seems this was due to delays on the part 
of O rather than Hoist. Overall, I consider Hoist took reasonable steps to track down the 
documents after Ms H wrote to it in August 2021.
Hoist has now confirmed that as it cant comply with Ms Hs request to see the credit 
agreement, the debt is unenforceable. Its also removed any entries relating to the debt from 
Ms Hs credit file. This seems fair and in line with what Id expect Hoist to do in the 
circumstances. 
The investigator asked Hoist to apply the £1 payment to Ms Hs account and apologise for 
failing to do this sooner. I can see from Hoists contact notes that there was a bit of 
confusion over whether it had received the payment. But as Hoists letter of 10 August 2021 
asked for Ms Hs bank details to return the payment, I consider it fair that Hoist should apply 
£1 to Ms Hs outstanding account balance as she previously requested.
More recently Ms H says that Hoist told her she has missed a payment when she didnt. As 
this is a new complaint, Ive not considered it as part of my decision. This means Ms H will 
be free to come back to this service if shes not happy with the outcome of her new 
complaint to Hoist.
Putting things right
If it hasnt done so already, Hoist Finance UK Limited should credit Ms Hs outstanding 
account balance with the £1 payment she made and apologise for not doing this sooner. 
My final decision
My decision is that I uphold Ms Hs complaint in part and direct Hoist Finance UK Limited to 
take the steps outlined above. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms H to accept or 
reject my decision before 7 June 2022.
 
Gemma Bowen
Ombudsman