DRN-2483330
The complaint
Mr T complains that Lloyds Bank PLC should not have allowed him to withdraw money from 
his account due to his vulnerabilities.
 
What happened
Mr T says he attended a Lloyds branch with a family member to open an account which 
would prevent him from accessing it and withdrawing money. He says he has vulnerabilities 
and says he and his family member wanted to avoid the money being withdrawn. Mr T says 
an ISA account was opened but he was able to later withdraw the money, which was over 
£8,000. He says no alarm was raised by Lloyds and also says it allowed a daily withdrawal 
rate of £800 a day which was wrong.
Lloyds accepts the daily withdrawal rate was wrong and should have been £500. It has 
apologised for that mistake and paid Mr T £150 compensation. Lloyds says it recorded the 
meeting in which the ISA was set up and asked Mr T if he gave consent for any 
vulnerabilities to be recorded but no consent was given or that it was given any details of 
such issues. It says Mr T accepts he was asked about the transfers from the ISA to his 
current account and it was his decision to withdraw the money.
Mr T brought his complaint to us and our investigator didnt uphold it. The investigator 
listened to a recording of the meeting and thought Mr T made clear he wanted access to his 
money and was asked if he wished support but didnt give any such consent. The 
investigator thought Mr T accepted he was asked why he wanted to transfer the money from 
his ISA to current account. And thought Lloyds acted fairly by paying compensation for the 
mistake about the withdrawal amount but thought there was only a few occasions when Mr T 
exceeded the usual £500 withdrawal amount.
Mr T and his family member dont accept that view and in summary say Lloyds ought to have 
taken steps to protect Mr T as it was clearly said that he had problems managing his money. 
Mr T says he wasnt offered a way of protecting his money and that his withdrawals were not 
questioned.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I have come to the overall view that I dont uphold this complaint. I realise 
Mr T and his family member will be disappointed by my decision. I appreciate that Mr T may 
have been taken advantage of by others and I am sorry that he has lost his money.
I have carefully listened to the call recording of the meeting between Mr T, his family 
member and Lloyds. Im satisfied that Mr T was able to question Lloyds about the account 
options and engaged throughout the meeting by giving his instructions to it. Im also satisfied 
Mr T made clear that he didnt want an account that he wasnt able to access his money and 
was given information about how he could access his money. I find that Lloyds clearly told 
Mr T and his family member that it could offer further support, but Mr T didnt give any 
consent for such support or ask for any. In those circumstances I dont think Lloyds could 
have done anything further and I think either Mr T or his family member could have raised 
any issues they thought Lloyds ought to know about. I also think it was made clear that Mr T 
would not receive an account card for the ISA.
Im satisfied that this was Mr Ts account and money and it was up to him to decide how he 
spent it. I can see that Mr T accepts that Lloyds staff did question him about the transfers 
between the ISA and current account, but I dont think Lloyds could have known the real 
reasons Mr T was transferring the money or withdrawing it. And I have explained Mr T was 
asked if he wanted extra support or information recorded on his account but didnt provide 
that information to Lloyds.
There is no doubt that Lloyds allowed Mr T a higher withdrawal amount that it ought to have 
done. I appreciate that isnt the main part of this complaint. But I think Lloyds compensation 
award of £150 fair and reasonable and I dont think that mistake has a significant impact on 
matters as Mr T only exceeded the usual limit of £500 on a few occasions.
Overall, Im satisfied Lloyds offered support to Mr T in the presence of his family member, 
but no instructions or consent were given to Lloyds. In those circumstances I dont think 
Lloyds could do anything further and couldnt have known why Mr T withdrew his money. For 
those reasons I cant fairly order Lloyds to repay Mr T the money he spent.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr T to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 March 2021.
 
David Singh
Ombudsman