DRN-3726707
The complaint
Mr N complains that Clydesdale Financial Services Limited trading as Barclays Partner 
Finance (BPF) irresponsibly granted him two fixed sum loan agreements he couldnt afford 
to repay. He also complains that he was pressured into signing the agreements.
What happened
May 2016, Mr N entered the first fixed sum loan agreement with BPF, for the supply and 
installation of windows. He paid a deposit of £100. There was an option to repay the finance 
within the first six months with no interest after which repayments of around £65 were 
required over 120 months. The total repayable under the agreement was around £7,900.
In February 2017, Mr N entered a second fixed sum loan agreement with BPF for the supply 
and installation of a conservatory and doors. There was an option to repay the finance within 
the first six months with no interest after which repayments of around £68 were required over 
180 months. The total repayable under the agreement was around £12,320.
Mr N says that he felt pressured into signing the agreements and that BPF didnt complete 
adequate affordability checks. He says if it had, it would have seen the agreements werent 
affordable. BPF didnt agree. It said that after receiving Mr Ns complaint it requested 
evidence of his income from the time of the applications for finance. It carried out 
affordability checks based on the information provided confirming that the lending criteria 
remained the same as when the applications were initially made. It said its checks showed 
both loans were affordable.
Our investigator didnt recommend the complaint be upheld. She thought BPF didnt act 
unfairly or unreasonably by approving the finance agreements.
Mr N didnt agree and reiterated the expenses he had at the time against his income and 
said that he had needed to reduce his payments for his utilities putting him in more debt. He 
restated that he had been pressured into signing the agreements and that they were 
unaffordable.
My provisional conclusions
I issued a provisional decision on this complaint. I concluded in summary:
Limited information was provided about the checks carried out by BPF before the 
finance was provided. The cover letter for the May 2016 loan agreement noted this 
being based on Mr N having an income of £16,640 but I didnt have further details of 
this. The second agreement (February 2017) referred to an income of £10,000 but 
again I didnt have further details.
Mr N was required to repay a total of around £7,900 for the May 2016 loan and 
around £12,300 for the February 2017 loan. The loans were for durations of 120 and 
180 months respectively. At the time of the loans being provided Mr Ns income was 
his pension and pension credits. Given the overall size of the borrowing, the monthly 
repayments and the term of the agreement, I thought it would have been 
proportionate for BPF to have verified Mr Ns income before providing the finance. 
BPF carried out a retrospective affordability assessment out based on income 
information provided for the time of the applications and said the agreements were 
affordable. But I couldnt see evidence that Mr Ns expenditure was assessed at the 
point of the loans being agreed or in the retrospective assessment and I hadnt seen 
details of any credit searches from the time. Without knowing what Mr Ns regular 
committed expenditure was, I didnt think BPF wouldnt have got a reasonable 
understanding of whether the agreements were affordable or not. 
I considered what BPF would likely have found out if it had completed reasonable 
and proportionate affordability checks. Mr N provided copies of his pension 
information as well as his bank statements for the months leading up to the 
agreements. These showed Mr Ns combined pensions and pension credits provided 
an annual income of around £10,000 for Mr N resulting in a monthly income of 
around £830. Additional to this his wife was receiving a pension of around £50 a 
week. This gave a monthly household income of just over £1,000.
I couldnt be certain what Mr N would have told BPF had it asked about his regular 
expenditure. But in the absence of anything else, I placed significant weight on the 
information contained in Mr Ns statements as well as the additional information he 
provided about his costs as an indication of what would most likely have been 
disclosed. The bank statements from around the time of the applications showed 
limited expenditure with insurance and a home warranty totalling an average of 
around £41 a month. Additional to this, Mr N explained that he was paying £210 for 
utilities (gas, electric, water and telephone) £240 a month on food and other 
essentials, £138 on car expenses and £120 for his credit card. I didnt have further 
evidence of these amounts, but I didnt find them unreasonable. This gave a total of 
around £750. In regard to mortgage costs it has been explained Mr N had an interest 
only mortgage which was covered by his pension credit. Therefore, Mr Ns 
disposable income after living costs and other financial commitments and before the 
finance agreement repayments was around £250.
The initial agreement required repayments of around £65 a month. As the finance 
was for new windows and therefore for the benefit of the household rather than Mr N 
specifically, I thought it reasonable that the household income was taken into 
account. Based on this and the expenses information provided, I didnt find I had 
enough to say that had further checks taken place, BPF should have found the 
agreement to be unaffordable.
Mr Ns second agreement was taken out less than a year later. This agreement was 
for a larger amount than the first agreement and had a term of over 15 years (180 
monthly payments starting after six months). Taking into account the first agreement, 
the household monthly disposable income would have been around £185. The 
second agreement required monthly payments of around £68. This would bring the 
household disposable income to just over £100. Considering the term of the 
agreement and that Mr N had a fixed income from his pension and pension credits, I 
thought that the limited amount of disposable income raised concerns that the 
agreement wouldnt be sustainably affordable over the term. Mr N said he had to 
reduce payments to other household bills and I thought the low level of disposable 
income meant that BPF should have been concerned that Mr N was at risk of not being able to maintain the repayments over the term without having to either borrow 
more or not meet other commitments.
Mr N said that he was pressured into signing the agreements. I was sorry to hear this 
but I also noted that Mrs N has said that they needed the new windows and so it 
appeared that the first agreement at least was an acquisition they wished to make. 
There was a right to withdraw from the agreements and so had Mr N felt pressured at 
the time he could have used that option. On balance I didnt find I had enough 
evidence to uphold this part of Mr Ns complaint.
Both parties responded to my provisional decision.
BPF said that credit checks were carried out before the loans were provided and that these 
didnt show that Mr N had a credit card at the time. It said its checks showed no existing 
credit commitments at the time of the first agreement and only the existing BPF loan at the 
time of the second agreement. It didnt think it reasonable that the assessment was based 
on Mr Ns recollections of his costs as these could be inaccurate as it said was the case in 
regard to the credit card. It said that Mr N had maintained the repayments under the second 
agreement and hadnt raised with BPF that he was in financial difficulty. 
Mr N said that the £100 deposit was paid to cover both loans as they were part of the same 
project. He said he contacted the supplier three weeks after signing the first agreement to 
say he didnt wish to go ahead but was told the windows had been ordered. He says at the 
start he was told the windows and doors werent safe being single glazed and so he should 
have them replaced.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
BPF will be familiar with all the rules, regulations and good industry practice we consider 
when looking at a complaint concerning unaffordable and irresponsible lending. So, I dont 
consider it necessary to set all of this out in this decision. Information about our approach to 
these complaints is set out on our website.
In my provisional decision I said that I hadnt seen credit checks undertaken by BPF. BPF 
said in response to this that these were undertaken and no credit commitments aside from 
the BPF loans were shown. It has provided copies of its checks to support this and Mr N has 
confirmed the credit card was taken out after the agreements, saying that this was needed to 
meet his expenses. 
I appreciate the comments BPF has made about the evidence of Mr Ns expenses. I agree 
that it is preferable to have documents to support all expenses however in this case these 
arent available. It isnt unreasonable to rely on a consumers testimony about the expenses 
at the time and to assess whether these appear reasonable given their circumstances. In 
this case I find the expenses that were provided were either supported by other evidence or 
appeared reasonable. I note the issue regarding the credit card repayment but aside from 
this I do not find it unreasonable to include Mr Ns estimates for his utilities, food and car 
alongside the evidenced costs of for his insurance and warranty. Excluding the credit card 
payments of £120 this would give household expenses of around £630 before the credit 
agreements. With household income of around £1,000 this would give disposable income 
before the first agreement of around £370 and before the second agreement of around £300. As I noted in my provisional decision, I do not find I have enough to say the first agreement 
shouldnt have been provided. I note Mr Ns comments about the agreement being linked 
and that he asked shortly after he signed the first agreement not to go ahead. But without 
further evidence of his request and noting that two separate agreements were set up, I think 
it reasonable not to uphold the first agreement.
While the numbers have changed in regard to the removal of the credit card payment, I am 
still concerned by the second agreement. I hadnt noted that Mr N was also paying £6 a 
month for arranged overdrafts fees on his bank account which was a further cost but also 
shows he was operating within an overdraft rather than credit position. The second 
agreement was for 180 months, a longer term than the first. This is a significant amount of 
time and noting Mr N was on a fixed income and that this assessment is based on the 
combined household income I think the disposable income left after the repayments on the 
second agreement and the duration for which these payments were required should have 
raised concerns about how sustainable these repayments were. I note BPFs comment 
about repayments being made but I also note that Mr N has shown his credit card to be over 
its £4,000 limit, he has an interest only mortgage with no endowments to support this and 
has said he has reduced payments elsewhere. I think this supports his claim that the 
repayments werent sustainable over the duration of the agreement.
Therefore, on balance, I think there is enough evidence to make a decision about this 
complaint and I uphold it in respect to the second loan agreement.
Putting things right
My final decision is that I partially uphold this complaint against Clydesdale Financial 
Services Limited trading as Barclays Partner Finance. I do not find that the second 
agreement (February 2017) should have been considered affordable.
The conservatory has been installed and I do not find that it would be reasonable for this to 
be removed. However, as I dont think BPF ought to have approved the lending, I dont think 
its fair for it to be able to charge any interest or charges under the agreement. Mr N should 
therefore only have to pay the original cash price of the conservatory and doors, being 
£8,599.60.
If Mr N has paid more that £8,599.60 the overpayments should be refunded to him along 
with 8% simple interest per year* from the date of each overpayment to the date of 
settlement. If the original cash price hasnt yet been paid, BPF should work with Mr N to 
arrange an affordable repayment plan.
In the event any adverse information has been recorded on Mr Ns credit file in relation to 
this agreement, this should be removed once the original purchase price has been paid.
*HM Revenue & Customs requires BPF to take off tax from this interest. BPF must give Mr N 
a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if Mr N asks for one.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint. Clydesdale Financial Services Limited 
trading as Barclays Partner Finance should take the actions set out above in resolution of 
this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr N to accept or 
reject my decision before 12 January 2023.
 Jane Archer
Ombudsman