DRN-3575862
The complaint
Mr Ks complaint against Octopus Investments Limited (Octopus) is about his investment in 
an Enterprise Investment Scheme (EIS). He complains about the information Octopus 
provided prior to his investment and their management of the EIS.
What happened
Mr K invested £1,130,000 in an Octopus EIS (OEIS 18) in 2015. He did so following the sale 
of a business in which he held shares and after receiving advice from his financial adviser. 
The EIS was a discretionary investment management service offering tax benefits to 
investors. The EIS invested in companies in the energy sector. 
Mr K withdrew £260,010 in early 2020 following the sale of some of the EIS assets. 
By April 2021, following the sale of the remaining assets by Octopus, Mr Ks investment was 
valued at just £38,917. Taking account of the funds Mr K had withdrawn that represented a 
loss of about 73.5% of his original investment. 
Mr K complained to Octopus in 2021. He complains, in summary, that:
Octopus said his investment was a lower risk EIS aiming to achieve capital preservation 
but that wasnt the case. He knew there was some risk but a loss of almost 75% of his 
capital is unacceptable for a capital preservation product.  
His financial adviser discussed the EIS with a senior representative of Octopus prior to 
his decision to invest. That representative said he absolutely expected that Mr K would 
get back £1 for every £1 invested. That discussion was key to Mr Ks decision to invest.
Octopus mismanaged the EIS to benefit themselves and not investors. They sold the EIS 
assets at the bottom of the market to one of their own companies. 
Octopus have admitted that several secured debt investors had first call over the EIS 
assets. He would not have invested if hed known that.
Octopus initially offered him a goodwill payment but then withdrew the offer and said 
Mr Ks losses were not enough to qualify.
In response to Mr Ks complaint, Octopus have said:
The information they provided to Mr K was clear, balanced, and not misleading. All EIS 
investments are inherently high risk and that was stated in multiple places in the 
brochure for OEIS 18. For example, the key risks were prominently set out on pages 20 
and 21 of the EIS brochure. 
They had a discretionary management mandate to make investments they considered to 
be EIS-qualifying and consistent with the objective of capital preservation. The investee 
companies and investment proposals were subject to robust due diligence and Octopus 
are satisfied they acted in line with the investment mandate. 
As a discretionary managed investment, Octopus retained the right to make all 
investment decisions at their discretion, in line with the mandate given and without prior 
reference to investors. That included all day-to-day decisions and actions they thought 
appropriate in relation to the management of the portfolio.
The performance of Mr Ks investment is the result of significant and largely external 
post-investment developments the combination of which wasnt foreseeable at the time 
he invested. These include changes in legislation, significantly falling energy prices and 
price forecasts, and issues relating to third party providers.
The use of debt financing by the investee companies was clearly disclosed. In 2020 
Octopus began to look for opportunities to sell the reserve power plants held by 
companies in Mr Ks portfolio. Unfortunately, the sales process failed to find a buyer. 
As an alternative, the debt finance provider to the plants agreed to acquire the remaining 
plants. Although this was the most attractive exit route available, it resulted in the equity 
value of almost all the reserve power companies falling or remaining at nil.   
They are under no obligation to offer any goodwill payments. They have set aside funds 
for goodwill payments to some EIS investors. That does not include investors in OEIS 18 
as it is not one of the worst affected of their EIS tranches. 
Our investigator looked into Mr Ks complaint and didnt think it should be upheld. He said:
He didnt agree that Octopus marketing material was misleading. While it described the 
objective of the EIS as capital preservation it also made clear that the investment was 
high risk and that capital preservation wasnt guaranteed.  
After reviewing the meeting notes provided by Mr Ks financial adviser, he didnt think 
Octopus representative had said that capital preservation was guaranteed. The note 
said the investment was aimed at capital preservation rather than growth. Whilst 
relatively low risk, the representative confirmed that as an EIS it was still a high risk 
investment. 
The EIS was a discretionary managed investment and Octopus had the mandate to 
manage the portfolio at their discretion. 
There isnt any evidence that the poor performance of the EIS companies was down to 
mismanagement on Octopuss part. He noted that Mr K accepted that the value of the 
companies was affected by the covid pandemic and the reduced requirement for reserve 
power. 
Octopus mandate included deciding to sell the EIS companies at a time they felt was in 
the best interests of the investment. He was satisfied that when Octopus chose to sell 
the companies, they believed it was the right thing to do in line with their mandate. 
The valuations and forecasts of the EIS companies were conducted by independent 
firms.
Mr K disagreed with our investigators findings and asked for an ombudsman to make a final 
decision.What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Id like to reassure Mr K that I have looked carefully at all the information he and his adviser 
have provided. Having done so, I hope he wont take it as a discourtesy that I havent 
addressed every point he has raised. Instead, Ive concentrated my findings on what I 
consider to be the key factors in reaching a fair and reasonable outcome to his complaint.  
Octopus were not responsible for giving advice to Mr K about his investment. So, it wasnt 
for them to decide whether the risks and other features of the EIS were suitable for him. 
Any complaint about the suitability of the recommendation would lie against the provider of 
that advice.
Octopus were responsible for providing information to Mr K, and his adviser, about the EIS 
and for managing his investment. In this decision, I will therefore focus on whether the 
information Octopus provided when he invested was clear, fair and not misleading. And I will 
look at whether Octopus actions in managing the EIS were consistent with the mandate they 
had been given. In doing so, I am not looking at Octopus actions with the benefit of 
hindsight; the fact that Mr Ks investment performed badly does not necessarily mean 
Octopus did something wrong.
Capital preservation/risk
Mr K and his adviser would have seen the Octopus brochures dated January 2015 before 
Mr K invested. Mr K has complained that the brochure emphasised the objective of capital 
preservation which was misleading for an investment that could result in such significant 
losses. Ive therefore looked closely at the brochure to see what it said about capital 
preservation and the risks of the investment. 
The cover of the brochure described the EIS as an investment that targets capital 
preservation and multiple tax reliefs. 
The Welcome to Octopus section at the start of the brochure said: 
But before you read any further, we want to make sure youre aware of the risks 
involved with investing in smaller companies. An EIS isnt for everyone and should be 
viewed as a high risk investment  even though we target capital preservation, your 
capital is placed at risk. 
The section of the brochure explaining the key risks included a similar message: 
Investment risk: Octopus EIS invests in small unquoted companies that have a 
higher risk profile than larger companies. This is because smaller businesses have a 
higher failure rate than more established businesses, such as those that have their 
shares quoted on the London Stock Exchange Official List. In addition, smaller 
companies can change value more quickly and more significantly than larger 
companies. Your capital is at risk and the investment return is not guaranteed. 
The accompanying brochure Details of underlying investments had a separate page 
headed Focus on capital preservation. It explained that Octopus looked to invest in energy 
companies with attractive and stable revenues, many of which benefited from a variety of 
government support mechanisms. It said the EIS offered investors an investment strategy that targeted capital preservation, but it also repeated the information on risk that I have 
quoted above.
As well as the risks of investing in small unquoted companies, the EIS brochures also set out 
other key risks, including: 
The liquidity risks of investing in unquoted companies. Octopus said investors should 
be prepared to leave their money invested for at least three years.
Risks specific to the energy sector. The brochures said the revenue streams of 
energy installations might be dependent on legislation and energy prices in the 
countries in which they were built. In the case of reserve power companies, the 
revenue streams were dependent on the market prices set by the National Grid. 
And any changes to legislation or generating performance could affect the returns.
The limited diversification within the EIS, as investment could likely be in one or a 
small number of companies within one sector only. 
Conflicts of interest. Amongst other things, that the companies Octopus EIS invested 
in may also receive funding from other sources managed by Octopus Investments, 
that there may be joint ventures and performance fees might be paid from companies 
in which Octopus EIS invests. 
I think Octopus provided clear, fair, and not misleading information about the risks of the 
investments. That included both the general risks of investing in smaller unquoted 
companies and the more specific risks relating to the energy sector. It was for Mr Ks 
financial adviser to assess whether the level of risk was suitable for Mr Ks needs. 
Although it is very unfortunate that a combination of some of the highlighted risks 
materialised, it does not follow that the information provided about risks was misleading. 
Overall, I think the EIS brochures made clear that while capital preservation was the aim, it 
was not guaranteed. They explained clearly that the EIS was still a high risk investment that 
put an investors capital at risk. 
Mr K has said that at a meeting before he invested, an Octopus representative emphasised 
capital preservation and said he expected that Mr K would get back £1 for every £1 invested. 
The representative also described OEIS 18 as a lower risk EIS. Although I cant be sure 
precisely what was said at that meeting, and I note that recollections of a meeting that took 
place more than eight years ago may vary, Ive seen a copy of the note that seems to have 
been made by Mr Ks financial adviser at the time. 
According to the note, Octopus representative discussed two EIS schemes and said OEIS 
18 was a lower risk scheme for capital preservation rather than growth. The note added:  
He also explained that it was a relative low risk, but the fact it is an EIS means that it 
is still considered a higher risk investment.
So, although Octopus representative highlighted capital preservation and described OEIS 
18 as lower risk than Octopus other EIS, he did explain that it was still a high risk 
investment. And what was said at the meeting also had to be balanced against the clear risk 
warnings that had been set out in the brochures.
Im not persuaded that what was said to Mr K and his adviser would have undermined the 
risk warnings given in the brochures. And overall, I think Octopus made sufficiently clear that there was a distinction between the aim of capital preservation and the inherently high risk 
nature of the EIS investment. Based on the evidence Ive seen, I think the information 
provided by Octopus was clear, fair, not misleading. 
Management of the EIS
When Mr K invested in the EIS he agreed that Octopus would manage the funds on the 
terms set out in the EIS brochures and the terms and conditions. The documentation 
explained the objectives of the EIS, how the investment process was expected to work and 
how the risks would be managed. In effect Octopus provided an investment management 
service and had a mandate to make investment decisions on behalf of investors. 
The EIS brochure said that Octopus would undertake a rigorous process to identify suitable 
investment opportunities. Octopus have said that all the investee companies and their 
investment proposals were subject to robust due diligence and have provided information on 
the process that was followed. Based on what Ive seen, I think Octopus followed a due 
diligence process as set out in the EIS brochure. 
Ive considered what both Mr K and Octopus have said about the management of the EIS, 
including the sale of the reserve power plants held by companies in Mr Ks portfolio. 
As Octopus was the discretionary manager it was for them to make legitimate commercial 
decisions on behalf of investors based on the information available at the time. And, based 
on the evidence Ive seen Im not persuaded that Octopus failed to make decisions in line 
with the mandate they had been given and with the objective of capital preservation, as set 
out in the EIS brochures. 
Although Mr Ks funds were invested across a portfolio of companies, they were all high risk 
assets. Unfortunately, in Mr Ks case, a number of the potential risks associated with this 
kind of investment have been realised and his portfolio has performed badly. I can therefore 
understand why Mr K feels strongly about what has happened. 
However, the fact that multiple risks materialised causing performance to drop does not 
automatically mean that Octopus failed to make decisions in line with the mandate they had 
been given. And based on the evidence Ive seen I dont think I can fairly say that Octopus 
failed to follow the investment mandate or acted negligently. That includes Octopus decision 
to sell the assets of the EIS companies at the time they did, following an independent 
valuation. 
Use of debt
I think the EIS brochures made clear that investee companies might borrow and in my view 
that would not be unusual for new and developing companies. 
The conflicts of interest sections of the EIS brochures said that the investee companies 
may borrow money from sources that Octopus may manage or have a financial interest in. 
They went on to describe the controls Octopus had in place to manage conflicts of interest 
and make sure their customers were treated fairly. I note that Octopus have said that the 
loan terms were consistent with other energy related project lending and that they followed 
the conflict of interest process outlined in their product brochure. Ive not seen any evidence 
that was not the case.  Goodwill payment
I understand that Octopus decided to make payments to investors in some of their EIS 
tranches, but not OEIS 18. It is entirely a matter within Octopus discretion whether to make 
any goodwill payments and Ive not seen enough evidence to persuade me that Mr K was 
misled about this is or that he has been treated differently to others who invested in 
OEIS 18.
Summary
I would like to reassure Mr K that Ive looked carefully at everything he has said. I can
understand why he feels strongly about what has happened to his investment. But I dont
think I can fairly say that Octopus failed to provide sufficiently clear information to Mr K
before he decided to invest, or that they have failed to manage his investment in line with the
mandate they were given. I realise this will be a very disappointing decision for Mr K, but I
wont be upholding his complaint.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, my final decision is that I dont uphold Mr Ks complaint 
against Octopus Investments Limited.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr K to accept or 
reject my decision before 25 July 2023.
 
Matthew Young
Ombudsman