DRN-3279933
The complaint
Mr K complains that Remitly U.K., Ltd didnt fulfil his instruction to carry out a money transfer 
within the specified timescales.
What happened
On 26 August 2020, Mr K wanted to send the sum of 35,000 PKR (Pakistani Rupees) to his 
nephew in Pakistan. He used Remitlys money transfer service. 
Remitly offers two levels of service, economy and express. Mr K notes that Remitlys 
economy service said the money would be available for the recipient to collect in two hours. 
It had a slightly lower transfer fee.
Mr K chose the economy option. Remitly says its audit records show he submitted the 
transfer request at 10:55AM British Summer Time (BST). Remitly emailed Mr K to confirm 
the details of the proposed transfer, saying the sterling amount required would be £159.53 
plus its transfer fee of £1.99, giving a total of £161.52.
Mr K made this bank transfer as requested. Remitlys audit records show it received the 
necessary funds for the transfer from Mr K at 12:05PM BST.
Remitly says the transfer was made once it had Mr Ks funds. It says the funds were 
available for collection very shortly afterwards, at 12:10PM BST. This would be around one 
hour and fifteen minutes after Mr K submitted his transfer request.
However, Mr K disputes this. Mr K says Remitly failed to make the funds available to his 
nephew within the specified two-hour timescale. He also says that it failed to let him know 
that the money was available for collection until after the banks in Pakistan had closed, 
meaning his nephew couldnt collect the payment until the following morning. Mr K details 
the cost, time and distress this caused both him and his nephew.
Remitly didnt agree  it thought it had handled the payment correctly and within the relevant 
time limits. But because Mr K wasnt satisfied with the service it gave him £10 credit to his 
account as a gesture of goodwill.
Our investigator looked into Mr Ks complaint. She didnt think the available evidence 
showed that the payment had been delayed  she thought that Remitly was able to show 
from its audit records that the funds had been ready for collection at 12:10PM BST as it had 
claimed. 
She said shed reviewed the email Mr K had supplied as evidence to show the payment 
hadnt been made available until 16:10. But she noted this didnt include a time zone in the 
email header  just the digits 16:10. Mr K had suggested this must be his time zone (BST) 
but the investigator pointed out that if this actually related to the time zone of the recipient 
then it corresponded exactly to the audit records provided by Remitly. So, she thought that 
was the most likely explanation.
As a result, the investigator concluded that the documents were consistent in showing that 
the payment had been ready for collection at 16:10PM Pakistan time (12:10PM BST) and so 
there had been no delay by Remitly. She noted Remitly had given Mr K a credit greater than 
the value of his transfer fee and didnt think Remitly was liable to do more.
Mr K didnt agree with the investigators conclusions. His complaint has therefore been 
referred to me to reach a final decision on the matter.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I have reached the same outcome as the investigator and for the same 
reasons. I realise this will not be the outcome Mr K was hoping for, so I will explain why I 
consider that to be fair.
I appreciate Mr Ks frustration with what happened  hes detailed the financial impact on his 
nephew, and the time and cost Mr K incurred as a result. Even more, Mr K had promised to 
help his nephew and this didnt happen as hed planned. Mr K believes Remitly is at fault 
here and needs to put matters right. 
My role here is determine whether the available evidence leads me to find Remitly was to 
blame or not.
Firstly, Mr K highlights that Remitly says it will reimburse its transfer fee if the customer is 
dissatisfied. Here the relevant transfer fee (for Remitlys economy service) was £1.99. When 
Mr K first complained, Remitly credited his account with £10 as a gesture of goodwill. That 
more than covers the transfer fee Mr K paid. I dont require Remitly to do more on that point.
But the crux of Mr Ks complaint concerns whether the transfer was available within two 
hours, and at what time Remitly confirmed those funds were ready to collect.
I am satisfied that Remitlys audit records demonstrate that the Mr K submitted the initial 
request at 10:55AM BST. That matches Mr Ks recollections on this point. 
This is then the very earliest time from which Mr K could expect the two-hour timescale to 
run. Two hours from 10:55AM BST implies funds being ready for collection by 12:55PM 
BST. The destination country was Pakistan, which is four hours ahead of BST, meaning 
12:55PM BST corresponds to 4:55PM PKT (Pakistan Standard Time).
Remitly says the funds were available for collection at 12:10PM BST (4:10PM PKT). If that is 
correct, then this was well inside the two-hour timescale. 
It has provided a copy of its system audit records, which show that it sent the recipient 
(Mr Ks nephew an automated SMS text message at 12:10PM BST (4:10PM PKT) to confirm 
funds were ready for collection. It also says it sent Mr K an automated email message to say 
the same. The email says the arrival time of the funds at the bank in Pakistan was 12:10PM 
BST (4:10PM PKT). 
Mr K has produced a copy of the email he received from Remitly. He points to the email 
header as evidence of the time he received it. The header shows 16:10. Mr K was in the 
UK at the time so says this will be in BST. In other words, he says this shows he didnt get 
the confirmation of funds being available to collect until 4:10PM BST, four hours later than 
Remitly claims.Ive considered this point. Im not persuaded I can safely conclude that 16:10 refers to a time 
in BST rather than PKT. I know Mr K has inferred BST, because he received the email in 
that time zone. But the email header doesnt specify whether it relates to BST or PKT, it is 
silent on that point. 
Indeed, the fact that this matches the time in PKT when Remitlys audit records show the 
funds were ready for collection (and the time in PKT when it says it sent automated 
confirmation messages to Mr K and to the recipient) suggests that this time in the email 
header is not BST, it is PKT. Also, the contents of the email are unambiguous in terms of the 
time it says the funds had arrived  that being 4:10PM PKT. 
In considering how this might have arisen, Ive noted that when Mr K first complained to 
Remitly, he attached a copy of its initial set-up email (the one requesting Mr K to make the 
initial bank transfer). When he forwarded that message his email client showed a time for 
this set-up email of 14:55  again not specifying a time zone. But that request email from 
Remitly would only make sense if the 14:55 referred to a PKT time, rather than to 14:55 
BST. In other words, if this were 14:55 PKT (10:55 BST). That matches the time than Mr K 
made the initial request and when Remitly asked him to send it the funds by bank transfer. 
All of this suggests to me that the email client Mr K was using had perhaps been 
inadvertently set to use PKT rather than BST. That would then account for the apparent 
discrepancy both in this email and in the one Mr K says shows Remitly was late in notifying 
him.
In any event, where there is a doubt about facts as there is here, I am required to reach a 
decision based what I consider most likely given the available evidence. Having carefully 
weighed up the evidence available to me, I find it most likely that Remitly did make the funds 
available at the time it says it did, and that it notified Mr K and the recipient at that same time 
 12:10PM BST (4:10PM PKT).
Given this time was within two hours of Mr K submitting the initial request, I dont find 
Remitly was at fault here. I dont discount Mr Ks testimony, or how strongly he feels about 
the matter. It is simply that the records and documents (including those Mr K has submitted) 
strike me as being most likely consistent with the timings Remitly claims.
In summary, I dont find Remitly to have been at fault here and I dont require it to do more 
than it has already done.My final decision
For the reasons given above my final decision is that I do not uphold Mr Ks complaint about 
Remitly U.K., Ltd.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr K to accept or 
reject my decision before 26 July 2022.
 
Stephen Dickie
Ombudsman