DRN-3762411
The complaint
Mr S complains that Admiral Insurance (Gibraltar) Limited (Admiral) hasnt offered enough 
compensation for the distress and inconvenience he suffered after it replaced a macerator 
under his home emergency cover.
What happened
Mr Ss macerator toilet on his ground floor broke in October 2020. Mr S made a claim on his 
home emergency cover. Admiral replaced Mr Ss macerator, towards which Mr S says he 
paid around £260. Mr S says that during the visit, he asked Admirals engineer why the 
newly installed macerators motor was making a buzzing sound every 20 seconds. Mr S said 
the engineer told him it was a good sign.
Mr Ss macerator toilet stopped working towards the end of March 2021. Mr S reported this 
to Admiral. He told Admiral he was disabled and the downstairs macerator toilet was his 
main toilet and that using his upstairs toilet wasnt ideal.
 
Admiral sent out an engineer. Mr S said the engineer didnt inspect the toilet properly and 
asked if Mr S had flushed wet wipes down it. Mr S said he hadnt because he knew not to 
use them with a macerator.
On 31 March 2021, Mr S complained to Admiral because the macerator was still broken, and 
it was extremely difficult for him to get to his upstairs toilet.
 
A few weeks later, Mr S said Admiral told him that the 12-month warranty on the macerator 
was void because hed been using wet wipes, which had stopped its pump working. Mr S 
told Admiral hed explained to the engineer that he didnt use wipes. He asked for a second 
engineer to inspect the macerator properly. Admiral said it couldnt find an appropriate 
contractor in Mr Ss area to do this and that Mr S should find a tradesperson himself and 
send it the invoice. Mr S called three tradespeople and told Admiral he couldnt afford the 
call out charges because he was on benefits. 
Mr S then contacted the macerators manufacturer (M). He described the noise it was 
making and says he sent M photos and a video of the macerator. M gave three possible 
reasons for the macerators failure which it said were not related to the use of wet wipes. On 
12 April 2021, Mr S provided Admiral with a recording of his call with M, where the fault was 
discussed, and a copy of the correspondence hed received from M setting out the possible 
causes of the failure.
At the end of May 2021, Admiral contacted Mr S and told him hed need to get an 
independent report into the cause of the macerators failure. Admiral told Mr S he could ask 
the manufacturer to inspect the unit and, if the warranty was found to be valid, M would 
replace it for him. Mr S said hed already told Admiral that M didnt send out engineers and 
that M had told him hed need to disconnect the unit and send it to M. Mr S reminded 
Admiral about the call recording hed sent it where the fault had been discussed with M but 
Admiral said the call wasnt in a format recognised by its system, so it was unable to listen to 
it. Admiral said the only engineer it could send to inspect the unit was the one whod installed 
it. And that if Mr S couldnt afford a call out fee for his own tradesperson and the warranty 
was found to be valid, Admiral would reimburse him up to the remaining limits on his home 
emergency cover. Mr S said hed have to borrow money from his family to cover the call out 
fee. 
Mr S then provided an independent report into the fault to Admiral. The report cost Mr S 
£460 and said the macerator failed because of installation problems and that it had 
overflowed damaging Mr Ss carpet. The report quoted Mr S £604.80 to replace the unit. 
Mr S referred his complaint to this service. He said he was unhappy about what Admiral had 
put him through. He said he wanted his macerator fixed and for Admiral to call him about his 
damaged carpet. Admiral made arrangements on 14 June 2021 to reimburse Mrs Ss report 
costs. 
Admiral issued its final response letter (FRL) to Mr Ss complaint on 30 June 2021. It said 
there was clear evidence that  the cause of the failure wasnt due to wipes. It said a more 
thorough investigation shouldve been carried out when the system failed the second time 
meaning the fault would most likely have been found and rectified. It admitted Mr Ss claim 
couldve been resolved sooner and included a photo of the unit that it said showed that the 
valve Mr Ss plumber said was missing had been installed. Admiral offered Mr S £300 
compensation and said it would either fit a new macerator under a new claim at no cost to 
Mr S or would pay £500 towards Mr Ss costs if he wanted to use his own tradesperson or a 
different network.
Mr S said Admiral should cover the full cost of replacing his macerator because Admiral had 
caused its failure. He said £300 compensation wasnt enough and was unhappy the FRL 
didnt mention the damage to his carpets.
 
Around 19 July 2021, Admiral replaced Mr Ss macerator at no cost. But told Mr S that the 
damage to his carpet had been caused by the macerators failure in October 2020 and not 
the March 2021 failure. It said Mr S should contact his household contents insurer about 
making a claim for the carpet. Mr S told us hed replaced his carpets around about 
December 2020 and provided a receipt for £900 dated 30 November 2020 for the fitting of a 
carpet. He said itd been this carpet that had been damaged by the macerators March 2021 
failure. He said, as well, his contents insurer said hed need to pay £500 towards a claim for 
his carpet. 
Our investigator upheld Mr Ss complaint. He said Admiral shouldve investigated the cause 
of the buzzing noise when Mr S pointed it out when the unit was fitted in November 2020. He 
said an investigation wouldve shown a valve needed to be replaced and the unit wouldnt 
have then failed in March 2021. He felt the £300 compensation was fair and that Admiral 
should pay Mr S £900 to cover the cost of his damaged carpet. 
Mr S didnt agree that £300 compensation was fair or reasonable and asked for an 
ombudsmans decision.
After Id considered all the available evidence to decide whats fair and reasonable in the 
circumstances of this complaint, I reached a different outcome to our investigator. Because 
the outcome was different, I issued a provisional decision giving both parties a further 
chance to comment on my findings ahead of issuing my final decision.
 
My provisional decision
I explained my provisional findings to both parties as follows:
 Admiral has replaced Mr As macerator, reimbursed his report costs and paid him £900 for 
his damaged carpet, which is fair and reasonable. But I think Mr S should be awarded more 
than £300 compensation. Ill explain why. 
Mr S said that he asked the engineer who installed the macerator in November 2020 about 
the noise it was making. There is no record of this conversation. But Mr S gave a similar 
account about the noise and when it started to M during their call. So because of this 
account - and because of what M said was the likely cause of the noise - Im persuaded on 
balance that the noise began as soon as the unit was installed and that Mr S would most 
likely have asked the engineer about it.
Admirals FRL said that the fault wasnt something that wouldve needed to be investigated 
during the installation visit because the engineer was carrying out a like-for-like replacement. 
But the noise began as soon as Admirals engineer replaced the unit. And Mr S asked 
Admirals engineer about it. So Id have expected Admiral to have either investigated the 
cause of noise at the time of installation or shortly afterwards.
I dont think Admiral shouldve told Mr S to make a second claim on his home emergency 
insurance when the macerator broke down in March 2021. I think the fault was most likely a 
consequence of Admirals installation of the unit in response to the claim Mr S made on his 
home emergency cover around October 2020, rather than a new claim. So I think Mr S 
should be compensated for the distress and inconvenience he suffered by being told by 
Admiral hed need to make a second home emergency claim. And if Admiral has recorded 
the breakdown of the macerator in March 2021 as a new claim, it should update any records 
that reflect that its not.
In March 2021, Admirals engineers report noted no wet wipes when the engineer 
inspected the broken-down unit. And during Mr Ss call with M, it was clear that the fault 
described by Mr S most likely wasnt due to wet wipes but rather due to the units installation. 
Admiral said it was unable to listen to the call, but this wasnt Mr Ss fault. So despite Admiral 
having information from its engineer and M about the cause of the fault, it still told Mr S to 
organise his own report when I think  given the information it had about the cause of the 
fault  it wouldve fair and reasonable for it to have arranged an inspection itself at no cost to 
Mr S, from outside of its own network if necessary. So I think Mr S should be awarded 
compensation for the distress and inconvenience caused to him by Admiral telling him to 
organise and pay initially for an independent report.
Mr S plumbers report, sent to Admiral on the 26 May 2021, told Admiral that Mr Ss carpet 
had been damaged by the toilet overflowing. Mr S then emailed Admiral on 28 June 2021 
and said his carpet had been ruined by the previous engineer not fitting the macerator 
correctly. But Admiral didnt pay an amount to Mr Ss for his damaged carpet for some time, 
which I think would have delayed him replacing it. As well, I dont think Admiral shouldve 
told Mr S hed need to claim for the carpet on his household insurance as the fault was most 
likely a consequence of Admirals installation of the unit. So I think Mr S should be 
compensated for the distress and inconvenience Admiral caused him by telling him to claim 
for his damaged carpet on his household insurance and for the delays here. 
 
Mr S made Admiral aware as early as 24 March 2021 - around the time that he reported the 
fault - that he was disabled. He also said to Admiral on 3 April 2021 that he has a stair lift, 
but that it wasnt as easy and that he needed his ground floor WC operational again.   
Despite Admiral knowing this, it took almost four months for Admiral to consider the fault and 
then replace Mr Ss macerator. This is unreasonable. If Admiral had investigated the fault 
more thoroughly when the unit broke down, Mr Ss downstairs WC would most likely have 
been fixed far sooner than it was, reducing significantly the distress and inconvenience Mr S 
suffered, which was made worse by his vulnerabilities.  And if Admiral investigated the fault soon after the unit was installed, its reasonable to think the unit could have been fixed and 
wouldnt have broken down at all.
So for the reasons above, Im minded to require Admiral to pay Mr S a further £300 
compensation in addition to the £300 it has already offered Mr S, because I think £600 is a 
fairer reflection of the distress and inconvenience Admiral has caused Mr S. 
Responses to my provisional decision
Mr S accepted my provisional decision and Admiral didnt provide a response. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
And Ive considered the responses of both parties to my provisional decision. 
Because Mr S has accepted my provisional decision and Admiral and hasnt provided any 
further comment or information, Ive decided uphold Mr Ss complaint in line with my 
provisional decision. 
My final decision
I uphold Mr Ss complaint. I require Admiral Insurance (Gibraltar) Limited to pay Mr S a total 
of £600 compensation. Admiral Insurance (Gibraltar) Limited is free to deduct the £300 it has 
already offered Mr S from this amount if it has already paid it to him. Admiral Insurance 
(Gibraltar) Limited should also amend its records so that the failure of macerator in March 
2021 is not recorded as a claim.
Admiral Insurance (Gibraltar) Limited must pay the compensation within 28 days of the date 
on which we tell it Mr S accepts my final decision. If it pays later than this it must also pay 
interest on the compensation from the date of my final decision to the date of payment at 8% 
a year simple.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 18 November 2022.
 
Ruth Peek
Ombudsman