DRN-3962942
The complaint
Mr and Mrs I complain about how Great Lakes Insurance SE dealt with a claim against their 
travel insurance policy. Reference to Great Lakes includes its agents. 
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here in full. In summary, in October 2021, Mr and Mrs I bought an annual travel 
insurance policy underwritten by Great Lakes. The policy started on 23 October 2021. 
In December 2021, Mr and Mrs I booked a family trip with intended departure and return 
dates of 26 May 2022 and 2 June 2022 respectively. The airline cancelled Mr and Mrs Is 
outgoing flight. I understand that Mr and Mrs I rearranged their flights for 27 May 2022. 
On 8 June 2022, Mr and Mrs I submitted a claim form to Great Lakes. It asked for some 
further information. Great Lakes accepts that there were some delays in dealing with the 
matter, which Ill refer to below.  
Mr and Mrs I want compensation for their inconvenience caused by Great Lakes 
unnecessary delay in dealing with their claim. 
One of our investigators looked at what had happened. He thought that there had been 
some delays in Great Lakes handling of the claim. The investigator recommended that it 
pay Mr and Mrs I compensation of £100 in relation to their inconvenience. 
Mr and Mrs I didnt agree with the investigator. They said, in summary, that 
compensation of £100 isnt sufficient and that there has been unreasonable and 
extraordinary delay in dealing with their claim. Mr and Mrs I say that Great Lakes has 
delayed their claim so that theyll abandon it. They say that Great Lakes asked for 
information repeatedly and delayed their claim. Mr and Mrs I say that the amount of their 
claim is minimal, and they are not sure why there has been such delay. 
Mr and Mrs I say that in February 2023, Great Lakes settled their claim in part. They are 
not happy about the settlement and have raised the matter with Great Lakes.
Mr and Mrs I asked that an ombudsman consider their complaint, so it was passed to me 
to decide. 
In this decision, Im dealing with Mr and Mrs Is complaint about Great Lakes delay in 
dealing with their claim. Great Lakes responded to that complaint in its e-mail of            
19 December 2022 to Mr I . I understand that Mr and Mrs I have concerns about the 
subsequent partial settlement of their claim. Thats not dealt with here as Great Lakes 
havent issued a final response in relation to those concerns. If Mr and Mrs I remain 
concerned about the amount of the settlement and are not content with Great Lakes 
response to their complaint about that, they can refer the matter to this service as a new 
complaint. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The relevant rules and industry guidance say that Great Lakes has a responsibility to handle 
claims promptly and fairly. Its common ground here that theres been delay on Great Lakes 
part in dealing with Mr and Mrs Is claim. Mr and Mrs I submitted their claim in June 2022 
and it wasnt settled at the time of Great Lakes final response to their complaint in 
December 2022. Thats longer than wed expect a claim of this nature to take. 
I havent seen any evidence to support Mr and Mrs Is contention that Great Lakes 
deliberately delayed dealing with their claim so that they would abandon it. At the outset, the 
extent of Mr and Mrs Is claim wasnt entirely clear. In the claim form, they appeared to claim 
for the total cost of flights and accommodation. But it transpired that their claim excluded 
flight costs as they rearranged their flights with the airline. And their claim was for the loss of 
one nights accommodation and additional items. It was necessary for Great Lakes to ask for 
further information or documentation on several occasions. I can see that Mr I responded 
promptly to each request. There were significant delays between Mr Is response to       
Great Lakes request for information or documentation and its next request.  
Great Lakes has apologised for the delay in dealing with Mr and Mrs Is claim. I dont think 
thats sufficient in this case. Mr and Mrs I were put to the trouble of engaging with           
Great Lakes over several months. Fortunately, as Mr and Mrs I have said, their claim wasnt 
for a large amount. 
Considering everything, I think that compensation of £100 in relation to Mr and Mrs Is 
distress and inconvenience is fair and reasonable in this case. In reaching that view, Ive 
taken into account the nature, extent and duration of Mr and Mrs Is distress and 
inconvenience caused by Great Lakes delay up to its final response to their complaint in 
December 2022.  
Putting things right
In order to put things right, Great Lakes should pay Mr and Mrs I compensation of £100 in 
relation to their distress and inconvenience.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint. Great Lakes Insurance SE should now take 
the step Ive set out above. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs I and Mr I to 
accept or reject my decision before 19 June 2023.
 
Louise Povey
Ombudsman