DRN-2746780
The complaint
Mr B complains about Aviva Insurance Limited and their decision to accept liability for a road 
traffic accident he was involved in.
What happened
In August 2017, Mr B contacted Aviva to make a claim on his car insurance policy after he 
was involved in a road traffic accident. Mr B explained the circumstances of the accident and 
his belief that the third party was at fault. But Aviva didnt agree and recorded the claim as a 
fault claim.
Mr B was unhappy about this decision, so he raised a complaint. Mr B explained the third 
party was travelling in a bus lane at the time of the collision. So, even though he was turning 
right across a lane of traffic, he thought the third party was breaking the law by being in that 
lane. Because of this, he didnt think it was fair for the claim to be settled as his fault. He 
explained his insurance prices rose because of this claim and wanted to be compensated for 
the stress and financial loss hed incurred.
Aviva didnt agree. They accepted the third party may have been travelling in a bus lane. But 
they explained this was a criminal matter and didnt impact the liability of the accident itself. 
They explained as Mr B was making the manoeuvre of turning right across a lane of 
oncoming traffic, he was deemed to be liable for the accident. Because of this, they thought 
theyd acted fairly when settling the claim on a fault basis. Mr B was unhappy with this 
response, so he referred his decision to us.
Our investigator looked into the complaint and didnt uphold it. She explained it wasnt our 
services role to determine who was at fault. But instead, we could consider the actions 
Aviva took and whether they were fair and reasonable. And our investigator thought they 
were. She recognised Mr Bs views on the accident, and that the third party may have been 
travelling illegally in a bus lane, but she didnt think this meant Aviva had acted unfairly when 
settling the claim on a fault basis. She thought Aviva had listened to Mr Bs concerns and 
escalated them for a review. And this review had found Mr B to be liable. So, she thought 
theyd done nothing wrong when settling the claim. And she thought theyd acted within the 
terms and conditions of the policy. Because of this, she didnt think they needed to do 
anything more.
Mr B didnt agree with this view. He maintained his view that the third party had acted 
illegally, and this is what led to the accident. He was upset that his own insurer were saying 
he was to blame, when he didnt think he was. And he wasnt happy with the example Aviva 
provided to rationalise their decision. Mr B was also unhappy the investigator had referred to 
the terms of the policy, which he felt were weighted in favour of Aviva. As Mr B didnt agree, 
the complaint has been referred to me for a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im not upholding the complaint for broadly the same reasons as the 
investigator. Ive focused my comments on what I think is relevant. If I havent commented 
on any specific point, its because I dont believe its affected what I think is the right 
outcome.
First, I want to recognise the impact this complaint has had on Mr B. I dont doubt Mr Bs 
recollection of the accident or that the third party involved was travelling in a bus lane when 
the collision occurred. As driving a car in a bus lane is prohibited, I can understand why Mr B 
would see the accident as the fault of the third party. So, when he realised the claim had 
been settled on a fault basis, I understand why hed be both frustrated and upset. But for me 
to say Aviva did something wrong, Id need to be satisfied their decision to settle the claim in 
this way was unfair. Or that by doing so, they failed to act in line with the terms and 
conditions of the policy. And in this situation, I dont think thats the case.
Before I explain the reasoning for my decision, I want to make it clear that it isnt my role to 
re-underwrite the claim. So, Im unable to comment on or determine who was at fault for the 
accident. Instead, its my role to look at the decision Aviva made and decide whether I think 
they came to this decision fairly, having considered the all the evidence available to them. 
Ive seen from the claim notes that Aviva explained to Mr B when he made the claim that it 
would be made on a fault basis after hed provided his version of events. And Ive seen Mr B 
asked Aviva to reconsider this, which they did do. The claim was passed to senior 
management to reconsider, but the same decision on liability was made. So, I think Aviva 
listened to Mr Bs concerns and acted fairly by gaining a second opinion before settling the 
claim on that basis.
And Ive seen Aviva made Mr B aware of this and provided reasoning as to why liability had 
been accepted. They explained that although the third party may have been travelling in a 
bus lane, this doesnt impact liability as it was Mr B who was making the manoeuvre across 
a lane of traffic. They explained in this situation, the third party was travelling straight in one 
direction, so the fault would lie with Mr B. And they explained that the criminal aspect of 
travelling in a bus lane doesnt impact the civil aspect of the insurance claim, and how 
liability is determined under The Road Traffic Act 1988. 
As Ive explained, it isnt my role to determine who was at fault, or the liability of the claim. 
From what Ive seen, I think Aviva made a fair decision on liability, and communicated it in a 
reasonable way to Mr B. 
There was no CCTV footage to show the moment the third party entered the bus lane, or the 
speed at which they were travelling. And there were no independent witness reports, as Mr 
Bs partner wouldnt be classified as independent. So, Aviva had to make a decision on 
liability based on the testimony Mr B provided. And from this, I think it was clear that Mr B 
was turning across a lane of traffic. I think Aviva considered Mr Bs testimony regarding the 
third party being in a bus lane and I think they explained clearly why this wouldnt impact 
who was at fault for the collision. 
And the terms and conditions of Mr Bs policy explain that Aviva have full discretion in the 
conduct of any proceedings or the settlement of any claim. So, I think Aviva could decide to 
settle the claim in whatever way they felt was correct. And from what Ive seen, I think they 
took Mr Bs testimony and views on the accident circumstances before making that decision. 
Because of this, I cant say theyve acted unfairly or unreasonably and so, I dont think they 
need to do anything further.I understand this isnt the outcome Mr B was hoping for. And I do recognise this leaves Mr B 
with a fault claim he needs to declare on any insurance policy he takes for a period of time 
and that this may come at a cost. But I hope this decision goes some way to explaining why I 
think this inconvenience, and additional cost, hasnt arisen from anything Aviva did wrong 
when handling and settling claim.
My final decision
For the reasons outlined above, I dont uphold Mr Bs complaint about Aviva Insurance 
Limited. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 10 May 2021.
 
Josh Haskey
Ombudsman