DRN-4163255
The complaint
Mr D is unhappy that Capital One (Europe) plc sold his account to a debt purchasing 
company (DPC) but cant confirm to which exact company within the DPCs group it was 
sold to.
What happened
Capital One defaulted Mr Ds credit accounts in 2019 and sold the outstanding debt to a 
DPC in August 2022. Mr D received a letter on Capital One headed paper advising him of 
the sale of debt, but when he called Capital One to get further information, they couldnt 
confirm which of the specific companies within the DPCs group his debt had been sold to. 
Mr D wasnt happy with this, or to discover that the letter hed received on Capital One 
headed paper had in fact been sent by the DPC themselves. And he also wasnt happy with 
some of the service hed received from Capital One surrounding this matter. So, he raised a 
complaint.
Capital One responded to Mr D and confirmed that his debt had been sold to the DPC and 
that the letter informing him about the sale of debt were legitimate. Capital One also 
explained that they didnt feel that their agents had spoken to Mr D in any way 
unprofessionally. Mr D wasnt satisfied with Capital Ones response, so he referred his 
complaint to this service. 
One of our investigators looked at this complaint. They didnt feel Capital One had acted 
unfairly by selling the debt to the DPC, but they did feel that Capital One could have been 
clearer in the information they provided to Mr D when he contacted them about it. Our 
investigator therefore recommended that Capital One pay £150 compensation to Mr D for 
the trouble and upset that he incurred as a result. Mr D remained dissatisfied, so the matter 
was escalated to an ombudsman for a final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Id like to begin by confirming that this service isnt a regulatory body or a 
Court of Law and doesnt operate as such. This means that it isnt within my remit here to 
declare that Capital One have acted in a non-regulatory or unlawful way. 
Instead, this service is an informal, impartial dispute resolution service. And while we do take 
relevant law and regulation into account when arriving at our decisions, our remit is focussed 
on determining whether we feel a fair or unfair outcome has occurred  from an impartial 
perspective, after taking all the circumstances and factors of a complaint into consideration. 
I also note that Mr D has provided several submissions to this service regarding his 
complaint. Id like to thank Mr D for these submissions, and I hope he doesnt consider it a 
discourtesy that I wont be responding in similar detail here. Instead, Ive focussed on what I 
consider to be the key aspects of this complaint, in-line with this services role as an informal 
dispute resolution service. 
 
This means that if Mr D notes that I havent addressed a specific point hes raised, it 
shouldnt be taken from this that I havent considered that point  I can confirm that Ive read 
and considered all the submissions provided by both Mr D and Capital One. Rather, it should 
be taken that I have considered that point but that I dont feel it necessary to address it 
directly in this letter to arrive at what I consider to be a fair resolution to this complaint.
Its common practice for businesses such as Capital One to sell outstanding debt to DPCs, 
and I note that Capital Ones right to do so is described in their terms and conditions, which 
Mr D accepted when he opened his accounts with Capital One. As such, Im satisfied that 
Capital One didnt act unfairly by selling Mr Ds debt to the DPC as they have.
I note that Mr D received a notice of assignment in September 2022 which explained that his 
debt had been sold to the DPC and which listed a specific company within the DPCs group 
to which it had been sold. 
I appreciate that Mr D wanted more information about the sale of debt, and that when he 
contacted Capital One about it that they were unable to provide him the clarification he 
wanted  specifically, a confirmation of exactly which company within the DPC group his 
debt had been sold to. 
Mr D has explained that Capital Ones inability to provide the specific information he wanted 
meant he became concerned that fraud might be occurring. But I note that when Mr D did 
call Capital One that they confirmed to him that his debt had been sold to the DPC, although 
they couldnt confirm to which exact company within that DPC group it had been sold to. 
I feel that this confirmation from Capital One that the debt had been sold to the DPC should 
reasonably have alleviated any potential concerns Mr D may have had. And its difficult to 
understand what form of fraud Mr D may have believed might have been taking place, given 
that the sale of debt to the DPC group had been confirmed to him by Capital One. I also feel 
that being told such, Mr D could reasonably have contacted the DPC itself to learn exactly 
which company within its group was now administering his debt.
Mr D is unhappy that the letter he received on Capital One headed paper explaining the sale 
of debt was in fact sent by the DPC on Capital Ones behalf. But its clear that this was sent 
in agreement with Capital One  given that Capital One confirm the sale of debt to the DPC 
was genuine  and I dont feel that any unfair outcome has arisen as a result.
All of which means that I dont feel that Capital One have acted unfairly regarding all of the 
matters described above. However, its clear that when Mr D was discussing his concerns 
with Capital One that they did provide some contradictory information to him, which while 
given in assistance to Mr D, unfortunately served to further his concerns. 
Capital One have agreed to the recommendation put forwards by our investigator to make a 
payment of £150 to Mr D as compensation for not handling his request for information as 
clearly as they could have done. Matters of compensation can be subjective, but this doesnt 
seem like unfair compensation amount to me, and I can confirm that its commensurate with 
what I may have instructed Capital One to pay Mr D, had they not already agreed to do so.
In arriving at this position, Ive considered that Capital One did provide some contradictory 
information to Mr D, which did trouble him and give him cause for concern. But also that 
Capital One did confirm the sale of his debt to the DPC in the first instance, such that I feel 
Mr D should reasonably have contacted the DPC to obtain the clarification he was seeking. All of which means that, while I will be upholding this complaint in Mr Ds favour, Ill only be 
doing so to instruct Capital One to make the compensation payment of £150 to Mr D that 
theyve already agreed to make.
I realise this might not be the outcome Mr D was wanting, but I trust hell understand, given 
what Ive explained, why Ive made the final decision that I have.
Putting things right
Capital One must make a payment of £150 to Mr D.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint against Capital One (Europe) plc on the basis 
explained above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision before 6 July 2023.
 
Paul Cooper
Ombudsman