DRN-2751233
The complaint
Mr A complains about Inter Partner Assistance SA (IPA) for its handling of his Home 
Emergency claims for damage to his roof. He wants his claims to be settled and 
compensation for lost income. 
What happened
Mr A held home emergency cover which was underwritten by IPA. 
In mid-February 2020, Mr A contacted IPA to lodge a claim as water was coming through his 
roof. 
IPA was unable to immediately send one of its own contractors to look at the roof and in late 
February 2020 IPA authorised Mr A to use his own roofer. IPA offered Mr A a refund of his 
policy premiums and compensation of £150 due to IPA not being able to send an engineer 
immediately. 
Mr A obtained a quote for roofing work which included the use of scaffolding. He submitted 
this to IPA. 
IPA considered that the quote was for a permanent repair, rather than the temporary repair 
which his policy covered. IPA rejected Mr As quote and in April 2020 IPA instructed its own 
contractors to attend Mr As property. 
IPAs contractors attended Mr As home in late April 2020 and discovered that they needed 
scaffolding. 
These contractors then returned in mid-May 2020 and carried out repairs to broken tiles and 
gaps by using sealant and flashband. 
In early June 2020, Mr A noticed further water ingress into his home and contacted IPA 
again. Mr A thought that this leak was from the same source as the previous leak. 
IPA sent its contractors to investigate the leak in late June 2020. The contractor found that 
the leak was coming from a horizontal valley in the mid part of the roof and concluded it 
needed sealing. 
IPA rejected Mr As claim for a repair and told him that the damage had been caused by 
wear and tear, so was not covered by the policy. 
Mr A was unhappy and complained to IPA. He then contacted us. 
One of our investigators has looked into this matter. In the meantime, IPA has sent Mr A its 
final response to his complaint. In this response, IPA maintained that the leak reported in 
June 2020 was a different leak to that identified in February 2020 but conceded that the 
second leak should not have been rejected as being caused by wear and tear.  IPA offered 
Mr A £75 compensation for this failing and offered to consider reimbursement of any costs 
incurred by Mr A in obtaining a private repair. 
Our investigator didnt uphold the complaint. The investigator considered that the evidence 
supported a view that the second leak was distinct from the first leak. They thought that IPA 
was wrong to reject the second leak, but that IPAs subsequent offer of compensation and 
reimbursement was in line with what we would direct. They therefore did not ask IPA to do 
anything further. 
Mr A did not accept this view and asked for an ombudsman decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I understand Mr As concerns in this matter. He has explained that he had renovation work 
carried out to his roof in December 2019 and so I can see it would be disappointing and 
worrying to then face two leaks within a short period of the repairs. 
The fact that these leaks occurred within a short space of time, however, does not 
necessarily mean that they are linked, or that IPAs contractors did an inadequate temporary 
repair when they attended in April 2020. 
Looking at the home emergency policy, it is clear that the policy is not intended to replace 
buildings insurance, or to serve the same function. The policy clearly explains that the 
repairs provided are emergency repairs and are temporary, in order to allow policy holders to 
commission permanent repairs, potentially in conjunction with their buildings insurer. 
The policy makes clear that IPA should respond and send a contractor immediately, within 
24 hours of the claim being reported (unless another arrangement is agreed). It states that, 
where this does not occur, a policy holder will be entitled to a refund of 12 months 
premiums. 
IPA has acknowledged that it was unable to engage an engineer immediately due to none 
being available at that time. It therefore refunded the years premium to Mr A. It also offered 
additional compensation of £150 for the delays Mr A experienced.  
Looking at the exchange of correspondence, it appears that early on IPA agreed with Mr A 
that he was able to engage his own contractor to carry out a temporary repair and that IPA 
would reimburse the costs of this. Mr A then provided a quote which IPA rejected as it was 
not sufficiently detailed and appeared to be for a permanent repair, rather than the 
temporary repair provided under the policy. 
There was correspondence between Mr A and IPA over a period of several weeks, during 
which IPA offered Mr A the choice to engage his own temporary repair or for IPA to send 
contractors when they became available. Mr A preferred to be paid by IPA in advance and to 
settle with a private contractor directly, but IPA explained it would only reimburse costs once 
incurred, rather than pay in advance. 
Mr A then chose for IPA to send its contractors, which it did. There was a further delay while 
these contractors arrange scaffolding, but then the contractors carried out temporary repairs 
to broken tiles and gaps in the roof. These temporary repairs appear to have been satisfactory as they were observed still in 
place when the roofing contractors returned around 6 weeks later to inspect the roof. 
In this second visit, the contractors identified a horizontal valley as the source of the leak and 
gave their view that this leak was distinct from the earlier leak. 
I have not seen evidence to contradict this and so I accept this view, and that the June leak 
was a separate claim event. 
IPA then rejected the second claim, considering that the leak must be caused by wear and 
tear. It has now accepted that this was wrong and that it ought to have carried out a 
temporary repair to the valley at that time. I agree that this was a failing. 
Looking at how IPA has offered to put matters right, I think it has acted reasonably in making 
an offer of compensation to recognise its wrong decision, and also it has offered to 
reimburse the work Mr A engaged which it would have been liable for  namely any 
temporary repair and the associated costs, such as scaffolding. 
I think this is reasonable and addresses the failings of IPA. This offer is in line with directions 
we would make in similar circumstances and I think is a fair offer. 
Consequently, I agree with the investigators view that there have been failings in service 
from IPA, but that it has made a reasonable offer of compensation to reflect these. I would 
not ask IPA to do anything further. 
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I think Inter Partner Assistance SA has made a reasonable 
offer of compensation and I do not ask it to do anything further. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision before 14 July 2021.
 
Laura Garvin-Smith
Ombudsman