DRN-4484032
The complaint
A company which Ill call G complains that Clydesdale Bank Plc (trading as Virgin Money)
treated them unfairly when it restricted access to their sterling and currency accounts.
The complaint is brought on Gs behalf by their secretary, Mr H.
What happened
G told us:
When Clydesdale merged with Virgin Money, there was errors in how their 
accountswere transferred including duplicate accounts and losing documents that 
had been provided.
They should be able to view their accounts on their banking app, however due to a 
technical issue, the accounts kept being removed and then reinstated. The currency 
account has also been missing from their internet banking for around two years.
They have contacted the bank on numerous occasions about the account issue and 
either been stuck on hold for hours or promised a call back which isnt received. And 
when Mr H had called, hed been incorrectly told that the bank couldnt speak to him 
as it didnt hold the right mandate authority.
Not having access to their accounts, which hold significant balances, means they 
havent been able to invest in the manner they would like and have had to use 
alternative accounts and havent been able to pay tax and accountancy bills when 
they are due.
Clydesdale told us:
There had been a system issue with Gs account which had meant their currency 
account wasnt visible to them. This had been logged in October 2022 but 
unfortunately, hadnt been resolved until June 2023.
It agreed that Mr H had been given incorrect information when its staff said they 
couldnt talk to him as it didnt hold the correct mandate authority. This was an error 
and it had given feedback to the staff involved.
It agreed that it hadnt given G any updates for around nine months or returned their 
calls when requested. This was below the level of service it should have provided.
It had apologised for the issues G had experienced and offered £600 compensation 
for the inconvenience caused.
Our investigator thought Clydesdale had done enough to put things right. She said that her
original opinion had been that Clydesdale should resolve Gs technical issue and pay £500
compensation for the inconvenience caused. However, Clydesdale had now fixed the issue,
apologised, and offered £600 compensation  which she thought was fair.
C didnt agree. They said £600 wasnt enough compensation for the time taken to resolve
their issue as their currency account hadnt been visible for two years. So, G asked for an
ombudsman to review their complaint and the case has been passed to me to decide.
I issued a provisional decision on 28 November 2023. I said the following:
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. As both parties agree on the 
background to the complaint and the errors that have taken place, I wont comment 
further on these. Instead, Ill focus my decision on how I think Clydesdale should put 
things right.
I can see that since the complaint has been brought to this service, Clydesdale have
resolved the technical issue with Gs access to their account. The bank has offered 
the company £600 compensation for the inconvenience caused. G says that this isnt 
enough compensation for issues they have experienced  and I agree. I say this 
because G has told us that they have been caused significant inconvenience 
because their currency account has disappeared from their online banking for weeks 
at a time over the last two years. Clydesdale hasnt disputed this and acknowledged 
it has taken the bank a long time to investigate and resolve the issue that G was 
experiencing. 
G has told us that they dont have statements for the account and when it is 
removed, they cant make the trades that they need to do for the business. G has 
explained that they have tried to mitigate the impact of not being able to use their 
banking app by going into the branch and sending correspondence to request the 
transfers. However, when the account has been removed from the app, its not been 
visible to the branch staff either. G also said that they havent received responses to 
their written transfer requests, and when theyve called the bank, they have been told 
there is a technical issue and been promised a call back which hasnt happened. This 
has meant Mr H has spent time away from his own role trying to locate the missing 
funds and seeking ways to access the account.
I can see that Clydesdale did update G to say that it was still investigating their issue,
However, this only appeared to be when they received a request from G rather than
proactively. Ive also seen that the bank told G how they could make transfers whilst 
they didnt have access to the account, however Ive seen correspondence that 
shows G attempted requests, but these dont appear to have been actioned by 
Clydesdale in the way they should have been. So, Im not persuaded the bank 
treated G reasonably here.
G told us that they also didnt get statements for the account because it kept being 
removed from the system. I can see these were emailed to Mr H in April 2023, so Im 
pleased to see that this has now been resolved, however I recognise this would have 
been frustrating for G for an accounting perspective as theyve told us the directors 
had to use alternative accounts instead. And I can see from Clydesdales case notes 
that it accepts the issue had been going on for around 300 days, so its likely there 
would have been significant amounts of information to reconcile. G hasnt been able 
to evidence any extra costs involved from an accountancy perspective. However, on 
balance I think its likely G would have incurred more costs for this because other 
accounts had been used to make the required transactions.Mr H says that Gs directors had been caused concern as this loss of account 
information was a security risk. However, Im not persuaded there was a security risk 
as the issue was simply that G couldnt view their account online, rather than anyone 
else being able to view the account or that the funds had been removed  although I 
do recognise this would have been a concern for G. However, on the basis that 
Clydesdale gave G contact details for the bank to be able to make transfers between 
Gs accounts, I think G ought to have been aware that the account was still active 
and in place as it should have been. And if G chose to, they could obtain its balance 
and move funds when needed  albeit that the bank didnt action this as promptly (or 
at all) when it should have. G told us that they had incurred a financial loss as a 
result of Clydesdales actions. However, they havent been able to provide any 
evidence of this, so I dont intend to order Clydesdale to make a payment in respect 
of this financial loss.
I recognise Gs frustration at how their account was treated when it was moved 
between Clydesdales different banking entities. And that they believe the bank 
should be dealt with severely because of its actions. But my role isnt to fine or 
punish a business for making a mistake. If G wishes to do so, they can raise their 
concerns about Clydesdales actions with the regulator, the Financial Conduct 
Authority (FCA). However, I would like to make G aware that the FCA do not respond 
to individual complaints.
Based on what Ive seen, I think Clydesdale caused G inconvenience for at least a 
year. I also dont think the bank did enough to provide G with reasonable alternatives 
to manage their account whilst it was investigating the issue. Therefore, taking all the 
circumstances into account I think it should increase the compensation from the £600 
it offered to £1,000  to take into consideration the inconvenience and costs that G 
has incurred to reconcile the issue.
I invited G and Clydesdale to give me any more evidence and information they wanted me to 
consider before issuing my final decision. Both G and Clydesdale accepted the decision and 
had nothing further to add. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, and as both parties have responded to say they accept my provisional
Decision and have nothing further to add, I see no reason to reach a different conclusion. 
So, this final decision confirms the findings and proposed settlement as set out in my
provisional decision.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint. I instruct Clydesdale Bank Plc to pay G 
£1,000 compensation for the inconvenience caused and associated costs the company 
incurred.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask G to accept or 
reject my decision before 27 December 2023.
 
Jenny Lomax
Ombudsman