DRN-2581700
The complaint
Mr and Mrs H complain Nucleus Financial Services Ltd (Nucleus) paid them around 50% 
less than the reported surrender value of their ISAs.
What happened
Mr and Mrs H each held two structured products  the Meteor FTSE 5 Enh Quarterly Def 
Plan and the Meteor FTSE 5 Monthly Income Plan within their ISA wrappers. Having seen 
valuations indicating that they would receive around £52,000 on surrender, at the end of 
November 2019, following discussions with their IFA, Mr and Mrs H sold these structured 
products to pay towards the cost of their home build.
The plans were encashed on 2 December 2019 with Mr and Mrs H receiving £26,635, which 
was approximately £26,000 less than what they were expecting. Mr and Mrs H complained 
to Nucleus. They were unhappy about having been given significantly less money than they 
thought they were going to get when they surrendered the plans. This, Mr and Mrs H said, 
was down to having been given the wrong information. So, they want Nucleus to give them 
the difference between what was showing as the value of their plans in November 2019 and 
what they got, in addition to refunding all charges theyd paid to Nucleus since the start of 
their investments.
Nucleus considered their concerns. It explained that there had been a technical issue that 
hadnt been picked up. This resulted in incorrect values showing on Mr and Mrs Hs 
accounts. Whilst it accepted there had been an error, Nucleus said that the price and 
settlement proceeds Mr and Mrs H received were correct, so it didnt think it needed to pay 
the difference Mr and Mrs H are seeking. But it did find that it offered poor communication 
during three calls. It said the level of service was unacceptable for which it wanted to offer 
Mr and Mrs H £1,200 each. 
Mr and Mrs H didnt accept Nucleus offer. They said they had lost out on a significant 
portion of their investment as a result of incorrect reporting. This placed substantial pressure 
on them and caused significant distress and inconvenience when they werent able to pay 
contractors working on their home.
One of our investigators looked into the complaint. He found that although the amounts Mr 
and Mrs H saw in November 2019 were much higher, this wasnt the true value of the 
investments, so it wouldnt be fair to ask Nucleus to cover the difference. He agreed Mr and 
Mrs H had been caused immense distress and inconvenience but found the payment of 
£2,400 fairly acknowledged the impact, so he didnt think Nucleus needed to do anything 
more.
Mr and Mrs H disagreed with the investigator. They say the decision to access their plans at 
the end of November 2019 was purely based on Nucleus misleading and inaccurate 
information. Had the information supplied been accurate then they would have delayed 
surrender until December 2019. As an agreement couldnt be reached, the complaint has 
been referred to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done that, I dont think Nucleus needs to do more than it already has. Ill explain why.
Nucleus accepts that it gave Mr and Mrs H incorrect information. So, I dont need to make a 
finding on that. But I do need to decide if what Nucleus has agreed to do to put this right is 
fair. The first thing Ive thought about is whether Nucleus is responsible for the loss that Mr 
and Mrs H claim between the difference in valuation and what they actually received when 
they surrendered their ISAs.
Nucleus has explained in its responses to both Mr and Mrs H and this service why the actual 
surrender value was less than they had been shown. Ive seen nothing to suggest what 
theyve said is incorrect, so Im persuaded there had been a genuine error. But I 
acknowledge that the error led to Nucleus mis-reporting for about seven months and 
producing two statements showing incorrect figures. Despite this, it wouldnt be fair to award 
Mr and Mrs H the difference as their investment was never worth the incorrect value quoted. 
However, I have considered whether Mr and Mrs H have suffered any other financial losses 
as a result of the error. They say they were induced into surrendering the policy as a result 
of what they were incorrectly shown, and if this meant that they missed out financially. When 
asked what action Mr and Mrs H would have taken had the valuation figures been accurate, 
they said their surrender would have been delayed until the unit price peaked on 16 
December 2019 thus returning the maximum possible return. Im therefore satisfied, that Mr 
and Mrs H arent saying they were prevented from surrendering earlier so I havent 
considered this any further.
Having considered their comment about the action they would have taken, Im mindful that it 
is only with the benefit of hindsight that we now know the investments achieved a maximum 
return on 16 December 2019. Ive seen nothing to persuade me they would have waited until 
then. After all, Mr and Mrs H couldnt have known how their investment would perform day to 
day given the many different factors influencing their investments including world events 
affecting the wider market. So, I dont think I can reasonably conclude that Mr and Mrs H 
would have surrendered the policies on that particular date. If anything, Im persuaded Mr 
and Mrs H could just as easily have decided to continue to surrender when they did in the 
hope of preventing any further potential fall in value. 
That said, even if Nucleus had provided the correct information, on balance I think Mr and 
Mrs H would have continued to surrender when they did because theyve described being 
under pressure to pay their contractors. I think thats further strengthened by the fact that 
although it was too late to cancel the sell, Mr and Mrs H could have mitigated their loss by 
not taking the money out of their ISA. This would have given them the option to rebuy the 
plans or reinvest differently with a view to increasing value and surrendering later. But as 
they didnt, this would suggest they werent in a position to delay surrendering. So, I think Mr 
and Mrs H would more likely than not have sold at that point, even if the value of their plans 
fell.
Account feesI can appreciate Mr and Mrs H wouldve been frustrated they were paying fees to Nucleus 
during a period when it wasnt offering the service they ought to have expected. I have some 
sympathy for their argument on this point, but they have requested for all fees to be returned 
and not just for the point in time their account was affected. Even if I were to agree with 
them, I note it wasnt the case that Nucleus was failing to provide any service to Mr and Mrs 
H. Nucleus was still holding their assets. Regardless of the error, Mr and Mrs H wouldve 
had to pay some level of fees for the custody of their holdings. As such, I think the most 
appropriate way to compensate for the difficulties experienced is by way of a payment that 
reflects the distress and inconvenience caused, rather than making a full or part refund of 
fees.
Nucleus level of service and impact of error on Mr and Mrs H
Mr and Mrs H have made a number of submissions in an effort to point out the impact to 
them, so I dont doubt the strength of feeling behind this complaint. 
It may be helpful to both Mr and Mrs H if I explain that the purpose of compensation under 
our rules isnt to punish a business for its mistakes or wrongdoing  its intended only to 
reflect the impact on the complainant.
Nucleus accepted that it had failed to provide an acceptable level of service when it gave 
them incorrect information about their plan value. And during the three phone calls about the 
different values. Nucleus has accepted this and has offered Mr and Mrs H £2,400 in total for 
the distress and inconvenience suffered during the whole process. Mr and Mrs H have their 
own thoughts on how much compensation should be awarded for what they say has gone 
wrong. In their view, that sum has been tied in with the financial loss theyve claimed for. So, 
Ive carefully considered the level of service provided, as well as the impact its errors and 
poor service had on them.
Ive taken into account that this would have been a difficult time for Mr and Mrs H. They were 
faced with significant worry and concern following a fall in their investments value. Theyve 
explained this shortfall in cash that put them under pressure, as well as jeopardising 
relations with a number of their contractors. I accept that Mr and Mrs H have been 
inconvenienced and put through unnecessary time and effort when contact was made with 
Nucleus to understand what things had gone wrong.
But whilst I recognise these difficulties, overall, I think the sum offered is within the range of 
what Id expect to see for an error such as this. So, Im not going to ask Nucleus to do any 
more. I understand their feelings given the distress and inconvenience they consider the 
firms error has caused. But I think the offer is fair and reasonable for the level of distress 
and inconvenience caused by its failures. Therefore, Im not going to ask Nucleus to do more 
than it offered to when it dealt with Mr and Mrs Hs complaint.
My final decision
Nucleus Financial Services Ltd has already made an offer to pay Mr and Mrs H a total of 
£2,400 to settle the complaint and I think this offer is fair in all the circumstances. So, my 
decision is that Nucleus Financial Services Ltd should pay £2,400 if it hasnt already.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs H and Mr H to 
accept or reject my decision before 24 February 2022.
 
Farzana Miah
Ombudsman