DRN-2403065
The complaint
Mr W has complained about U K Insurance Limiteds (UKI) actions concerning a claim he 
made on his motor insurance policy.
What happened
Mr Ws car was damaged and he claimed on his policy. UKI said the car was a total loss. It 
said it would pay him around £2,381 for the total loss of his car, with Mr W keeping the 
salvage. Mr W wanted a hire car under the terms of his policy. But UKI couldn't arrange this 
and instead offered to reimburse Mr W for some travel expenses and to give him a further 
cash-in-lieu payment for a hire car. A total of £670.
UKI later wrote to Mr W twice on the same day. Its first letter said it would pay Mr W 
£2,670.80 for his car. The second said it would pay him £2,380.80 for his car. It didn't 
explain why it gave him two different figures. UKI also told Mr W that his cover would reduce 
to third party only until hed had his car repaired.
Mr W complained. Amongst other things he said UKI owed him £290 for his car. He also said 
UKIs actions had caused the hire car company UKI would usually use to blacklist him. UKI 
replied to Mr W on 13 December 2019. It accepted that it had initially given Mr W wrong 
advice about a hire car and sent him notification that it would pay him differing amounts for 
his car. So it paid him £150 compensation for the impact of those mistakes. But it didn't 
uphold Mr Ws complaint that UKI had reduced his cover to third party only.
Mr W brought his complaint to us. One of our investigators looked into it. She didn't think UKI 
needed to take any further action in regard to this complaint. Mr W asked for his complaint to 
be passed to an ombudsman.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I'm not going to uphold it. 
Mr W has brought a number of complaints to us about UKI. And weve addressed some of 
those under other reference numbers and I understand that some of his complaints are 
ongoing. It seems that at times certain parts of Mr Ws complaints have become confused or 
overlapped. And Mr W said that our investigator had addressed issues in her assessment of 
this complaint which he hadn't brought to us. So, for the avoidance of doubt, in this decision I 
will only be commenting on matters which UKI looked at in its complaint response letter to 
Mr W dated 13 December 2019 and which appear to me to still be outstanding.
Mr W complained that UKIs actions had caused the hire car company to blacklist him. That 
is the hire company would no longer provide him with hire cars. But I've seen that the hire 
company told UKI that it was Mr Ws actions, and not UKIs, which had caused it to decide 
not to hire cars to him. And I haven't seen any evidence, beyond Mr Ws comments that 
indicates thats not the case. So I don't think UKI did cause the hire company to refuse to 
continue to hire cars to Mr W.
I understand that when Mr W initially asked for a hire car UKI told him it would try and 
provide one from another company. But it later said that it couldn't do that and told Mr W it 
shouldn't have advised him that the other company might provide a hire car. 
Further, UKI then sent two letters on the same day to Mr W giving different figures for the 
settlement of his claim for the loss of his car. I can understand that Mr W would have found 
this confusing. But I've noted that UKI had previously told Mr W it would settle his claim for 
£2,380.80. So that was the amount that Mr W could have expected to receive. And it's clear 
UKI made a mistake when it wrote to him to say it would pay the higher sum of around 
£2,670. And it didn't explain why it had written to him with two different figures. But it later 
paid Mr W £150 for the impact of its mistakes and I think thats a reasonable sum in the 
circumstances. 
Mr W had also complained that UKI told him that, until hed repaired his car, UKI would 
reduce his cover to third party only. But UKI had previously told Mr W that if he kept the 
salvage it may reduce the cover until the car was repaired and had an MOT. And, given that 
Mr Ws car had suffered damage and UKIs engineers didn't consider it was roadworthy I 
think thats reasonable. That said I note UKI didn't insist that Mr Ws car go through another 
MOT only that Mr W provide evidence of its repair. So I don't think UKI dealt with Mr W 
unfairly in regards to the issues I've commented on above. 
My final decision
For the reasons set out above I don't uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 12 May 2021.
 
Joe Scott
Ombudsman