DRN-3120909
The complaint
Mr and Mrs W have complained that Bank of Scotland plc trading as Halifax (Halifax) mis-
sold them an Ultimate Reward Current Account (URCA) in November 2011. 
Mr and Mrs W paid a monthly fee for this account, which came with a number of benefits. Mr 
and Mrs W say that the benefits of the account were not useful to them and they were 
unaware that they had the option of a free account.
What happened
Our adjudicators looked into Mr and Mrs Ws complaint. They did not think that the URCA 
was mis-sold.
Mr and Mrs W did not agree with this and so asked for an ombudsman to look at the 
complaint.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve explained how we handle complaints about packaged bank accounts on our website. 
And Ive used this approach to help me decide what to do about Mr and Mrs Ws complaint. I 
know this is going to come as a disappointment to Mr and Mrs W, but after giving this case a 
lot of thought, I dont think the account was mis-sold to them. I know this isnt the outcome 
that they were hoping for. But I hope that my explanation will help them to understand how I 
have come to this conclusion.
I've started by thinking about whether Mr and Mrs W were aware the URCA account was 
optional and whether they were given a clear choice in taking out the account. I think its 
more likely than not that they were. I say this because they had previously had a fee-free 
bank account with Halifax for a number of years. So, I think that Mr and Mrs W wouldve 
been aware that free accounts existed and were an option for them. I also can see that the 
website for Halifax in November 2011 made it clear that there were a range of accounts that 
Halifax offered with or without account fees. It also listed the major benefits that the accounts 
came with.
Additionally, during the online upgrade process, I think that the major features and benefits 
of the account wouldve been highlighted, to make the account seem attractive to encourage 
people to opt for the fee paid account.
I note that Mr and Mrs W used several of the benefits that the account came with and 
registered for some of the benefits as well. So I think that it is likely they took out the account 
because of the package of benefits that it came with, rather than because they were 
unaware of their options. Though I accept that given the length of time since this occurred, 
they may no longer recall this.
This account was not recommended to Mr and Mrs W. This means that Halifax did not need 
to ensure that the benefits were suitable for Mr and Mrs W. But it did need to provide Mr and 
Mrs W with enough information to decide this for herself. 
Again I think its likely Halifax wouldve mentioned the major benefits that the account came 
with as it was, after all, trying to make the account seem attractive to Mr and Mrs W. This is 
supported by Mr and Mrs Ws use of some of the account benefits. I accept that Mr and Mrs 
W may not have been told everything about all of the benefits that the account came with. 
But I cant see anything about their circumstances at the time that makes me think they 
wouldve been put off from agreeing to the account, had they been given more information 
about it. 
I note Mr and Mrs Ws comments that at the time the account was taken out, the breakdown 
cover was not of use to them. But the account came with a package of benefits and it is not 
uncommon for someone to not be able to use all of the benefits that an account come with. 
Ultimately, Halifax needed to make Mr and Mrs W aware of the benefits of the account and 
the options that they had. I am satisfied, albeit on balance as I cant see the actual online 
application screens just a screenshot of the website itself, that Halifax did enough to do this 
and it was down to Mr and Mrs W to decide for themselves as to whether they wanted the 
account and whether the package would be a good fit for their circumstances. 
So, having carefully considered everything, I dont think the URCA account was mis-sold to 
Mr and Mrs W. I therefore think it would be unreasonable to require Halifax to refund Mr and 
Mrs W the account fees that theyve been charged whilst they held the URCA account. 
I understand that this may be frustrating to Mr and Mrs W, as they strongly feel that their 
account was mis-sold. I also understand that with the benefit of hindsight, the URCA account 
may not have represented good value for money. But I cant uphold their complaint due to 
this. I can only uphold the complaint about the sale of the account if it was sold incorrectly. 
And for the reasons set out above, I dont think it was.
My final decision
Because of the reasons given above, I dont uphold this complaint.
 Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W and Mrs W 
to accept or reject my decision before 15 April 2022.
 
Charlie Newton
Ombudsman