DRN-1191715
 
complaint
This complaint is about a credit card payment protection insurance (PPI) policy taken out in 
2002. Mr H says Bank of Scotland plc trading as Halifax (Halifax) mis-sold him the PPI. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding Mr Hs case.
Ive decided the policy wasnt mis-sold because:
I think Halifax made it clear that Mr H didnt have to take out the PPI and he chose to 
take it out  although I can understand why he cant remember this now considering 
these events occurred over 17 years ago. I say this because to get the cover Mr H 
had to tick a box. The box has been ticked. Had he not wanted the cover Mr H could 
have left this unticked. And Mr H has signed the application form to show he agreed 
with its contents. So, on balance I think that Mr H chose to take the policy and did so 
knowing he had a choice about it.
Halifax didnt recommend the PPI to Mr H so it didnt have to check if it was right for 
him. But it did have to make sure Mr H got the information he needed to decide if it 
was right for him. 
Its possible the information Halifax gave Mr H about the PPI wasnt as clear as it 
shouldve been  such as details of how much the policy would cost. But based on 
what Ive seen of his circumstances at the time, it seems he was eligible for the policy 
and it doesnt look like he was affected by any of the exclusions from or limits to the 
PPI cover. And Ive considered that whilst Mr Hs sick pay was good initially, I note 
that it dropped significantly after six months. And Mr H told us he had no other means 
to rely on in that circumstance. But, this policy could have paid out for up to 12 
months in that event, or if Mr H lost his job. So, I think the policy would have been 
useful to him if something went wrong. So, I dont think better information about the 
PPI and its cost would have put him off taking out the cover. 
 
my final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold Mr Hs complaint against Bank of Scotland plc 
trading as Halifax. And I make no award against Bank of Scotland plc trading as Halifax.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 25 February 2020.
Douglas Sayers
Ombudsman