DRN-3838118
The complaint
Mr P complains that IG Index Limited didnt action a withdrawal request for £500 from his 
spreadbetting account, and he never received the money. 
What happened
IG looked into Mr Ps complaint but didnt think it had done anything wrong. It said that the 
withdrawal for £500 which Mr P had made on 1 December 2021 had been processed and 
credited his bank account. It also noted that Mr P had made another withdrawal request on 
26 January 2022, and this had also been correctly processed. It provided Mr P with evidence 
of these transactions in order for him to investigate the matter with his card provider in the 
event the money wasnt appearing in his bank accounts. Mr P remained unhappy and IG 
sent some further evidence. This showed that Mr P had deposited £250 on 3 December 
2021, and did not make a withdrawal  other than the correctly processed one from 1 
December. It said that Mr P had attempted to deposit £1,000, but this had been rejected and 
therefore not credited to his trading account. It provided him a receipt showing the rejection 
of the funds for him to pursue the matter with his bank. 
Mr P complained to this service. He said that he had credited his account £1,000 using his 
debit card, but the amount wasnt credited to his IG trading account. He said he made a 
withdrawal request on 2 December 2021 for £500, but this was not credited his bank 
account. He claimed IG had a record of this withdrawal request but was denying it. 
One of our investigators looked into Mr Ps complaint but wasnt persuaded to uphold it. He 
said:
Hed seen the evidence from Mr Ps account ledger that showed all deposits were 
accounted for  Mr P deposited £4000 in January 2022 to his account, and these 
showed up in the ledger. 
Although Mr P said hed made a withdrawal and he didnt receive it, no money was 
showing as withdrawn from his trading account other than the withdrawals which 
werent in dispute. 
Mr P didnt agree with the investigator. He maintained:
He deposited £4,000 but only saw £3k being credited to [his] trading platform. He 
said he had followed up the matter with his bank, who had confirmed the money had 
been debited from his bank account. 
He said that it was interesting that IG had recorded the £4,000 in the ledger, but 
these werent reflected in his trading platform. 
The investigator made some further enquiries, but ultimately concluded that the ledger was 
the record of all transactions on Mr Ps account, and these did not show any discrepancies. 
Mr P asked for an ombudsmans decision. He said that the amount credited to his IG 
account was not displaying on my trading platform. He further said that this was also the 
case with the £500 withdrawal which did show they were withdrawn and the balance on my 
trading platform did indicate the subtracted amount but not credited to my bank account. He 
asked IG for proof that there was no withdrawal transaction. 
Mr P insisted the ombudsman obtain proof from IG that money got factually credited to my 
IG trading platform showing before and after balances of the credit. And he said that the 
ombudsman will have to identify in the full factual depth of the telephone inquiry 
commencing from my initial inquiry with full withdrawal proof of my initial request of £500. 
He said failure to do so would maintain his inquiry as unresolved. 
As agreement couldnt be reached, the matter was passed to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive considered Mr Ps comments very carefully. I hope he doesnt take it as discourtesy that 
Ive not undertaken the actions he has said I must undertake, nor will I address every point 
he has raised. This isnt because Ive not considered everything he has said, I have. Its 
simply that in making my decision Im required to focus on the key issues in the complaint, 
and explain my findings. 
In this case, I think the proof Mr P is asking for has already been obtained. Mr P hasnt 
provided any evidence of a discrepancy between his trading account and the ledger which 
IG has provided, including a statement of account, which he has seen. The evidence I have 
taken into account includes:
Mr Ps bank statements showing deposits and credits; 
Mr Ps trading account statements from IG for 1, 2, 6, 7, 9 December 2021, as well 
as 23 and 24 January 2022;
A full transaction history of his trading account from 1 December 2021 to 31 January 
2022. 
In reviewing this evidence, Im satisfied that there are no funds unaccounted for. In relation 
to the deposit that Mr P is saying isnt showing, Im satisfied the evidence shows that the 
£4,000 he credited to his trading account is there. There is a £1,000 card payment on 22 
January 2022 at 7:17. And a further three £1,000 card payments on 24 January 2022 from 
13:54 to 15:28. These payments show on Mr Ps trading statements  which means, by 
definition, they were added to his trading account. They also show in the transaction ledger 
which Ive seen. And finally, the payments are consistent with the screenshot of the bank 
statement he has provided, which shows one payment of £1,000 on 24 January 2022, and 
three payments of £1,000 on 25 January 2022. 
Taking all this into account, Im satisfied that there are no missed deposits  and no further 
information is required. 
Im not clear why Mr P considers there are sums missing, but the evidence from both IG and 
himself is consistent and persuasive. 
And the same is true of the withdrawal request that he says wasnt actioned in December 
2021. Id need to see evidence that money was debited from his trading account on the 
dates he says he made the withdrawal, and then evidence from his nominated bank account that shows that money wasnt credited. But thats not the evidence Ive been presented with 
 there are no withdrawals on the dates he has said he made one. The ledger shows quite 
clear that Mr P withdrew:
£500 on 1 December 2021; 
£250 on 31 December 2021; 
£500 on 4 January 2022;
£2,000 on 4 January 2022; 
£500 on 26 January 2022. 
This information is also consistent with the statements from 1 and 2 December 2021, which 
Ive seen. Mr P has said IG needs to provide proof  but Im not persuaded it can provide 
any other proof that he didnt make a withdrawal request. The evidence clearly shows what 
money was debited from his trading account, and Mr Ps bank screenshot from 1 December 
2021 shows that deposit was received. Ive not seen any evidence of an amount debited 
from Mr Ps trading account which was not received to his bank account.  
For all these reasons, Im satisfied there are no discrepancies in the ledger which IG has 
provided which shows all transactions on Mr Ps trading account. Ive satisfied that on the 
dates of the disputed transactions, namely the withdrawal Mr P says he made some time 
between 2 and 6 December 2021 which wasnt credited, and the deposit he made in January 
2022 which he says isnt showing, the evidence IG has provided is persuasive. Im satisfied 
therefore that on the evidence Ive seen, there are no founds unaccounted for and IG need 
not do anything further. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold Mr Ps complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision before 10 January 2024.
 
Alessandro Pulzone
Ombudsman