DRN-3221678
The complaint
Mr B complains that Sainsburys Bank Plc wont refund payments he says he didnt make 
with his credit card.
What happened
Mr B says that his card was stolen from him on 2 November 2020. And that it was then used 
to withdraw cash and make payments. He is unhappy that Sainsburys Bank wont refund his 
money.
Sainsburys Bank said that the PIN was required to make these transactions. And that Mr B 
hadnt given an explanation of how someone else was able to obtain his card and PIN. He 
hadnt reported the loss until 4 November 2020. He had also made a similar claim in August 
2020. It accepted that the service it provided in dealing with this had caused him 
inconvenience. On 27 January 2021 it wrote to him about his complaint and said that it had 
credited £75 to his account for service issues and on 26 April 2021 that it had paid him £25. 
In that final response it said that it wouldnt be refunding either claim.
Our investigator didnt recommend that the complaint be upheld. He said that Mr B accepted 
making a genuine cash withdrawal at 10.27pm on 2 November 2020. But he disputed a 
further withdrawal at 10.32pm for £60 at the same cashpoint. The card had then been used 
for further cash withdrawals and payments and the total amount in dispute was just over 
£1,404 excluding cash withdrawal fees.
Mr B had said he was in a car with other people he didnt know that well which was pulled up 
on the pavement alongside the cash machine. He was with one of those people when he 
went to the cashpoint, withdrew cash, and returned to the vehicle. Mr B said he had the card 
with him and was only in the car for a minute. He hadnt noticed anything suspicious. Our 
investigator said an unknown person would have needed to be able to obtain the card, see 
the PIN and use it within five minutes of the genuine withdrawal. That person would have 
likely taken as much money as quickly as possible and not £60 although there was later 
spending. So, he didnt think that these payments were unauthorised. He said that it would 
be up to a police investigation to obtain CCTV and even this wouldnt necessarily resolve 
whether any other person using the card had the consent of Mr B.
Mr B didnt agree and wanted his complaint to be reviewed. He confirmed to our investigator 
that he was only referring the payments made in November 2020. He said that the claim in 
August 2020 was resolved when he found his card and he told Sainsburys Bank about that 
immediately. Mr B believed that wed sided with a business he said had a very poor 
customer care rating. And that he had always kept his finances in good standing and now 
had years of repayments to make for spending that he didnt authorise. He said who would 
spend such a lot of money in one day. He wanted the funds plus interest refunded.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I need to take into account the Payment Services Regulations 2017 in considering this 
complaint. These state that a payment can only be authorised if it was consented to. So, its 
not enough for it to be authenticated, say with a card and PIN. Where credit is involved, as is 
the case here on credit cards, the Consumer Credit Act 1974 applies and it states that a 
consumer wouldnt be liable for an unauthorised payment unless they consented to 
someone else having possession of that card.  
So, I will be thinking about the following areas in looking at this complaint:
- What is the most likely explanation of what happened to the card and PIN used for these 
payments?
- Did Mr B authorise the payments on the account, or consent to someone else having 
possession of the card?
Im satisfied from the information provided by Sainsburys Bank that these disputed 
payments were authenticated with the genuine card and the PIN. Mr B accepts he withdrew 
money at a cashpoint using his card and the PIN. And he disputes the following withdrawal 
at the same cash point. Sainsburys Bank has referred to there being a later balance enquiry 
and that there were large amounts of retail spending which would again have needed the 
card and PIN.
The issue is how a third party would have obtained Mr Bs card and PIN without his 
knowledge or consent. Ive listened closely to the calls he had with Sainsburys Bank when 
he reported fraud. Im afraid hes not persuaded me its most likely that either someone he 
was with or someone else near the cash point could have taken his card without him 
knowing. And that person would also have needed to have seen the PIN and within minutes 
gone back to the same cashpoint close to the car Mr B was in. To be fair I dont think Mr B 
understood how this could have happened either when he was reporting this.
I dont know why a fraudster would as I say use the same cash machine risking detection if 
that person had the card and PIN. Or why they would likely only take out £60. But later on 
the use of the card involved largely cash withdrawals and significant spending. And I accept 
that this was out of character for Mr Bs use of the account. 
Mr B says he didnt notice what had happened until about 10pm on 3 November 2020. I am 
unclear why he didnt notice his card missing until then as he seemed to use it quite often. 
Or only decided to check the app then. There is no record of him trying to call about this on 3 
November 2020 and he says he couldnt get through. He called on the morning of 4 
November 2020. I know he also reported this to police. Hes not shown any criminal 
investigation followed or that there is any further evidence to support his claim.
Sainsburys Bank has said that he made a fraud claim in August 2020 and that it didnt 
refund him for that either. And that the circumstances were similar. While Mr B doesnt want 
to challenge that decision here I understand Sainsburys Bank concern at a further claim of 
his PIN being seen by a third party.
I need to balance all these factors in coming to a decision. Its not impossible that Mr B was 
tricked by people he was with on 2 November 2020 as he thinks. Frankly, hes been quite 
vague about that evening. He didnt report the loss for some time and made a similar claim 
before which he now says was resolved. I cant say exactly what happened but Im afraid I 
dont think its most likely that a third party would have been able to obtain his card and PIN 
without him realising and then would use it in this way risking detection. I find these 
payments were authorised.I appreciate the amount at stake for him and that he is expected to repay this. But having 
considered his complaint I dont find it unreasonable for Sainsburys Bank to hold him 
responsible for this borrowing. Its recognised some service delays for him with 
compensation as I set out above, and I wont be requiring it to do anything more.
My final decision
My decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 14 March 2022.
 
Michael Crewe
Ombudsman