DRN-1779733
 
The complaint
Mr L is unhappy that Financial Recovery Solutions Ltd (FRS) didnt make a claim for mis-
sold Payment Protection Insurance (PPI) before the deadline for doing so.
What happened
Mr L instructed FRS to make claims for potentially mis-sold PPI against Lender F. The 
deadline for making new PPI claims was 29 August 2019. Mr L also provided FRS with proof 
that Lender F had sold him PPI on account number 4140.
FRS prepared and submitted a claim to Lender F. But Lender F said they could only find one 
account for Mr L  account number 7031  and this didnt have any PPI. Instead of sending 
Lender F the evidence that Mr L had account number 4140, and had been sold PPI, FRS 
didnt do anything. Because of this the deadline for making a claim for account number 4140 
has now passed.
Mr L has complained that FRS missed the PPI deadline, and now he cant make a claim. 
FRS admitted this and offered Mr L £107.35 compensation. Mr L was unhappy with this offer 
and brought his complaint to the Claims Management Ombudsman (a Financial 
Ombudsman Service). 
Our investigator agreed that Mr L had lost the chance to have his claim considered, but he 
didnt think FRSs offer was fair. While he said it wasnt possible to say if Mr L had been mis-
sold PPI or not, he thought FRS should pay him £250 to compensate him for the frustration 
and inconvenience of not knowing whether his claim would ever have been successful.
Mr L didnt agree with the investigator. He thinks that FRS should pay him £670.95. So hes 
asked that an ombudsman make a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. While I appreciate that this will come as a 
disappointment to Mr L, having done so, Ive reached the same overall conclusions as the 
investigator, and for broadly the same reasons.
The basic facts of this case arent disputed  Mr L provided FRS with proof that hed had PPI 
on an account with Lender F, but FRS didnt make this claim on his behalf. And as part of 
the process, Mr L also provided FRS with proof of identity and proof of residency. 
FRS say their average settlement figure for claims against Lender F was £1,341.89, but only 
8% of these claims were successful. So they offered to pay Mr L £107.35 (8% of £1,341.89) 
compensation for their mistake. But Mr L thinks FRS should pay him £670.95 (50% of the 
value of the average settlement).FRS believe there was an 8% chance that Mr L was mis-sold PPI, but Mr L believes it was a 
50% chance. So both must also believe there was a chance that Mr L wasnt mis-sold PPI. 
But Im unable to look into whether he was or wasnt, so I cant say whether the claim 
wouldve been successful or not. 
The evidence shows Mr L took out a total loan of £1,647.95 (including the cost of the PPI) in 
December 2000. So, even if I could say Mr L was mis-sold PPI (which I cant), I couldnt say 
how much compensation he wouldve received.
So, for these reasons, Im not going to look at what Mr L mightve got for a successful claim. 
Instead Ill consider the loss of opportunity hes had by not having his claim considered. 
Mr L says he had to deal with FRS during the claim  speaking to them and providing 
documentation. But he would have to have done this anyway if the claim had been made. So 
he wasnt put to any additional inconvenience just because the claim wasnt submitted. 
And he would always have had to provide proof of identity and residency to satisfy Lender 
Fs requirements  it was reasonable of FRS to ask him for this while they were preparing 
his claims so, once submitted, they could be dealt with without delay. So I dont think Mr L 
should be compensated for this.
But Mr L will never know whether his claim against Lender F wouldve been successful  
whether he wouldve received some compensation or no compensation. And this will always 
be a source of frustration and annoyance to him. I agree he should be compensated for this. 
But, for the reasons Ive already given, this compensation cant be linked to what Mr L 
mightve got from a successful claim.
The investigator recommended £250, which is in line with what Id expect for a complaint of 
this type. And its in line with what other customers in similar situations to Mr L have been 
awarded. I havent seen anything that shows me that Mr Ls circumstances meant he 
suffered any additional or excessive frustration and inconvenience; or that he suffered any 
additional losses as a result of FRSs service failings. So I dont see any compelling reasons 
to increase the compensation FRS should pay.
Putting things right
FRS must pay Mr L £250 to recognise the frustration and inconvenience hes suffered 
resulting from FRS not making a PPI claim against Lender F (for account number 4140) 
before the 29 August 2019 PPI deadline.
My final decision
For the reasons explained above I uphold Mr Ls complaint. Financial Recovery Solutions 
Ltd must follow my directions above. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr L to accept or 
reject my decision before 4 June 2020.
Andrew Burford
Ombudsman