DRN-2271715
The complaint
This complaints about an equity release lifetime mortgage that Mr and Mrs P took out on the 
advice of Aviva Life and Pensions UK Limited.* 
Mr and Mrs Ps complaint is twofold:
 
firstly, that the lifetime mortgage was mis-sold; and 
secondly, that the adviser who sold it failed to declare a conflict of interest by making 
clear he was a tied agent of Aviva.
*Aviva Life and Pensions UK Limited was formerly known as Norwich Union Life Services 
Limited, and it was under the former name that this mortgage was sold in 2006.
What happened
An ombudsman colleague decided in September 2020 that our jurisdiction only allowed us to 
consider the second part of the complaint; that is, whether the advisor identified himself to 
Mr and Mrs P as a tied agent of Aviva. Our investigator didnt recommend the complaint be 
upheld; Mr and Mrs P have asked for the complaint to be reviewed by an ombudsman.
What Ive decided  and why
Im not revisiting the jurisdiction decision from September 2020. My final decision deals with 
the merits of the part of the complaint my fellow ombudsman concluded we could deal with
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
If the available evidence is incomplete and/or contradictory, we reach our findings on what 
we consider is most likely to have happened, on the balance of probabilities. 
Thats broadly the same test that the courts use in civil cases, and its particularly relevant 
here because Mr and Mrs P are very unhappy that Aviva hasnt retained a copy of the letter 
of introduction it says the adviser would have given them along with his business card.  
I appreciate Mr and Mrs Ps strength of feeling on this point, but its not enough for me to find 
in their favour. Just because Aviva cant produce the letter and business card in 2020 
doesnt mean they werent handed over in 2006.  
But in any event, the information about the advisors status wasnt just confined to the 
introduction letter and business card. It was reinforced in other point of sale documentation 
that has been retained. The fact-find prepared on 1 August 2006 contained the following 
narrative.
Norwich Union Life Services Limited represents only the Norwich Union Marketing 
Group, members of which are authorised and regulated by the Financial Services 
Authority for life assurance, pensions and investments.
Norwich Union Life Services Limited Registered in England No 2403746. 2 Rougier 
Street York YO90 1UU.
When considering any complaint like this, as Mr and Mrs P are the ones bringing the 
complaint against Aviva, for me to uphold the complaint means Mr and Mrs Ps version of 
events needs to be more likely than Avivas version. Having considered all of the available 
evidence, Im not persuaded that test has been met. On the balance of probabilities, I find 
that Mr and Mrs P were informed of the advisors tied-agent status, even if they 
understandably dont now recall it..
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint. My final decision concludes this services consideration of this 
complaint, which means Ill not be engaging in any further consideration or discussion of the 
merits of it.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr and Mrs P to 
accept or reject my decision before 26 November 2020. 
Jeff Parrington
Ombudsman