DRN-2834943
The complaint
Mr D is unhappy with the end of contract charges applied by Mercedes-Benz Financial 
Services UK Limited (MBFS), following the return of his car.
What happened
In October 2019, Mr D was supplied with a new car through a personal contract plan 
agreement with MBFS. The agreement was for 12 months; with monthly rental payments of 
£370.00, and an optional final payment of £27,025.00, if Mr D wanted to purchase the car.
When the agreement came to an end in October 2020, Mr D arranged to return the car. The 
collection agent visually inspected the car on the day of collection, at Mr Ds home. A further 
inspection of the car then took place on 9 November 2020 at MBFSs Defleet Centre. Mr D 
received two invoices from MBFS, one for £260.00 for a missing key, and one for £213.40 
for a missing parts of the spare wheel tool kit (compressor and tyre sealant).
Mr D was aware of the missing key, and happy to pay this invoice. But he didnt agree with 
the second invoice  he didnt know what these items were, or what their purpose was, so he 
said he would never have used them. Mr D complained to MBFS, but they didnt uphold his 
complaint and held him liable for the cost of replacing the missing items. Mr D was unhappy 
with MBFSs response, and he brought his complaint to us for investigation.
Our investigator said that MBFS had shown that the missing items were part of the cars 
specifications, and that the delivery inspection note showed they were present when Mr D 
received the car. While Mr D said the items couldve been removed after he handed the car 
back, the investigator thought it was more likely than not that wouldnt have been the case.
MBFSs Vehicle Return Standards (VRS) say that everything originally supplied with the car 
must be returned. And because this didnt happen, the investigator thought that MBFS had 
acted reasonably by charging Mr D for the cost of replacement. And he didnt think that two 
inspections, and therefore two invoices, was unreasonable due to the adverse weather 
conditions when the car was collected. So the investigator didnt think that MBFS had done 
anything wrong.
Mr D didnt agree with the investigator. He said hed never touched the missing items, and 
there was no evidence to show they werent in the car when it was collected. He wasnt 
happy that the investigation didnt consider facts, but instead relied on imagined scenarios 
and likelihood. He also said, given that Mercedes have repeatedly lied about their 
emissions, on a huge global scale, I would say it was likely that they are the dishonest party 
here. So hes asked for an ombudsman to make a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I have reached the same overall conclusions as the investigator, and for 
broadly the same reasons. If I havent commented on any specific point, its because I dont 
believe its affected what I think is the right outcome.
In considering this complaint Ive had regard to the relevant law and regulations; any 
regulators rules, guidance and standards, codes of practice, and what I consider was good 
industry practice at the time. Mr D was supplied with a car under a personal contract plan 
agreement. This is a regulated consumer credit agreement which means were able to look 
into complaints about it. 
Before I address Mr Ds complaint, I think it would be beneficial for me to set out how I make 
my decision. Were an informal dispute resolution service, acting as an alternative to the 
courts. This means were impartial and look at both sides of the story. We dont place more 
weight on one sides story because of who they are. We ask questions and weigh up all the 
information were given. And where there is a different version of events, as is the case here, 
my decision is based on what I think most likely happened.
Whats more, each case is considered on its own merits. And factors that arent relevant to 
the specific case arent considered. So, Mr Ds complaint isnt about emission standards, 
then what MBFS may or may not have done about these isnt something Ill be looking at.
Ive seen a copy of the personal contract plan agreement, which Mr D signed on 21 October 
2019. Under the heading Vehicle Return Standards, the agreement confirmed when the 
vehicle is returned to us, a Vehicle Return Standard Inspection will be carried out by trained 
technicians at the nominated Defleet Centre. The contract goes on to explain what is, and 
isnt, considered acceptable under the VRS. This included that you must return the vehicle 
together with everything originally supplied with the vehicle.
MBFS have also said they also provide customers with another copy of their VRS, six 
months before the end of any agreement. Given all of the above, Im satisfied that Mr D was 
aware of both where the car would be inspected, and what he was required to return with it. 
Because of this, I dont think that MBFS did anything wrong by completing an inspection at 
their Defleet Centre, after it was returned to them. And I dont think that an inspection taking 
place at the point of collection changes this.
The missing parts are used to repair minor tyre damage  a puncture thats caused a tyre to 
lose pressure/go flat. And Mr D has said that, in the 20 years hes been a Mercedes 
customer, hes never changed a tyre. So hed expect these items to have remained 
untouched in the car for the entire period it was in his possession.
Ive seen a copy of the Pre-Delivery Inspection Sheet, dated 22 October 2019. And this 
confirms that the spare wheel tool kit was present at the time. Ive also seen a copy of the 
report for the inspection carried out at MBFSs Defleet Centre on 9 November 2020. This 
says the items were missing, and there are photographs of where they shouldve been (a 
pre-formed storage space in the boot of the car). Given this, Im satisfied that the items went 
missing at some point between 22 October 2019 and 9 November 2020.
Theres nothing that can evidence exactly when the items went missing. And Im aware Mr D 
says this couldve happened after the car was collected, and before it was inspected. And 
this is a possibility. But, as Ive said, where theres a lack of evidence I need to consider 
whats more likely than not to have happened. And I consider it more likely than not that the 
items went missing during the 12-months Mr D had possession of the car than the few days 
between collection and inspection. This is because of the vast difference in the two time 
periods, and there was more opportunity for the items to have gone missing during the 
longer time period  the 12-months the car was in Mr Ds possession.So, while I appreciate this will come as a disappointment to Mr D, I think that MBFS acted 
reasonably by charging Mr D for the missing items, and I wont be asking them to amend 
their invoice.
My final decision
For the reasons explained, I dont uphold Mr Ds complaint about Mercedes-Benz Financial 
Services UK Limited.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision before 25 June 2021.
 
Ombudsman