DRN-2732536
The complaint
 Mr G complains that Capital One (Europe) plc wont refund him £200 after a cash machine 
failed to dispense this amount to him.
 
What happened
 On 5 June 2020 Mr G tried to withdraw £200 from his Capital One credit card account using 
a cash machine owned by another bank. Mr G says no money came out, but this amount 
was debited from his account.
Mr G says he put his card into a cash machine at a shop, entered his PIN and requested 
£200. Hes explained that the machine then made a churning noise, the dispensing flap 
opened but no cash came out. The flap then closed. Mr G says he watched this process 
from start to finish, waited for about 30 seconds and then went inside the shop to report what 
had happened to the shop staff. The staff told Mr G that they couldnt help him and werent 
responsible for the cash machine. 
Mr G went back outside to the machine and noticed that it was displaying an error message 
on the screen. Mr G took a photograph of the error message using his mobile phone. He 
then contacted the bank responsible for the machine and says it told him there was a 
problem with the machine. Mr G says he noticed a paper sign on the machine for a few days 
after hed tried to use it which said, out of order.
Mr G contacted Capital One to let the bank know the cash machine hadnt dispensed any 
money to him. And sent them the photograph hed taken of the machine. Capital One said it 
would look into things for him and in the meantime refunded Mr G the £200.
Capital One looked into Mr Gs complaint and asked the bank which owned the cash 
machine for some information. It said the evidence showed the money was dispensed to 
Mr G. Capital One also said it couldnt accept Mr Gs photograph as evidence the machine 
wasnt working properly as it didnt show any serial numbers or distinguishing features to 
identify the cash machine was the one Mr G had used.  And noted that the cash machine 
had been used after Mr G by another customer without any issues. So, it held him liable for 
the withdrawal. Unhappy with this response Mr G brought his complaint to our service where 
one of our investigators looked into things for him. 
The investigator reviewed the evidence provided by Capital One and asked it for further 
technical evidence. Capital One didnt provide the information the investigator requested and 
said it had followed the charge back scheme guidelines. It maintained it had gathered 
enough information to show that the cash machine had dispensed the cash to Mr G at the 
time. 
The investigator pointed out to Capital One that she hadnt seen enough evidence to show 
that the machine was working properly. She noted that:
 the journal roll showed that the customer who used the machine just before Mr G 
had also requested £200, but £0 had been dispensed. She asked Capital One for an 
explanation, but it said it couldnt provide one and suggested she contact the owner 
of the cash machine. 
 Capital One hadnt been able to show that the £200 hadnt gone into the purge bin
 Capital One wasnt able to provide any evidence that the machine balanced at the 
end of the day on 5 June 2020
 The ATM was balanced on 6 June 2020 and didnt reconcile. The balance showed a 
£40 surplus, meaning that not all transactions had been completed as requested 
prior to 6 June 2020
 Capital One couldnt provide any evidence that there werent any reported issues 
with the cash machine 
 Although Capital One provided evidence to show another customer used the cash 
machine successfully after Mr G it hasnt shown that this continued 
 The photograph taken by Mr G was taken just after he had used the cash machine
 Capital One hadnt provided any evidence to show that the error message shown in 
Mr Gs photograph hadnt been displayed on the machine
The investigator upheld Mr Gs complaint as she found Mr Gs version of events to be 
plausible and consistent, whereas Capital One hadnt provided enough technical evidence to 
show that the withdrawal went through properly. So, she said Capital One should refund 
Mr G £200 along with any associated fees or interest accrued as a result of the transaction. 
Capital One disagreed but as a gesture of goodwill agreed to refund Mr G.
Mr G disagreed. He said he had to make a number of phone calls to the bank to try and sort 
things out which caused him inconvenience, so he thought the bank to pay him 
compensation. 
After considering all the evidence, I issued a provisional decision on this complaint.
In my provisional decision I said as follows:
The investigator wrote a detailed view that sets out the full facts, the transaction, and the 
evidence. Both Mr G and Capital One have read the investigators view. So, I wont repeat 
every detail here, only those which form the basis of my decision. However, I can assure 
Mr G that Ive read the file, including his comments and looked at all the evidence. 
In these types of cases, where there is a dispute over whether money was dispensed or not 
there is certain documentary evidence for the cash machine which we consider., such as the 
journal roll, purge bin report, whether the machine balanced on the day and was working 
properly, along with what both parties have told us about what happened. In this case, there 
is limited information, so its not been possible to see everything Id expect to see.
There are also gaps in the banks evidence. I note the investigator asked Capital One to 
obtain the full journal roll for the machine on the 5 June 2020, details of whether there were 
any reported problems with the cash machine or other claims raised on the same day, and 
any other relevant information to show whether there was a technical fault or any other 
problems with the machine. This means I cant be sure as I would need to be that the cash 
machine correctly dispensed the cash to Mr G. So, Ive had to weigh the totality of the banks 
evidence against what Mr G has told us and the photograph hes provided, which Im 
satisfied clearly shows there was an error with the machine at the time.
When I weigh everything up, Im not persuaded that the evidence provided by Capital One is 
conclusive such that I can safely say the cash was dispensed to Mr G. As Ive already 
explained, I would want to see evidence that the cash machine was working properly, that is 
balanced, and the purge bin report to exclude the possibility that Mr Gs £200 didnt end up 
in there. But this hasnt been provided. So far Capital One has only been able to show some basic information from the cash machines owner. Whereas Mr G has provided a detailed, 
consistent and credible explanation. And a photograph showing the machine wasnt working 
properly.
Based on the available evidence, I currently think its more likely than not, that Mr G didnt 
get the money he requested. Therefore, Im currently minded to say Capital One needs to 
refund him £200. They will also need to refund any associated interest and charges to 
Mr Gs account. I can see that Mr G has spent time making several phone calls to the bank 
to try and sort things out over a number of months. So, in addition, I intend to award 
compensation of £75 for the distress and inconvenience caused. 
So subject to any further representation from Mr G or Capital One, my provisional decision 
was to uphold Mr Gs complaint and direct the bank to:
Refund Mr G £200 
Refund Mr G any associated charges and interest
Pay Mr G £75 compensation for the trouble and upset hes experienced
Mr G accepted my provisional decision. Capital One said it didnt have any further 
comments. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As neither party had any further submissions or comments for my consideration, I see no 
reason to deviate from the outcome explained in my provisional decision.
My final decision
 For the reasons Ive explained above, my final decision is that I uphold this complaint. To 
put things right Capital One (Europe) plc must pay Mr G the following:
Refund Mr G £200 
Refund Mr G any associated charges and interest
Pay Mr G £75 compensation for the trouble and upset hes experienced
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision before 29 April 2021.
 
Sharon Kerrison
Ombudsman