DRN-4007802
The complaint
A limited company, which Ill call S, has complained that Gallagher Insurance Brokers 
Limited mis-sold its business insurance policy to it.
Mr M, as director of S, has brought the complaint on Ss behalf. 
Mr M is also represented in this complaint, but for ease I will refer to Mr M or S throughout. 
What happened 
S operates a holiday letting business (it consists of a listed building offered for short term 
lets) and held commercial insurance sold and arranged for it by Gallaghers in June 2019. 
In 2020, S contacted the insurer to make a claim under the policy as it was unable to let its 
property in 2020 as a result of the Governments response to the Covid-19 pandemic. The 
insurer refused Ss claim, as it said the policy only covered business interruption losses 
caused by damage to the premises and the Covid-19 pandemic had not caused damage to 
Ss premises. 
S was very unhappy with this and said the policy had been mis-sold to it, as it did not provide 
appropriate cover. S says that Gallaghers failed to discuss or properly advise on the options 
available for cover for non-damage losses and in particular disease cover. It had a duty to 
establish exactly what S required and present it with a policy that met those needs but it 
failed to properly investigate its needs or present clear options for S to make an informed 
choice. 
S has made a number of submissions in support of its complaint. I have considered 
everything it has said but have summarised its main points below: 
 Gallaghers breached several Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) principles about 
treating customers fairly and in relation to the sale of insurance contracts. 
 Gallaghers should at least have offered an option with typical disease cover, which 
would also include cover for vermin and pests, which is also a high risk for a rural 
property such as Ss premises. 
 It wasnt made clear that the business interruption section of the policy offered was 
limited to cover physical damage to the property only; and it was not asked if it 
wanted to cover loss of rent for anything other than physical damage. 
 There have been previous pandemics caused by SARS type diseases. The risk of a 
disease causing non-damage loss to S was a very real one and should have been 
identified by Gallaghers and discussed with S. SARS diseases had been prevalent 
in the UK since 2008 and were considered one to the highest consequence risks 
facing businesses such as S. 
 S would have then had the option to choose whether it took that cover and it would 
have wanted to insure against all the risks normally covered under such a disease 
clause. 
 It is foreseeable that S would have wanted to take out a policy that included 
disease cover. 
 If it had the opportunity to take disease cover, it is likely it would have been covered 
for its losses after it was forced to close in March 2020 to July 2020. 
Gallaghers says S is a large self-catering property and is not a hotel with a working kitchen 
where vermin and pests or an outbreak of disease would be a high risk. It does not accept 
that at the time this policy was sold, S would have been concerned about having such cover. 
There have been no known cases of SARS in the world since 2004 and only four reported 
cases in the UK in total. The outbreaks of SARS in 2002 and 2004 had little impact on 
businesses such as S. It is not a mis-sale just because a policy does not cover every 
possible loss that a customer might suffer. It sold a policy in line with Ss needs in 2019. 
One of our Investigators looked into the matter. He did not recommend that it be upheld. He 
stated that the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) and Association of British Insurers had 
said that most small and medium enterprises did not have disease cover and were 
restricted to business interruption damage cover only. He also noted that S had not 
previously said that cover for vermin was an important consideration to it in 2019. Overall, he 
did not consider it likely that S would have opted for disease cover in 2019 and that 
Gallaghers provided suitable advice and a policy that met S needs.
S does not accept the Investigators assessment and so the matter has bene passed to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Those selling insurance have a responsibility to provide clear information about the cover 
being provided, in order to put the customer in a position where they can make an informed 
choice about the insurance they are buying. This includes providing clear information about 
the main cover and any significant terms. The more significant, unusual or onerous a policy 
term the greater the effort to bring it to the customers attention should be, so that a 
customer can understand easily how the policy will work in practice. 
If the seller is also making a recommendation or advising a customer to take a particular 
policy, then they also have to take steps to try and ensure the policy is suitable for them, or 
explain if it is not. 
I can see that loss of rent cover was discussed and some enquiries made. The policy that 
Gallaghers recommended did provide loss of rent cover for various events, to do with 
damage to the premises, but did not cover losses arising from any infectious diseases. 
However, I cant see anything in the information provided to me that cover for diseases was 
something which was particularly relevant to S at the time it bought the policy. S says that 
disease cover would have been particularly important to it as the risk of pandemics was very 
high. I do not agree that at the time this policy was sold to S (i.e. June 2019) that this was 
likely the case. And I have not seen anything to show that S specifically asked for disease 
cover. 
Overall, I havent seen anything to persuade me that Gallaghers sold S a policy that wasnt 
consistent with its demands and needs at the time.
 In addition, even if it should have offered S a policy with diseases cover, and I were 
persuaded that S would have opted for such cover, there is no persuasive evidence that any 
claim it wanted to make would have been covered. All business insurance policies are different and there are also many differences in the cover 
provided, even where disease cover is included. Some provided cover for an occurrence or 
manifestation of the disease at the premises, some for cases within a certain radius and 
some for only specified notifiable diseases. The fact is that most business policies didnt 
provide cover for the effects of the Covid-19 pandemic. So I do not agree with Ss assertion 
that it was likely that it would have chosen a policy with a notifiable disease clause or that a 
typical notifiable disease clause would have covered the claim that S wanted to make, even 
if it had chosen a policy with disease cover. 
I agree with the Investigator that the main risk that most businesses such as Ss would be 
concerned with was physical damage to the property. 
Overall, I dont believe that Gallaghers did anything wrong in recommending the policy it did. 
I understand S was frustrated to find that the policy didnt provide cover for Covid-19 losses 
but I think Gallaghers proposed a policy that was consistent with its demands and needs and 
provided information that was clear, fair and not misleading. I think it took reasonable steps 
to ensure the suitability of its advice, so it follows that I dont think Gallaghers mis-sold this 
policy. 
My final decision
I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask S to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 April 2023.
 
Harriet McCarthy
Ombudsman