DRN-1649607
 
The complaint
Mr J complains about the quality of device offered, as well as the service provided by 
Assurant General Insurance Limited during a claim on his mobile phone insurance.  
What happened
Mr Js bank account comes with the added benefit of mobile phone insurance. This 
insurance policy is intended to protect mobile phone devices that he owns against certain 
risks and is underwritten by Assurant General Insurance Limited (Assurant). 
On 24 September 2019, Mr J raised a claim with Assurant. He explained that his wifes 
mobile had been dropped, which had caused the screen to be damaged and the device to 
be bent out of shape. Assurant accepted the claim and Mr J paid the £100 excess fee, as 
per the policy terms and conditions. Arrangements were made for the device to be sent to 
Assurant for repair and it was received by the business on 18 October 2019. Repairs were 
conducted and Assurant made Mr J aware that it was ready to be dispatched to him.
Shortly afterwards, Mr J contacted Assurant to change the delivery address. He wanted to 
ensure the device arrived as soon as possible  but sought a change to where it would be 
delivered to by the courier company. However, having spoken to Assurant on                        
23 October 2019 about making this change, he became frustrated with what he thought was 
conflicting information that it had given him. 
The next day, he received the mobile but was unhappy with its condition because the screen 
had been fixed but the device was still bent. So, he contacted Assurant to raise his concerns 
about the incomplete repairs. It agreed to exchange the device with a replacement, which it 
could arranged for 25 October 2019. This went ahead and Mr J received a replacement 
mobile. However, again, he thought it was unacceptable because it had a dent by the 
charging port and was scratched in several places. Because he remained dissatisfied, he 
called Assurant and it suggested an alternative settlement. Instead of repair or replacement, 
Assurant offered a £300 cash payment to settle the claim. 
At first, Mr J questioned if this amount was enough because he was under the impression 
that hed receive the value of a new device. But Assurant explained that this wasnt the case 
and it would in fact based on the value of a remanufactured mobile. Mr J accepted this and 
its no longer in dispute. Assurant sent him an email with instructions to send back the 
replacement device it had given, so Mr J posted it back on 29 October 2019. 
The returned device was received by Assurant on 30 October 2019. However, it failed to 
book it in  which essentially caused a four working-day delay in processing the settlement 
payment. This led to Mr J calling Assurant again to chase the payment. And, in the 
meantime, Assurant sent him an email indicating the device was being repaired. Assurant 
acknowledged this couldve unnecessarily confused matters and also that an undue delay 
had been caused. A few days later, the settlement of £300 was paid and Assurant also 
refunded Mr Js postage costs. Assurant then contacted Mr J to discuss the complaint. It offered him £75 compensation, 
separate to the settlement and postage fees payments. A final response letter was sent, 
which determined that Assurant had misadvised Mr J during three calls that took place about 
the expected despatch and delivery times. Mr J didnt accept this offer of compensation, as 
he wanted Assurant to offer more, as well as refunding the excess fee. 
As he remained unhappy, Mr J brought the complaint to our service and one of our 
investigators looked into it. She thought the excess was payable, in light of a valid claim 
being raised. But in the circumstances, she recommended Assurant increase the 
compensation from £75 to a total of £150. Mr J accepted this recommendation. 
Assurant does not agree. It accepts it ought to have arranged the settlement sooner, having 
caused an unnecessary delay once in receipt of the replacement device that Mr J returned. 
And it acknowledges that during this process it sent a misleading email. 
However, it says it took back the alleged damaged devices without assessing them first and 
it did so to speed up the resolution of the claim. Which means that it didnt carry out its 
normal procedure of first determining whether the replacement devices were acceptable, 
before offering an exchange. It says that theres insufficient evidence to prove that the 
repairs it made were substandard, or that the replacement device it offered was in fact faulty. 
Likewise, Assurant doesnt accept that it always gave Mr J incorrect information. Rather, 
having reconsidered the conversations that took place in October 2019, it submits that it 
gave appropriate advice to suit his delivery preferences. Therefore, Assurant claims that the 
£75 compensation it offered to be reasonable in the circumstances.  
Because Assurant doesnt agree, the complaint has been escalated to me to decide.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Having done so, Ive decided to uphold it. 
Ill explain why.
Mr Js policy is governed by the terms and conditions of the insurance contract he holds with 
Assurant. The cover in place insures certain risks, including accidental damage. Its not in 
dispute that Mr J wished to claim for both the damage sustained to the screen and the 
bend in the device. Accordingly, Assurant accepted the claim. 
The policy terms state that if a damaged mobile is claimed for, Assurant will repair it where 
possible. Or, replace it with a device of the same make, model and memory size. Included in 
the terms and conditions, it's explained that such replacements may be manufactured i.e. 
not brand new. To that end, Assurant acted in line with the contract when endeavouring to 
repair Mr Js device. And when this didnt fulfil the claim; it also acted fairly by offering a 
remanufactured replacement that met these requirements. 
Despite any issues encountered during the claims process  this was nevertheless a valid 
claim for loss. The policy terms state that a contribution of £100 is payable each time a 
successful claim is made and this is the excess fee. In light of this, Assurant can reasonably 
and lawfully require Mr J to pay the £100 excess. It follows that I dont require it to refund this 
back to him.  
Assurant submits that each device it gave to Mr J would have passed certain quality checks 
it has in place, before being sent to him. Its provided photographs that I understand were 
taken during these checks and it claims that these images show there was no such bends, 
scratches or dents  which of course conflicts with what Mr J alleges. Furthermore, to support its position that its not reasonable to expect it to do anymore, 
Assurant has pointed to the part of the policy that explains Cosmetic Damage. This 
includes a term that states; We only cover damage if it stops the normal functioning of your 
mobile phone. If it is just a scratch or dent, and your mobile phone still works as expected, 
then we will not repair or replace it. 
When Mr J received the mobile back after repair, he raised that a perceptible bend in the 
device was still apparent. However, it hasnt been proven that this stopped the normal 
functionality of it. In other words, Assurant asserts that it hasnt been confirmed that it was 
obliged to offer an exchange for an alternative device, as it did on 25 October 2019. 
Our role is to determine the facts and law based on the evidence presented  not to interpret 
the condition of a mobile phone device without accompanying expert evidence. So, a 
technical expert may well agree with Assurants submission. But, for the avoidance of doubt, 
I dont find an expert witness necessary to determine the complaint. I say this because, Im 
not satisfied that the condition of the devices needs to be established in order for me to 
reach a fair and reasonable outcome to the complaint. 
Ultimately, Assurant almost immediately agreed to take back the devices it offered Mr J, 
without first inspecting their quality. Its my judgment that if it wanted to ensure that its 
position wasnt in any way prejudiced  it had the chance to do so. Before proceeding with 
the claim, it had the opportunity to consider both the adequacy of the repairs it completed 
and also the condition of the replacement device it offered in exchange. So, if it intended to 
assess these devices to determine whether they were up to an acceptable standard  it was 
reasonable for it to have carried out such an assessment before allowing Mr J a chance to 
accept an alternative settlement. 
In any event, the compensation offered by Assurant was to put right mistakes it initially 
accepted it had made in terms of the customer service and length of time taken to settle the 
claim. Put simply, when responding to Mr Js complaint, Assurant acknowledged certain 
failings which were not in relation to the device itself  but rather the time taken to reach an 
amicable settlement, as well as the information it gave in the meantime. Assurant 
subsequently changed its position in this sense, and now claims it made a reasonable 
attempt to help Mr J receive the device; based upon his intended changes to the delivery. 
As I see it, Assurant did give Mr J conflicting information. Both Mr J and his wife simply 
wanted to change the delivery address and questioned the correct way of arranging this. At 
times they were told that only Assurant could make this change  yet during other 
conversations they were told otherwise, and actually they needed to do it themselves by 
contacting the courier company directly. We know that a number of calls were made to 
clarify the right way of going about making this alteration. It strikes me that this was a 
relatively straightforward request and I see no reason that compels me to believe that Mr J 
or his wife would have struggled to complete it  had clear information been provided. So, 
overall, I can appreciate why Mr J found the process confusing and frustrating because of 
the inconsistent direction that Assurant gave. 
Assurant must settle claims promptly once settlement terms are agreed. Moreover, its 
obliged to handle claims promptly and fairly. Its not in dispute that there was an avoidable 
delay caused by an error it made processing the receipt of the phone, once it had been 
returned at the end of October 2019. And this also led to Mr J being sent an email, which 
incorrectly advised that the device was being repaired  when hed already accepted 
Assurants cash settlement offer. Which, in my opinion, added needless confusion to the 
claims process once more. What become apparent within this complaint is the urgency Mr J had in acquiring a suitable 
device. Indeed, we know he acted swiftly to post a device back to Assurant shortly after 
receiving it. And he called Assurant several times throughout the claims process to chase an 
update on its progress. So, I dont doubt that any unwarranted delays wouldve caused him 
distress and inconvenience. With this in mind, I conclude that an award of compensation is 
fair and reasonable to put things right. 
Putting things right
Our investigator recommended an award of a total of £150 compensation. In the 
circumstances, I agree that this award is a proportionate reflection of the impact caused to 
Mr J. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold the complaint. 
So, I require Assurant General Insurance Limited to pay Mr J a total of £150 compensation 
(or any unpaid proportion of this amount), if it hasnt already done so, within 28 days of 
receiving notice from us of his acceptance of this decision, failing which interest will start to 
accrue on this sum at the simple rate of 8% a year (less any tax properly deductible) until the 
date of payment. 
Mr J should note that if he accepts my decision, it will be legally binding and he wouldnt be 
able to take further action over these matters against Assurant. If, however, he rejects the 
decision or doesnt reply on time, his legal rights against Assurant will remain intact.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr J to accept or 
reject my decision before 26 May 2020. 
Matthew Belcher
Ombudsman