DRN-1388508
 
The complaint
Ms D complains that Tesco Personal Finance PLC (Tesco) will not write off her debt having 
previously promised that they would do so. 
What happened
Our investigators background summary covered all the relevant facts and issues, and is 
known to both Ms D and Tesco, so there is no need for me to repeat them again here in any 
great detail. Instead I will focus on giving the reasons for my decision. So, if Ive not 
mentioned something its not because Ive ignored it, rather its because I dont think its 
relevant to the issues I need to deal with. 
Ms D previously brought her complaint to this service and a final decision was issued by an 
Ombudsman in early 2019 who said that he didnt think Tescos decision not to write off 90% 
of Ms Ds debt was unreasonable. He also said that if Ms Ds circumstances changed Tesco 
had agreed to look at the matter again.
In July 2019 Ms Ds partner, (Mr J) called this service to raise a fresh complaint for Ms D 
saying Tesco had said it would accept details of Mr Js income and expenditure in support of 
Ms D's request to write off her balance, but despite providing that Tesco haven't done so. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The role of the Financial Ombudsman Service is to mediate individual disputes between 
consumers and businesses, and to award redress where it is appropriate.  So I look at the 
issues raised and then consider all the available evidence in order to see if the business has 
acted fairly. I take into account both sides views in considering whether Tesco acted fairly 
and reasonably in its dealings with Ms D.
In the Ombudsmans final decision in 2019, he confirmed that Tesco had said they would 
look again at Ms Ds request to write off part of her debt if her circumstances changed. 
Following that Mr J says he had calls with Tesco during which the call handler agreed that 
Tesco would write off the balance owed on receipt of medical information. I have noted that 
the record of Mr Js initial call to this service referred to his income and expenditure details 
when he first called this service but I suspect it was meant to say his medical details too. 
Nevertheless, the call recordings do not support his recollection of what was said. What the 
call handler did say was that Tesco would take into consideration the family circumstances in 
relation to the repayment of the debt, not that submission of medical evidence would simply 
guarantee the debt be written off. The whole tenor of the call was that consideration 
would be given by Tesco to Ms D's request, not that it would definitely agree to it.So, I think Mr J has simply misunderstood what the call handler was saying, because any 
further information he submitted would need to be assessed by Tesco as to whether it was 
sufficient in its nature or degree to justify writing off the debt. Depending on what it said 
would necessarily influence Tescos decision. 
Mr J did submit further evidence which Tesco considered, but they came to the same 
conclusion as they had previously, that being that Ms D might be in a position to return to 
work in the future, when she would then be able to afford to clear the debt within a 
reasonable time. None of the evidence Mr J supplied supported the argument that Ms D 
would be unable to work again because of Mr Js condition.
When a bank knows a customer is in financial difficulties they are obliged to be positive and 
sympathetic towards their situation. The Lending Code sets out some things banks can do 
when a customer is in financial difficulty and that includes things like agreeing to suspend 
repayments for a period to give the customer some breathing space. Tesco have acted in 
such a manner because they have agreed to allow Ms D to make reduced payments and 
they are willing to discuss with her an affordable repayment plan. 
So, although Ms D will probably be disappointed with my decision, I cant say Tesco acted 
unfairly or unreasonably here. The previous Ombudsmans decision made it clear that if Ms 
Ds circumstances changed Tesco would revisit their decision. But the provision of the 
further evidence by Mr J did not show that her circumstances had changed and so Tesco 
havent acted unfairly or unreasonably in maintaining their earlier decision. 
My final decision
For the reasons set out above I do not uphold the complaint against Tesco Personal Finance 
PLC.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms D to accept or 
reject my decision before 8 June 2020.
Jonathan Willis
Ombudsman