DRN-3888389
The complaint
Mr H complains that National Westminster Bank Plc (NatWest) wont refund cash 
withdrawals he says he did not make. 
What happened
Mr H holds a current account with NatWest. He says that in late June 2022 he forgot his PIN 
for his debit card and so requested a new one. Mr H says that cash withdrawals totalling 
around £18,000 were then made from his NatWest current account between 1 and 20 July 
2022. Mr H says he was unwell at the time and so was not using his account, he says 
someone must have got hold of his new debit card and PIN.
Mr H flagged these transactions and NatWest investigated, but it decided not to refund the 
disputed withdrawals. It didnt agree that there was evidence of fraudulent activity. It thought 
Mr H had authorised the withdrawals or made them himself as it could not see a point where 
his card and PIN could have been compromised. But NatWest did agree that Mr H could 
have been provided with better service when he called to report the withdrawals, and 
apologised.
As Mr H didnt agree with NatWests decision, he asked us to investigate.
Our Investigator didnt recommend the complaint should be upheld. In summary, she 
explained that she agreed with NatWests findings.
Mr H asked for the answer to be reviewed by an ombudsman, so the complaint has been 
passed to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, my review of the evidence has led me to the same overall conclusions as 
the Investigator previously set out. 
The relevant law here is the Payment Services Regulations 2017, and broadly speaking 
Mr H is responsible for any payments that he has authorised (either by making them himself 
or allowing someone else to) and he isnt responsible for unauthorised payments. So, I think 
the key question here is whether NatWest has acted fairly in concluding that Mr H did 
authorise the disputed withdrawals.
Im satisfied from the banks technical evidence that Mr Hs genuine card and PIN were used 
to make the disputed withdrawals. But the regulations relevant to this case say that is not, on 
its own, enough to enable NatWest to hold him liable. So I also need to think about whether 
the evidence suggests that its more likely than not that Mr H consented to the withdrawals 
being made.
From what Ive seen, I dont think its unreasonable for NatWest to conclude that Mr H 
authorised the withdrawals. This is because:
NatWest has confirmed the card and PIN were sent to Mr H separately, and Mr H has 
told us nobody except him and his father would have access to his mail, so there is no 
clear explanation as to how a third party could have intercepted both the new card and 
the new PIN at different times.
Mr H had previously made withdrawals following a similar pattern to the disputed 
withdrawals  multiple cash withdrawals in a day up to the daily limit.
The pattern of spending was not in line with what we would usually expect from a 
fraudster  in general fraudsters will attempt to remove as much as they can from an 
account in as short a time as possible. And if the fraudster had Mr Hs card and PIN they 
would have been able to make online payments as well as cash withdrawals, enabling 
them to circumvent the daily cash withdrawal limit and maximise the funds they could 
take each day. It is unusual to see a fraudster using an account for such an extended 
period of time.
I acknowledge what Mr H has said about the cash withdrawal limit on his account being 
exceeded, and I can see that happened once during the period in question, on the 1 July 
2022. But given that this would have been notified at the cash machine that was used, I 
wouldnt necessarily expect any other notification to be sent to Mr H such as a text message 
or something similar. And I dont think this would have flagged to NatWest that something 
untoward might be going on with Mr Hs account, given that it happened right at the 
beginning of the period of disputed withdrawals. An attempted cash withdrawal was then 
declined on 20 July 2022, but this was because there were not adequate funds remaining in 
the account, and I understand Mr H was sent a notification that his account had entered an 
overdraft at this time. 
I also acknowledge that Mr H says he has since had issues with receiving a new card from 
NatWest. But Im satisfied that when he requested a new card and PIN in June 2022 it was 
sent to him, and NatWest holds correct address details for Mr H, so I cant see that any 
subsequent issues he had receiving his new debit card after the disputed withdrawals (which 
appears to have been sent to a branch rather than to his home as a security precaution) 
impact my findings on this complaint. 
NatWest has agreed that when Mr H reported the disputed withdrawals it could have 
provided him with better service on the phone, but Im satisfied that the apology it has 
already made is appropriate to resolve that part of Mr Hs complaint. And, taking everything 
into account, I consider, on balance, that it is was reasonable for NatWest to conclude that 
Mr H more likely than not authorised the disputed withdrawals. It follows that NatWest is 
entitled to hold him liable for them.
I appreciate that Mr H has been through a very difficult time, and I know this will be 
disappointing for him, but I wont be asking NatWest to refund the disputed withdrawals.
My final decision
I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 6 April 2023.
 
Sophie MitchellOmbudsman