DRN-4163572
The complaint
A company, which Ill refer to as C, complains that Advanced Payment Solutions Limited 
(trading as Cashplus Bank) wont refund payments it didnt make. 
Mr H, who is a director of C, brings the complaint on Cs behalf.
What happened
Mr H explained he received several calls that appeared to come from Cashplus. He was told 
that suspicious transactions had been made on Cs account, which theyd sort out. Mr H 
recalled sharing some information for them to do this. 
Mr H later realised hed been the victim of a scam and that fraudsters had made the 
following payments from Cs account: 
Merchant Amount
KINGSLANDLOCKE £254.00
Industries S.P.A. £2,695.57
FORX Industrie £80.60
BITPANDA £888.13
Quasi Cash Transaction Fee £3.00
Cashplus declined to refund all the payments, given that Mr H must have shared one-time 
passcodes (OTPs) with the fraudster for them to be made. It did, however, refund the 
transaction for £254.00 as this happened without an OTP. 
Unhappy with this response, Mr H brought a complaint to our service to investigate on Cs 
behalf. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive reached the same outcome as our investigator for these reasons:
Cashplus hasnt disputed this concerns unauthorised payments. However, in line with 
the Payment Services Regulations 2017, it refused to refund them because it asserts 
Mr H failed with gross negligence to comply with the terms of the account and keep 
Cs personalised security details safe.
Having considered the circumstances carefully, Im not persuaded Cashplus has 
shown thats the case. Ill explain why.
Mr H explained he received calls that appeared to come from Cashplus, and the 
caller knew information about C. They told him there were suspicious transactions on 
Cs account and they asked if he recognised them. When Mr H said he didnt, the 
caller said theyd block and refund the payments. They later explained there were 
technical difficulties refunding C and theyd call back later that day. When they did, 
Mr H was told hed need to share an OTP hed receive by text to refund the 
transactions. 
Mr H said he received a further call a few days later that similarly purported to be 
from Cashplus about a further fraudulent transaction. While Mr H told our service he 
only shared one OTP, Ive noted that when he reported this scam to Cashplus, he 
said he shared another OTP to refund this transaction as well. Given that the 
technical evidence shows an OTP code was used, and theres no other explanation 
for how fraudsters wouldve got this, I think its likely Mr H did share this. 
In light of these circumstances, Im not persuaded Mr Hs actions in sharing the OTPs 
meant he failed with gross negligence. Or, in other words, that he acted with a very 
significant degree of carelessness. In saying that, Ive considered: 
oThe call appeared to come from Cashpluss number, and the caller knew 
sensitive information about C. So I can see how Mr H trusted they were 
calling from Cs bank. I think lots of people wouldve done. 
oThe situation they presented seemed plausible, given how the first fraudulent 
transaction had already been made without Mr Hs involvement as it didnt 
require an OTP.   
oI recognise Mr H recalled seeing two transactions before he shared the first 
OTP. Cashplus point out this couldnt have happened, as an OTP was 
needed for the second transaction.  
oBut I dont think its suspicious that Mr H cant perfectly recall the exact details 
of what happened. And whether it was one or two transactions, the point 
remains that he could corroborate some of what he was being told on his 
banking app. Overall, I can see how this wouldve added to the calls 
creditability. 
oIve also noted that it looks like another one of the unauthorised transactions 
for £80.60 couldve happened during these first calls  given that the 
reference refers to the date of the call. Cashplus hasnt shown that an OTP 
was needed for this transaction, so its possible this was the second 
transaction Mr H was referring to. 
oIve considered Cashpluss point that the messages with the OTPs refer to 
verifying a payment, and how this ought to have concerned Mr H. But I can 
see how someone could think this language was connected to refunding a 
payment. Particularly in these circumstances, where Mr H said the caller 
cleverly reassured him that the process was like how you might use your 
security details in a shop for a refund. 
oIm also mindful of how Mr H wouldve been further convinced by the timing of 
these messages. He believed he was talking with his bank and the messages 
with the OTPs came thought from Cashplus when hed been told to expect 
them. 
oCashplus also submit Mr H shouldnt have shared a second OTP on another 
call when hed not received refunds from the first transactions. Ive noted from 
Mr Hs testimony that he was told the money would be there when he received his new card and reactivated Cs account. And that this fraudulent 
transaction was from before theyd ben able to block the account. 
oI can see how he found this explanation plausible in the heat of the moment. 
And given the other circumstances that had cleverly convinced Mr H the call 
was legitimate, I dont think he acted with very significant carelessness when 
he shared another code.  
It follows that Im not persuaded Cashplus has shown Mr H failed with gross 
negligence. So, in line with the PSRs, I dont consider C can be fairly held liable for 
these unauthorised payments and Cashplus needs to put things right  by refunding 
Cs losses from the unauthorised payments alongside 8% simple interest per year to 
compensate it for the time its been out of pocket.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I uphold Cs complaint. Advanced Payment Solutions Limited 
must:
Pay C the total of the unauthorised payments and fees, less any amount recovered 
or refunded  I understand this to be £3,667.30.
Pay 8% simple interest per year on these amounts, from the dates of the 
unauthorised payments to the date of settlement (less any tax lawfully deductible).
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask C to accept or 
reject my decision before 9 August 2023.
 
Emma Szkolar
Ombudsman