DRN-2204702
The complaint
U, a limited company, complains that Santander UK Plc would not offer it a start-up bank 
account.
What happened
U applied for a start-up account in August 2018. Santander said it was not eligible as it had 
established that the trading name for U was an existing business. It believed that U had 
taken this over and said that in line with its policy it could not offer a start-up product tariff for 
a business that had been trading for more than 12 months. It referred U to its standard 
tariffs. U complained and unfortunately did not receive the first response to its complaint in 
September 2018 and Santander paid it £75 in May 2019 as compensation for that delay.
Our investigator did not recommend that the complaint be upheld. He said that a business 
with the same trading name was previously located at the same address. And Santander 
had provided a photograph showing this and said that it had been trading there since at least 
2016. After he issued his view Santander said that it would look at the application again. He 
did not agree that this meant it had made a mistake the first time but that this would be a 
gesture of goodwill.
U did not agree. The director said that this was a newly incorporated company and she was 
the only director and had not been a director of any other company. She said that it took 
over the business from a liquidated company that she names and did not take over its stock 
or revenue. U and this company just happened to trade from the same building and use the 
same trading name with a slight variation. There were no other links to this company. She 
said that there was no logic to Santander now being prepared to consider an account unless 
it could make up the rules as it went along.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive looked at what U has said and considered the publicly available records at Companies 
House. The other company the director refers to did not seem to be liquidated until August 
2019 and had the same address as U. I dont think that U being newly incorporated is 
definitive here. The question was whether or not the trading business was the same.
Its a matter for Santander to apply its policy and make the checks it thinks necessary. And I 
cant see it made a mistake in its process when it decided that the business of U was not 
new in August 2018 on the information it had available. It only intends to offer the product to 
start-ups.
I can understand the directors comments about Santanders position that it is prepared to 
look at things again now if U wants. That could give U access to a start-up tariff for a period. 
I can only think that its reviewed its position having seen what the director has said to this 
service through our investigation. It can use its discretion in this way when it applies its 
policy. 
My final decision
My decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask U to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 November 2020.
 
Michael Crewe
Ombudsman