DRN-4429075
The complaint
Mr M complains about the way National House-Building Council (NHBC) handled a claim he 
made under his new home warranty.
What happened
The circumstances arent in dispute, so Ill summarise the background:
Mr M bought a new home covered by a ten-year NHBC warranty. His complaint 
concerns three main problems he referred to NHBC. In summary:
oGarden. Mr M discovered a number of rocks and concrete slabs underneath 
his garden which meant plants wouldnt grow. He paid to have them 
excavated and removed but NHBC didnt agree to reimburse that cost.
oKitchen drainage. The pipe which drains water from the sink and dishwasher 
has a belly and a shallow fall, which means it sometimes holds water, grease 
or debris, and the sink doesnt always drain properly. NHBC said a water jet 
should be used to remove the build-up of debris and clear the pipe but the 
cost of this wasnt covered. It also said the pipe didnt need replacing.
oBathroom drainage. The main bathroom pipework wasnt connected to the 
main sewer pipe, which meant it wasnt draining away properly. Mr M 
arranged for a CCTV survey and, at NHBCs request, a second one, which 
showed the problem. NHBC then arranged its own survey which showed the 
same thing. It accepted the claim and paid for the problem to be fixed.
oMr M says he was caused inconvenience by this problem as he had to take 
seven days off work to facilitate the surveys and repairs, including a missed 
appointment, as well as his initial attempts to rectify the problem. Hes also 
concerned the pipework has been leaking under his home since it was built.
NHBC responded to Mr Ms complaint as follows:
oIn April 2022 NHBC said it had assessed the garden problem under its 
Resolution Service but was unable to help as Mr M had already put the 
problem right himself and had pursued the builder in court.
oIn September 2022 NHBC said Mr M had arranged a CCTV survey. He 
thought the company was due to arrive at 9 but they didnt arrive until 10, by 
which time Mr M had gone out. They left before he returned, which meant the 
survey had to be re-arranged. NHBC apologised but thought it would have 
been reasonable for Mr M to have waited longer for the company to arrive.
oIn November 2022 NHBC reiterated its position that the kitchen pipe didnt 
need replacing.
Our investigator said we couldnt consider any complaint about the builder. Nor could 
we consider the garden problem that NHBC responded to in April 2022 as it had 
been referred to us too late and didnt relate to a Regulated Activity. He thought it 
was unnecessary for NHBC to carry out a third CCTV survey and asked it to pay 
£200 compensation for the inconvenience caused. He also said NHBC should 
replace the kitchen pipe. Other than that, he thought NHBC had acted fairly.
Both parties disagreed. NHBC said the kitchen pipe hadnt breached its 
Requirements, so it was fair to decline the claim. However, once the pipe had been 
cleared, if problems persisted, it was prepared to consider the matter further. It said 
the third CCTV survey was necessary and didnt agree to pay compensation.
Mr M didnt think the compensation went far enough to reflect the distress and 
inconvenience hed experienced as a result of the defects and the time and effort itd 
taken to try to get them resolved.
My provisional decision
I issued a provisional decision in which I said:
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Its clear Mr M feels badly let down by the way his home was built. Naturally he 
expected a newly built home to be free of defects  but he encountered problems 
with it and has had to invest time and money to put them right. So I can understand 
his disappointment and frustration.
However, its important to be clear about the scope of this complaint. I cant consider 
how the builder acted or how NHBC acted in its role inspecting the build and issuing 
the warranty. These arent Regulated Activities. I can only consider how NHBC acted 
in its role as underwriter of the warranty  which is limited to how it handled the claim.
So I cant hold NHBC responsible for any distress and inconvenience to Mr M which 
may have arisen from the defects themselves. Or from the time and effort reasonably 
required to deal with the claim. I can only hold it responsible for any distress and 
inconvenience it unreasonably caused during the claim.
Garden
Our investigator explained why we couldnt consider the garden problem at all. In 
summary, because it was referred to us too late and NHBCs Resolution Service 
doesnt amount to a Regulated Activity. Mr M hasnt challenged that, so I understand 
he accepts the position. As a result, I wont comment on this further other than to say 
I agree with the investigator. 
Bathroom drainage
NHBC accepted the claim for the bathroom drainage problem and paid for Mr M to 
have it put right. I understand thats been done, so the problem is resolved.
Mr M has complained about this point for two main reasons. Firstly, that the problem 
shouldnt have arisen at all. However, for the reasons given above, I cant take into 
account the problems caused by the defect itself. That includes the time and cost to Mr M of trying to put the problem right initially or any surveys or repairs reasonably 
required to investigate the defect. Secondly, for the way NHBC handled the claim  
requiring three surveys and the missed appointment. I can consider that.
Mr M arranged for a drainage company, P, to carry out a CCTV survey. P said the 
bathroom drainage wasnt connected to the main sewer pipe. I havent seen a report 
from P, although it did provide the CCTV footage. He arranged for another drainage 
company, C, to survey and report. It did so, and also quoted for putting the problem 
right. NHBC arranged for a drainage company, U, to carry out a survey. It agreed 
with Cs findings and NHBC settled the claim on Cs quote.
This meant Mr M had to accommodate three separate visits, taking time off work for 
each. He doesnt think this should have been necessary.
I can understand why Ps survey alone wasnt sufficient for NHBC. Theres no report 
and C described it as not a great survey. NHBC has said C provided insufficient 
information but its not clear what it thinks was missing. Cs report and quote 
appears to me to be broadly similar to Us. However, I dont think it was 
unreasonable for NHBC to get a second opinion, given the limitations of Ps survey 
meant it only had Cs to consider. So Im not satisfied Mr M was caused any 
unreasonable distress and inconvenience by the number of surveys carried out.
I can see why Mr M was unhappy with what happened at the missed appointment. By 
that time, hed dealt with the original problem in the bathroom, had to stop using it, 
and had already accommodated two surveys. I expect he just wanted the problem 
solved. He understood the third survey had been arranged for 9, so when U wasnt 
there and hadnt called by that time, it must have been frustrating. However, U 
arrived by 10 and there seems to have been some misunderstanding about what 
time had been agreed. In these circumstances, Im satisfied NHBCs apology was a 
reasonable response and I wont be requiring it to take further action.
I cant consider to what extent, if any, the builder and/or NHBC may have been 
responsible for the defect which led to the bathroom drainage problem and any 
consequential leak under Mr Ms home. And, for the reasons above, I dont think 
NHBC was responsible for any significant delays handling the claim to put the defect 
right. Nor have I seen any evidence to suggest the leak has caused, or is likely to 
cause, damage. So I wont be requiring NHBC to take any action about this.
Kitchen drainage
Its accepted theres a belly in the pipe beneath the kitchen sink and a shallow fall. C 
said that meant the pipe held water/grease, so it wasnt functioning as it should. It 
recommended the pipe was replaced with a proper fall. Similarly, P said the belly was 
holding water and should be replaced. U said a high pressure water jet should be 
used to remove the grease to stop waste/water from building up in the pipe. NHBC 
says the cost of this isnt covered by the policy. It suggested Mr M arrange for it and, 
if problems continue after that, to contact NHBC for further investigation.
The policy covers damage as a result of the builder failing to meet NHBC 
requirements. These are the specific requirements set out in the NHBC Standards 
document. Mr M has pointed to a section of the document about drainage gradients. 
NHBC has shown that this section is guidance, rather than a specific requirement. 
That means the builder didnt have to follow the guidance  provided it met the 
overall requirement to ensure the design provides satisfactory performance.NHBC says theres no evidence the drainage run isnt performing and this can only 
be assessed once the grease and any standing water or debris is removed.
This suggests the only way to fully understand the problem  and decide whether its 
a failure to meet NHBC requirements such that the warranty covers it  is to carry out 
Us recommendation to water jet and clear the pipe. In which case, this is something 
Id expect NHBC to pay for to investigate the claim. I also note its report about the 
drainage included and accepted Us recommendation and didnt indicate there was 
any reason not to proceed with the water jetting.
As a result, I think it would be fair for NHBC to pay for this and consider the matter 
further. Given the comments of P and C, and Us acceptance there is a belly in the 
pipe, it seems likely problems will persist and its only a matter of time before the pipe 
collects more grease, water and/or debris. That may not amount to satisfactory 
performance. So once the jet wash clears the pipe, NHBC should make an 
assessment about whether the problem is covered by the warranty.
I think NHBC could have handled this part of the claim better. If it had carried out Us 
recommendations, this point would have progressed much sooner. That may not 
have resulted in NHBC agreeing to replace the pipe  we dont know at this stage 
what the claim outcome will be  but it would have at least saved Mr M the distress 
and inconvenience of having to wait for a prolonged period of time to find out the 
outcome. As a result, Im satisfied a payment of £200 compensation would be 
reasonable in the circumstances.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
NHBC said it accepted my provisional decision and had no further comments to add.
Mr M didnt accept my provisional decision and provided further comments.
He said the belly always holds not water  not sometimes, as Id said  and always 
will, so the pipe needs to be replaced. He questioned how jet washing the pipe would 
resolve the problem and asked why he should have to jet wash the pipe regularly.
To clarify, NHBC said the next step to consider the problem was to jet wash the pipe 
so the pipework can be assessed when clean. In my view, thats something NHBC 
should do to investigate the matter further. Once it has cleaned and assessed the 
pipe, it should consider whether the builder failed to meet NHBC requirements and 
therefore whether the claim is covered by the warranty. And, as I noted above, that 
will include considering whether the design of the pipe is providing satisfactory 
performance. So neither NHBC nor I have said the jet washing in itself will resolve 
the problem  its simply the next step.
Mr M questioned the level of compensation, bearing in mind the inconvenience hed 
suffered as a result of the defects. I wont repeat my provisional decision but, in 
summary, I can only consider how NHBC acted in its role as underwriter of the 
warranty  not in any other role it may have performed, such as signing off the work. 
So I cant take into account any distress and inconvenience that may have flowed 
from the defects and the time taken to deal with putting them right. I can only take into account any unreasonable, additional distress and inconvenience caused by the 
way NHBC handled the claim for resolving the defects and their damage. In my view, 
thats limited to the delay in taking the next steps investigating the kitchen drainage.
Mr M says he was inconvenienced by the three drainage surveys. He says he 
shouldnt have had to accommodate any. As I said in my provisional decision, I can 
appreciate that it would likely have been disappointing and frustrating to buy a new 
home and find defects to the drainage system. But, when thinking about how NHBC 
handled the claim, it was reasonable for it to ask for a survey of the drainage system 
to establish what the problem was. Ps survey was insufficient to do that, so I think it 
was reasonable for NHBC to ask for another, which was Cs. And I dont think it was 
unreasonable for NHBC to ask U for a second opinion on Cs findings. Whilst I 
acknowledge all of this cost Mr M time and money, thats a result of the defect itself  
not because NHBC handled the claim unfairly. And, for the reasons above, thats not 
something I can hold against NHBC.
Mr M asked why I ignored the garden problem. As I set out in my provisional 
decision, Im unable to consider it because it was referred to us too late and NHBCs 
Resolution Service doesnt amount to a Regulated Activity.
I recognise Mr M doesnt think my provisional decision goes far enough to put things 
right for him. But, having considered everything hes said in response, for the 
reasons above, I havent been persuaded to change my mind. I remain satisfied the 
outcome is fair and reasonable in the circumstances.
My final decision
I uphold this complaint.
I require National House-Building Council to:
Pay to water jet and clear the kitchen sink pipe.
Pay £200 compensation.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 29 November 2023.
 
James Neville
Ombudsman