DRN-4408052
The complaint
Mrs O complains about Aviva Insurance Limiteds (Aviva) handling of her claim, under her 
home emergency policy. 
What happened
In June 2023, Mrs O reported an issue with her tap to Aviva. It sent an engineer who isolated 
the water and installed a new tap. Mrs O describes that during the engineers attendance, 
she heard a loud bang. But it was only once the engineer had left, that she noticed that one 
of the newly laid bathroom floor tiles was cracked. She said that the engineer had caused 
the damage. 
A few days later, she reported the damage to Aviva. It investigated the complaint. The 
engineer said that he didnt break the tile. He also said that the position of where the broken 
tile was, wasnt near where he had been working. And in any event, Mrs O had signed a 
disclaimer. So, Aviva rejected the complaint and maintained its position in its final response. 
As Mrs O had been given her referral rights, she referred a complaint to our service. One of 
our investigators considered the complaint and didnt think it should be upheld. He said that 
he found the evidence from Aviva more persuasive. He said that there had been a delay in 
Mrs O reporting the damage to Aviva. And he didnt think overall, there was enough 
evidence to prove that Avivas engineer damaged the tile. So, he couldnt recommend that 
Aviva do anything further here. 
Aviva accepted the view, Mrs O did not. She said that our investigator had been biased and 
that Aviva were dishonest. She disputed that she had delayed reporting the damage to 
Aviva. She maintained that the tile had been damaged by the engineer who attended and 
said that she wouldnt have lied about it. So, she asked for a decision from an ombudsman. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I wont uphold this complaint, for much the same reasons as our 
investigator. I understand that this might be a disappointment to Mrs O, but I hope my 
findings go some way in explaining why Ive reached this decision. 
Ive considered both parties comments, and the evidence theyve provided. The main issue 
of this complaint is whether Aviva was fair to have rejected Mrs Os complaint on the basis 
that there was no evidence to support her opinion, that its engineer had damaged the floor 
tile. 
Mrs O said that when the engineer attended, she stayed downstairs whilst he was carrying 
out the repair to her tap. She described hearing a loud bang and that she called up to him to 
ask him if everything was alright. I note that Mrs O didnt actually go upstairs to check this for 
herself.
In any event, she said that the engineer completed the repair and left. She said that she 
noticed that a tile (that had been recently laid) was now damaged. She believed that she 
called Aviva the day after and reported the damage. 
Aviva said its engineer denied damaging the tile. Before carrying out the repair, he said that 
Mrs O had signed a disclaimer for the repair works. He said that the damaged tile was 
located near the door, and he wasnt working in that area.  He admitted that he had caused a 
chip to the bath panel that he had to remove to affect the repair. But said that on 
replacement of it, he repaired it with some silicon. 
Aviva has provided me with a call record, and it shows that Mrs O called on 23 June 2023 to 
report the fault with her tap. But it wasnt until four days later, that she reported the damage 
with the tile. Mrs O believed that this was much sooner and provided her call record as 
contrary evidence. 
I have reviewed both records and they appear to be consistent, in that there is a call 
recorded on 23 June, which I think accords with the date that Mrs O made the claim. As well 
as a call recorded on 27 June, which is the date that Aviva said Mrs O complained about the 
engineer damaging her tile. Consequently, Im satisfied that Mrs O reported the damage, 
four days after she said, she had. 
Ive also reviewed the photo of the damaged tile. Aviva said that the tile was located near the 
door. And from the photo, it does appear to be the case, as a door bar can be seen. The 
engineer said he was working on the bath panel which was away from the door.
I dont think that Mrs O has provided me with enough evidence that is contrary to this. For 
instance, Mrs O explains that whilst she was in another room, when the engineer was 
repairing her tap, she heard a loud bang and just called up to the engineer to check 
everything was ok. 
Whilst I dont dispute that Mrs O heard this loud bang, I wouldve thought that this wouldve 
prompted Mrs O to visually inspect what had happened to cause the bang, whilst the 
engineer was present. 
Further, it isnt clear why Mrs O wouldnt have checked the bathroom before the engineer left 
or why she waited four days before reporting the damage to Aviva. Because of this, Im more 
persuaded by Avivas account that its engineer didnt cause damage to Mrs Os tile. 
Accordingly, I dont think there is sufficient evidence to suggest that the Aviva engineer 
damaged the tile. Whilst I can appreciate how upsetting this wouldve been for Mrs O, in the 
circumstances of this complaint, I havent seen enough evidence to show that Aviva acted 
unfairly. Im therefore not going to tell it to do anything further here.
My final decision
For the reasons given, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs O to accept or 
reject my decision before 20 December 2023.
 
Ayisha Savage
Ombudsman