DRN-2981397
The complaint
X is unhappy with the way Inter Partner Assistance SA (IPA) has handled a claim hes made 
under his mobile phone insurance.
What happened
IPA is the underwriter of this policy and is therefore ultimately responsible for this complaint, 
so Ill refer to it throughout.
The background to the complaint is well known to the parties so Ive only provided a 
summary of whats happened
X had a mobile phone insurance policy underwritten by IPA
He damaged his phone and made a claim on the policy
IPA accepted the claim and, after some back and forth, issued him with a 
replacement phone
X contacted IPA and it said the replacement phone arrived damaged
IPA said the phone had been in good condition when it was sent and asked X to 
advise if the packaging had been damaged and to provide photos
X didnt respond to this enquiry 
X brought a complaint to us and our investigator considered the evidence 
She said before dispatch, the phone had undergone a comprehensive check and she 
was persuaded it had likely been sent in an acceptable condition in appropriate 
packaging
Subsequent to our involvement, IPA did issue a further replacement phone to X but 
he said this arrived damaged too
Our investigator said she was satisfied IPA had fulfilled its obligations under the 
policy in issuing a replacement phone and was thought it likely this second 
replacement phone was sent in an acceptable condition
Because X hadnt provided any evidence the packaging was damaged, IPA hadnt 
been able to pursue the issue with its courier 
Overall, she didnt think IPA needed to do anymore
X asked an ombudsman to make a decision
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
X complained about a number of other issues related to the claim and our investigator 
explained why these werent being looked at under this complaint. I have focused on the key 
issue of the replacement phones X received under the claim.
The replacement phones
X says IPA sent him damaged replacement phones but IPA denies this. Where evidence is 
inconclusive or contradictory, as it is here, Ill make my decision on the balance of 
probabilities, that is to say what I think is most likely to have happened.
Its clear from Xs photos, the replacement phones suffered damage but not when or how the 
damage occurred.
IPA has provided copies of the comprehensive 23 step test undertaken on phones before 
dispatch. Having considered this carefully alongside the photos of the damage to both 
phones, its clear to me neither phone would have passed the test. If a phone doesnt pass 
the test, IPA doesnt consider it acceptable as a replacement and it wont be sent. 
Because of this, on balance, Im persuaded the phones were most likely sent by IPA in an 
acceptable condition. I wont speculate on how the damage occurred but I consider it likely it 
was at some point after the phones left its possession.
In providing the original replacement phone, Im satisfied IPA did what it was required to do 
under the terms of the policy. It then bypassed its normal process and made a commercial 
decision to issue X with a further replacement phone because of his complaint but this 
wasnt something it was required to do under the policy terms.
IPA gave X the opportunity to provide evidence and photos of any damaged packaging that 
would have indicated the phone may have been damaged in transit. This was so a claim 
could be pursued against the courier and this request seems reasonable to me. But X didnt 
provide anything so it wasnt possible for a claim to be pursued.
Overall, Im satisfied IPA has done what it needed to.
 
Postage for returned phones
The terms of the policy confirm the policyholder is required to pay postage when sending a 
device to IPA:
You will be responsible for the cost of posting your device to us
If I thought IPA had sent a damaged phone, I might say it was unfair for it to expect a 
policyholder to pay for it to be returned. But in this case, for the reasons Ive explained 
above, I dont think that happened. So, Im satisfied IPA has acted within the terms of the 
policy when declining to pay postage for the phones to be returned.
Overall
For the reasons Ive explained, I wont be asking IPA to do anymore.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask X to accept or 
reject my decision before 17 September 2021.
 
Paul Phillips
Ombudsman