DRN-3271238
The complaint
Miss H is unhappy that Zurich Insurance Plc declined a claim made on her travel insurance 
policy.
What happened
Miss H was the beneficiary of group travel insurance policy for bookings made between 1 
October 2019 until 30 September 2020 (all travel having been completed by 30 September 
2022). Miss H was due to travel to a country Ill refer to as P. Her trip was scheduled to 
take place between 5 June and 4 July 2020.
The Foreign and Commonwealth Office (FCO) advised against all but essential travel abroad 
on 17 March 2020  and that included travel to P (the FCO guidance). Subsequently, 
Miss Hs flight was cancelled by the airline due to the global impact of the Covid-19 
pandemic. The FCO guidance remained in place at the time the trip was cancelled - and 
remained in place when Miss H was due to travel abroad.
Miss H made a claim on the policy for the pre-paid costs of the trip which she was unable to 
recover from third parties. 
Zurich declined the claim because the reason which led to the trip being cancelled wasnt 
covered under the terms and conditions of the policy. It said the cancellation section of the 
policy listed specific reasons for which Zurich would provide cover, and the circumstances 
surrounding Miss Hs claim didnt fall within those reasons. 
Miss H didnt think that was fair, so complained to our Service. Our investigator upheld her 
complaint. Although, the trip was cancelled for a reason not listed in the cancellation section 
of the policy terms, there was also an exclusion in the policy limiting cover if shed travelled 
against the advice of the FCO. So, our investigator didnt think it was fair and reasonable for 
Zurich to decline the claim for the reason it did. He concluded that it would be fair and 
reasonable for Zurich to treat the claim as covered under the cancellation section of the 
policy. And our investigator recommended Zurich assess the claim under the remaining 
terms and conditions of the policy.
Zurich didnt agree. It said the specific insured perils for which a claim may be considered 
are clearly set out in the policy terms. As the circumstance giving rise to the claim made by 
Miss H fell outside of those insured perils, it said it was unable to consider the claim. It also 
said the Insurance Product Information Document (IPID) made clear on the first page that 
the policyholders werent insured in respect of travel to any country or specified area when 
the FCO or the World Health Organisation advised against travel. 
This complaint has now been passed to me to consider everything afresh and decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im satisfied that our investigator identified, and set out, the relevant industry rules and 
guidance which apply to the specific circumstances of this case. The investigator also 
highlighted, and referred to, the key documents which are relevant to this complaint. 
I uphold this complaint for broadly the same reasons set out by our investigator in his view 
dated 1 December 2021 and endorsed in his follow up communications dated 6 and 14 
January 2022.
IPID 
The IPID says at the top of page 1 that:
This document provides a summary of the key information relating to your insurance 
policy. Complete pre-contractual and contractual information for the product is 
provided in the full policy documentation. 
This summary does not form part of your contract of insurance and is for information 
only. 
Under the heading What is insured? on page 1 of the IPID, it says: 
Cancellation or cutting short a trip
We will pay you up to £5,000 for unused and irrecoverable costs if you have to 
cancel or cut short your trip as a result of an insured event.
Under the heading What is not insured?  also on page 1 of the IPID - it says: 
 Your travel to any country or specified area or event when the Foreign and 
Commonwealth Office or the World Health Organisation has advised against travel.
And, under the heading, Where am I covered? on page 2 of the IPID it says:
You are covered for travel to the destination for which the appropriate premium has 
been paid and for which you have been accepted for cover provided you are not 
travelling against the advice of the Foreign and Commonwealth Office or the World 
Health Organisation.
The policy terms and conditions:
Page 1 of the policy terms and conditions says the policy terms:
contains details of the cover, conditions and exclusions applicable and is the basis 
on which all claims will be settled.
Pages 16 and 17 of the policy terms and conditions set out the policy cancellation terms. 
Subject to the remaining terms of the policy, Zurich will:
reimburse the Beneficiary up to the amount stated in the Statement of Insurance for 
any irrecoverable unused travel and accommodation costs and other pre-paid 
charges which the Beneficiary has paid or is contracted to pay together with any 
reasonable additional travel expenses incurred if  cancellation of the Trip is necessary and unavoidableas a result of any of the 
following events occurring during the Period of Cover: 
1. The death, Bodily Injury or illness of: 
a) the Beneficiary 
b) any person with whom the Beneficiary is travelling or has arranged to travel with 
c) any person with whom the Beneficiary has arranged to reside temporarily 
d) the Beneficiarys Close Relative 
e) the Beneficiarys Close Business Associate. 
2. Compulsory quarantine on the order of a treating medical practitioner, jury service 
attendance or being called as a witness at a Court of Law of the Beneficiary or any 
person with whom they are travelling or have arranged to travel with. 
3. Redundancy (which qualifies for payment under current redundancy payment 
legislation of the Beneficiarys Home Country and at the time of booking the Trip 
there was no reason to believe anyone would be made redundant) of the Beneficiary 
or any person with whom they are travelling or have arranged to travel with.
4. The Beneficiary or any person with whom they are travelling or have arranged to 
travel with if such person is a member of the Armed Forces, Police, Fire, Nursing or 
Ambulance Services or employees of a Government Department and has their 
authorised annual leave cancelled for operational reasons, provided that such 
cancellations or Curtailment could not reasonably have been expected at the time 
when the Beneficiary purchased this insurance or at the time of booking any Trip. 
5. The Police requesting the Beneficiary to remain at or return to their Home due to 
serious damage to their Home caused by fire, aircraft, explosion, storm, flood, 
subsidence, malicious persons or theft.
Pages 11 and 12 of the policy set out the general exclusions which apply to all sections of 
the policy.  
And page 12, clause 14, says the Zurich will not pay for claims arising directly or indirectly 
from or in connection with: 
The Beneficiarys travel to a country or specific area or event to which the Travel 
Advice Unit of the Foreign & Commonwealth Office or the World Health Organisation 
has advised the public not to travel.
Ill refer to this as the FCO exclusion.
Was it unreasonable for Zurich to decline the claim? 
I think its fair and reasonable for Zurich to treat the claim as covered under the cancellation 
section of the policy in this particular case because: 
The trip was effectively cancelled because of the global impact of the Covid-19 
pandemic. Thats not something thats covered under the cancellation section of the 
terms and conditions of the policy as its not a specific or listed insured event. 
However, taking into account the relevant law and industry guidelines, I dont think 
that leads to a fair and reasonable outcome in the circumstances of this case for the 
reasons Ill go on to explain. 
Even if Miss H was able to  and did - travel abroad when planned, she wouldnt have been following FCO advice. And because of the FCO exclusion she wouldnt 
have been covered by the policy terms and conditions. But, under the terms and 
conditions of the policy, changes in FCO guidance which led to the cancellation of a 
trip is something also not covered under the policy. I dont think that was made 
sufficiently clear to Miss H in this case. 
The IPID is designed to make sure that customers have essential information about 
the policy in a way thats easy to understand. I dont think the FCO exclusion is 
prominent in the IPID, and cancellation claims due to FCO advice against all but 
essential travel isnt included in the What is not insured section of the IPID. The IPID 
only contains the general exclusion that policyholders wont be covered if they travel 
against FCO advice. 
Miss H wouldve needed to read the full policy terms and conditions to understand 
that this set of circumstances wasnt covered. And, I dont think this information was 
brought to her attention in a prominent and transparent way. Miss H wouldve needed 
to go further into the detail of the policy wording to establish whether she was able to 
claim if her trip was cancelled because of changes to FCO guidance after shed 
bought the policy. And even when she reached pages 16 and 17 of the policys terms 
and conditions - which sets out the available cover if her trip is cancelled  a claim 
arising from a change in FCO advice isnt specifically listed as an exclusion. Instead, 
the cancellation section is silent on whether this is something which is covered under 
this section of the policy. 
The section of the policy explaining what will be covered if she was unable to travel, 
on pages 16 and 17, is in plain English. But the FCO exclusion isnt presented in the 
same place or specifically mentioned in the cancellation exclusion  although the 
general exclusions are referred to. But the general exclusions are earlier in the policy 
document at pages 11 and 12. And the consumer would need to cross refer these 
sections of the policy to comprehend how these terms all interrelated to one another, 
and to understand the effect of the FCO exclusion. Whats more confusing in this 
particular case is the cancellation section refers to the general exclusions at page 11 
of the policy document, but they continue onto page 12 and the FCO exclusion is 
contained on page 12.
I dont think it would be obvious to a consumer that there would be no cover under 
the policy if FCO advice changed in respect of their destination after theyd bought 
the policy. And even with a cooling-off period, I think a consumer might not be able to 
easily understand the full effect of the policy. I think the way the cancellation section 
of cover and the FCO exclusion under the other sections of the policy are presented 
separately means their combined effect isnt clear in this case. Overall, Im satisfied 
that it wasnt made reasonably clear or obvious to a reasonable policyholder that 
theyd have no cover under the policy if they travelled against FCO advice but that 
there would also be no cover in place if their travel plans were cancelled on the basis 
of FCO advice changing in between buying the policy and their intended departure 
date, as is what happened here.
I think this created a significant imbalance in the rights and interests of Zurich and 
Miss H, shifting the rights and obligations under the policy significantly in Zurichs  
favour. I think its likely Miss H wouldve bought another travel insurance policy if 
shed realised that there was no cover under this policy if the FCO guidance changed 
after it was purchased and/or she joined the policy as a beneficiary. There were other 
travel insurances policies available at the time which wouldve covered such a 
situation.When making this finding, I accept that its not practical for the terms and conditions of a 
policy  or an IPID  to list every possible insured peril and/or every possible exclusion. Ive 
also considered that its common for the cancellation section of travel insurance policies to 
list the specific insured perils that are covered. However, the issue Im considering in this 
case is whether the specific exclusion from cover of cancellation claims arising from a 
change in FCO travel advice was clearly sign-posted to Miss H in this particular case based 
on the policy documentation. And, for the reasons set out above, I dont think it was. 
Ive also taken on board what Zurich says about having discussed the issue with Association 
of British Insurers and it has referred to a previous case. However, Ive considered the 
circumstances of this particular complaint  which includes the particular policy 
documentation.
Putting things right
I direct Zurich to assess the claim as if it is covered as an insured peril under the 
cancellation section the policy, subject to the remaining terms and conditions of the policy  
including (but not limited to) the financial limits of the policy, and the applicable excess.
My final decision
I uphold Miss Hs complaint to the extent set out above. I direct Zurich Insurance Plc to put 
things right by doing what Ive set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss H to accept 
or reject my decision before 9 March 2022.
 
David Curtis-Johnson
Ombudsman