DRN-4086394
The complaint
Mr W complains about Barclays Bank Plcs failure notify him about funds that were received 
into his ISA. He says this has led to a missed opportunity to invest and he has lost out as a 
result. 
What happened
Mr W has a stocks and shares ISA with Barclays. In May 2022, the ISA received a Return of 
Capital (ROC) of approximately £20,000 from shares he held in a particular company. 
Around the same time, he also received a dividend payment from the same stock. His 
dividend payment was reinvested to purchase further shares, but the ROC remained as a 
cash amount in his ISA. 
Around five months later, Mr W became aware that there was £20,000 uninvested funds in 
his ISA. He used the funds to purchase more shares. He raised a complaint with Barclays as 
he hadnt been informed that the money was left uninvested. He felt Barclays should have 
alerted him to this so he could invest at the time it was received. He said he has lost out 
because the cost of purchasing more shares had risen and he has missed dividends. 
Barclays responded to the complaint it didnt uphold it. In summary it said:
Mr W had the Automatic Dividend Reinvestment facility (ADR) set up on his ISA, so it 
arranged to purchase more shares with the dividend received. 
It appreciated why he felt it should also have reinvested the ROC, but said this was 
not a facility it offered. The ADR function is only triggered when a dividend payment 
is received. The ROC was not a dividend so would not be in scope for the ADR 
service. It doesnt automatically reinvest any other cash payment received into 
accounts. 
As it followed the correct process in not reinvesting the ROC, it didnt think it needed 
to compensate Mr W for any price loss he believes he incurred.
Barclays did offer Mr W £50 as a gesture of goodwill, but he declined this. He then referred 
his complaint to this service for independent review. 
One of our investigators looked into the complaint. She didnt uphold it. In summary she 
said:
Barclays automatically reinvested dividends and not other payments received  such 
as ROCs. 
She was satisfied in respect of corporate events, Barclays are not required to notify 
customers of mandatory corporate actions.
Overall, she said Barclays followed the correct process to reinvest the dividends
received - and she didnt think Barclays had caused a financial loss due to the ROC 
not being reinvested.
Mr W didnt accept the investigators findings and asked for an ombudsman to reach a 
decision. In summary he said its not reasonable for Barclays not to notify him that he had 
uninvested funds in his account. He thinks he should have been told when the corporate 
action happened so he could invest the funds  but he wasnt.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I understand that Mr W holds an execution only account  and this dictates the service 
Barclays provides to him. In practice this means Barclays isnt responsible for advising or 
recommending investment opportunities to Mr W or take any on-going responsibility for 
shares that have been purchased, but rather it just executes the instructions he provides. 
Mr F had activated an instruction to automatically reinvest dividends he received on shares 
that were held in his account. This is what happened when he received a dividend payment 
in May 2022. But at the same time, he also received a ROC. This payment was made by the 
particular company he held shares in as a one-off incident where approval had been gained 
to make this payment. The crux of Mr Ws complaint is that he wasnt notified of receipt of 
this payment and therefore the funds received lay uninvested in his ISA for several months. 
He says this caused a missed investment opportunity and he has lost out as a result. So, I 
need to decide if an error by Barclays has resulted in the missed opportunity Mr W 
describes. 
Firstly, I find that Barclays acted reasonably in how it interpreted the funds paid to Mr W as 
part of the ROC  when taking into account the ADR function. Barclays has explained this 
function was for dividend income.  Im satisfied that the ROC was different to a standard 
dividend payment  so it was reasonable for Barclays not to treat it as a dividend for the 
purposes of the ADR function. So, I dont find Barclays made an error by not automatically 
reinvesting the funds. 
Ive considered the concerns Mr W has raised about not receiving the notification of the 
payment. Barclays say by logging on to his account he would have seen a contract note for 
the receipt of the ROC. It doesnt appear that Mr W did this, so wasnt aware of the ROC for 
several months. On the one hand I understand why Mr W thinks Barclays should have been 
proactive in giving him notification. But on the other hand, Im conscious Barclays was 
providing an execution only service, so its not clear this type service is something that could 
be expected  or that Barclays are at fault for not prompting Mr W to log on. When 
considering the type of service being provided, I dont find it reasonable to say Barclays was 
required to update Mr W of uninvested funds in his account.
Ive also thought whether Barclays is at fault for not telling Mr W about the potential ROC 
ahead of the funds being added to his account. Barclays holds Mr W shares on a nominee 
basis on his behalf.  In a scenario where Barclays is aware of a corporate action that 
requires instruction to be taken, then clearly this would require notification so that the 
shareholder can give that instruction. But the ROC subject to this complaint was a 
mandatory action, so Mr W didnt have any instruction to give. Barclays say it is not required 
to notify clients of mandatory corporate actions. The account terms dont cover the specific 
situation of a ROC being received and how this would be treated. While I appreciate that it 
would have been desirable for Mr W to get notification, Im not persuaded in these particular 
circumstances it is clear that Barclays has made an error by not providing notification of this 
beneficial mandatory action.
On balance, I dont find Barclays have made an error by not providing notification to Mr W. I 
do empathise and understand why Mr W is unhappy that he wasnt proactively made aware 
that he had uninvested funds in his account  but for the reasons given I dont think the 
evidence is sufficient to make a finding that Barclays has made an error. It follows, I dont 
uphold Mr Ws complaint or recommend that Barclays needs to do anything further. My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 24 August 2023.
 
Daniel Little
Ombudsman