DRN-2973448
The complaint
Mr C has complained that Bank of Scotland plc (BOS) failed to stop payments leaving his 
account which caused him to be blacklisted.
What happened
Mr C complained to BOS about an outstanding debt on an account of his that had been 
closed. BOS accepted that it had made a mistake by not closing his account sooner and 
because of this Mr C had incurred overdraft fees which he shouldnt have done. 
To put things right BOS refunded all fees to put Mr C in the position he wouldve been in if 
the account had been closed when it should have in 2013 as well as arranging to have the 
default removed from his credit file and compensating Mr C £200 for the distress and 
inconvenience caused.
BOS also advised that if Mr Cs account had been closed at the correct time, he wouldve 
had a debit balance of £298.94. As this debt was sold to a third party, Mr C would need to 
contact it regarding the remaining balance and about any default it had applied.
One of our adjudicators looked at this complaint and thought that BOSs offer was fair and 
reasonable and didnt think BOS should do anything more. 
Mr C disagreed and asked for an ombudsmans decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having carefully considered everything, I think that what BOS has already done to
do to put things right for Mr C is fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of his
complaint. Ill explain why I think this is the case. 
It might help for me to start by explaining that where a business accepts (or we decide) it did 
something wrong, wed expect the business to put the consumer in the position they would 
be in if that wrong hadnt taken place. And in an ideal world, wed tell a business to put a 
consumer in the position theyd now be in if they hadnt been given the credit they shouldnt 
have. This service doesnt supervise, regulate or discipline the businesses we cover. And my 
role isnt to punish or penalise businesses for their performance or behaviour  thats the role 
of the regulator, in this case the Financial Conduct Authority.
In this case, Mr C was left with an outstanding balance on his account, once all adjustments 
have been made, and hes been refunded all of the interest, fees and charges caused by 
BOS not closing his account when it should of. So while Mr C has been left with a balance 
and he might be unhappy with this, BOS has done what Id normally expect it to do here.
That said, we do look at each case individually and on its own particular merits. And while 
we have a general approach to how we how we might tell a lender to put things right where it 
had made a mistake, we can and will tell it to do something different and/or something more 
if theres a strong reason to say thats what would be fair and reasonable to do in the 
circumstances of that individual case.
 
Mr C says BOS should do something different here. He says he has not been compensated 
enough and wants the bank to be penalised for its error. But as Ive explained above  my 
role isnt to punish or penalise a business. BOS has already put Mr C in the position he 
wouldve been in if the mistake hadnt happened and compensated Mr C £200 for any 
distress and inconvenience caused. 
So Im satisfied that what BOS has already done for Mr C is fair and reasonable in all the 
circumstances of his case and Im not requiring it to do anything more. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, Im satisfied that what Bank of Scotland plc has already 
agreed to do to put things right for Mr C is fair and reasonable in the circumstances of his 
case. So I do not uphold Mr Cs complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 4 November 2021.
 
Caroline Davies
Ombudsman