DRN-2271580
The complaint
Mr P has complained that Aviva Life & Pensions UK Limited has declined his terminal illness 
claims on his two term assurance policies. 
Mr P is being represented by his wife  Mrs P  but for ease Ill refer to Mr P throughout the 
decision. 
What happened
Mr P took out his term assurance policies in 2003 for a term of 25 years and in 2014 for a 
term of 15 years. 
Mr P was sadly diagnosed with terminal colon cancer with multiple liver metastases in 
May 2020. He was advised the cancer was incurable and that his prognosis was likely to be 
a year or less. He submitted a claim to Aviva with medical information from his treating 
consultant.
Aviva considered the claim but said it was too early to reach a conclusion. It said its 
Chief Medical Officer (CMO) also had to agree that Mr P was not likely to live longer than 
twelve months. And its CMO said that based upon the medical information and treatment 
provided by Mr Ps consultant he wasnt satisfied his life expectancy was no greater than 
twelve months. Aviva said its CMO felt it should wait to see what happens with Mr Ps 
condition on his current treatment plan before giving a further opinion on his life expectancy. 
Our investigator considered the complaint, but he didnt uphold it. He accepted Mr P had 
received a terminal diagnosis, but he didnt think Aviva had acted unreasonably or outside of 
its terms and conditions by relying on the opinion of its CMO.
Mr P disagreed and asked for an ombudsmans final decision. He felt his treating consultant 
had been clear that his prognosis met the policy definition and the Aviva CMO had never 
met him so didnt know his specific case. So, he felt he hadnt been treated fairly. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im afraid Im not upholding it. I know this will be very disappointing news for 
Mr P, which is made worse given his current state of health. I want to assure him that I didnt 
take this decision lightly. I understand this is an incredibly difficult time for him and his family. 
While I dont want to add to his distress, I cant say Aviva has treated him unfairly. Ill explain 
why.
Where the evidence is incomplete, inconclusive, or contradictory (as it is here), I have to 
make my decision on the balance of probabilities  that is, what I consider is more likely than 
not to have happened in the light of the available evidence and the wider surrounding 
circumstances. 
The policy which commenced in 2003 sets out that for a terminal illness claim to be paid, the 
following definition must be met in full:
Terminal illness Benefit will be payable where, other than within the eighteen months prior 
to the Expiry Date, the Life Insured is diagnosed as suffering from an advanced or rapidly 
progressing and incurable condition (the Terminal illness) which is, in the opinion of the 
Companys medical adviser, such that the life expectancy of the Life Assured is no greater 
than twelve months from the date the condition is notified to the Company by the 
Policyholder.
The policy which commenced in 2014 says the following; 
3. TERMINAL ILLNESS BENEFIT
(a) Terminal Illness Benefit will be payable where, on or before the End Date, the Life Insured is 
diagnosed as suffering from an advanced or rapidly progressing and incurable condition such 
that the life expectancy of the Life Insured is no greater than twelve months (the Terminal 
Illness). In determining that diagnosis, we will consider the views of the Life Insureds 
medical adviser; consult the views of our medical adviser; and take the typical life expectancy 
for someone diagnosed with the Terminal Illness into account.
I should explain that in considering this complaint its not for me to reach a medical opinion 
on whether Mr P met the above definitions. Instead, I have to consider whether Aviva 
assessed the claim fairly and reasonably in light of the medical evidence and opinions it was 
presented with. And whether  on balance  Mr Ps prognosis is more likely than not less 
than twelve months. Having carefully considered all the available evidence, Im satisfied that 
it has considered the claim fairly. 
Mr Ps consultant has stated Mr P meets the criteria for terminal illness and that his 
prognosis is possibly less than twelve months. He also told Aviva Mr P currently has a score 
of 1 on The Eastern Co-operative Oncology Group (ECOG)/WHO (World Health 
Organisation) performance status. This is a scale from 0-5 with a score of 0 meaning the 
patient is fully active and a score of 5 meaning the patient has died. The scoring of 1 is 
defined as Restricted in physically strenuous activity but ambulatory and able to carry out 
work of a light or sedentary nature, e.g., light house work, office work. 
The consultant added that he hoped Mr P would respond to treatment temporarily although 
the responses could be short. But according to the above conditions, for the claim to be paid 
on both policies, the CMO must also be in agreement. So, it wasnt unreasonable for Aviva 
to seek the CMOs opinion here. 
The CMO accepted that Mr P had been diagnosed with an incurable disease. But he noted 
Mr P was on 1st line combination chemotherapy with the potential to progress to second line 
combination therapy if he is well enough. The CMO added that the median survival for 
patients receiving a combination 1st and 2nd line chemotherapys without supportive drugs is 
twenty-two months. And there are also other potential treatments which could increase this 
to thirty-one months. 
Ive considered this carefully, but overall, Ive found the evidence from Avivas CMO  on 
balance  to be more persuasive here. While, I accept the diagnosis is terminal and 
incurable, there were still potential treatment options available which could potentially 
increase Mr Ps life expectancy beyond twelve months. And I need to be satisfied his 
prognosis is more than likely less than twelve months rather than it being possible. Ive noted that Aviva is happy to reassess the claim in the future if scans indicate Mr Ps 
disease has progressed.  
So, while I have every sympathy for Mr Ps situation, I cant say Aviva unfairly declined the 
claim. So, Im not going to ask it to do anything further here. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision before 2 December 2020.
 
Mark Dobson
Ombudsman