DRN-4429192
The complaint
Ms B has complained about the way a claim has been recorded and the way it was handled 
by her insurer West Bay Insurance Plc. 
What happened
On 25 October 2022 Ms B reported to West Bay that her car keys were missing. West Bay 
recorded the incident as a notification with a date of 19 October 2022, being the date Ms B 
gave as when her keys went missing, so the date of the incident. 
As requested by Ms B, at the beginning of November 2022 West Bay made arrangements 
for Ms Bs car to be repaired. West Bay would meet the costs to replace the missing keys up 
to £500 under the terms of the policy: any additional costs were the responsibility of Ms B. 
However, West Bay met the costs of recovery to a garage near to Ms Bs home address. 
Ms Bs policy was due for renewal on 23 November 2022. West Bay didnt offer renewal to 
Ms B and so her policy lapsed. She took out another policy. 
In January 2013 Ms B complained to West Bay. She said it had incorrectly recorded the 
claim details on a central database. Because of this, her new policy had been cancelled by 
the insurer and shed incurred a penalty. 
Ms B said West Bay didnt give her a choice as to where the repairs could be done. She said 
shed received an estimate from a garage near to where she was at the time (which wasnt 
near her home address) for around £400. She was unhappy with the claim costs recorded 
and the date of the claim - and said West Bay hadnt provided details of the costs of the 
claim and dates for her to accurately declare to her new insurer. 
In February 2023 West Bay didnt uphold Ms Bs complaint. It said it had correctly recorded 
the date of the claim. It arranged for repairs to take place locally to Ms Bs address under the 
policy in case any rectification repairs were needed. 
Ms B asked us to look at her complaint. She wanted West Bay to refund the £579.10 she 
paid above the £500 West Bay paid for the key replacement for her car. She wanted it to 
update the central database with the correct information about her claim. And Ms B wanted 
West Bay to pay the difference she had to pay in penalty fees for cancelled insurance 
policies since the claim. 
Our Investigator didnt find West Bay had done anything wrong. It had correctly recorded the 
claim, it had included the total costs of the claim on the central database which it is obliged 
to do. She thought West Bay was entitled to decide to have the repairs carried out locally to 
Ms Bs address under the policy and it gave a valid reason as to why. 
The Investigator explained that Ms B was aware she had an open claim when she arranged 
the renewal of her policy for 23 November 2023 - as she had made the claim earlier that 
month. She noted that Ms B has raised a separate complaint against her new insurer in 
relation to the cancellation. The Investigator didnt agree West Bay was responsible for 
recording incorrect claim information about the incident. 
Ms B didnt agree. So the case has been passed to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As Ms B reported an incident and subsequently made a claim, I think West Bay correctly 
recorded the details at each stage. Until a claim is settled and closed, it will show as an open 
claim on a central database insurers use to share claim related information, including 
notification only incidents. 
I understand Ms B says she spent time regularly in another location to her home address. 
And it is in this country that Ms Bs car was when she reported the keys as missing. From 
the email exchanges on 2 November 2022, I think West Bay kept Ms B informed of where it 
intended to recover her car to so that the garage carrying out the repairs (transmitter, locks, 
replacement keys) was local to her home address. I dont think this was an unreasonable 
approach for West Bay to take - and in any event it is entitled under the policy to make this 
decision even if Ms B might not agree with it. 
I understand Ms B is unhappy with the claim costs. But West Bay met the costs to recover 
the car and has correctly recorded the claim costs on the central database. I find that Ms B 
has paid a fair amount in line with the claim costs for the difference in repairs: being a total of 
£1,079.10. As West Bays limit for this type of claim was £500, Ms B therefore correctly 
owed the balance of £579.10. The garage has provided a breakdown of the costs for the 
parts and labour and Im satisfied this is reasonable. 
Ms B says West Bay didnt provide her with the details of the costs of her claim when she 
renewed her car insurance policy. I can see that West Bay settled the claim on 1 December 
2022. So it wasnt possible to provide final claim costs in time for Ms Bs renewal date of 23 
November 2022. At this stage, Ms B was aware that the claim was open - as repairs werent 
completed until after the renewal date. I cant comment on why Ms Bs policy at renewal was 
cancelled, as the Investigator explained - this is separate to her complaint about West Bay. I 
can see West Bay provided a full breakdown of the costs to Ms B on 20 January 2023. 
Ms B says she had the additional costs of bringing the car back to the location where she 
lost the keys. I dont think this is a cost West Bay is responsible for. Its reasons for 
recovering the car to a garage local to Ms Bs address makes sense in case of any 
rectification issues. 
Ms B says that this reason isnt valid for her circumstances as she travels regularly to other 
locations for work and leaver her car in the port. This doesnt meant that West Bays decision 
was unreasonable. The address where Ms B says her car is kept mainly overnight is the 
address West Bay reasonably used to make its decision as to how best deal with the claim. 
Ms B says she asked how much the claim costs would be and didnt receive a reply - and 
she didnt agree to her car being moved to near her home address for repairs. But this 
doesnt change the outcome. Its clear from the email exchanges on 2 November 2022 that 
Ms B didnt object to West Bays decision to recover the car to near her home address - and 
the final costs of the claim were not recorded under the central database until 1 December 
2022. The claim repairs werent completed until 27 November 2023, which was after the 
renewal date. So West Bay would not have been able to give Ms B final costs for the claim 
before it was closed. This isnt unusual when the timing of an open claim is close to the 
renewal date. 
I can see that Ms B mentioned an alternative for a repairer near where her car was parked. 
She wrote in response to an email dated 2 November 2022 confirming West Bay would 
arrange for her car to be recovered to near her home address :(regarding the recovery arrangements)..This seems more cost effective, and if an auto 
engineer can be sorted to then lift the vehicle at the port and sort a new fob/keys. I can then 
collect the vehicle when repaired.
Alternatively, there is an auto engineer in (location near port inserted here) who has quoted 
£400 plus VAT to travel to (name of) port, and sort fobs/keys. I do not know anything 
concerning credentials, etc.
As Ms B had been informed as to how West Bay intended to deal with the claim. I dont think 
it acted unreasonably in not considering the alternative repairer. In any event, an insurer is 
entitled to use its network of approved repairers in line with the policy, which is what West 
Bay did in this case.
So - its clear that Ms B did make a claim and this claim was dealt with reasonably and in  
line with the policy. I think Ms B has paid the correct amount as set out under the policy for 
her claim. The policy says:
8 Replacement locks
What is covered under this section
If the keys or other ignition activation device to the car or the lock transmitter are 
stolen the insurer will pay up to a maximum of £500 under this section towards the 
cost of replacing:
The door locks and/or boot lock.
Ignition/steering lock.
The keys or ignition activation device or the lock transmitter and central locking 
interface.
The reasonable cost of protecting the car, transporting it to the nearest repairers 
when necessary and delivering it after repair to your address.
Provided it can be established that the identity or the risk address of the car is likely 
to be known to any person in receipt of such items.
What is not covered under section 8
The first £100 of any claim.
Any claim where the keys, lock activation device or the lock transmitter and central 
locking interface are either:
Left in or on the car at the time of the loss; or
Taken without your permission by a person known to you, unless that person is 
reported to the police.
So, taking everything int account, I dont think West Bay acted unreasonably. So Im not 
asking it to do any more. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms B to accept or 
reject my decision before 29 December 2023.
 Geraldine Newbold
Ombudsman