DRN-4040929
The complaint
Mr M complains that Bank of Scotland plc (BoS) returned a cheque unpaid.
What happened
Mr M had an account with BoS  since 1985. In November 2022, he wrote a cheque for 
£20,000 to an investment management company to buy some shares. The contract note 
issued by the investment management company was dated 2 November 2022. On 4 
November 2022, it was presented for payment but was returned unpaid by BoS as no 
signature was held in the banks records. 
On 7 November 2022, Mr M visited a branch of BoS with the necessary documentation to 
give his signature, and his records were updated. BoS suggested he used a bankers draft 
and issued one for £20,000 to Mr M. The records provided by Mr M show the shares were 
then bought on 16 November 2022. 
Mr M complained. He said he had been a customer of BoS for 50 years and had never had 
this experience in the past. He said other cheques for £7,000 and £20,000 had been paid by 
BoS in the past year without any problem. He said that if BoS didnt hold his signature after 
so many years of banking with them, it wasnt his fault. He said that because the share price 
had moved against him, the £20,000 bought fewer shares (on 16 November 2022) than if the 
purchase had taken place as planned  on 2 November 2022. He said the loss to him was 
£1,399.32
BoS made an error when they issued their final response on 2 February 2023. This said they 
did hold his signature at the time of the incident, and therefore they shouldnt have returned 
the cheque. They paid compensation of £200. 
Mr M brought his complaint to us. Our investigator looked at what happened. BoS said their 
final response was wrong. That was because the complaint handler at that time thought a 
signature was held at the time of the presentation of the cheque  when in fact, BoS only 
held Mr Ms signature from when he visited the branch on 7 November 2022. A signature 
wasnt held by BoS when the cheque was presented on 4 November 2022. 
Our investigator said BoS explained that they likely held a physical copy of Mr Ms signature 
when he first opened his account in 1985. But when they updated their records to capture all 
signatures electronically, it appears that Mr Ms signature wasnt provided, or transferred to 
the new format. She said BoS tried to call Mr M on 4 November 2022 to try to get his 
authority to pay the cheque, but without success. She said BoS didnt make an error when 
returning the cheque and therefore didnt need to compensate Mr M for his losses.
Mr M asked that an ombudsman look at his complaint, and so it has come to me to make a 
final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I appreciate what Mr M has said here  he has been a customer of BoS for many years and 
assumed that they still held his signature from when he opened his account in 1985. He says 
BoS paid two other cheques for £7,000 and £20,000 in the previous year.
But on the other hand, BoS argue that they dont have a copy of his signature in their 
electronic records  as BoS transferred all signatures (previously held in paper format in the 
branch) to holding them electronically or digitally  on a central computer. It appears that 
as part of that transfer, Mr Ms signature was mislaid. Im not able to say with certainty why 
that was.
I think its reasonable for banks to make decisions on the payment of cheques based on the 
records they hold, and in this case they didnt hold Mr Ms signature. BoS have provided 
evidence that they called Mr M on 4 November 2022  to try to get him to authorise the 
payment of the cheque. So  that was a reasonable thing for BoS to do. But unfortunately, 
the call wasnt successful.
When Mr M visited the branch on 7 November 2022  the branch suggested an alternative 
solution  and provided a draft for £20,000 for him to use. That was a reasonable thing for 
the branch to do  they were trying to help Mr M.
I assume that Mr M then posted this to the investment management company  but I can 
see from the evidence that the shares werent bought until 16 November 2022  which 
appears quite a long time. I cant say why that was  whether Mr M didnt post the draft 
straight away; if it was delayed in the post; or if the investment management company were 
slow in dealing with the purchase. But whatever the reason, I cant reasonably hold BoS 
responsible for the delay, and the movement in share price.
I can see that Mr M was dealing with a large and reputable investment management firm. 
And therefore I think its also reasonable to assume that they would accept payments by 
other means  e.g. by bank transfer  which Mr M could arrange through BoS telephone 
banking. He may have been able to call the investment  management firm and pay by debit 
card. I dont know if Mr M uses internet banking, but if he did, he could also have used that. 
So in considering the impact on Mr M  he couldve used other ways of getting the money to 
the investment management firm.
Mr M has argued that he has issued other cheques which were paid. But on balance, I dont 
think that means that BoS were obliged to pay the cheque in question. BoS have to make a 
decision on each cheque presented for payment. 
I was sorry to hear of Mr Ms frustrating experience. But having reviewed everything that 
happened here, Im not asking BoS to do anymore. (continued)
My final decision
I do not uphold this complaint.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 5 August 2023.
 
Martin Lord
Ombudsman