DRN-3766609
The complaint
Mr M complains that HSBC UK Bank Plc (HSBC) have failed to refund over £60,000 he lost 
as part of an investment scam.
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I will not repeat everything 
again in detail here. In summary, Mr M fell victim to a cryptocurrency investment scam in 
January 2021. He was contacted by a fraudulent investment merchant iglobal-invest (also 
known as Global-trade) after he had registered his interest with an advert he had seen 
where the investment had been endorsed by a celebrity.
Mr M made several payments to the scammer through a cryptocurrency exchange 
Cryptonet and Convertency.EU. He had received a credit of £1,000 after investing £250, 
which enticed him into making further payments. He deposited funds into his Cryptonet 
account, were they were subsequently sent on to the scammer from his crypto wallet. Mr M 
subsequently discovered he had been scammed after he made a withdrawal request and his 
investments started to do badly and his money was lost, at which point the scammers tried 
to persuade him to invest more.
Mr M reported the scam to HSBC, but they refused to refund the money he had lost as he 
had authorised the payments. Our investigator upheld his complaint about the bank, as he 
said it should have intervened from the payment of £4,360 on 4 February 2021, which ought 
to have flagged as suspicious. If it had done so, the investigator believed any further loss 
would have been prevented. HSBC disagreed as it said Mr M had previously made 
payments of over £4,000 from his account, so the matter was escalated to me to determine.
I issued my provisional decision on this complaint in October 2022. I said I was minded to 
reach a different outcome to the investigator as I didnt intend upholding it. I set out the 
following reasoning: 
It isnt in dispute that Mr M authorised the disputed payments he made to Cryptonet 
and Convertency.EU from his HSBC debit card (where his funds were subsequently 
transferred on to the scammers from his crypto wallets). The payments were 
requested by him using his legitimate security credentials provided by HSBC, and the 
starting position is that banks ought to follow the instructions given by their customers 
in order for legitimate payments to be made as instructed.
However, Ive considered whether HSBC should have done more to prevent Mr M 
from falling victim to the scam, as there are some situations in which a bank should 
reasonably have had a closer look at the circumstances surrounding a particular 
transfer. For example, if it was particularly out of character. 
I appreciate that the investigator considered the payment of £4360 made on 
4 February 2021 to have been unusual. But having considered Mr Ms spending and 
account history, I do not consider it was. I can see, for example, that Mr M had made 
at least two other transfers of £4,000 or above within 12 months of the point he fell 
victim to the scam. So, I dont think there was any cause for this to have flagged on 
HSBCs fraud prevention systems as being a suspicious increase in spending from 
Mr Ms account. The payee was also a legitimate cryptocurrency exchange. So there 
would have been no cause for the payment to have been automatically blocked by 
virtue of it being paid to a suspicious looking merchant either.
Ive also considered the other payments Mr M made to Cryptonet and 
Convertency.EU to see if there was any payment that ought reasonably to have been 
regarded as suspicious by HSBC. But I cant see that there is. 
I appreciate that, overall, Mr M has lost over £60,000, which is a significant amount of 
money. But this amount wasnt paid in one single large or out of character 
transaction. It was spread over 20 or so separate smaller increments which, in my 
judgment, would not have appeared particularly unusual or out of character when 
compared with Mr Ms spending history, such that they ought to have been regarded 
as suspicious or indicating that he might have been at risk of falling victim to a scam.
I acknowledge there was a larger payment of £9,300 made to Cryptonet on 30 March 
2021. However, by this point, Mr M had routinely been making large payments of 
around £5,000 to the merchant, who was then a regular and established payee on 
the account. So, although the £9,300 was an increase in spending, I dont consider it 
to have been of such an amount, that it would represent a significant deviation from 
the pattern of spending already established on Mr Ms account.
I also appreciate there were days when more than one payment was made to 
Cryptonet, and that a series of payments made in quick succession can often be 
indicative of fraudulent activity. But in this instance, there were never more than two 
payments made on the same day to Cryptonet, so this cant reasonably be regarded 
as a series of payments being made in quick succession. Cryptonet was also an 
established payee on Mr Ms account by this point too, so I dont think this ought to 
have been regarded as unusual either.
So, having considered the payments Mr M made to the crypto exchanges, Im not 
persuaded there was anything that ought reasonably to have triggered HSBCs fraud 
monitoring systems, or that would have indicated he was in the process of being 
scammed. I understand that Mr M may have had his payments blocked by a different 
bank. But just because a payment appears suspicious to one bank, it doesnt mean it 
would to another, as it all depends on the individual account history and what would 
constitute an unusual pattern of spending. And in this instance, I do not think there 
was anything particularly unusual (when considering Mr Ms account history) that 
ought to have prompted HSBC to have intervened.
Ive also thought about whether HSBC could have done more to recover the funds 
after Mr M reported the fraud, as in some circumstances the money can be 
recovered via the bank raising a chargeback dispute. However, in these 
circumstances, Mr M used his debit card to pay legitimate crypto-exchange platforms 
before the funds were subsequently transferred on to the scammer. So, he wouldnt 
be able to make a successful chargeback claim in these circumstances because the 
company he paid had provided the services as intended (i.e. the purchase of 
cryptocurrency). Therefore, I do not think HSBC were under any obligation to pursue 
a chargeback claim for Mr M either.
I understand this will come as a disappointment to Mr M, and Im sorry to hear he has 
been the victim of a cruel scam. However, Im not persuaded HSBC could have 
reasonably prevented his loss in the circumstances, so I do not intend asking it to provide a refund.
I invited further comments and evidence from both parties. HSBC responded saying it had 
nothing further to add. Mr M responded disagreeing with my findings. In summary, he 
maintains that HSBC ought to have intervened at some point during the months that he was 
making the payments. He says he was completely duped, and the bank ought to have 
questioned the payments he was making.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I have also considered Mr Ms most recent submissions, and while I understand this will 
come as a disappointment, it hasnt changed the conclusions I reached in my provisional 
decision.
I appreciate that Mr M has been scammed, and there is no question that he was duped into 
making the payments as a result of a cruel and sophisticated scam. But considering whether 
there was anything that ought to have triggered HSBCs fraud prevention systems, I still do 
not think there was anything particularly unusual (when considering Mr Ms account history) 
that ought to have prompted HSBC to have intervened.
The initial payments he made were not unusual in comparison with his spending history on 
the account. And over time, he established a pattern of sending regular large payments to 
cryptocurrency exchange platforms, such that this wouldnt have flagged as unusual. And as 
I explained in my provisional decision, I do not consider his payment of £9,300 to have 
marked a significant increase in spending on the account compared to what had been paid 
out previously. 
I appreciate that cryptocurrency platforms are often used as part of investment scams. But 
then there are also payments made to these platforms every day that are not part of a scam 
where people are legitimately buying cryptocurrency. So there is no reason for a bank to 
automatically suspect fraud just because a payment is being made to such a platform, which 
is why I also dont think there was any reason for HSBC to stop the payments simply by 
virtue of the payee being a cryptocurrency exchange.  
Therefore, my decision remains unchanged in that I dont think HSBC have done anything 
wrong here, as I dont consider there to have been any circumstances at any point that ought 
to have led them to reasonably suspect fraudulent activity. 
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 18 November 2022.
 
Jack Ferris
Ombudsman