DRN-1920886
The complaint
Mr K complains Bank of Scotland plc trading as Halifax has unfairly declined a charge back 
claim for the cost of ferry tickets he cancelled. He asks that Halifax refund the cost of the 
tickets. 
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here. Instead Ill focus on giving my reasons for my decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the conclusions reached by the investigator. I appreciate this 
will come as a disappointment to Mr K. Ill explain why.
First, Im very aware that Ive summarised this complaint in far less detail than the parties 
and Ive done so using my own words. Im not going to respond to every single point made 
by all the parties involved. No discourtesy is intended by this. Instead, Ive focussed on what 
I think are the key issues here. 
Our rules allow me to do this. This simply reflects the informal nature of our service as a free 
alternative to the courts. If theres something Ive not mentioned, it isnt because Ive ignored 
it. I havent. Im satisfied I dont need to comment on every individual argument to be able to 
reach what I think is the right outcome. 
Where the evidence is incomplete, inconclusive or contradictory (as some of it is here), I 
reach my decision on the balance of probabilities  in other words, what I consider is most 
likely to have happened in the light of the available evidence and the wider circumstances.
When considering a complaint about a financial services provider, Im not determining the 
outcome of a claim that a party might have under chargeback or section 75. I take that into 
account when I think about whats a fair way to resolve the complaint, but I dont have to 
reach the same view as, for example, a court might reach if Mr K made a claim through them 
for breach of contract or misrepresentation. 
The chargeback scheme is intended to help resolve disputes between the consumer and the 
merchant without the need to resort to court action. The scheme operator, MasterCard in this 
instance, sets strict rules under which claims can be made and there would need to be a 
reasonable prospect of success for Halifax to be able to recover Mr Ks money without 
challenge. 
Here, the merchant provided the terms and conditions of Mr Ks ferry booking showing these 
tickets were offered at discounted rates and as such non-refundable.  The merchant also 
pointed out Mr K had taken out insurance but not pursued a claim. From what Ive seen Mr K 
cancelled non-refundable ferry tickets. There was nothing to show the merchant had 
breached the terms and conditions by not offering a refund and so it wasnt unreasonable for 
Halifax to decide it couldnt accept the claim.
I appreciate Mr K says he wasnt aware the tickets were non-refundable. He had previously 
cancelled a trip and received a full refund, so I can understand why he thought this would be 
the case on this occasion. But this booking was different in that he received a discounted 
rate and that changed the terms and conditions of the booking and his right to a refund.
Mr K has said the merchant sold the cancellation insurance at the time of booking but now 
wont refund him. But I cant see Mr K has contacted the insurance company directly to make 
a claim as he feels this should have been the responsibility of the ferry company. But the 
insurance documents I have seen are in his name and so he would need to make a claim if 
the ferry operator wasnt able or willing to do so on his behalf. In either case, I cant fairly say 
it is the responsibility of Halifax to enforce a potential insurance claim.
From what Ive seen I dont agree Halifax has done anything wrong and so Im unable to ask 
it to refund Mr K the cost of the ferry tickets.
My final decision
For the reasons I have given I dont uphold this complaint and I make no award.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr K to accept or 
reject my decision before 26 February 2021.
 
Wendy Steele
Ombudsman