DRN-3740492
The complaint
Mr M is unhappy how NewDay Ltd, the issuer of his Amazon credit card, handled his request 
for help to recover money when he was unable to make use of pre-booked airline flights. 
What happened
In November 2021, Mr M paid for flights for him and his family to travel abroad. The flights 
were scheduled for mid-December 2021, and Mr M paid a total of £6,265.11 for the flights. 
He paid this amount on two separate credit cards, with £3,000 being paid on his NewDay 
card. The flights were arranged through a travel provider, who Ill refer to as S.
Unfortunately, a couple of days before they were due to travel Mr M and a family member 
tested positive for Covid-19. He contacted S to let them know, and to ask for a full refund of 
the flight tickets as they wouldnt be needed. S confirmed to Mr M that he wasnt entitled to a 
full refund. They said the airline would allow a change of date up to a year in advance, and 
there would be a £235 fee per ticket if he wanted to cancel. Mr M was unhappy with this. He 
explained to S that he was told he would be entitled to a full refund by their sales agent, if a 
positive Covid-19 test was the reasons the flights couldnt be taken. S disputed this and 
referred Mr M to the terms and conditions of his booking. They didnt refund Mr M.
Mr M got in contact with NewDay at this point and asked them for their help. He completed a 
dispute resolution form and sent it to NewDay along with the evidence he felt supported his 
claim. NewDay raised a chargeback for him, and temporarily credited his account with 
£3,000 while S considered it. S defended the chargeback claim, and NewDay decided their 
defence was sufficient to prove that a chargeback claim wouldnt be successful. They let 
Mr M know, and they re-debited the amount from his account. They also explained to him 
that a claim under Section 75 (s75) of the Consumer Credit Act 1974 would be unsuccessful 
as there wasnt enough evidence to suggest S had breached or misrepresented the terms 
and conditions of the contract between them and Mr M. 
Mr M complained to NewDay. Part of his complaint was that he had received a full refund for 
the other half of the transaction that hed made, using a different card. NewDay didnt uphold 
his complaint. They said he hadnt provided any evidence to show he was entitled to a full 
refund, in contrast to what S had provided in defence to the chargeback. Because of that, 
NewDay said they didnt think the chargeback would succeed and they had made the 
decision not to take it any further. They said they couldnt comment on the other refund that 
Mr M had received. They did acknowledge that Mr M had previously experienced some long 
wait times while trying to speak to them on the phone, and they credited his account with 
£40 compensation to reflect that.
Mr M remained unhappy and brought his complaint to our service. While our investigator 
was looking into it, Mr M received a partial refund of £2,295 from S. The only amount 
outstanding was £705 that had been charged by the airline following his cancellation 
request. Our investigator didnt uphold the complaint. He said he felt the evidence provided 
by S in defence of the chargeback claim was strong, and it was fair of NewDay to make the 
decision not to take the claim any further. He didnt think it had a reasonable chance of 
success had they done so. He also said NewDay had acted fairly when deciding not to 
pursue a claim under s75. Our investigator said the £40 credited to Mr M was a suitable 
amount for the poor customer service he had received. 
Mr M didnt agree. He maintained that he was told by S prior to booking the flights that he 
would be entitled to a full refund if a cancellation was required because of a positive 
Covid-19 test. 
As Mr M didnt agree, its been passed to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
There are different ways that a bank can assist customers who have had issues with goods 
or services not being provided. In some cases, a bank may be able to request a refund from 
the supplier through the chargeback scheme. This is a way in which payment settlement 
disputes are resolved between cardholders and suppliers/merchants. They are dealt with 
under the relevant card scheme rules and in this case thats Mastercard. In certain 
circumstances the process provides a way for NewDay to ask for a payment Mr M made to 
be refunded. Those circumstances can include where a refund hasnt been provided. 
There is no obligation for a card issuer to raise a chargeback when a consumer asks for one. 
But I would consider it good practice for a chargeback to be attempted where the right exists 
and there is a reasonable chance of success. 
When a chargeback is raised, the scheme allows a given period of time  usually around a 
month  for the supplier to reply to say whether or not they agree to the refund. And when a 
supplier does defend a chargeback, this can lead to further representations by the 
cardholders bank. The process then allows for further representations to be made, if parties 
do not agree for the issue to be decided by the scheme in a process known as arbitration. 
Alternatively, or in addition, a bank can go on to consider whether there has been a breach 
of contract (or misrepresentation) under s75.
S75 says that in certain circumstances the borrower under a credit agreement has an equal 
right to claim against the credit provider if theres either been a breach of contract or 
misrepresentation by the supplier of goods or services. 
But for s75 to apply, there are certain criteria that need to be satisfied before looking at 
whether a breach of contract or misrepresentation has occurred. These include that there is 
a specific relationship between the parties, known as the debtor-creditor-supplier (DCS) 
relationship and that the purchase meets a certain cash price.
It's important to note that neither a chargeback nor s75 are a guarantee that a consumer 
recover their funds. Its not uncommon for a bank to deal with a customer dispute by raising 
a chargeback first and then, if that is declined, to consider whether a valid claim exists under 
s75. Usually, it wont make much difference as to which route a bank follows, so long as the 
bank acts fairly and reasonably in assisting its customer to recover their funds. 
In Mr Ms case, NewDay did raise the chargeback claim for him when they received his 
dispute resolution form and evidence, and they temporarily credited his account with £3,000 
while S were given time to consider things. S defended the chargeback and provided their 
evidence to NewDay to consider. Having done so, NewDay felt the chargeback claim 
wouldnt succeed if they were to represent it and explained to Mr M that they wouldnt be 
able to take it further. I can understand why NewDay did that. The terms and conditions provided by S didnt confirm Mr M would be entitled to a full refund if he chose to cancel the 
flights, even if the reason was a positive Covid-19 test. 
Mr M did say to NewDay that he felt the terms and conditions supplied by S werent the ones 
in place when he made the payment for the flights in November 2021, but despite requests 
from NewDay he didnt supply them with the terms and conditions he said hed agreed to. 
Because of this, and because of a lack of evidence to confirm Mr M should receive a full 
refund, Im satisfied NewDay acted fairly by not taking the chargeback claim further at this 
point. Im not persuaded there was any chance of success based on the information that had 
been supplied by both parties. I understand Mr M has said that S had told him during a 
phone call while the flights were being booked that he would be entitled to a full refund if the 
reason for cancellation was because of a positive Covid-19 test, but no evidence of that was 
provided and that isnt contained in the terms and conditions. So I cant say that NewDay 
acted unreasonably by explaining to Mr M that his chargeback wouldnt succeed, and 
re-debiting the £3,000 from his credit card. 
NewDay also considered a s75 claim for Mr M but declined it for broadly the same reasons. 
They said that Mr M had paid S to book the flights as a booking agent, and S had done this 
for him. The flights went ahead and were booked as agreed by S, so NewDay said they 
hadnt breached their terms and conditions by not allowing a full refund. They said there 
wasnt anything contained in the terms and conditions to confirm Mr M would be entitled to a 
full refund if he chose to cancel the flights and the flights went ahead, irrespective of the 
reason given for cancellation. Having reviewed the terms and conditions, Im satisfied 
NewDay have acted fairly by declining Mr Ms s75 claim. 
NewDay explained to Mr M that they couldnt consider a s75 claim against the airline as the 
necessary relationship between the parties wasnt in place. As he had paid S to arrange the 
flights, and S had then paid the airline, NewDay said the DCS relationship had been broken 
and a valid s75 claim right didnt exist. Having considered this, Im satisfied NewDay have 
acted reasonably by explaining this to Mr M. 
NewDay have credited Mr Ms account with £40 for the long waiting time he experienced 
when he was trying to speak to them about their reasons for not taking his claim any further. 
I think thats reasonable here. NewDay have accepted that, at times, their customer waiting 
time was longer than they would like it to have been. But, NewDay have also explained that 
they arranged a suitable time to call Mr M back and, when the call was made, Mr M was 
unable to take the time to discuss things with them. He never attempted to call back after 
that point. So, while NewDay have recognised some failings in the customer service they 
provided to Mr M, it hasnt had a negative effect on his claim, and they did try to resolve 
things with him. I think their payment of £40 is reasonable in the circumstances. 
I know my decision will come as a disappointment to Mr M as he feels hes out of pocket 
though no fault of his own. And I know hes unhappy as hes received a full refund from the 
other card issuer in relation to the flights. I cant comment on that. But what Im deciding here 
is whether NewDay acted fairly with the information they had from both parties. As 
mentioned previously, neither chargeback nor s75 are a guarantee that Mr M will recover his 
funds. And, in this case, Im satisfied NewDay acted fairly considering the information that 
had been provided. I wont be asking them to do anything more here. 
My final decision
NewDay Ltd have paid Mr M £40 to settle this complaint. I think thats fair in the 
circumstances. 
So, my decision is that NewDay Ltd dont need to do anything more here. Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 17 May 2023.
 
Kevin Parmenter
Ombudsman