DRN-2973973
The complaint
Mr K complains that a car acquired with finance from Moneybarn No 1 Limited trading as 
Moneybarn wasnt of satisfactory quality.
What happened
In April 2020 Mr K was supplied with a car and entered into a conditional sale agreement 
with Moneybarn. At the poi t of supply, the car was around 7 years old and had covered 
around 55,500 miles.
Mr K experienced issues with the car in the first few months. These included chip marks and 
a poor paint repair on the bonnet, the heater blowing cold air and the engine overheating, 
loss of coolant due to a crack in the expansion tank and engine failure due to issues with the 
cylinders.
Following the failure of the engine, Moneybarn arranged for an independent inspection of the 
car. The inspection concluded that there had been wear and deterioration of the cylinder 2 
gudgeon pin which resulted in the piston skirt breaking. The inspector said that due to the 
time and mileage elapsed since the point of supply, he didnt think the fault was present at 
the point of supply.
Based on the findings of the inspection, Moneybarn rejected the complaint.
Mr K remained unhappy and complained to this service. He says hes incurred expenses as 
a result of not being able to use the car and that the cost of a new engine was £2500. He 
wants Moneybarn to pay for the repairs.
Our investigator didnt uphold the complaint. She said that based on the evidence shed 
seen, she was unable to say that the fault was present or developing at the point of supply 
and didnt think there were grounds for rejection.
Mr K didnt agree. He felt that the cracked coolant tank had caused damage to the engine. 
He said he didnt know how long hed been driving the car with the cracked coolant tank 
because it didnt become apparent until it was sufficiently serious. Mr K didnt feel that the 
inspection had addressed this point. He also said he didnt think it was reasonable to replace 
an engine after such a short time of owning the car.
  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Because Moneybarn supplied the car under a conditional sale agreement, theres an implied 
term that it is of satisfactory quality. Cars are of satisfactory quality if they are of a standard 
that a reasonable person would regard as acceptable, taking into account factors such as 
the age and mileage of the car and the price paid.
I would expect a second hand car  such as that supplied to Mr K  to have a degree of 
wear and tear and to require repair more often than, say, a brand new car. In order tom 
uphold this complaint, I would need to be satisfied that there was a fault with the car at the 
pint of supply, as opposed to a fault due to general wear and tear.
Under the Consumer Rights Act 2015, where a fault occurs in the first 6 months of the point 
of supply, theres a presumption that it was present or developing at the point of supply and 
its generally up to the business to put things right. The business sis allowed one opportunity 
to repair the fault. If the repair isnt successful, the consumer can reject the car. After 6 
months, the burden of proof is reversed and its up to the consumer to show that the car 
wasnt of satisfactory quality at the point of supply.
The first fault experienced by Mr K related to the expansion tank which was found to have a 
crack in it, causing coolant to leak and the engine to overheat. I can see that the dealership 
carried out repairs and that Moneybarn reimbursed Mr Ks costs of recovering the car to the 
garage. It also paid compensation of £155 for trouble and upset. This is what I wouldve 
expected the business to do in these circumstances.
Ive had regard to Mr Ks concerns that the crack in the expansion tank may have caused 
damage to the engine. Theres nothing in the AA report, or either of the two inspection 
reports, to suggest that this is the case. Both inspectors would have been aware of the 
previous issue with the cracked tank and if there had been any possibility of a link between 
the two issues, I think its likely that the inspector wouldve identified it and commented on it.
Ive carefully considered both inspection reports. The first report identified a noise in the 
engine and found that the number 2 piston skirt was broken. The second report is more 
detailed and concludes that the piston skirt failure was caused by wear and deterioration of 
the cylinder 2 gudgeon pin displaying free play. The inspector stated that because of the 
time and mileage elapsed since the point of supply, he didnt consider this to be a point of 
supply fault.
Based on everything Ive seen, there isnt enough evidence for me to safely conclude that 
the car wasnt of satisfactory quality. I appreciate that Mr K doesnt think its reasonable to 
have to replace the engine after driving only 11,000 miles since he got the car. however, the 
engineering evidence suggests that the fault was one which couldve presented itself at any 
time and any mileage due to operating conditions and car usage. The fault appears more 
likely to be a sudden failure of a component part, as opposed to a fault present at the point 
of supply.
Finally, and in relation to the paintwork, there isnt enough evidence for me to say whether 
the chips and poor paintwork were present at the point of supply. But even if the chips were 
present at the point of supply, Im not persuaded that this would render the car of 
unsatisfactory quality, as it is cosmetic damage.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold the complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr K to accept or 
reject my decision before 20 October 2021.
 
Emma Davy
Ombudsman