DRN-4020284
The complaint
Mr Y complains that National Westminster Bank Plc (NatWest) has treated him unfairly in 
relation to a purchase he made using his NatWest credit card.
What happened
Mr Y is represented in his complaint by a relative. But for ease of reading Ive written this 
decision as if everything said or done on behalf of Mr Y by his representative was said or 
done by Mr Y himself.
Mr Y purchased a holiday for himself and his family via a third party who I will refer to as O. 
The holiday included both accommodation and outward and return flights. 
Mr Y and his family were able to use the outward flights and the accommodation but due to a 
mistake by O they were not able to use the return flights and had to buy alternative return 
flights. 
Mr Y complained to O and subsequently to NatWest. Mr Y requested a refund of the total 
amount hed paid for the holiday and full compensation for the alternative flights. Mr Y also 
wanted interest to be frozen on his account whilst NatWest looked at his complaint. 
O refunded what it indicated was the cost of the original return flights but nothing else.
NatWest considered it had two routes to help Mr Y, with at least some of his claim, a process 
known as chargeback and a claim against itself under Section 75 of the Consumer Credit 
Act 1974 (Section 75). 
By the time NatWest looked at chargeback, O had already refunded Mr Y for what appeared 
to be the cost of the original return flight. Mr Y had wanted NatWest to seek a chargeback for 
the portion of the holiday that he and his family had already used. Under the rules that apply 
to chargebacks NatWest had no right to make a chargeback claim for the goods and 
services Mr Y had used. Therefore it did not go ahead with the chargeback. However it did 
pay £80 for distress and inconvenience.
NatWest then looked at Mr Ys claim against it under Section 75. As a goodwill gesture it 
refunded Mr Y for the cost of the return flights he paid for minus the refund hed received 
from O, and it also gave Mr Y compensation of £54 (for a transfer fee Mr Y had paid in 
relation to the alternative tickets).
Mr Y accepted NatWests gesture of goodwill, but not in full and final settlement because he 
wanted a refund for the balance of the total price of the holiday as he considered he had not 
got what hed paid for. And moreover in his view hed been put to considerable trouble by 
NatWest in having to explain his complaint to it and also to third parties therefore he ought to 
be compensated for this.
Dissatisfied with NatWests response Mr Y came to our service.
One of our investigators looked into Mr Ys complaint. She did not recommend that NatWest 
had to take any further action.
NatWest accepted our investigators recommendation, Mr Y did not. Rather Mr Y repeated 
his previous stance. Mr Y also questioned why he should have to pay interest on his account 
while this complaint was being considered by us. Mr Y also highlighted what he saw as 
NatWests inconsistent approach to applying its security policies. 
Mr Y asked that an ombudsman review his complaint.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
First, Im very aware that Ive summarised this complaint in far less detail than the parties 
and Ive done so using my own words. Im not going to respond to every single point made 
by all the parties involved. No discourtesy is intended by this. Instead, Ive focussed on what 
I think are the key issues here. 
Our rules allow me to do this. This simply reflects the informal nature of our service as a free 
alternative to the courts. If theres something Ive not mentioned, it isnt because Ive ignored 
it. Rather, Im satisfied I dont need to comment on every individual argument to be able to 
reach what I think is the right outcome.
Where there is a dispute about what happened, I have based my decision on the balance of 
probabilities. In other words, on what I consider is most likely to have happened in the light 
of the evidence.
In considering what is fair and reasonable, I need to have regard to the relevant law and 
regulations, regulators rules, guidance and standards and codes of practice and (where 
appropriate) what I consider to have been good industry practice at the time. 
I think both chargeback and a claim under Section 75 against NatWest are relevant here and 
Ill look at each in turn.
chargeback
As Mr Y paid for the goods and services using his credit card and wanted a refund, Ive 
thought about whether NatWest dealt with his request fairly. The chargeback process is 
relevant in this case this is because it is a way in which payment settlement disputes are 
resolved between card issuers and merchants. They are dealt with under the relevant card 
scheme rules.
In certain circumstances the process provides a way for NatWest to ask for a payment Mr Y 
made to be refunded. Those circumstances include where goods or services arent supplied 
by the company Mr Y paid.
If I am to order NatWest to refund all or part of the cost of the holiday, I must be satisfied that 
it acted incorrectly in the way it considered the chargeback claim under the chargeback 
regulations
Id have expected NatWest to make a chargeback claim if there was a reasonable prospect 
of the success. However, in this instance given that the original air fare had it seems been 
refunded and Mr Y had used the remaining portion of the holiday there was no realistic 
prospect of success. It follows I dont agree that NatWest made any mistake in how it dealt 
with this part of Mr Ys complaint. 
I also note NatWest paid Mr Y £80 for distress and inconvenience, I would not have ordered 
it to make any such payment if it had not already done so. This is because nothing it did in 
handling the chargeback merited it I think.
For all of these reasons I dont uphold this part of Mr Ys complaint.
Section 75The general effect Section 75 is that if Mr Y has a claim for misrepresentation or breach of 
contract against the supplier (here O) he can also bring a like claim against NatWest 
provided certain conditions are met. 
Amongst other things Mr Y claims against NatWest for the consequential losses that he says 
flowed from the breach of contract by O and for the balance he paid for the holiday. 
However, NatWest has already fairly compensated Mr Y for the losses it is responsible for in 
refunding him for the cost of the alternative flights. NatWest might also reasonably have 
taken off the cost of the original flights from cost the alternative flights. It seems it did not so, 
therefore Mr Y got the return flights for free, which would not be Mr Ys remedy in law for this 
breach of contract and nether would it be a fair or reasonable remedy. 
Further, given Mr Y and his family used the remaining portion of the holiday I dont agree he 
is fairly or reasonably entitled to a refund for these elements of his holiday. If I did refund him 
as he asks, that would suggest he got nothing of value when he did, although I am aware Mr 
Y is unlikely to see it like this.
I recognise that Mr Y wants a payment for distress and inconvenience given that he spent 
time on pursuing his complaint including dealing with third parties. But it is to be expected 
that as a complainant Mr Y spends some time in bringing his complaint. Mr Y specifically 
complains that NatWest should have told him how to deal with one of these third parties, but 
it had no responsibility to do this. There is nothing about the individual circumstances of this 
complaint that makes me think Mr Y ought to get compensation for this aspect of his 
complaint.
For all of these reasons I dont uphold this part of Mr Ys complaint.
Interest
Under their agreement Mr Y agrees to pay NatWest interest in accordance with the relevant 
terms and conditions for the account. In opening the account Mr Y accepted those terms and 
conditions, Ive not been sent anything to suggest that those terms and conditions prevent 
NatWest applying interest just because Mr Y raises a complaint about a transaction on his 
account in these circumstances. So I have no proper basis for saying NatWest acted 
incorrectly if it has applied interest to Mr Ys account in line with the account terms and 
conditions. 
It follows I dont uphold this part of Mr Ys complaint.
Implementation of NatWests security policy
Mr Y complains that this whole matter was caused because when his relative tried to use her 
credit card (she also has a card for Mr Ys account) she was unable to due to security 
procedures. But the same procedures were not applied when he used his credit card, so 
they were both treated unfairly. 
I cannot look at anything that happened to Mr Ys relative as she is not an eligible 
complainant for the purposes of this complaint in any event. And even if I could look at what 
happened to Mr Ys relative as part of this complaint, which I cannot, on balance, I dont 
agree that there is causality to between any of this and the loss Mr Y made.
NatWest is entitled to decide how it applies its policies and I can only look at if Mr Y was 
treated unfairly as a result. I dont know whether NatWest applied its security policy to Mr Y 
or not, but on balance I think it did. Albeit Mr Ys transaction was not stopped so Mr Y may 
not have realised the policy was applied. Moreover, even if the policy was not applied to hm I 
dont agree that he was treated unfairly as a result. 
For all of these reasons I dont uphold this part of Mr Ys complaint. My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr Y to accept or 
reject my decision before 21 July 2023.
 
Joyce Gordon
Ombudsman