DRN-2871427
The complaint
Mr A complains that HSBC UK Bank Plc (HSBC) didnt set up a direct debit resulting in him 
incurring late payment and interest charges on a credit card account. He says HSBC then 
agreed to refund the charges and interest but didnt do so. He says the charges and interest 
are excessive and wants them refunded. 
What happened
Mr A opened a credit card account with HSBC in June 2018. The card was blocked in 
September 2019 and Mr A called HSBC. He was told the account was with its collections 
department as the minimum payments due hadnt been made. Mr A said that a direct debit 
had been set up to make payments. But HSBC said a direct debit hadnt been set up. There 
was a discussion about the interest and fees that had been added to the account balance. 
Mr A says that HSBC agreed to waive these charges and correct his credit file about late 
payments. Mr A then cleared the full outstanding balance on the credit card and a direct 
debit was set up to make the minimum payment due going forward. 
Mr A says he didnt further review his account until June 2020, when he realised that HSBC 
had only refunded one late payment fee of £12 and one interest payment of £118.28. Mr A 
says this meant the total amount of interest and charges he had paid was over £1,400. He 
complained to HSBC.
HSBC didnt accept the complaint. It said it had only agreed to waive one late charge and 
one months interest during the September 2019 call. It said due to issues caused by home 
working in response to the corona virus pandemic it couldnt currently provide him with a 
copy of the call recording. It said late payment charges and interest on the outstanding 
balance had been fairly charged in line with the terms and conditions (T&Cs) of the account.
Mr A referred his complaint to our service, saying HSBC should have taken funds from his 
current account each month to pay the credit card. Our investigator looked into Mr As 
complaint, but he didnt uphold it. 
Our investigator said HSBC hadnt made an error. He said there was no evidence Mr A had 
requested a direct debit be set up to pay the credit card. He said HSBCs monthly 
statements requesting payment and letters about missed payments made it clear that a 
direct debit wasnt in place. And as Mr A had made some minimum payments manually 
during the period, he must have seen the statements to know the amounts due. He said the 
T&Cs made it clear that late fees and interest would be applied if payments werent made 
on time or the account balance wasnt cleared. He said the charges and interest debited 
appeared to have been correctly applied.
HSBC had provided a copy of the call recording from September 2019. Our investigator said 
that HSBC had only agreed to refund one months charges and interest, which it had done, 
not all the charges and interest. It had also altered Mr As credit record as it had promised to. 
He said the T&Cs of the account didnt allow HSBC to debit Mr As bank account unless a 
direct debit had been set up by him.
Mr A said HSBC were aware how busy he was and should have called or text him rather 
than just sending letters. Our investigator asked HSBC about this and it provided a schedule 
showing it had tried calling and texting Mr A on twelve occasions between July 2018 and 
September 2019, without response. Mr A then said HSBC should have emailed him as this 
was his preferred contact method. 
Our investigator said his view hadnt changed and that our service couldnt tell a business 
how to contact its customers but that it wasnt unreasonable for HSBC to have called Mr A 
rather than emailed him and that overall it had made fair efforts to contact him. Our 
investigator sent Mr A the recording of the call where waiving interest and charges was 
discussed, along with a transcript of the relevant section on the call. He asked that Mr A to 
confirm if hed been able to listen to this, and for any further comments he may have, but Mr 
A hasnt responded.
As Mr A doesnt agree it has come to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I am not upholding the complaint. Ill explain why.
Whilst Mr As credit card and his bank account were with HSBC they werent linked and 
there was no facility for payments due on the credit card to be automatically deducted from 
the bank account without a direct debit being put in place by Mr A. Under the T&Cs of the 
credit card account Mr A was responsible for making payments on time and HSBC appears 
to have charged the fees and interest set out in the T&Cs and on the statements sent to Mr 
A. Mr A says the charges and interest rate is excessive but they are clearly set out in the 
T&Cs he accepted and on the monthly statements sent to him, so I cant say these are 
unreasonable.
HSBC have no record of a request to set up a direct debit for the credit card account. I think 
the occasional payments of the specific overdue minimum monthly amount due do show Mr 
A did look at some of the statements. These showed payments werent being made under a 
direct debit. And, if Mr A thought one had been set up, then there was a problem that 
needed further investigation. But he didnt do this until the credit card itself was suspended. 
I think HSBC made reasonable additional attempts to contact Mr A by sending letters about 
late payments and making calls and sending text messages, all of which indicated there was 
a problem to be resolved. Ultimately it was Mr As responsibility to check his accounts and 
make the necessary payments in time to avoid fees and interest charges. 
Having listened to the telephone call, I agree with HSBC that it didnt offer to waive all 
interest and charges. It did agree to waive one late payment charge and one months 
interest as a gesture of goodwill, which it has. HSBC also revised Mr As credit record as it 
had agreed, even though it hadnt made an error and didnt need to do this. So, I dont think 
HSBC has treated Mr A unfairly or unreasonably and it neednt do anything more than it has. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold the complaint. Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision before 2 September 2021.
 
Nigel Bracken
Ombudsman