DRN-4090950
The complaint
Mrs I complains that Epayments Systems Ltd blocked her account and she wasnt able to 
access her funds. Shed like compensation for the impact.
What happened
The facts which led to Mrs I bringing her complaint to our service are well known to both 
parties, so I wont be repeating them in full here.
In summary, Mrs I had an Epayments account. On 11 February 2020 the regulator, the 
Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) placed limitations on Epayments. This meant Epayments 
were unable to process any transactions until the limitations were lifted. This meant Mrs I 
couldnt access her money. The original restrictions were lifted on 23 February 2022 and 
Epayments began the process of reviewing customers accounts and refunding customers. 
But Mrs I has yet to have her funds returned to her. 
Mrs I complained to our service. 
One of our investigators looked at the complaint. He initially issued a view saying that he 
couldnt advise Epayments to release the money as Mrs I had failed to provide documents 
requested by Epayments for Know Your Customer (KYC) checks. On Mrs I providing the 
required documentation, our investigator issued a second view. 
He said Epayments were responsible for the limitations placed on them by the regulator and 
they should compensate Mrs I for the time she didnt have access to her funds. He awarded 
Mrs I 8% interest for the time she wasnt able to access her funds as well as £150 for the 
distress of not having access to her account.
Mrs I agreed with the view.
Epayments didnt accept and theyve put forward two offers to resolve Mrs Is complaint  
these include £250 compensation and 1% interest on the account balance from the day of 
restriction to the day of return. 
In summary they said:
They kept Mrs I informed at every step of the restriction and continue to do so.
Mrs Is difficulty in accessing her funds was due to FCA's limitation on withdrawals 
from EPayments account balances.
They empathise with Mrs Is situation of not having access to funds and, therefore, 
have offered a compensation amount of 1% of her account balance from 
11 February 2020. And £150 compensation. 
The delay in paying the refund is caused  by Mrs I refusing to provide appropriate 
documents required for Epayments checks
They are allowed to withhold funds as per their KYC processes and the terms and 
conditions of the account. 
They dont pay interest on their accounts and to pay an award of interest theyd need 
to be satisfied that Mrs I was going to more the money to an account where interest 
would have been earnt, or invested and generating a high return of 8%. 
As there was no agreement the matter has come to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As a regulated business Epayments have certain obligations which they must comply with. 
They are subject to regulation by the FCA. The FCA applied restrictions on Epayments for 
reasons widely publicised and also detailed on their company website. As a result, 
Epayments suspended their operations. This had a significant effect on Mrs I. It meant that 
for over three years she hasnt been able to access her funds.
Once Epayments agreed to suspend their operations to carry out the work required of them 
by the FCA they werent able to return Mrs Is funds. 
Epayments werent in a position to refund Mrs Is money whilst the restrictions applied. 
However, I understand these have now been lifted. As that is the case, I would expect 
Epayments to refund Mrs I the funds in its account. Id expect Epayments to carry out KYC 
checks before returning Mrs Is funds. However, Epayments have advised our service these 
checks have now been completed  and therefore there shouldnt be anything preventing 
Mrs Is funds being returned. 
Mrs I shouldnt suffer a detriment because Epayments suspended its operations. Our 
investigator has said Mrs I should be paid 8% interest for the period of time Mrs I didnt have 
access to her funds and I agree. Epayments have suggested they shouldnt be held liable for 
the delays in being able to return Mrs I her funds as this was due to restrictions placed on 
them by the FCA. 
But I disagree. The reason why Epayments had to suspend their operations was due to 
failures on their part and it would be unfair for Mrs I to be impacted because of this. As a 
consequence, Epayments should be held liable for the delays in Mrs I not being able to 
access her funds. Epayments have argued that 1% interest for the time period the money 
was restricted is fair, considering they dont pay interest on the money in their accounts and 
8% should only be granted if Mrs I was going to move the money to an interest paying 
account or have some very successful investments. Ive thought about Epayments 
argument, but I dont agree. I accept that Mrs Is account didnt pay interest, but I agree with 
our investigator that 8% interest is appropriate in Mrs Is case. I say this as Mrs I was 
deprived of the use of her funds. She wasnt able to utilise them for day to day expenditure, 
transfer them to an interest paying account or invest them. 
Theyve also argued that Mrs I didnt initially provide documents required for KYC checks. I 
agree, this is the case  as concluded by our investigator in their first view. However, Mrs I 
has now supplied all the documentation requested by Epayments. Most importantly here, 
Ive thought about the primary reason Mrs Is funds were initially restricted. And whether the 
delay in Mrs I providing the correct documentation impacted on her funds being released. As 
Ive already explained, Mrs Is funds werent initially restricted because she failed to provide 
the KYC documents requested  instead it was due to restrictions applied by the FCA. Ive also noted that despite Mrs I now providing documentation which meets Epayments 
standards, they still havent returned her funds. Therefore, I cant conclude Mrs Is failure to 
supply these documents delayed the return of her funds. 
Putting things right
I therefore think Epayments should pay Mrs I 8% simple interest for the period of time she 
didnt have access to her funds.
Our investigator also recommended Mrs I is compensated £150 for the distress and 
inconvenience Mrs I suffered for her account being blocked for so long. I agree this is a fair 
amount and in line with our awards for similar cases.
In some cases, Epayments or their banking partner may charge currency conversion fees 
and commissions when refunding account balances. In Mrs Is case I dont think she should 
have to pay any currency conversion fees or commissions for accessing the funds in her 
account. If Mrs I has been charged any such fees or commissions, I require Epayments to 
refund these.
My final decision
My final decision is I uphold the complaint. I require Epayments Systems Ltd to:
Refund the money in Mrs Is account. 
Pay Mrs I 8% simple interest on the money in her account, calculated from 
11 February 2020 to the date Epayments refund Mrs I.
Pay Mrs I £150 compensation for the distress and inconvenience caused.
If any currency conversion fees, or other fees/commissions are charged by 
Epayments or their banking partner during the refund process, these should also be 
refunded.
Epayments must pay the compensation within 28 days of the date on which we tell it Mrs I 
accepts my final decision. If it pays later than this, it must also pay interest on the 
compensation from the date of my final decision to the date of payment at 8% a year simple.
If Epayments considers that its required by HM Revenue & Customs to deduct income tax 
from that interest, it should tell Mrs I how much its taken off. It should also give Mrs I a tax 
deduction certificate if she asks for one, so she can reclaim the tax from HM Revenue & 
Customs if appropriate.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs I to accept or 
reject my decision before 27 October 2023.
 
Jeff Burch
Ombudsman