DRN-4328864
The complaint
Mr L complains that Monzo Bank Ltd (Monzo) wont refund the money he lost to a scam.
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties. So rather than repeat them all 
again here, Ill briefly summarise the key points.
In early 2022, Mr L saw an advert on YouTube for a company (S) offering trading in 
cryptocurrency, stocks and shares, and foreign exchange. He was interested in the returns 
advertised so provided his contact information. A broker from S followed up with him. Mr L 
says he looked up S and found positive and negative reviews, but was reassured when 
speaking to the broker. So he decided to invest. Unfortunately, S were operating a scam.
Mr L opened an account with Monzo around the same time. He didnt make any outward 
payments from the account for around one month. He then paid £100 to his cryptocurrency 
wallet, to purchase cryptocurrency to load on to Ss platform. He then paid a further £5,900 
the next day, then £4,00 around one month later. Unfortunately, these funds were all lost to 
the scam.
Later on, Mr L tried to withdraw his funds from S. The broker tried to dissuade him. When he 
insisted, they still wouldnt let him withdraw. He then realised he had been scammed. 
Supported by a professional representative, he complained to Monzo that it should have 
done more to protect him. But it didnt accept liability for his loss. So he referred the 
complaint to our service.
Our investigator didnt uphold this complaint. As this was a new account, they didnt think the 
payments looked uncharacteristic and so didnt think Monzo had cause to be concerned 
about the payments.
Mr L disagreed. He said the payment of £5,900 looked suspicious, so Monzo should have 
intervened. And if it had done so, it would have uncovered the scam.
In August 2023, I issued my provisional decision explaining I was minded to conclude Monzo 
should have uncovered the scam when Mr L made the payment of £5,900. To put things 
right, I proposed Monzo should refund 50% of the loss from that point onwards, plus interest. 
I invited the parties to submit further comments or evidence. Mr L confirmed he had nothing 
to add, but Monzo disagreed with my findings. It said the £4,000 payment wasnt included in 
the initial complaint, so shouldnt be considered. It also disagreed that the £5,900 payment 
looked unusual, noting it was going to a wallet that belonged to Mr L. And it asked for a copy 
of any correspondence Mr L has provided of his interactions with the scammer  which I 
have shared in line with natural justice principles. 
What Ive decided  and why
Before explaining my outcome, I want to clarify what I can consider within this decision.
As I have already explained to Monzo, while the £4,000 wasnt included in Mr Ls initial 
complaint, our service made Monzo aware it was part of the scam, and part of Mr Ls 
complaint, in November 2022. As such, Monzo has had its allocated time, as determined by 
the DISP section of the Financial Conduct Authority handbook, to consider Mr Ls complaint 
about this payment. I am therefore considering this payment within my determination. 
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, including considering the responses received to my provisional findings, Im 
upholding the complaint. This is largely for the same reasons given in my provisional 
decision. So in explaining my decision, Im largely repeating those reasons. But Ive also 
included some additional points to respond to the particular issues Monzo highlighted in its 
response. 
In line with the Payment Services Regulations 2017, Monzo is expected to execute 
authorised payment instructions without undue delay. Its not in dispute that Mr L was 
scammed. But nor is it in dispute that he authorised the payments. So the starting position is 
that hes liable for them.
But there are some situations where we believe that bankstaking into account relevant 
rules, codes and best practiceought to have identified a fraud risk, so should have looked 
at the wider circumstances surrounding the transaction before making the payment. If Monzo 
failed to do so, and that failure led to a fraudulent loss, it might be fair to hold it liable.
As this was a new account, the investigator is correct that there was no account history to 
compare with, to give Monzo a benchmark for how Mr L usually transacts. But I do think it 
looks suspicious that the account hadn't been used despite being opened a month prior, 
then Mr L started making cryptocurrency payments. The pattern of the smaller initial 
payment, followed by a larger one, fits a known pattern of fraud. And at £5,900, the second 
payment was substantial.
In response to my provisional decision, Monzo said its not unusual or suspicious for 
customers to open an account and then not use it immediately. I agree. But, without any 
account history to compare with, I think the second cryptocurrency payment ought to have 
looked concerning. It was high value, and it was the second payment to a new 
cryptocurrency merchant within one day. I therefore think Monzo should have been 
concerned that Mr L could be at risk from fraud at that point  so should have reached out to 
him find out more about the circumstances of the payment, to assess the fraud risk.
I've not seen anything to suggest Mr L had been coached on what to say if questioned about 
the payments. So I think he would have answered honestly  and I think Monzo would have 
realised, from his responses, that he was being scammed. The way S were advertised was 
suspicious. As were the returns he was told to expect, and the fact S were using remote 
access software to complete the trades for him. And crucially, the Financial Conduct 
Authority (FCA) had also issued a warning about S  which is something Monzo could have 
directed him to check.
If Monzo had explained to Mr L why it had concerns, and advised him on what he could do to 
check if S were legitimate, I therefore consider it likely that the scam would have been 
uncovered. And so his further losses would have been prevented.Following my provisional decision, Monzo pointed out that the payments went to a wallet in 
Mr Ls own name, which it feels made the payments appear less concerning. That is 
something I am aware of and have taken into account. But its a well-established feature of 
cryptocurrency scams that they generally involve payments sent to wallets held by the 
customer before being transferred on. By the time of these payments, that is something I 
would expect Monzo to have taken into account as part of its anti-fraud measures. 
Ive also considered whether Mr L should hold some liability for his loss by way of 
contributory negligence. While he says he looked up reviews, he admits he found negative 
ones. I appreciate the broker may have explained these as reflective of the investment risk. 
But Ive found reviews pre-dating these payments referring to S as a scam. Ive also found 
that the FCAs warning about S appeared prominently when searching for the company. The 
returns offered also sounded too good to be true.
In the circumstances, I think Mr L missed some warning signs that ought to have been 
apparent to him that S might not be legitimate. Given that I also think Monzo could have 
prevented his loss from the second payment, I consider it fair to expect Monzo to refund 
50% of his loss from that point.
That said, I dont think the first payment could have been prevented. And as it was 
transferred to Mr Ls cryptocurrency wallet, then transferred on to the scam, Monzo couldnt 
have recovered the loss from the recipient. So I dont think Monzo holds liability for this 
payment. 
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I uphold this complaint and direct Monzo Bank Ltd to:
Refund 50% of the money Mr L lost to the scam, via his Monzo account, from the 
second scam payment onwards. By my calculations, that comes to £4,950. 
Pay 8% simple interest per year on this amount, from the dates of payment to the 
date of settlement.
If Monzo considers that its required by HM Revenue & Customs to deduct income 
tax from that interest, it should tell Mr L how much its taken off. It should also give 
Mr L a tax deduction certificate if he asks for one, so he can reclaim the tax from HM 
Revenue & Customs if appropriate
Monzo Bank Ltd must pay this compensation within 28 days of the date on which we tell it 
Mr L accepts my final decision.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr L to accept or 
reject my decision before 29 September 2023.
 
Rachel Loughlin
Ombudsman