DRN-1778057
 
The complaint
Mrs S says that Elevate Credit International Limited trading as Sunny lent money to her that 
she couldnt afford to repay.
What happened
This complaint is about nine loans Sunny provided to Mrs S between September 2017 and 
June 2018. Mrs S borrowing history is set out below.
Loan Date Date repaid Instalments Amount
1 02/09/2017 28/01/2018 6 £200
2 17/11/2017 22/12/2017 6 £100
3 07/12/2017 23/05/2018 6 £250
4 29/12/2017 23/05/2018 6 £250
5 07/03/2018 22/03/2018 6 £100
6 20/04/2018 31/10/2019 6 £200
7 23/05/2018 25/03/2019 6 £100
8 23/05/2018 25/03/2019 6 £100
9 16/06/2018 26/09/2019 6 £200
 
In summary, Mrs S says that adequate affordability or creditworthiness checks werent 
carried out before the loans were provided and that the loans were unaffordable. She says 
she was borrowing new loans to repay existing debt resulting in her financial difficulties 
getting worse.
In its final response letter to Mrs S, Sunny said that adequate checks were carried out and it 
didn't accept that the loans were unaffordable.
Our adjudicator upheld Mrs S complaint in regard to loans six to nine.
Sunny didn't agree with our adjudicator's view and provided a counter offer to uphold loans 
eight and nine. Mrs S didn't accept Sunny's offer and so this complaint has been passed to 
me, an ombudsman, to decide.
 
 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.We've set out our general approach to complaints about short-term lending - including all of 
the relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice - on our website.
Sunny needed to take reasonable steps to ensure that it didn't lend irresponsibly. In practice 
this means that it should have carried out proportionate checks to make sure that 
Mrs S could repay the loans in a sustainable manner. These checks could take into account 
a number of different things, such as how much was being lent the repayment amounts and 
the consumer's income and expenditure. With this in mind, in the early stages of a lending 
relationship, I think less thorough checks might be reasonable and proportionate.
But certain factors might point to the fact that Sunny should fairly and reasonably have done 
more to establish that any lending was sustainable for a consumer. These factors include:
the lower a customer's income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make any 
loan repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income);
the higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income);
the greater the number and frequency of loans, and the longer the period of time 
during which a customer has been given loans (reflecting the risk that repeated 
refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, 
unsustainable).
 
There may even come a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly 
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable.
I think that it is important for me to start by saying that Sunny was required to establish 
whether Mrs s could sustainably repay her loans - not just whether the loan payments were 
affordable on a strict pounds and pence calculation.
Of course the loan payments being affordable on this basis might be an indication a 
consumer could sustainably make their repayments. But it doesnt automatically follow this is 
the case. This is because the Consumer Credit Sourcebook (CONC), defines sustainable 
as being without undue difficulties and in particular the customer should be able to make 
repayments on time, while meeting other reasonable commitments; as well as without 
having to borrow to meet the repayments. And it follows that a lender should realise, or it 
ought fairly and reasonably to realise, that a borrower wont be able to make their 
repayments sustainably if theyre unlikely to be able to make their repayments without 
borrowing further.
Ive carefully considered all of the arguments, evidence and information provided in this 
context and what this all means for Mrs S' complaint.
Our adjudicator thought the complaint about loans one to five shouldnt be upheld. As neither 
party seems to be in dispute about this, I have not considered these loans further. But I will 
bear them in mind when Im looking at Mrs S other borrowing.
As well as considering the individual loans, Ive also looked at the overall pattern of Sunnys 
lending history with Mrs S, with a view to seeing if there was a point at which Sunny should 
reasonably have seen that further lending was unsustainable, or otherwise harmful. And so 
Sunny should have realised that is shouldnt have provided any further loans.
Given the circumstances of Mrs S case, I think this point was reached by loan six. I say this 
because:At this point Sunny ought to have realised Mrs S was not managing to repay her 
loans sustainably. By the time Mrs S had taken out loan six shed had a lending 
relationship with Sunny for just over seven months and had been taking out new 
loans before repaying existing loans, or very soon after. So Sunny ought to have 
realised it was more likely than not Mrs S was having to borrow further to cover the 
hole repaying her previous loans were leaving in her finances and that Mrs S 
indebtedness was increasing unsustainably.
 
Mrs S first loan was for £200 and loan six was also for £200 and was taken out while 
loans three and four were still outstanding. So, it doesnt seem likely that Mrs S 
need for cash was reducing which also points to her having a longer term need for 
funds. So, at this point Sunny ought to have known that Mrs S was not likely 
borrowing to meet a temporary shortfall in her income but to meet an ongoing need.
 
After loan six Mrs S took out a further three loans all of which were before Mrs S had 
repaid the sixth loan.
 
Mrs S wasnt making any real inroads to the amount she owed Sunny. Loan nine was 
taken out nine months after Mrs S first loan and was for the same amount and taken 
while another loans was still outstanding. 
 
I think that Mrs S lost out because Sunny continued to provide borrowing from loan six 
onwards because the number of loans Mrs S borrowed was likely to have had negative 
implications on Mrs S ability to access mainstream credit potentially keeping her in the 
market for these high-cost loans.
So, Im upholding this complaint about loans six to nine.
Putting things right
In order to put things right for Mrs S, Sunny should:
refund all the interest and charges Mrs S paid on loans six to nine;
 
pay interest of 8% simple a year on any refunded interest and charges from the date 
of payment  to the date of settlement*;
 
the number of loans taken from loan six onwards means any information recorded 
about them is adverse. So, all entries about loans six to nine should be removed from 
Mrs S credit file. 
 
* HM Revenue and Customs requires Sunny to take off tax from this interest. Sunny must 
give Mrs S a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if she asks for one.
 
 
My final decision
For the reasons given above, Im partially upholding Mrs S complaint. Elevate Credit 
International Limited should put things right as set out above. Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs S to accept or 
reject my decision before 9 June 2020.
Jane Archer
Ombudsman