DRN-1993296
The complaint
Mrs and Mr A complain that Aviva Life and Pensions UK Limited (Aviva), mis-sold them four 
whole of life policies. They are also unhappy with the service they received before the 
policies were surrendered.
What happened
Mrs and Mr A took out two whole of life policies each in November 1981. The four policies 
were identical and provided the same amount of life cover for a monthly premium of £5. 
Whilst the policies had no fixed term, the premium was only payable up to the anniversary 
prior to the assured turning 65. The policies included a bond which is like a bonus and added 
when the policy had been in place for a certain number of years. They also included a 
terminal bonus which is performance related and multiplied by how long the policy is in place 
for.
In October 2018, Aviva wrote to Mrs and Mr A as the policy provider to let them know that 
the premium payments would not be payable anymore and a surrender value of the policies 
was given. Mrs and Mr A responded to this to ask Aviva some more detail about the 
surrender value. They wanted to know what the bond and bonus figures were. 
When Mrs and Mr A were told that the bond for each policy was £80 and the bonus £64, 
they complained to Aviva. They said that after keeping the policy in place for more than 35 
years, they were expecting the bonus to be four times the capital bond. They were also 
unhappy with the issues theyd had trying to get hold of this breakdown from Aviva.
Aviva agreed to pay Mrs and Mr A £150 each for the issues they had faced. However, they 
said that bonus projections given in the product literature at the time of sale werent 
guaranteed and so the surrender value given was correct. Mrs and Mr A remained unhappy 
and said that if those projections werent guaranteed then the policies had been mis-sold to 
them. They were also unhappy with the general performance of the policies, providing a 
lower than expected surrender value. 
Aviva looked into things further and couldnt confirm if it was responsible for the sale of the 
policies. However, they said the product literature had explained that neither the projections 
or the bonus returns were guaranteed. They did however, increase the offer to Mrs and Mr A 
to £200 each. The further amount was in recognition that they should have realised that Mrs 
and Mr A were raising a complaint sooner than they did. 
Our investigator looked into matters and didnt agree that the policies had been mis-sold. He 
felt that the product literature didnt provide any guarantees and that the offer made for the 
service issues faced was reasonable. 
Mrs and Mr A disagree. They say that they had been persuaded to invest using misleading 
product literature. They also didnt agree that the offer for the service issues was reasonable. 
This matter has now been passed to me for a decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Where theres a dispute about what happened, Ive based my decision on what I thinks 
more likely to have happened in light of the evidence.
Having done so, I have to tell Mrs and Mr A, that I think the investigator is correct and that 
the offer that Aviva has made is a fair outcome here. So, I wont be asking them to do 
anything further. Ill explain why.
Suitability
I can see that these policies were sold to Mrs and Mr A in 1981. Its worth mentioning that 
there wasnt the same requirement for advisers to conduct a suitability assessment for the 
applicants. Instead advisers just needed to ensure a policy was appropriate for the applicant 
based on a few details of their circumstances at the time. This changed after April 1988 
when more detailed assessments of applicants had to be carried out by advisers. 
As well as this, due to the amount of time that has passed since the policies were sold, there 
is understandably a lack of documentation from the time. Mrs and Mr A have provided an 
advisors name and firm name that they say sold them the policy. Aviva havent been able to 
match these to any businesses that worked for or were tied to them previously. So, based on 
what I have, I think it is most likely that the advisor was independent and so Aviva are not 
responsible for the advice given to Mrs and Mr A to take these policies out. 
Having said that, it is still important that the product literature, which Aviva was responsible 
for, wasnt misleading. They have been able to give us a copy of the sales literature that 
would have been given to Mrs and Mr A at the time. As the policies were sold in 1981, it is 
understandable that the wording is vaguer than we would expect to see these days. 
However, even taking that into account, I dont believe the document states that either the 
bonus or policy performance projections were guaranteed. I appreciate that Mrs and Mr A 
say this is what they were led to believe, and I dont dispute that. But I cant hold Aviva 
responsible for that. It says that the bonus that will be available depends on many factors 
but a balanced assessment leads us to anticipate that the following scale may well be 
achieved. It also says that the performance projection graph is based on assuming uniform 
annual growth rates of 5%, 7% and 10%. I believe that these were projections and not 
guarantees, that were reasonable to make at the time. 
I therefore cant agree that Mrs and Mr A were guaranteed a certain level of bonus. And 
while this is disappointing, as this is the case, I cant conclude that Aviva has done anything 
wrong in relation to the administration of these policies.
Service Issues
Aviva have acknowledged that there were several service issues that Mrs and Mr A faced, 
that could have been handled better. There was a delay in them receiving a breakdown for 
the policy surrender values and their formal complaint should have been recognised and 
acknowledged sooner. Mrs and Mr A have also talked about how difficult they found it to get 
hold of anyone at Aviva to answer their queries. 
I can imagine this would have been very frustrating for Mrs and Mr A. These were policies 
they had kept in place for over 35 years and when they received surrender values of less 
than they were expecting, it is only right that they would want a quick and thorough 
explanation. However, I do believe that Aviva has recognised this with an offer of £200 each to Mrs and Mr A, for the trouble and upset caused. I think this is fair considering the errors 
made and later attempts to resolve matters. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Aviva Life & Pension UK Limited have already made an offer to pay Mrs and Mr A a total of 
£400 to settle this complaint, and I think this offer is fair and reasonable. So Aviva Life & 
Pensions UK Limited should pay this to Mrs and Mr A if they havent done so already.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs A and Mr A to 
accept or reject my decision before 15 January 2021.
 
Yoni Smith
Ombudsman