DRN-2547562
The complaint
Mrs E complains about the way Zurich Insurance PLC (Zurich) has handled a claim under
a buildings insurance policy.
What happened
Mrs E has had an ongoing dispute with Zurich since 2017 in relation to an escape of water
claim. The details of this claim are well known to both parties and a complaint about Zurichs
handling has been previously considered by this service under a separate reference.
For these reasons Im not going to repeat whats happened in detail. But in summary Mrs E
had disagreed with Zurichs handling of the claim (alongside other issues). And she told our
service she wouldnt provide quotes for works, which Zurich had requested, until it agreed to
withdraw use of a loss adjuster.
I considered everything that had happened up until Zurichs final response letter in February
2018 and didnt uphold the complaint. And I was satisfied Zurich had handled the claim fairly
and reasonably.
Mrs E has complained about the length of the claim from February 2018 onwards. Shes
detailed the impact of the works not going ahead earlier on her and her family, and shes
provided details of a media opportunity that she says she has lost out on as a result of
Zurichs delays. Mrs E had also said she should be given alternative accommodation as part
of her settlement.
Zurich agreed the media opportunity couldnt go ahead due to outstanding works. But it said
it wasnt responsible for the delay, and it had been awaiting a revised estimate for works
from Mrs E at this time. It also said it would account for six weeks alternative
accommodation within its settlement. Mrs E has asked our service to consider these points
so the complaint was passed to me to reach a decision.
I issued my provisional decision on 13 January 2021 explaining why I wasnt intending on 
upholding the complaint. Ive included part of this decision below.
From what Ive seen, its not in dispute that Zurich had requested quotes from Mrs E to
progress the claim.
Mrs E has told our service previously that she had obtained a relevant quote but had refused
to provide it to Zurich on the basis she felt it was acting unfairly by insisting on use of a loss
adjuster. As Ive outlined above, within my previous decision I had decided Zurich had acted
reasonably in handling the claim, and specifically by appointing a loss adjuster.
A condition of Mrs Es policy requires her to give all the information and assistance it may
require as part of the claim. In this case its clear to me that Mrs E was aware of what Zurich
had requested information from her, and that she knew it needed this to progress her claim.
But for Mrs Es own reasons, despite having this information herself, she chose to not
provide this. This isnt in keeping with Mrs Es responsibilities under the policy, and as a
result the claim didnt progress, and the property remained without repair.
Mrs E has told us of the consequences of the repairs not going ahead, both the impact
personally to her and her family as well as the lost media opportunity shes detailed. But I
dont think it would be fair to hold Zurich responsible for any delays caused by Mrs Es
inaction.
I concluded saying I wasnt intending to uphold the complaint or ask Zurich to do anything 
further. I also said following my previous decision, Zurich had agreed to include six weeks 
alternative accommodation costs as part of its settlement to Mrs E which no longer appeared 
to be in dispute. I asked both parties to respond with any further comments by 27 January 
2021.
This date has now passed. Zurich hasnt provided anything further, but Mrs E responded 
with her comments. Ive summarised these below:
Mrs E reiterated her concerns about the Zurichs decision to appoint a loss adjuster, 
her concerns about its risk assessment of her home, and that she holds Zurich 
responsible for her lost media opportunity;
Mrs E described in further detail the impact of the overall claim experience on her 
and her family;
Mrs E has suggested she may have sent the quotes Zurich was waiting for to its loss 
adjuster previously, and/or to our investigator, so she said Zurich wouldve had a 
copy; and
Mrs E has also mentioned additional concerns  not raised previously with this 
service  about how the ongoing claim is being handled at the moment. This includes 
concerns about delays in responses, discussion of how items will be stored or 
moved, and the location of temporary accommodation.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im not upholding this complaint. 
Mrs Es concerns about Zurichs appointment of a loss adjuster and the risk assessment of 
her home are matters that I have previously considered within a separate final decision. For 
this reason, Im not going to go over these points again.
Mrs E has said she may have shared the quotes that Zurich was waiting for with its loss 
adjuster. But in her own words she doesnt seem certain of this. And this is contrary to her 
previous statement to one of our investigators in which she said she wouldnt provide any 
quotes until Zurich had withdrawn its requirement of using loss adjuster. In addition, Ive 
seen nothing to suggest she asked for our service to share any quotes on her behalf. So this 
hasnt changed my mind about the cause of the delay in this claim.
As Ive outlined in my provisional decision, While Ive considered the impact Mrs E has 
described I dont think it would be fair to hold Zurich responsible for any delays caused by 
Mrs Es inaction. And shes not provided me with anything that persuades me the delay was 
as a result of Zurich.
New issuesWithin my provisional decision I mentioned that Zurich had now agreed to provide alternative 
accommodation as part of its settlement. Mrs Es latest response includes concerns about 
the way Zurich and its agents have handled this  and included an email chain that has 
happened after my provisional decision. 
As these matters are still ongoing and Ive not seen theyve been raised as a complaint with 
Zurich, Im not going to comment on them within this decision. To be clear, within this 
decision Ive considered Mrs Es concerns about delays and impact of the claim not 
proceeding from February 2018 up until December 2020.
If Zurich is unable to resolve (or does not respond within the relevant timescales) to Mrs Es 
concerns after these complaints are raised, then our service can become involved.
My final decision
For the above reasons, Im not upholding this complaint
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs E to accept or 
reject my decision before 25 February 2021.
 
Jack Baldry
Ombudsman