DRN-3053255
The complaint
Mr R complains that Lloyds Bank PLC asked him to leave a branch as he wasnt wearing a 
face mask.                
What happened
Around February 2021, during the pandemic lockdown in England, Mr R entered a Lloyds 
branch as he needed to use a cashpoint and the machine outside wasnt working. A staff 
member asked him to wear a face mask due to coronavirus restrictions in place at the time.
 
There is some disagreement about what happened at this point. Mr R has explained to this 
service that he told the staff member that he had a valid reason for not wearing a face mask. 
But Lloyds says that Mr R didnt make clear he was exempt from wearing one. 
But its not in dispute that Mr R was asked to leave the branch, without completing his 
transaction. Mr R says this made him feel humiliated and believes branch staff breached the              
Equality Act 2010. So, he complained to Lloyds.
Lloyds said that its procedure at the time required customers to either wear a face mask 
while in branch or tell staff they are exempt. But it says Mr R refused to answer when he was 
asked if he was exempt. So, it didnt think it had done anything wrong when it asked him to 
leave the branch as it was following the guidelines which were in place to protect both staff 
and customers. 
Mr R didnt accept this outcome and referred his complaint to this service. He said that he 
had been treated unfairly as he had a valid reason for not wearing a mask. And that he 
wanted an apology and reassurance that the same thing wouldnt happen again.  
Our investigator looked into Mr Rs complaint. But she didnt think it should be upheld. She 
acknowledged how Mr R felt on being asked to leave the branch. But overall, she thought 
there had been some mis-communication between Mr R and Lloyds about whether he was 
exempt from wearing a mask. So, she didnt think Lloyds had acted unfairly given the wider 
circumstances at the time.
Mr R didnt agree, and he asked for his complaint to be looked at again. So, his complaint 
has been passed to me for a final decision  the second and final stage of our process.                 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Firstly, I should explain that its not for this service to decide if Lloyds has breached the 
Equality Act 2010. Our role is to decide if Lloyds treated Mr R fairly and reasonably given all 
the circumstances of the complaint.  
I also think its important to set out here, that this all happened in very unusual times. Banks 
were being asked to work in different ways to normal due to the pandemic. At the time of    
Mr Rs branch visit, the government legislation - set out in the: The Health Protection 
(Coronavirus, Wearing of Face Covering in a Relevant Place) (England) Regulations 2020, 
said that mask wearing compulsory unless a person was exempt from wearing one. 
So, I dont think it was wrong when the branch staff asked Mr R whether he had a mask 
when he first entered the branch. And in the call between Mr R and Lloyds - when his 
complaint was discussed - Mr R acknowledged that staff can ask.
But Mr R says that Lloyds shouldnt refuse a customer entry into a branch when they are 
exempt from wearing a mask and it is not allowed to ask for details of the reason for the 
exemption, or evidence of their exemption. On this point, I agree with Mr R. But I havent 
seen anything that would make me think Lloyds asked Mr R for specific details of his 
exemption or sought evidence of it. 
Its not in dispute that Lloyds did ask Mr R if he was exempt. And, I do think a customer is 
required - given the government legislation in place - to make it clear that they are exempt 
and not making a personal choice not to wear a face mask.
So, I think reaching a fair outcome here comes down to whether I think Mr R made it clear to 
the branch staff he was exempt. So, Ive considered the testimonies of both parties  which 
includes Lloyds complaint notes and statements it obtained from the branch involved during 
its investigation. 
When he bought his complaint to us, Mr R said he told branch staff that he had a valid 
reason for not to wearing a mask. Whereas the branch staff say Mr R initially said he didnt 
need to wear one. And when asked whether he was exempt, they say he said: it was up to 
him whether he had to wear one. The staff also say Mr R questioned them about why he 
was asked to wear a mask as it was entirely his decision as to whether he wore one or not. 
In circumstances like this, where there are two contrasting versions of what was said, I have 
to decide - on balance - what most likely happened given all the available evidence.
So, Ive also listened to a call recording from when Mr R first raised his complaint with Lloyds 
to see if this shed more light on what was said. Having done so, I note that when Lloyds 
asked Mr R what he told the branch he said in summary: my exact words were, I dont need 
to wear a mask and I dont really want to discuss it with you. I also note that during the call 
Mr R didnt confirm he told the branch staff he was exempt. Nor did he say he had a valid 
reason for not wearing a face mask. Thats different to what Mr R initially told our Service 
had happened in branch so he hasnt been entirely consistent in his account. Memories of 
events tend to fade over time and as the date of the call is more contemporaneous, Ive 
placed more weight on what he said to Lloyds when discussing his complaint in February 
2021.
So, overall, Im persuaded that its most likely that Mr R said that he didnt need to wear a 
mask rather than he had a valid reason for not wearing one or that he was exempt. I can 
appreciate that Mr R thinks that saying I dont need to wear a mask is sufficient. But I dont 
think Lloyds unreasonably concluded that was the same as saying he was exempt from 
wearing one  particularly as Im persuaded that he was most likely asked if he was exempt 
from wearing one and he declined to answer. 
Thats not to say that Mr R wasnt exempt from wearing a mask. As the investigator has said, 
Mr R has now shared something about the reasons why he cant wear one. So, I do 
understand why it was upsetting for Mr R to be asked if he was exempt and later being told 
to leave the branch. But staff were expected to enforce the legislation that was in place to protect their colleagues and customers, so I dont think the staff did anything wrong when 
they asked Mr R to leave the branch given the answers he gave at the time. 
Mr R has suggested that Lloyds action - in asking him to leave the branch - is discrimination. 
But the pandemic legislation applied to everyone using services such as banks, shops, 
public transport, etc. unless they were exempt for a particular reason. Overall, Im persuaded 
that Lloyds staff were aware that an exempt person wasnt required to wear a mask, and I 
see no reason why it wouldnt have let Mr R use the branch if he had made it clear he was 
exempt. And for reasons given above, I dont think Mr R made it clear he was exempt.  
While Im sorry to disappoint Mr R  as I can see how strongly he feels about the matter, I 
wont be asking Lloyds to take further action in respect of this complaint.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given, I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision before 1 November 2021.
 
Sandra Greene
Ombudsman