DRN-3599783
The complaint
Mr E complains about the suitability of the advice provided by Vision Independent Financial 
Planning Ltd (Vision) in November 2017 to transfer the value of his safeguarded benefits in 
the British Steel Pension Scheme (BSPS) to a personal pension plan (PPP).
The advice complained about was provided by DJW Independent Advice Ltd which was an 
Appointed Representative of the principal firm, Vision. As the principal firm, Vision remains 
responsible for the acts and/or omissions of DJW Independent Advice Ltd. To make my 
decision easier to follow Ill refer to Vision throughout.
What happened
Mr E had built up safeguarded benefits in the BSPS while employed by Tata Steel UK Ltd 
(Tata Steel). The BSPS was a defined benefits (DB) pension scheme that provided a 
guaranteed lifetime income to members.
In March 2016, Tata Steel announced that it would be examining options to restructure its 
business including decoupling the BSPS from the company. The consultation with members 
referred to possible outcomes regarding their safeguarded benefits, one of which was a 
transfer to the Pension Protection Fund (PPF)  the PPF is a statutory fund designed to 
provide compensation to members of DB pension schemes when their employer becomes 
insolvent. Tata Steel closed the BSPS to further benefit accrual from 31 March 2017. By that 
point, Mr E had built up 30 years and 10 months pensionable service in the BSPS. His 
annual scheme pension as at the date of leaving the scheme in March 2017 was 
£17,196.35. This would be revalued over the term to retirement by a prescribed amount.
In May 2017, the PPF announced that the terms of a Regulated Apportionment Arrangement 
(RAA) had been agreed  this was approved by The Pensions Regulator in August 2017. 
Under the announced plans, Tata Steel agreed to set up and sponsor a new DB pension 
scheme, the BSPS2, subject to certain conditions relating to funding and size being satisfied.
In October 2017, the BSPS issued its Time to Choose communication pack to members 
including Mr E. This explained that BSPS members had three options regarding their 
safeguarded benefits:
1. Transfer to the PPF;
2. Transfer to the BSPS2; or
3. Transfer to an alternative pension plan such as a PPP (the transfer value available to 
Mr E was £443,006.78)
Options 1 and 2 wouldve enabled Mr E to retain guaranteed lifetime income, albeit at a 
lower level than provided by the BSPS. Members that didnt choose an option remained in 
the BSPS and were ultimately transferred to the PPF.
In response to the announcement by Tata Steel, Mr E contacted Vision for advice and met 
one of its advisers. The adviser recorded the following information about Mr E:
He was aged 52, single and in good health. He didnt have any children or other 
people financially dependent on him;
He was employed full-time by Tata Steel and paid gross annual income of about 
£38,500;
His assets comprised his residential house valued at £70,000, £4,400 in cash 
savings and about £500 in Tata Steel shares;
His liabilities comprised a repayment mortgage of about £20,000 on his residential 
house which was due to be repaid in about nine years time but he was making 
overpayments and hoped to repay it sooner. He didnt have any other debts or 
liabilities; 
He had surplus disposable income of about £450 available every month;
In addition to the value of his safeguarded benefits in the BSPS, he was on course to 
receive the full state pension at age 67 and had been a member of Tata Steels 
defined contribution (DC) pension scheme provided by Aviva since April 2017. The 
total annual contribution into his DC plan was 16% of his gross annual salary; 
His investment knowledge and experience was recorded as, About as much 
understanding or experience as the next person;
He had a Balanced risk profile; and
He had several objectives in connection with his safeguarded benefits in the BSPS. 
In summary, he wanted to retire early, initially part-time from age 55 and then fully 
retire from age 60, be able to draw flexible pension benefits, obtain control over his 
fund to remove the risk of it falling into the PPF, and to pass any unused fund to his 
brother and sister on his death.
In November 2017, Vision issued its suitability report to Mr E recommending that he transfer 
the value of his safeguarded benefits in the BSPS to a PPP to achieve his objectives.
This complaint
In 2022, Mr E complained to Vision about the suitability of its pension transfer advice. He 
was concerned that the advice was unsuitable and had caused him to suffer a financial loss.
Vision didnt uphold this complaint. In summary, it was satisfied that the pension transfer to 
the PPP enabled Mr E to achieve his recorded objectives and was therefore suitable. It was 
satisfied that it had adhered to and considered relevant FCA rules and guidance including 
providing Mr E with all the necessary information and risk warnings in good time to be able 
to make an informed decision.
One of our investigators considered this complaint and recommended that it be upheld 
because, in her view, Vision had failed to demonstrate at the time that transferring to the 
PPP was clearly in Mr Es best interests to achieve his objectives. Given Mr Es age, she 
didnt think there was any pressing need to transfer to a PPP at that time. She thought 
suitable advice wouldve been to transfer to the BSPS2. To put things right, our investigator 
recommended that Vision carry out a redress calculation in line with the Financial Conduct 
Authoritys (FCA) guidelines on the basis that Mr E transferred to the BSPS2 and would be a 20% income taxpayer in retirement. In addition, she recommended that Vision pay Mr E 
£300 compensation for the trouble and upset caused by its unsuitable recommendation.
Vision disagreed with our investigators assessment and provided additional comments in 
response. Our investigator considered those comments but wasnt persuaded to change her 
view and recommendation that this complaint should be upheld. Since agreement couldnt 
be reached, this case was placed in the queue awaiting allocation to an ombudsman. 
While awaiting allocation, Vision contacted us in March 2023 to say that it had changed its 
mind and accepted the investigator's assessment. It stated, Whilst Vision do not agree 
with the Investigator's Decision for the reasons set out in Vision's Final Response Letter 
dated 12th April 2022 and email submission of 14th October 2022, Vision is willing to take a 
pragmatic approach and accept the Investigator's Decision under protest to avoid, in 
particular, further costs from being incurred.
Following this, in May 2023, Vision wrote to Mr E to obtain information to enable it to carry 
out the redress calculation. Mr E contacted us in July 2023 to confirm that he would provide 
information to Vision.
This complaint has now been allocated to me for review. Since July 2023 no further contact 
has been received from either party and so it appears this complaint remains unresolved. So 
Ive decided to proceed and issue my final decision to prevent any further delay. This is the 
last stage of our process.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In deciding whats fair and reasonable, I take into account relevant law and regulations, 
regulators rules, guidance and standards and codes of practice, and what I consider to have 
been good industry practice at the time. Where the evidence is unclear, or there are 
conflicts, Ive made my decision based on the balance of probabilities. In other words Ive 
looked at what evidence we do have, and the surrounding circumstances, to help me decide 
what I think is more likely to, or should, have happened.
Given that Vision previously told us that it accepted the investigator's assessment and 
recommended remedy, I dont see the need to address the suitability of its pension transfer 
advice to Mr E in detail. However, I would like to state that I agree with the investigators 
view the pension transfer advice Vision gave to Mr E was unsuitable for largely the same 
reasons. In summary:
Mr Es safeguarded benefits, accounting for 30 years and 10 months pensionable 
service, represented the backbone of his retirement provision built up by that time. I 
think its fair to say that when he came to retire, he would be heavily reliant on the 
value of his safeguarded benefits to generate a minimum level of core income to 
support his standard of living in retirement. So I think it was important not to expose 
the value of these benefits to unnecessary risk given his limited capacity for loss and 
ability to replenish any losses over the short timeframe until he retired;
Vision recorded that Mr Es knowledge and experience of investments was, About 
as much understanding or experience as the next person. Im not sure what this 
means. From what I can see, it appears Mr E was an inexperienced investor who 
wasnt used to managing or having large sums of money exposed to investment 
markets. Transferring to the PPP led to the investment, inflation and longevity risks associated with his safeguarded benefits being transferred from the scheme to Mr E. 
Those risks wouldve been retained by the BSPS2 had he transferred to that scheme. 
Taking these factors into account, its my view that there needed to be a compelling 
reason why it was suitable for an inexperienced investor like Mr E to transfer to the 
PPP compared to the alternative option of retaining guaranteed lifetime income under 
the BSPS2;
At the time of the advice, Mr E was aged 52. He couldnt access any benefits until 
age 55 at the earliest under the PPP. It was recorded that he wanted to retire early, 
initially part-time from age 55 and then fully retire from age 60. His annual retirement 
income need from age 60 was recorded as £22,895 in 2017 terms. The further away 
from retirement an individual is, the harder it is to establish a realistic income figure 
and whether early retirement would in fact be possible. There wasnt any certainty 
that Mr E would be financially able to retire earlier than age 65. I think it wouldve 
been difficult to calculate an accurate income figure with the timeframe to age 60. In 
my view, with such a time horizon until pension benefits could be accessed and the 
level of uncertainty involved in quantifying objectives, it made the case for a pension 
transfer at that time  for the sake of achieving possible early retirement  more 
difficult to justify;
Had Vision advised Mr E to transfer to the BSPS2 he wouldve maintained 
safeguarded benefits and retained the option to transfer to a PPP at a later date, if 
then deemed suitable, when he could immediately access benefits and, crucially, 
determine his retirement income and lump sum needs with far greater accuracy than 
at age 52;
Theres no real evidence that Mr E required the flexibility of irregular lump sums, 
variable income or staggered income during retirement. Flexibility and control might 
sound attractive, but I cant see that Mr E had any concrete need for it. He had 
received guaranteed income all his working life. So I think an element of guaranteed 
retirement income wouldve been valuable for an inexperienced investor in Mr Es 
circumstances. But even if he did require flexible benefits, I think this couldve been 
provided by his DC workplace plan provided by Aviva. He joined that scheme in                
April 2017 and the total annual contribution was 16% of his gross annual salary. It 
was noted the value of his plan was then about £4,000 and that he intended to 
remain employed by Tata Steel. So, by retirement, I think its likely hed have access 
to a DC fund together with any tax-free cash from the BSPS2 to meet any flexible 
retirement needs, further undermining the case for a pension transfer at that time; 
Vision recommended the transfer to the PPP to remove the risk that Mr E might be 
transferred to the PPF at a later date. While I understand that Mr E may have been 
concerned about the security of his safeguarded benefits, I dont consider a transfer 
to the PPF was an outcome for him to avoid. Under the PPF, Mr E wouldve received 
a minimum of 90% of his scheme pension. This contrasted with the recommended 
PPP where theres no promise of a minimum level of benefits payable. If Mr E was 
concerned about his safeguarded benefits being transferred to the PPF which would 
result in him losing 10% of his scheme pension, then I question why, as an 
inexperienced investor, he would accept the risk of transferring to a PPP and invest 
on an Balanced risk basis which exposed him to unlimited downside risks where the 
loss could be significantly greater than 10%; 
A change in the format of death benefits was another apparent objective for Mr E 
transferring to the PPP. It was noted that on death he wanted any unused pension 
funds to be passed to his brother and sister. While I understand that death benefits are important to consumers, the priority here, in my opinion, was to advise Mr E 
about what was best for his own retirement provision. Withdrawing money from the 
PPP to meet income and lump sum needs from age 55 onwards would likely mean 
that the size of the fund remaining in later years  when death is more likely  could 
be much smaller than expected. I cant see that this was explained to Mr E. A 
pension is primarily designed to provide income in retirement. Mr E was then single 
and didnt have any children or other people financially dependent on him. So its 
questionable why it was deemed suitable for him to transfer to a PPP at that time to 
change the format of death benefits at the cost of losing guaranteed income. Its my 
view that Mr E had no health issues at the time Vision advised him which might 
reasonably have prompted him to relinquish the guarantees attached to his own 
retirement income for the sake of an enhanced safety net for his brother and sister;
For the reasons stated above, I dont think there was any need to transfer at that 
time. The critical yield figures attached to the transaction further undermine the case 
for a pension transfer. These were as follows:
Age Full pension Reduced pension 
and tax-free cash
Normal retirement 
at age 655.72% 4.48%
Early retirement at 
age 608.98% 6.92%
This compared with discount rates of 3.4% at age 60 and 4.0% at age 65, as 
explained by our investigator in her assessment. Its my view that the required annual 
investment return, as shown in the table above, was incompatible with Mr Es 
Balanced risk profile, discount rates and the projection rates specified by the FCA at 
that time. I think these factors showed that it was likely Mr E would be financially 
worse off as a result of the pension transfer; and
Overall, I dont think the contemporaneous evidence supports the position as to why 
Mr Es early retirement, flexibility, control and death benefits objectives wouldve 
been sufficiently compelling reasons for him to relinquish valuable benefit guarantees 
by transferring to a PPP at that time. I havent seen any evidence that persuades me 
the pension transfer to the PPP led to Mr E gaining any clearly defined advantage 
compared to the alternative option of transferring to the BSPS2. As a result, I think 
its fair and reasonable to uphold this complaint.
Putting things right
A fair and reasonable outcome would be for Vision to put Mr E, as far as possible, into the 
position he would now be in but for the unsuitable advice he was given. My view is
aligned with that of our investigator.
Our investigator concluded that, if properly advised, Mr E wouldve transferred to the BSPS2 
and his benefits would now be preserved in that scheme. While some information on the 
benefits of the BSPS2 were still to be confirmed, its my view that by November 2017 the risk 
of the BSPS falling into the PPF had receded by a large extent following the announcement 
by the PPF in May 2017 that the terms of a RAA had been agreed. I think Vision shouldve 
considered the BSPS2 as a viable option. So, in addition to the PPF, I think its fair to 
consider the BSPS2 as a potential comparator scheme for redress purposes.
There were differences between the BSPS2 and PPF. These differences meant that the PPF 
was likely the better option for unmarried, deferred members who expected to retire early or take the maximum tax-free cash available even allowing for the 10% reduction in the starting 
entitlement. But the BSPS2 was likely the better option for married pensioners and deferred 
members who expected to draw benefits at or close to the scheme normal retirement age of 
65. Im not convinced that it could be reasonably determined in 2018 that the PPF was the 
likely better option for Mr E. And so I think, given his age and the lack of clarity surrounding 
when Mr E would retire, the BSPS2 was likely the better option for him based on what was 
known at the time and that at age 65 the BSPS2 would provide a higher level of benefits 
than the PPF. As such, the calculation on the basis of entering the BSPS2 should be carried 
out. For clarity, compensation should be based on the BSPS2s normal retirement age of 65, 
as per the usual assumptions in the FCA's guidance.
Vision must therefore undertake a redress calculation in line with the rules for calculating 
redress for non-compliant pension transfer advice, as detailed in policy statement PS22/13 
and set out in the regulators handbook in DISP App 4: 
https://www.handbook.fca.org.uk/handbook/DISP/App/4/?view=chapter. 
Vision should use the FCAs BSPS-specific redress calculator to calculate the redress. A 
copy of the BSPS calculator output should be sent Mr E and our service upon completion of 
the calculation.
The calculation should be carried out using the most recent financial assumptions in line with 
DISP App 4. In accordance with the regulators expectations, this should be undertaken or 
submitted to an appropriate provider promptly following receipt of notification of Mr Es 
acceptance of this final decision.
If the redress calculation demonstrates a loss, as explained in policy statement PS22/13 and 
set out in DISP App 4, Vision should:
calculate and offer Mr E redress as a cash lump sum payment,
explain to Mr E before starting the redress calculation that:
- its redress will be calculated on the basis that it will be invested prudently (in 
line with the cautious investment return assumption used in the calculation), 
and
- a straightforward way to invest the redress prudently is to use it to augment 
his PPP
offer to calculate how much of any redress Mr E receives could be augmented rather 
than receiving it all as a cash lump sum;
if Mr E accepts Visions offer to calculate how much of his redress could be 
augmented, request the necessary information and not charge Mr E for the 
calculation, even if he ultimately decides not to have any of his redress augmented; 
and
take a prudent approach when calculating how much redress could be augmented, 
given the inherent uncertainty around Mr Es end of year tax position.
Redress paid to Mr E as a cash lump sum will be treated as income for tax purposes. So, in 
line with DISP App 4, Vision may make a notional deduction to cash lump sum payments to 
take account of tax that consumers would otherwise pay on income from their pension. 
Typically, 25% of the loss couldve been taken as tax-free cash and 75% wouldve been taxed according to Mr Es likely income tax rate in retirement  presumed to be 20%. So 
making a notional deduction of 15% overall from the loss adequately reflects this. 
In addition, Vision should pay Mr E £300 compensation for the trouble and upset caused by 
its unsuitable recommendation, as recommended by our investigator.
My final decision
Determination and money award: I uphold this complaint and require Vision Independent 
Financial Planning Ltd to pay Mr E the compensation amount as set out in the steps above, 
up to a maximum of £170,000. Where the compensation amount doesnt exceed £170,000, I 
would additionally require Vision Independent Financial Planning Ltd to pay Mr E any 
interest on that amount in full, as set out above. Where the compensation amount already 
exceeds £170,000, I would only require Vision Independent Financial Planning Ltd to pay  
Mr E any interest as set out above on the sum of £170,000.
Recommendation: If the compensation amount exceeds £170,000, I also recommend that
Vision Independent Financial Planning Ltd pays Mr E the balance. I would additionally 
recommend any interest calculated as set out above on this balance to be paid to Mr E. 
If Mr E accepts this final decision, the money award becomes binding on Vision Independent 
Financial Planning Ltd. My recommendation wouldnt be binding. Further, its unlikely that  
Mr E can accept this final decision and go to court to ask for the balance. Mr E may want to 
consider getting independent legal advice before deciding whether to accept this final 
decision.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr E to accept or 
reject my decision before 10 November 2023. 
Clint Penfold
Ombudsman