DRN-3836878
The complaint
Mr P has complained about the advice he was given by Wren Sterling Financial Planning 
Limited not to transfer his defined benefit (DB) occupational pension to a personal pension.
What happened
Mr P met with Wren Sterling in December 2021 to discuss transferring his DB pension to an 
alternative arrangement. Wren sterling explained it would provide the advice in two stages. 
The first was an abridged advice service, which would cost £2,000 + VAT and would result 
in two outcomes; either advice not to transfer or that more information was required. If more 
information was required, it would proceed with providing full advice, which would cost 
£7,500 (including the cost of the abridged advice).
Wren Sterling provided Mr P with an Abridged Advice Report on 17 February 2022, in which 
it recommended that Mr P should remain in his DB pension scheme. The key reason for this 
was that it thought Mr P didnt have any need to access the funds, and he had significant 
other assets he could use to meet his desire to draw down funds flexibly until he fully retired 
around age 60. Overall, it didnt think the transfer was in his best interests.
Mr P complained. He said hed done considerable research and he wouldnt be reliant on the 
income the DB pension would provide him with. So, he instead wanted to take advantage of 
the cash equivalent transfer value (CETV) and draw down on the funds flexibly from age 
55. Mr P says he thought the DB pension benefits at age 55 were poor value for money 
compared with the CETV. And he wanted to be able to pass on the capital value to his family 
on his death. He believed Wren Sterling hadnt taken account of the other assets he had to 
support his retirement or the financial models hed produced. Mr P thought Wren Sterling 
was being overly risk-averse and believed his circumstances reflected those of a customer 
the FCA had identified would be a suitable candidate for a transfer.
Wren Sterling maintained the advice was suitable so Mr P referred his concerns to our 
Service. The Investigator didnt uphold the complaint. She said we couldnt compel Wren 
Sterling to provide a positive recommendation to transfer and ultimately she didnt think 
Wren Sterling had treated Mr P unfairly. 
Mr P maintained Wren Sterling hadnt provided the service hed signed up for. While he 
understood the Regulators starting point that a transfer out of a DB scheme wont usually be 
suitable, he believed his circumstances were such that a transfer was in his best interests 
and would meet his objectives.
As no agreement could be reached, the complaint was passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive taken into account relevant law and regulations, regulators rules, guidance and 
standards and codes of practice, and what I consider to have been good industry practice at 
the time. This includes the Principles for Business (PRIN) and the Conduct of Business 
Sourcebook (COBS). And where the evidence is incomplete, inconclusive or contradictory, 
I reach my conclusions on the balance of probabilities  that is, what I think is more likely 
than not to have happened based on the available evidence and the wider surrounding 
circumstances.
The applicable rules, regulations and requirements
The below is not a comprehensive list of the rules and regulations which applied at the time 
of the advice, but provides useful context for my assessment of Wren Sterling's actions here.
PRIN 6: A firm must pay due regard to the interests of its customers and treat them fairly.
PRIN 7: A firm must pay due regard to the information needs of its clients, and communicate 
information to them in a way which is clear, fair and not misleading.
COBS 2.1.1R: A firm must act honestly, fairly and professionally in accordance with the best 
interests of its client (the client's best interests rule).
The provisions in COBS 9 which deal with the obligations when giving a personal 
recommendation and assessing suitability. And the provisions in COBS 19 which specifically 
relate to a DB pension transfer.
Wren Sterling provided Mr P with abridged advice; so in accordance with COBS 19.1A, 
Wren Sterlings advice could only result in two outcomes. Either it would recommend that 
Mr P remained in his DB scheme or tell him that it needed more information to determine 
whether a transfer was in his best interests. And crucially, in providing abridged advice it was 
not permitted to carry out appropriate pension transfer analysis, which would include 
comparing the benefits payable from the DB scheme with an alternative arrangement. 
The advice given by Wren Sterling
Having considered all of this and the evidence in this case, Ive decided not to uphold the 
complaint for largely the same reasons given by the Investigator.
As Ive said above, Wren Sterling provided Mr P with abridged advice  so its role here was 
limited to considering Mr Ps circumstances and objectives to determine whether he should 
remain in his DB scheme or whether it needed more information to make that decision. And 
when making its recommendation, Wren Sterling had to have regard to the fact that the 
regulator, the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA), states in COBS 19.1.6G that the starting 
assumption for a transfer from a DB scheme is that it is unsuitable. So, Wren Sterling should 
have only considered a transfer if it could clearly demonstrate that the transfer was in Mr Ps 
best interests.
Wren Sterling ultimately recommended that Mr P remain in his DB scheme. I appreciate 
Mr P feels very strongly that this was the wrong decision, but overall I dont think Wren 
Sterlings recommendation here was unreasonable.
I know Mr P says he understands the FCAs starting position that a transfer out of a DB 
scheme wont usually be suitable, however he feels that Wren Sterling hasnt looked beyond 
this and has ignored his personal circumstances and objectives. But I think Wren Sterling did 
consider Mr Ps circumstances and objectives, including his other assets and retirement plans rather than simply relying on the FCAs guidance. And I think its conclusion that a 
transfer wouldnt be in Mr Ps best interests was a reasonable one.
I say this because Mr P was approaching age 55 and his objective was to take advantage of 
the CETV and draw down on the funds flexibly until he fully retired at age 60 and until his 
state pension became payable at age 67. But Wren Sterling identified that Mr P had 
significant other assets to meet this need. He had around £160,000 in savings and further 
defined-contribution (DC) pension funds of over £120,000 that he couldve used flexibly 
between the date of the advice and his eventual retirement. Mr P also intended to downsize 
his property so believed this would add around £125,000 more to his savings, giving him 
more funds to use flexibly. Wren Sterling didnt think it was in Mr Ps best interest to give up 
the guaranteed income and place more of his retirement income at risk, when a lot of his 
other funds were already subject to investment risk. And I think that was a fair conclusion to 
reach. Furthermore, remaining in the DB scheme at this time gave Mr P the opportunity to 
revisit the matter closer to his full retirement if his other funds became depleted and no 
longer supported his plans. 
In terms of income needs in retirement, Mr P thought he might need around £18,000 per 
year. Wren Sterling found that Mr Ps other DB scheme wouldve paid around £11,500 at 
age 65, so it ultimately thought Mr P would be more reliant on the income provided by the 
scheme it was advising on, at least until his state pension became payable. Mr P says that 
Wren Sterling made much of the benefits available to him at age 65, when he said he clearly 
explained he wanted to start taking benefits at age 55. However, I dont think Wren Sterling 
needed to make that comparison given Mr P said he intended to continue working to age 60. 
And while looking at the benefits available to Mr P at age 60 could have been more 
meaningful to him, I dont think that wouldve made a difference to the outcome. If Mr P 
retired at age 60 he wouldve been entitled to less than the full pension of around £11,500 
payable under the other DB scheme. So, I think that wouldve shown he couldve been even 
more reliant on the income available to him at age 60 under this scheme. Overall, I dont 
think it was unreasonable for Wren Sterling to conclude that Mr P wouldve been reliant on 
the DB scheme income in retirement.  
I acknowledge that Mr P spent considerable time and effort in producing his own cashflow 
analysis showing how he would use his pension funds. And I have no doubt that Mr P 
believed with careful management he would have sufficient funds to last throughout his 
retirement. But I dont think that ought to have prompted Wren Sterling to advise him 
differently  it had to take an objective view on what was in Mr Ps best interest and advise 
him accordingly. And as Ive said above, Mr P couldve used his other assets to meet his 
objectives without risking his guaranteed pension. It also doesnt appear Mr Ps models 
accounted for unforeseen costs, or that they took the effect of inflation into account on his 
income needs in the future. In any event, as Ive said above, in providing abridged advice 
Wren Sterling wasnt permitted to compare the benefits he could take from the scheme with 
an alternative arrangement. So, it couldnt consider the returns Mr P might achieve on the 
CETV if he transferred it and how that might feed into his overall retirement income.
I note Mr Ps belief that he would rather have access to more funds in the early years of his 
retirement than to have an ever-increasing income in later life. But I think Mr P already had 
other ways of maximising his income in the early years of his retirement  he had significant 
other funds to draw on. And if he got to a stage where he believed he had more income than 
he needed, he couldve saved the excess for the benefit of his spouse or children.
Mr P felt that because he had sufficient other provisions to meet his income needs in 
retirement, he would rather have the ability to pass on what remained of these funds when 
he died. He didnt consider the spouses pension attached to the DB scheme to be valuable. In general terms death benefits are an emotive subject and of course when asked, most 
people would like their loved ones to be taken care of when they die. The lump sum death 
benefits on offer through a personal pension was likely an attractive feature to Mr P. But 
whilst I appreciate death benefits are important to consumers, and Mr P might have thought 
it was a good idea to transfer his DB scheme to a personal pension because of this, the 
priority here was to advise Mr P about what was best for his retirement provisions. 
Mr P already had the ability to pass on whatever remained of his savings and DC pension 
funds on his death to any beneficiary of his choosing. And he couldve made arrangements 
to put his savings in a trust to mitigate any potential inheritance tax. Moreover, as Wren 
Sterling identified, if Mr P was concerned about leaving funds for his family on his death, the 
most appropriate means wouldve been to take out life assurance. I appreciate Mr P had a 
term assurance policy that was shortly due to expire, and he perceived that transferring his 
DB scheme would plug this gap. But it isnt certain that any of these funds, if transferred, 
would remain on Mr Ps death in any event. The funds would be subject to investment risk, 
and regular withdrawals and charges would continue to erode its value, whereas the 
spouses pension attached to the DB scheme was guaranteed and escalated. So, I dont 
think Mr Ps desire for higher potential death benefits shouldve led to Wren Sterling 
concluding that a transfer out of the scheme would be in his best interests.
I appreciate that Mr P and Wren Sterling had very different views of what was in his best 
interests. But I think its important to stress that Wren Sterlings role here wasnt simply to 
transact what Mr P wanted it to do. Its role was to advise Mr P, and in doing so it had to 
look beyond what Mr P wanted and make a determination of what it believed was in his 
best interests. And from what Ive seen, its clear that it believed Mr Ps chosen path, which 
was to give up a guaranteed income in retirement, wasnt in his best interests. Considering 
the available information and the starting assumption the FCA said Wren Sterling needed 
to make, I dont think that conclusion was unreasonable.
Finally, I note Mr Ps comments about the FCAs DB transfer guidance where it identified 
candidates who were best suited to a transfer. Mr P said this mirrored his exact situation so 
again feels let down by the service Wren Sterling provided. However, I think its important to 
note that this is guidance and ultimately I think the advice Wren Sterling provided was 
suitable for the reasons Ive already given.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision before 31 March 2023.
 
Hannah Wise
Ombudsman