DRN-4063787
The complaint
Mr C and Mrs C complain that TSB Bank plc (TSB) failed to accept a Power of Attorney 
(PoA) issued in a foreign jurisdiction. This has had an impact on their ability to access their 
savings and has affected their quality of life.
What happened.
Mr C and Mrs C are represented in this complaint by Mrs J. 
Mr C and Mrs C moved permanently overseas for their retirement. In 2020 they obtained a 
Power of Attorney issued by the overseas authority for Mrs J to act on their behalf to 
manage their affairs including their bank accounts held in the UK. They also obtained an 
Apostille which is a document issued by an appropriate government department (in their 
current country of residence) that recognises (in this case) the PoA is authentic and can be 
accepted by other countries who are part of the international agreement for such matters, 
including the UK. 
At the time the PoA was granted, there was no question regarding mental capacity of either 
of the complainants. The PoA was issued jointly in both Mr C and Mrs Cs name. Mrs J 
arranged, using the PoA, to have Mr C and Mrs Cs other UK based financial arrangements 
(pensions) moved to their overseas bank.
Mrs J attempted to register the PoA on four occasions with TSB and theyve continually 
declined to recognise it. TSB have stated that they were first aware of it in 2022 after issues 
arose with the account which was blocked by their fraud team. TSB said they asked the 
account holder(s) to attend a branch with their identification documents and were informed 
that Mr C and Mrs C were living abroad. Due to their great age and health related issues, 
they couldnt travel to the UK. TSB said it was at this point they suggested Mr C and Mrs C 
obtain a PoA to enable an attorney to manage their accounts.
During this period, Mrs J advised that access to the account was arranged through online 
banking using a specific laptop and agreed by TSB. Access to this device was later 
cancelled. Mrs J has said shes found it very difficult to deal with her parents concerns 
because TSB wont recognise her as their attorney (using the PoA).
Its also relevant to this complaint that other family members have also had access to the 
account. Mrs J doesnt believe this was appropriate and has said her parents didnt authorise 
this. Later, Mr C and Mrs C couldnt be sure if theyd given access to other family members. 
Its also not clear when TSB were advised about the permanent change of address. At the 
time the issue was raised in 2022, the address for their account was still in the UK, although 
theyd been abroad for some time prior to this.
Later in 2022, TSB advised Mrs J they couldnt accept the foreign PoA/Apostille as this was 
against their company policy. They advised that a PoA issued in the UK should be obtained 
to allow Mrs J to be their attorney.
Mr C and Mrs C raised various complaints concerning their treatment and account blocks 
which caused them inconvenience and stress because they couldnt access their account to 
pay bills. Complaints were raised with TSB about these matters  but didnt form part of their 
complaint to the Financial Ombudsman Service. Mr C and Mrs C brought a specific 
complaint to our service regarding TSBs refusal to accept the PoA/Apostille as they thought 
this was unfair and unreasonable. Mr C and Mrs C advised that other UK Government 
departments and companies had accepted the PoA/Apostille so TSB should also accept it. 
An additional complaint was registered concerning unauthorised access to the account 
related to other family members, but this was later withdrawn.
Their complaint was looked into by one of our investigators who didnt think that TSB had 
failed to follow its own policy and wasnt unfair. 
Mrs J on behalf of Mr C and Mrs C were unhappy with the outcome and asked an 
Ombudsman to review the complaint.
My first thoughts about this complaint were to attempt to broker an arrangement that 
satisfied both Mr C and Mrs Cs immediate needs and TSBs concerns. Accordingly, I asked 
TSB to make arrangements to speak with Mr C and Mrs C via video to deal with the 
outstanding account access issues.
A video meeting was arranged between the various parties and for a number of reasons, the 
meeting didnt satisfy TSB that Mr C and Mrs C were in a position to independently give 
them instruction about their account.
Mrs J was equally concerned about how TSB acted during the meeting and didnt think that 
they were sufficiently interested about her parents and their situation. 
Following the failure of this meeting, TSB advised they could accept a UK PoA, but Mrs J 
didnt think this was appropriate as it would likely mean that her parents would have to travel 
to the UK. Due to their ongoing health conditions and age, she didnt think this was 
appropriate.
The situation reached an impasse.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As no informal agreement could be reached, Im now issuing my decision regarding this 
matter.
Firstly, I wanted to acknowledge the continued input from both Mrs J and TSB concerning 
this matter. At the heart of this complaint are two elderly customers who are having 
difficulties accessing their own funds, but because they live abroad the situation is more 
challenging.
There are other factors present in this complaint which further complicate the situation, in 
particular, other family members who, at various points, appear to have had access to the 
account. Ive had to consider the situation that not all parties are present in this complaint, so 
to an extent, not everyones version of events is represented.
Its apparent that various family members are at odds with each other over who can or cant 
use the account. Mr C and Mrs C arent in a position to say whether those accessing it did so 
with their permission or not, although in a recent letter, they have stated that Mrs J is their 
authorised representative (under the PoA), assisted by her brother. TSB records show another family member as being a user of the account (not Mrs J) at some point, so on the 
face of it, they were also authorised to use it.
The complaint brought to our service relates principally to whether it was reasonable for TSB 
to decline the overseas PoA and accompanying Apostille. Mrs J strongly believes they 
should and thinks theres an element of bias because of which country issued it. TSB have 
provided their policy statement regarding overseas PoAs which says in general they dont 
accept them  whichever country issues them, although there are exceptions.
Those exceptions relate to whether the account holders have mental capacity and at the 
time of the submission of the PoA to TSB, there wasnt an issue concerning this. So, on the 
face of it this couldnt have been used. Its also not uncommon amongst UK banks that they 
wont accept foreign PoAs , so here I dont think that TSBs position is out of the ordinary.
I dont think theres any evidence to support Mrs Js assertion that TSB are biased towards 
particular countries as their policy is they wont accept any overseas PoA. I have thought 
whether their strict reliance on the policy is unfair in the particular circumstances of Mr C and 
Mrs Cs situation. 
Here, there are factors linked to other family members who believe that other family 
members shouldnt access the account and use the funds. TSB also had concerns that Mr C 
and Mrs C couldnt independently provide their directions to them during the video meeting. I 
appreciate Mrs J was very unhappy with the approach taken by TSB, but I have to consider 
all the factors present in a complaint. I cant ignore TSBs concerns here or that there are 
undoubtedly opposing views to how the account is operated. So, I dont think that in these 
particular circumstances, that TSBs adherence to their policy is either unfair or 
unreasonable.
Based on all the factors present in this complaint, I think that in order for the protection of Mr 
C and Mrs C, that a UK PoA or appropriate alternative order be obtained. This will provide all 
the parties, including Mrs J (as attorney) with the relevant authority to allow Mr and Ms Cs 
funds to be safely released to their account overseas. 
I do think that TSB could well have explained the situation with regards to the overseas PoA 
sooner. Their earliest notes on the matter dont show that they set out the situation about 
their policy  just that Mrs J was advised to register a PoA with them. I appreciate that TSBs 
records didnt reflect the new permanent address was overseas (until after the foreign 
PoA/Apostille issue was raised), but I think that in Mrs Js dealings with the branch when she 
tried to register it, it would likely have been discussed (especially as this was the main 
reason for visiting the branch). 
Unfortunately, that time has now passed, but in fairness to Mr C and Mrs C, I think they were 
let down here by TSBs lack of grasp of their circumstances and the additional complications 
it involved. I think Mrs J would still have argued the current PoA was acceptable, so the 
matter was always likely to end in a stalemate.  
Overall, my primary concern here is the complaint brought by Mr C and Mrs C, making sure 
they have access to their account through an appropriately authorised third party. I 
appreciate the strength of feeling Mrs J has about TSBs approach, but I have to take into 
account both parties position and all the available evidence. That shows there were other 
factors including competing family interests about who has access to the account, 
transactions blocked due to fraud triggers and whether Mr C and Mrs C were able to 
independently give instruction about their account. 
When balancing those factors, I dont think it was unreasonable for TSB to adhere to their 
policy and they also offered an alternative (the video conference) which unfortunately wasnt 
successful. Whilst Im sure that it wont feel like it, TSBs obligations are to protect the 
account of the customers and theres sufficient uncertainty surrounding access to the 
account that I wont be asking them to do anything further.I realise this will cause some logistical and other financial implications, but they are primarily 
caused by Mr C and Mrs C being based overseas. Whilst I attach no blame to them for this 
decision, their current residence is a complicating factor in making arrangements for 
appropriate access to their account.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C and Mrs C to 
accept or reject my decision before 01 September 2023.
 
David Perry
Ombudsman