The complaint
Mr P is unhappy that agents of Aviva Insurance Limited (Aviva) caused damage to his 
shower unit when they attended his home following a claim under his home insurance policy. 
As the engineers who attended Mr Ps property were agents of Aviva, this decision is made 
against them.
What happened
In 2017, Mr P made a claim to Aviva under his home insurance policy that he had blocked 
bath pipes. Since that time, Aviva have instructed engineers to visit his property for 
inspection on several occasions. Engineers attended on 4 and 16 January 2019 and they 
found no evidence of a blockage.
Mr P said in late March 2019, while cleaning, he noticed the shower unit was damaged and 
he believed it had been caused by the engineer who had visited on 4 January 2019 because 
he used the shower to run water to determine if the pipes were blocked.
In May 2019, Mr P complained to Aviva and he provided photographs of the damage that he 
believed was caused by the engineer. He asked them to repair the damage or replace the 
shower unit. 
In response to the complaint, Avivas engineers said having considered the photographs, 
they believed the damage was caused by general wear and tear and not by their engineers. 
Unhappy with their response, Mr P referred the complaint to our service. The investigator 
recommended the complaint wasnt upheld. They said there was insufficient evidence to 
conclude Avivas engineers had caused the damage. They also said given the shower was 
used regularly and there was a further visit by an engineer several days later, after the 
alleged damaged was caused, it wouldve been reasonable for Mr P to have noticed the 
damage and reported it to Aviva sooner. 
Mr P disagreed. He said he doesnt use the shower thats why it was not noticed earlier but 
the damage was causing inconvenience to his family. He also provided a copy of a quote 
which said it would cost approximately £180 to replace the shower unit.
As an agreement couldnt be reached, the complaint has been referred to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I believe the investigator has reached a fair outcome and I agree Mr Ps 
complaint shouldnt be upheld. 
DRN-1283479At this point, it is worth saying that Im aware Mr P has raised other complaints about his 
claim for the blocked bath pipes. However in this decision Ive only considered whether or 
not Avivas engineer caused damage to the shower unit and as mentioned above, I dont 
believe they did and Ill explain why.
Avivas claim notes show that when the engineer attended Mr Ps property on 4 January 
2019, he put the shower head directly on top the plughole hole and ran the water to check if 
the pipes were blocked. Given the circumstances, I believe it was reasonable for the 
engineer to do so and he found no blockage. The claim notes make no mention that damage 
had been caused to the shower unit. 
When a different engineer attended several days later on 16 January 2019, he found no 
blockage and he ran water from the bath taps to show Mr P there wasnt an issue. Again, 
there is no mention in the claim notes that there was damage to the shower unit nor does it 
make reference to it being broken or unable to be used as a result. 
Ive carefully considered what Mr P has said and the pictures he has provided. While I 
accept there is damage to the shower unit, there is insufficient evidence to show it was 
caused by the engineer. I note Mr P said it isnt possible to replace the shower head back 
into the bracket due to the damage. If this was the case, I think it wouldve been reasonable 
for him to have noticed it at the time of the inspection on 4 January or at least by 16 January 
2019 and reported the damage sooner than he did. This is especially the case as the claim 
notes indicate he was present at the visit on 16 January 2020 and he asked the engineer 
whether he would be using a particular tool to flush out the pipes.
Based on the information Ive seen, there is insufficient evidence for me to reasonably say 
Avivas engineer caused damage to Mr Ps shower unit. Therefore I wont be asking them to 
replace it or carry out a repair. I know my decision will come as a disappointment to Mr P but 
I cant agree that Aviva or their agents have done anything wrong here.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, Ive decided not to uphold Mr Ps complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision before 2 November 2020.
Simona Charles
Ombudsman