DRN-2278384
The complaint
Mr and Mrs K complain that Santander Bank PLC mis-sold them payment protection 
insurance (PPI) in connection with their mortgage.
What happened
In 1998 Mr and Mrs K took out a mortgage and PPI was added to the account. The policy 
cost £12.78 a month and it provided a benefit to cover their mortgage repayments. The 
policy was only in Mr Ks name as Mrs J wasnt working at the time. Upon a successful claim 
the policy would have paid out for unemployment for up to 12 months per claim. 
Our adjudicator didnt uphold the complaint. Mr and Mrs K disagree so the complaint comes 
to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our approach to handling complaints about PPI on our website, and Ive taken 
account of whats relevant here in considering this complaint.
Santander says this was an advised sale. This means Santander had to provide                   
Mr and Mrs K not only with good enough information about the policy so they could make an 
informed decision about it, it also had to ensure the policy was right or suitable for them 
based on their needs and circumstances at the time. Ive taken this into account in my 
consideration of the case.
did Santander make it clear to Mr and Mrs K that they had a choice about PPI?
Mr and Mrs K say the policy was sold during a meeting between themselves and Santander. 
Santander says the PPI was a standalone product and would have been added because    
Mr and Mrs K chose to take out the PPI.
The only evidence I have from the sale is what Santander and Mr and Mrs K have told us.  
The sale took place over 20 years ago. But it seems more likely Santander gave                   
Mr and Mrs K the opportunity to take out the policy or decline it as part of their mortgage 
application, and that they chose to take it out, but have simply forgotten in the years that 
have now elapsed. I say this because this service has no evidence of Santander 
systemically telling consumers they had to have PPI at this time and Mr and Mrs K could 
have cancelled the PPI at any time. And had they chosen not to purchase PPI at the time, or 
had it been added to their account without either their knowledge or consent, I would have 
expected them to query or challenge this shortly afterwards. I say because I think its likely 
that either the PPI cost was shown separately on their statements or it made their monthly 
repayments higher than the monthly cost of the advance they would have seen in their loan 
offer. 
So, I think it is more likely than not Santander presented the PPI to Mr and Mrs K as optional 
and they chose to take it out. 
did things happen as they should have done  were Mr and Mrs K properly advised 
and informed?
if not  have Mr and Mrs K lost out?
I dont know what Santander said or did when it recommended the PPI to Mr and Mrs K in 
1998. I also dont know what information Mr and Mrs K were given about PPI. I dont know 
whether the policys benefits were explained to them or if they were told about the significant 
exclusions and limitations of cover. I find it unlikely Mr and Mrs K agreed to take the cover 
out knowing very little about it, but I dont know if they received everything they needed to 
know to allow them to make an informed decision.
So, I accept its possible that things did not happen as they should have done when 
Santander recommended to Mr and Mrs K that they take out PPI. I accept Mr and Mrs K may 
not have been treated fairly and reasonably.
But for the reasons Ive set out below, I dont think Mr and Mrs K have lost out as a result. I 
say this because, given Mr and Mrs Ks circumstances and needs at the time of each sale, I 
think the policy cover was suitable for them. And I find it unlikely that Mr and Mrs K would 
have acted differently and not gone ahead with the cover if Santander had provided better 
information. My reasons are as follows:
Mr K was eligible for the cover and all its benefits.
Mr K was employed and in good health at the time, so it doesnt appear he would 
have been affected by any of the key exclusions/limitations of the cover such as 
existing medical condition exclusions or unusual employment terms. 
Mr K says he had employee benefits he could have used. The PPI would have paid 
out in addition to any redundancy pay and for up to 12 months for each claim. So, I 
think Mr and Mrs K had a need for their cover and that it would have been useful to 
them if Mr K had been made redundant. It could have helped them financially at what 
would be a difficult time  it could have helped them protect their home. I have noted 
Mr Ks comments that the chance of him being made redundant was very low due to 
the performance of his employment at the time. But I dont think the possibility of him 
losing his job could have been ruled out entirely. 
I dont know how the cost of the PPI was presented to Mr and Mrs K, but I find it 
unlikely they would have agreed to something without having some understanding of 
the cost. And I think its unlikely they would have declined it solely on the basis of its 
cost had it been made clearer to them. Ive already said they had a need for it, and it 
appears to have been affordable. And as they were paying for the PPI monthly, they 
could cancel it without further cost if at any stage their situation changed, or they no 
longer wanted it.
So overall, while I accept there may have been failings in the way the PPI was sold and       
Mr and Mrs K may not have been treated fairly and reasonably by Santander in its dealings 
with them, I find theyve not lost out. This is because for the reasons Ive detailed above, I 
think Mr and Mrs K chose to take out the PPI and they would have been in the same position 
if Santander had done more and properly advised and informed them - I think they would 
have still taken it out. Ive also thought about whether Santander needs to give Mr and Mrs K some of the 
commission they paid back. The Supreme Court ruling, and rules and guidance dont apply 
to certain types of mortgage agreement  including a regulated mortgage. As                        
Mr and Mrs Ks mortgage became a regulated mortgage before 6 April 2008 they dont 
apply. So, Santander doesnt need to refund any of the commission Mr and Mrs K paid for 
the PPI they had with that mortgage.
I appreciate Mr and Mrs K will be disappointed with this outcome. I know theyve put time 
and effort into their complaint. Its always difficult to decide a complaint on very little 
information. But Ive thought very carefully about what Mr and Mrs K have said and what I 
know of Santanders sales processes. And I dont think  on balance  I can fairly and 
reasonably uphold their complaint. 
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr K and Mrs K to 
accept or reject my decision before 3 March 2021.
 
Claire Marchant-Williams
Ombudsman