The complaint
Mr J complained to Bank of Scotland plc (trading as Halifax) when he was unable to borrow 
more money on his residential mortgage to use as a deposit for a buy-to-let property he 
wanted to purchase.
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I will not repeat them again
here. Instead I will focus on giving the reasons for my decision. Although Ive read and 
considered the whole file, Ill keep my comments to what I think is relevant. If I dont 
comment on any specific point, its not because Ive not considered it but because I dont 
think I need to comment on it in order to reach the right outcome.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair 
and reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. 
Its not in dispute that the mortgage adviser should have told Mr J on 4 June 2019 that he 
couldnt have a further advance on his mortgage as he hadnt owned his property for at least 
six months (the six months was up on 14 July 2019). Its also not in dispute that Mr J was 
given that information on 11 June 2019. Mistakes do happen, and Im satisfied this was a 
genuine mistake made by a fairly new mortgage adviser. Halifax offered £100 for the 
mistake, and that offer seems fair and reasonable for the one-week period where Mr Js 
expectations were raised.
Mr J says he expected the mortgage manager to make contact after the meeting to 
apologise and discuss a way forward. Whilst that may have been Mr Js expectation it 
doesnt mean Halifax did anything wrong in not doing so. Mr J has said the mortgage 
manager apologised at the time and gave him the right information about when he could 
proceed with a further advance. That was enough, and there was no other way forward to be 
discussed.
Mr J also mentioned a mistake made by the mortgage adviser in the 4 June meeting with the 
figures. But as that was put right at the time - whether that was because Mr J pointed it out 
or not  means theres nothing further that needs to be done about that. Mr J says the 
mistake was one thing and he pointed it out, the mortgage adviser said it was something 
else and she realised her mistake. Either way I dont need to make a finding on that as it 
didnt affect anything and hasnt caused Mr J any loss.
Finally, Mr J is unhappy with how his complaint was handled. He says the call handler was 
adversarial, and he received the complaint acknowledgement letter and the final response 
letter on the same day.
DRN-1577935Ive listened to the calls very carefully and having done so I dont agree with Mr Js 
interpretation of them. Instead, I heard a complaint handler who was polite and professional, 
and asked questions of Mr J to check her understanding of the complaint and to get his 
version of events. She opened the call by saying shed obtained the mortgage advisers 
version of events and that shed run through that with Mr J. It was clear she was repeating 
what the mortgage adviser had said, and when Mr J interjected to say something wasnt right 
the call handler encouraged that dialogue.
Mr J has said the complaint handler called into question his honesty and integrity. Again, I 
dont agree with Mr Js interpretation of the call and final response letter in that way. The call 
handler said she couldnt evidence what Mr J said, but she apologised for those matters. 
Being unable to evidence something is not the same as saying it didnt happen. 
The call ended with the complaint handler saying shed listen to the interview recordings 
again to check out the points Mr J had raised and if her opinion changed, shed get in touch. 
Otherwise if her opinion of the complaint remained unchanged, shed send out a letter 
detailing her findings. As her decision remained unchanged the letter was sent out.
Whilst its unfortunate that the acknowledgement letter and the final response letter arrived 
at the same time it caused no detriment to Mr J, it was just a matter of timings.
Halifax can set up its complaint handling functions how it wishes, so long as it meets its 
regulatory requirements, which this did. Halifaxs handling of this complaint didnt breach any 
regulations. Just because Mr J wanted it handled differently doesnt mean Halifax did 
anything wrong.
My final decision
I dont uphold the complaint. I leave it to Mr J to decide if now  on reflection  he wants to 
contact Halifax directly to accept the £100 compensation it offered in its final response letter. 
My final decision concludes this services consideration of this complaint, which means well 
not be engaging in any further consideration or discussion on the merits of it.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr J to accept or 
reject my decision before 22 July 2020.
Julia Meadows
Ombudsman