DRN-3866584
Complaint
Miss B has complained about a guarantor loan Bamboo Limited (Bamboo) provided to her. 
She says that Bamboo failed to conduct proportionate checks and could have done more 
before providing her with this loan.
Background
Bamboo provided Miss B with a guarantor loan for £5,000.00 in November 2017. It had an 
APR of 49.7% and a 60-month term. This meant that the total amount to be repaid of 
£11,825.37, which included interest, fees and other charges of £6,825.37, was to due be 
repaid in 60 instalments of around £200. 
One of our investigators reviewed what Miss B and Bamboo had told us. And she thought 
that Bamboo hadnt lent irresponsibly. So she didnt uphold Miss Bs complaint. Miss B 
disagreed and asked for an ombudsman to look at her complaint.
My findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve explained how we handle complaints about unaffordable and irresponsible lending on
our website. And Ive used this approach to help me decide Miss Bs complaint.
Bamboo needed to make sure it didnt lend irresponsibly. In practice, what this means is 
Bamboo needed to carry out proportionate checks to be able to understand whether Miss B 
could afford to repay before providing this loan. Our website sets out what we typically think 
about when deciding whether a lenders checks were proportionate. Generally, we think its 
reasonable for a lenders checks to be less thorough  in terms of how much information it 
gathers and what it does to verify it  in the early stages of a lending relationship.
But we might think it needed to do more if, for example, a borrowers income was low or the
amount lent was high. And the longer the lending relationship goes on, the greater the risk of
it becoming unsustainable and the borrower experiencing financial difficulty. So wed expect
a lender to be able to show that it didnt continue to lend to a customer irresponsibly.
Bamboo says it agreed to Miss Bs application after she provided details of her monthly 
income and expenditure. It says it cross-checked this against information on a credit search 
it carried out on Miss B. The information Miss B provided about her income and expenditure 
showed shed be able to make the repayments she was committing to. Bamboo says, in 
these circumstances it was reasonable to lend. On the other hand, Miss B has said the loan 
was unaffordable.
Ive carefully thought about what Miss B and Bamboo have said. The first thing for me to say 
is that this was Miss Bs first loan with Bamboo. The information provided does suggest        
Miss B was asked to provide details of her income and expenditure and Bamboo didnt just 
rely on what it was told. The credit search carried out showed that Miss B did have some 
outstanding debt but that this wasnt excessive compared to her income. Crucially Miss Bs 
existing debt appeared to be reasonably managed too  for example, she wasnt at the limit 
of her revolving credit accounts and hadnt really missed any payments.
I accept that Miss Bs actual circumstances may not have been fully reflected either in the 
information she provided, or the information Bamboo obtained. Equally I accept that if 
Bamboo had gone into the depth of checks Miss B appears to be saying it should have  
such as obtaining bank statements  it may have reached a different answer, although Ive 
not been provided with this information to make this determination. 
But the key here is that its only fair and reasonable for me to uphold a complaint in 
circumstances where a lender did something wrong. Given the circumstances here, and the 
lack of obvious inconsistencies, I dont think that reasonable and proportionate checks would 
have extended further  especially where we havent been provided with anything which 
demonstrates the loan was obviously unaffordable either. 
As this is the case, I dont think that Bamboo did anything wrong when deciding to lend to 
Miss B - it carried out proportionate checks and reasonably relied on what it found out which 
suggested the repayments were affordable. 
So overall I dont think that Bamboo treated Miss B unfairly or unreasonably when providing 
her with her loan. And Im not upholding Miss Bs complaint. I appreciate this will be very 
disappointing for Miss B. But I hope shell understand the reasons for my decision and that 
shell at least feel her concerns have been listened to.
My final decision
My final decision is that Im not upholding Miss Bs complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss B to accept 
or reject my decision before 13 February 2023.
 
Jeshen Narayanan
Ombudsman