DRN-2418389
The complaint
The complaint is about a Halifax-branded mortgage taken out with Bank of Scotland plc in 
2010. The main thrust of the complaint can be distilled under the following four bullet points:
Halifax arranged a joint mortgage with Mrs B as one of the borrowers, without her 
consent;
Part of the mortgage was to consolidate existing debt, and Halifax failed to ensure that 
happened
The mortgage was unaffordable, based to on todays affordability calculators;
Providing a mortgage with a term that will run until Mrs B is 88, without also arranging life 
assurance, was irresponsible and therefore, unsuitable.
A fifth head of complaint has been raised about the conduct over the past decade of the 
current account from which the mortgage payments were paid. Thats been separated off 
into a discrete complaint on its own. This decision deals solely with the complaint about the 
provision of the mortgage in 2010.
What happened
By way of a jurisdiction decision last month, I set out the reasons why our power to consider 
this complaint was restricted to just one issue. That was the fourth bullet point listed above; 
i.e. that the mortgage was arranged without life assurance over a term that is scheduled to 
run until Mrs B is 88 years old. Mr B, who brings the complaint on his mothers behalf, says 
this was unsuitable; he wants Halifax to write off half of the outstanding balance.
Our investigator wasnt persuaded Halifax had done anything wrong in arranging the 
mortgage with the term it recommended. Mr B has asked for an ombudsman to review the 
case.
Both parties were invited to make final submissions on the merits of the one issue that were 
able to consider. Halifax confirmed it had nothing to add; Mr B expressed the view that had 
the other matters not being conveniently time barred, Halifax would be hard pushed to 
justify its actions.
What Ive decided  and why
Ill start by emphasising that were not the regulator of financial businesses, and we dont 
police their internal processes or how they operate generally. Thats the job of the 
Financial Conduct Authority. 
We deal with individual disputes between businesses and their customers. In doing that, we 
dont replicate the work of the courts. Were impartial, and we dont take either sides 
instructions on how we investigate a complaint, or what information we need in order to 
reach a fair outcome. 
We conduct our investigations and reach our conclusions without interference from anyone 
else. But in doing so, we have to work within the rules of the ombudsman service, and the 
remit those rules give us. So its neither convenient nor inconvenient that the majority of this 
case falls outside our jurisdiction. What would be inconvenient, to say nothing of a waste of 
our finite resources, is if I were to act outside the rules and issue a decision that had no 
standing or validity in law and could simply be disregarded by all parties.
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As a starting point, its not the role of an ombudsman to interfere with a lenders commercial 
judgement on how much, and up to what age, it will lend. But a lender must treat customers 
fairly. In the context of an application for lending, that means assessing it fairly in 
accordance with the banks lending criteria. 
Lenders criteria are commercially sensitive and not generally made public. But where 
necessary, we will ask a lender to provide relevant information (in confidence  thats 
provided for in our rules) about its otherwise confidential criteria, in order that we can assess 
if it has been applied fairly when a lending decision was made. 
Weve done that here, and Im satisfied that, at the time this mortgage was approved in 
2010, Halifaxs lending policy did not include an upper age limit for mortgage borrowers. A 
limit was introduced later that year, partly to reflect changes in the legislative and regulatory 
framework brought about by the passing of the Equality Act. But at the time this mortgage 
was granted, a fair application of Halifaxs lending policy allowed a couple in their early 
seventies to borrow over a fifteen-year term. That brings me to suitability.
I appreciate Mr Bs current strength of feeling on his mothers behalf, but Ive seen nothing in 
the available evidence that would give me any cause to consider a fifteen-year term was 
inherently unsuitable for Mrs B and her late husband. 
Ive already decided that the part of the complaint relating to affordability in isolation is 
time-barred. However, when considering the suitability of the mortgage term, there is an 
element of cross-over, in that the length of the term affects how much borrowers must pay 
each month. The shorter the term, the higher the monthly payment and vice versa.
Mrs B and her husband may have been on fixed incomes, but these were incomes for life. 
Also, Ive noted an observation from the evidence Mr B has provided that even after being 
widowed, he and his siblings are apparently confident Mrs B can afford the mortgage 
payments currently, from her sole fixed income. Its not unreasonable from there to infer that 
the fifteen-year mortgage was (or should have been) affordable on two fixed incomes, and 
therefore not unsuitable, when granted. If the lending had been taken over a shorter term, 
that might not have been the case.
It seems to me that what appears to drive this complaint is that Mrs B and her late husband 
didnt have dedicated life assurance to pay the mortgage off if one of them died during the 
mortgage term. I understand why that resonates; it means Mrs B still has the mortgage to 
pay following the death of her husband. 
I appreciate Mrs B would prefer it if that werent the case, but the existence or otherwise of 
life assurance, whilst important in its own right, doesnt go to the suitability of the lending.  It 
was a decision for Mrs B and her late husband whether or not they considered they needed 
life assurance for the mortgage, and Halifax couldnt make it a condition of the lending. Theres something else to consider here, and it comes back to the fact that Mrs B and her 
late husband were already in their seventies when they took this mortgage out. As Mr B has 
pointed out, the mortality rates in that stage in life are very high. That, in turn, means that the 
premiums would have been very  in all likelihood prohibitively - expensive. And thats 
always assuming there were insurers willing in 2010 to provide term assurance to applicants 
aged over seventy in the first place. 
All of this might explain why Mrs B and/or her late husband didnt have life cover for their 
mortgage. What it doesnt do is render Halifaxs recommendation of a mortgage with a 
fifteen-year term unsuitable for them.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, my final decision is that that I dont uphold this complaint. My 
final decision concludes this services consideration of this complaint, which means Ill not be 
engaging in any further consideration or discussion of the merits of it.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs B to accept or 
reject my decision before 6 January 2021. 
Jeff Parrington
Ombudsman