DRN-4424489
Complaint
Mr H complains that Moneybarn No. 1 Limited (Moneybarn) unfairly entered into a 
conditional sale agreement with him. Hes said that the monthly payments to this agreement 
were unaffordable. 
Background
In January 2021, Moneybarn provided Mr H with finance for a used car. The purchase price 
of the vehicle was £7,150.00. Mr H didnt pay a deposit and took out a conditional sale 
agreement with Moneybarn for the entire £7,150.00. The loan had interest and charges of 
£5,735.04 and a 57-month term. This meant that the total amount to be repaid of £12,885.04 
was due to be repaid in 56 monthly instalments of £230.99.
Mr H complained that the agreement was unaffordable and so should never have been 
provided to him. Moneybarn didnt uphold the complaint. It said that its checks confirmed that 
the finance was affordable and so it was reasonable to lend. 
Mr Hs complaint was considered by one of our investigators. He didnt think that Moneybarn 
had done anything wrong or treated Mr H unfairly. So he didnt recommend that Mr Hs 
complaint should be upheld. Mr H disagreed with our investigator and the complaint was 
passed to an ombudsman for a final decision.  
My findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve explained how we handle complaints about irresponsible and unaffordable lending on 
our website. And Ive used this approach to help me decide Mr Hs complaint. 
Having carefully thought about everything Ive been provided with, Im not upholding           
Mr Hs complaint. Id like to explain why in a little more detail.
Moneybarn needed to make sure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In practice, what this 
means is that Moneybarn needed to carry out proportionate checks to be able to understand 
whether any lending was sustainable for Mr H before providing it. 
Our website sets out what we typically think about when deciding whether a lenders checks 
were proportionate. Generally, we think its reasonable for a lenders checks to be less 
thorough  in terms of how much information it gathers and what it does to verify that 
information  in the early stages of a lending relationship. 
But we might think it needed to do more if, for example, a borrowers income was low, the 
amount lent was high, or the information the lender had  such as a significantly impaired 
credit history  suggested the lender needed to know more about a prospective borrowers 
ability to repay. 
Moneybarn says it agreed to this application after Mr H provided details of his monthly 
income. It says it also carried out credit searches on Mr H which had shown Mr H had 
previously defaulted on credit and Mr H also had county court judgments (CCJ) taken out 
against him. Although all of this was historic bearing in mind the most recent default was two 
and a half years prior and the most recent CCJ was almost four years prior to this 
application.
Nonetheless, in Moneybarns view, when the amount Mr H already owed plus a reasonable 
amount for Mr Hs living expenses were deducted from his monthly income the monthly 
payments for this agreement were still affordable. 
On the other hand, Mr H says his existing commitments meant that these payments were 
unaffordable and there was no way he was going to be able to maintain them.
Ive thought about what Mr H and Moneybarn have said. 
The first thing for me to say is that Im not persuaded that the checks Moneybarn carried out 
did go far enough. For example, Im not persuaded that it was reasonable to rely on an 
estimate of Mr Hs living costs given what Moneybarn saw on the credit search it carried out. 
And I think that this ought to have led Moneybarn to do more to verify Mr Hs actual regular 
living costs. That said, I dont think that obtaining further information on Mr Hs actual living 
costs would have made a difference to Moneybarns decision to lend in this instance. 
I say this because the information Mr H has provided about his finances at the time appears 
to show that when his committed regular living expenses and existing credit commitments 
were deducted from his monthly income, he did have the funds, at the time at least, to 
sustainably make the repayments due under this agreement. 
Mr H says that the money he received in benefits should not be used as income. But those 
were funds he was using to support himself and Im satisfied it was reasonable for these to 
be taken into account. Furthermore, Mr H has referred to a loan hed taken recently not 
being included in the calculations. However, Moneybarn wasnt aware of this as it was not 
showing on the credit search it carried out. And I have to factor in that it was Mr H that chose 
to apply for car finance in these circumstances. I wouldnt expect a lender to factor in 
commitments it could not reasonably be expected to know about. 
  
Overall and having carefully considered everything, while Im not persuaded that 
Moneybarns checks before entering into this conditional sale agreement with Mr H did go far 
enough, Im satisfied that carrying out reasonable and proportionate checks wont have 
stopped Moneybarn from providing these funds, or entering into this agreement with him. 
As this is the case, I dont think that Moneybarn acted unfairly or unreasonably towards         
Mr H. So Im not upholding this complaint. I appreciate that this will be disappointing for       
Mr H. But I hope hell understand the reasons for my decision and at least consider that his 
concerns have been listened to.
Although Im not upholding Mr Hs complaint, I would remind Moneybarn of its obligation to 
exercise forbearance and due consideration in the event that it intends to collect the 
remaining payments on the agreement and Mr H is experiencing financial difficulty.
My final decision
My final decision is that Im not upholding Mr Hs complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or reject my decision before 18 December 2023.
 
Jeshen Narayanan
Ombudsman