DRN-3976706
The complaint
Mr M complains that he was mis-sold a holiday club product and the loan used to pay for it. 
The loan was provided by Clydesdale Financial Services Limited, which trades as Barclays 
Partner Finance and which Ill refer to as BPF. Mr M is represented by a claims 
management business, which Ill call C. Where I refer to his arguments and submissions, I 
include those made on his behalf. 
What happened
In May 2008 Mr M and his wife entered into an agreement with Heritage Resort Sales 
Limited (Heritage Resorts) under which Heritage Resorts would sell and they would buy 
membership of Club Heritage International for a total price of £8,500. The membership 
would entitle Mr and Mrs M to use club accommodation for one week every two years from 
2009, subject to payment of an annual maintenance fee; they also obtained membership of 
RCI, a timeshare exchange network. 
Mrs M paid £1,500 by credit card. The balance of the price was paid through a £20,000 
credit facility provided by BPF. BPFs records show that Mr M used £7,000 of the facility, 
which was repaid in November 2008. A further £3,750 was borrowed in June 2009; that was 
repaid in December 2009. The facility was not used after that and was closed in 2013. 
In or around July 2021 Mr M complained to BPF. He said that he had claims under sections 
75 and 140A of the Consumer Credit Act 1974 and that BPF had not properly assessed 
whether he could afford the credit facility. He also said:
Heritage Resorts had misled him into believing he would make savings on holiday 
bookings.
He and his wife had been told that accommodation would be exclusive to members. 
Heritage Resorts said that the membership could be sold at a profit.
Heritage Resorts had not disclosed any commission it had received from BPF.
Heritage Resorts acted as his agent and was in breach of the fiduciary duty it owed to 
him.
Heritage Resorts was not authorised at the time to arrange consumer loans.
BPF noted that the sale had taken place in May 2008 and said that the claims made were 
out of time. 
C referred the matter to this service, where one of our investigators considered it but broadly 
agreed with BPF that the claims were out of time. C asked that an ombudsman review the 
case, as the final stage in our process. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Authorisation to arrange the loan
The holiday club membership was sold by Heritage Resorts, and BPF has confirmed that the 
same company arranged the finance. BPF says that it ceased trading with Heritage Resorts 
in 2011 and that it had limited records as a result.  
When the credit facility was set up, consumer credit broking did not require authorisation 
from the Financial Conduct Authority; it did however require a licence issued by the Office of 
Fair Trading (OFT). In addition, from 6 April 2007, the Financial Ombudsman Service could 
consider certain complaints about OFT licensees, under what was then our consumer credit 
jurisdiction. 
I would usually expect our own records to include information about former OFT licensees, 
even where they are no longer authorised. I have not been able to identify Heritage Resorts 
in those records. BPF has however provided what it believes was Heritage Resorts licence 
number and said that it would not have worked with a business unless it had the correct 
licence. I am aware of at least one timeshare company which did arrange loans without the 
necessary licence, so that does not necessarily follow. The provision of a licence number 
does however suggest that Heritage Resorts was properly licensed. 
 Sections 56 and 75 of the Consumer Credit Act  
Under section 56 of the Consumer Credit Act statements made by a broker in connection 
with a consumer loan are to be taken as made as agent for the lender. It follows that 
Heritage Resorts did not act as Mr Ms agent. Its relationship with him was primarily as 
supplier of the club membership. 
In addition, one effect of section 75 of the Act is that a customer who has a claim for breach 
of contract or misrepresentation against a supplier can, subject to certain conditions, bring 
that claim against a lender. Those conditions include:
that the lending financed the contract giving rise to the claim; and 
that the lending was provided under pre-existing arrangements or in contemplation of 
future arrangements between the lender and the supplier. 
It is clear in this case that the credit facility financed the purchase of the club membership 
and that it was set up as a result of arrangements between BPF and Heritage Resorts. I 
have therefore considered what Mr M has said about the statements made by Heritage 
Resorts. 
Misrepresentation
A misrepresentation is, in very broad terms, a statement of law or of fact, made by one party 
to a contract to the other, which is untrue and which induces the other party into the contract. 
However, under the Limitation Act 1980 an action (that is, court action) based on 
misrepresentation cannot generally be brought after six years from the date on which the 
cause of action accrued. Any statements which might have induced Mr M into the contract 
for the purchase of the holiday club membership were made on or before 20 May 2008. He 
did not however raise any complaint with BPF until July 2021, more than thirteen years later. 
I think it very likely therefore that a court would conclude that any claim for misrepresentation 
was made outside the time limit in the Limitation Act. Where a claim is made under section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act, any defence which 
would be available to the supplier (which in this case means Heritage Resorts) is also 
available to the creditor (here, BPF). I think it was reasonable therefore of BPF to respond to 
the claim by saying it was likely to be out of time. 
I stress that it is not for me to decide whether any underlying claim is now out of time under 
the Limitation Act. Rather, I must decide whether the response of BPF to the claim under 
section 75 was reasonable. Given the real possibility that a court would say that the claims 
are time-barred, I think it was. 
Section 140A claims
Under section 140A and section 140B of the Consumer Credit Act a court has the power to 
consider whether a credit agreement creates an unfair relationship and, if it does, to make 
appropriate orders in respect of it. Those orders can include imposing different terms on the 
parties and refunding payments.
In deciding whether to make an order under section 140B, a court can take into account any 
linked agreement  which in this case would include Mr Ms agreement with Heritage 
Resorts. 
The usual time limit for these types of claims under the Limitation Act is six years from the 
time the relationship between the parties ended. In this case, I think that relationship 
effectively came to an end when the account balance was reduced to zero in December 
2009.   
C says that the time limit is extended where there is fraud or concealment or where the 
claimant is unaware of the facts giving rise to a claim. It says that Mr M was not aware that 
the broker was unauthorised and did not know about any commission paid to Heritage 
Resorts. 
I do not accept that time limits are generally extended in the way C suggests, or that there is 
evidence of fraud or concealment in this case. Time limits can be extended in claims for 
negligence where damage does not become apparent until some time after the event, but 
this is not such a case. Mr Ms claims under section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act are 
claims founded on contract, not negligence. 
Only a court can make an order under section 140B, but it is relevant law which I must take 
into account when deciding whats fair and reasonable. Further, if I were to uphold Mr Ms 
complaint, I could make a range of awards  including, for example, requiring BPF to make 
refunds of sums paid under the credit facility. 
As I have indicated, I think that Heritage Resorts was properly authorised  albeit there is 
little evidence one way or the other. But, even if it wasnt, I have not seen any evidence of 
any detriment to Mr M  the credit facility was provided as agreed and was in a form which 
complied with relevant regulations; Mr M made no complaint about it while it was current. 
One effect of a broker not being properly authorised is that a borrower can seek 
reimbursement of money paid under a credit agreement. I think however it is likely that such 
a claim would be subject to a six-year limitation period.  
There was no duty to disclose the level of any commission to Mr M, and it is not suggested 
that he asked about it or that it was a matter which influenced his decision to buy the club 
membership or open the credit facility. It is not, in my view, a reason to uphold this 
complaint.The complaint about suitability and the credit assessment
There is little evidence about what checks BPF carried out when it agreed to the credit 
facility. That is perhaps unsurprising, given that it was granted in 2008 and repaid at the end 
of 2009. 
The facility appears to have been repaid without difficulty; certainly, there is no indication 
that Mr M ever suggested between May 2008 and December 2009 that it was not affordable. 
That does not mean of course that BPF did carry put proper affordability checks. In my view 
it does however indicate that, even if it BPF had made more detailed checks, its lending 
decision would not have been materially different and Mr Ms position would have been 
much the same.      
My final decision
For these reasons my final decision is that I do not uphold Mr Ms complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 12 June 2023.
 
Mike Ingram
Ombudsman