DRN-4423316
The complaint
Mr and Mrs C have complained about the handling of a home emergency and buildings
insurance claim under their home insurance policy with Liverpool Victoria Insurance
Company Limited (LV).
What happened
On 22 November 2022, Mr and Mrs C returned from holiday to find water leaking through the
downstairs bathroom ceiling. They contacted LV who sent a contractor that day. The
contractor reported that the leak was coming from a failed expansion valve on a hot water
cylinder in a bedroom above. He isolated the cylinder and drained the system to stop the
leak and said an engineer would need to come back to replace the valve.
The next day, Mr and Mrs C contacted LV again to say that the contractor had left a radiator
valve open which had flooded the downstairs bathroom and spread to the kitchen next to it.
There was also another large leak from the expansion vessel which had split. They say the
contractor had also left the filling loop open, which caused the system to keep filling and was
running at high pressure which caused further damage.
The leaks continued and Mr and Mrs C say they had to empty buckets of water several times
a day, until the leak stopped in December 2022. LV agreed to alternative accommodation
and I understand Mr and Mrs C moved to a hotel for around a week, returning home to work
during the day. Drying equipment was installed in February 2023, three months after the
incident, and the repairs to the property completed in June 2023.
Mr and Mrs C are very unhappy with the handling of the matter. They say that the initial leak
was a slow leak from the bottom of the expansion vessel but the later leaks were under
pressure and flooded downstairs. As a result, they were without heating and hot water and
there was substantial damage to their property. While this has now been put right, Mr and
Mrs C are also very unhappy with the time the repairs took and the handling of the repairs.
They are also unhappy that LV dealt with the property damage as a home insurance claim,
which will impact their future insurance arrangements, given that it caused the damage and
they do not therefore think it was an insured event.
LV accepts that its contractor had made a mistake which led to a further leak but does not
accept it is responsible for all the subsequent leaks and damage. LV says a leak from the
radiator was unconnected to the initial leak and that the main water damage was due to the
initial leak, which meant a claim for escape of water under the buildings section of the policy
was warranted. LV said there was a fault on a filling loop, which meant that the system
refilled after the first contractor had drained it down, causing further water to leak. LV says its
second engineer reported that the boiler needed a new expansion vessel, as it had split, and
a new filling loop. LV also said that the cylinder had cracked and needed replacing but this
not covered under the home emergency policy but considered as a gesture of goodwill.
Mr and Mrs C remained unhappy and brought their complaint to this service. They have
made a number of points in support of their complaint. I have considered everything they
have said but have summarised the main points below:
LV came to repair a minor leak, which should have been a quick repair, followed by
natural drying out of the effected areas and minor decorative work that they would
have done themselves. The cost of the repairs as a result of the first leak would have
cost less than the home insurance excess so would not have necessitated a home
insurance claim. Instead LV caused significant damage to their home.
This is not simply about slow claims-handling but the fact LV caused the damage
and none of this would have been necessary if its agents had not been negligent.
None of the compensation offered so far addresses this.
LVs engineer should have checked the system wouldnt refill at the first visit.
One of the engineers told them that one leak which was the largest of them all was
caused by a previous engineer breaking a pressure release valve. And various leaks 
were caused due to excess pressure in system.
Drying equipment wasnt installed until three months after the leak.
LV has not specified which parts of the claim costs were not due to the contractors.
No payment has been made as a gesture of goodwill but rather because LV was
legally liable for them
LV caused the damage and refused to carry out repairs for months. They had to get
up through the night to empty water containers, start fires for heat and spend
considerable time on calls to LV.
LV put forward properties for alternative accommodation with one or two bedrooms
but no working space and which were inaccessible to them and their family.
The damage caused by the initial insured leak was natural drying out of ceiling,
sealing and repairing the ceiling.
For three months they were without use of bathrooms on the ground and first floor,
having to climb stairs to use one on the second floor, which was inconvenient and
troublesome for them and meant they couldnt have guests.
On numerous occasions LV didnt return calls and didnt turn up to appointments.
While the complaint was with us, LV also increased its offer to Mr and Mrs C and ultimately
agreed to pay the following in total:
1. The hotel accommodation for around a week (£700). It says Mr and Mrs C refused 
other alternative accommodation offered.
2. Disturbance allowance of £12.50 per day for two people for 192 days (being the
period between the date of loss and the completion of repairs), totalling £4,800, even
though the property was not uninhabitable.
3. The cost of the replacement boiler.
4. The cost of the paddling pool used to collect water and two electric heaters,    
Totalling £188.
5. £1,654.86 additional electricity costs for running electric heaters.
6. £170 for logs
7. £158.55 for meals while at the hotel.
8. £442.74 electricity costs during period drying out the property.
I understand that everything apart from the disturbance allowance has already been paid.One of our Investigators looked into the matter. The Investigator considered the payments
set out above were fair and reasonable. However, she recommended that LV also pay 
compensation of £850 for the trouble caused to Mr and Mrs C by the matter. The repairs had 
not been completed at the time of the Investigators assessment, so she also said that LV 
should progress the required repair works as a priority given the delays, or offer a cash 
equivalent of the repair costs would cost Mr and Mrs C. The Investigator also said that LV 
should ensure that any damage caused by its contractor should not be recorded as part of 
the claim on Mr and Mrs Cs insurance record.
Mr and Mrs C did not accept the Investigators assessment, so it was passed to me.
Mr and Mrs C said the compensation proposed is not sufficient to reflect the trouble caused
to them. They also said that they had not been offered any disturbance allowance.
Mr and Mrs C also complained about the renewal price quoted for the policy with LV in
August 2023, which they said increased considerably because of the open buildings
insurance claim registered against them. They said they could not get quotes from
other insurers because they did not know the value of the claim recorded against them and
how much of the repairs LV had attributed to the contractors error.
LV said that £308.37 of the increase in premium quoted was due to the claim. The rest of
the increase was due to general price increases. It says Mr and Mrs C are free to insure
elsewhere. LV also says that not all the claim costs were due to the contractor, as the initial
leak would have caused enough damage to have warranted a home insurance claim
anyway, so it says it has correctly recorded the claim but it is seeking to recover part of the
repair costs from the contractor in line with the Investigators assessment.
LV has also said the total cost of the claim was £20,000 (though it is not clear whether this
includes VAT, it implies it does) and it intends to recover £2,164.67 plus VAT of that from the
contractors. LV also confirmed that its underwriters dont take into consideration the cost of
a claim when determining premiums. 
LV also offered a further £100 compensation for the delay in providing this information to Mr 
and Mrs C. I cannot consider this as part of this complaint, only whether it is fair to record the 
claim in part or at all as a home insurance claim.
Mr and Mrs C remain unhappy and say that as the tank was replaced as a gesture of
goodwill, it should not be included in the claim total.Mr and Mrs C also said that there is no evidence or information about what happened
to their property prior to the loss adjuster report on 2 December 2022. The report treats the
damage as being from one incident and ignores the actions of the engineer; it also contains
mistakes and says the original leak was from the immersion heater, when it wasnt. Mr and
Mrs C therefore say there is no evidence from LV to support that any part of the home 
insurance claim was due to the initial leak. In the absence of any such evidence from LV, I 
should take their testimony that the damage to their property was almost exclusively caused 
by the engineer and not the original claim.
I issued a provisional decision on the matter in September 2023 and made the following 
provisional findings: 
I can see that what should have been a relatively straightforward water leak claim 
turned into a frustrating saga for Mr and Mrs C.
LV accepts that its contractor caused some further damage. It seems to accept that 
the contractor left the inlet valve open, putting pressure on the system. It is the extent 
of what went wrong and the extent of the damage as a direct result of this that is in 
dispute. The damage by the subsequent water leaks was dealt with under the 
insurance policy cover for escape of water and LV proposed to recover the costs 
relating to negligence by its agents but Mr and Mrs C are correct that any work 
required solely as a result of LVs error would be recoverable from LV outside the 
terms of the insurance policy.
LV has now put right the damage to the property. (I note Mr and Mrs C are unhappy 
about the time taken to do so and other aspects of the repair process, which I will 
deal with below.) LV says that the majority of the repairs were required anyway and 
so an insurance claim was inevitable and there has been no prejudice to Mr and Mrs 
C by the value of the claim registered.
Mr and Mrs C say no claim should have been registered at all.
Recording of home insurance claim
Mr and Mrs C have said that the initial leak from the expansion vessel in the airing 
cupboard, consisted of very small drips from a red balancing cylinder during our time 
away on holiday and water had dripped down onto the shower room. They say this 
caused minor staining but no bowing of the ceiling plasterboard; there was no 
damage to the electrics; no water was escaping from the wall behind the tiles and no 
water from the tank or other pipework.
Mr and Mrs C confirm they have no other evidence of this (such as photos or videos) 
but are prepared to provide signed statements to this effect.
Mr and Mrs C say that they would not have needed to have made a home insurance 
claim for the initial leak, as the decorative repairs would have been minimal and 
would have cost less than the excess.
After LVs engineer had attended, Mr and Mrs C describe the leak they found as 
follows:there were leaks from the hot water tank and other pipework which caused water to 
gush into the airing cupboard area and pour down into the shower room the electrics 
had started to fail, water was coming down the walls behind the tiles, through the 
ceiling and via the electrical system and the ceiling was bowed and distorted.
Mr and Mrs C also say that this was not repaired for weeks and they had to empty 
buckets of water through the day and night for several weeks and even though they 
collected most of the water, they could not catch it all and so the damage continued. 
Mr and Mrs C are therefore adamant that most of the property damage was caused 
by the later leaks.
They also say that as there is no photographic or other contemporaneous evidence 
of the damage caused by the first leak, I must accept their testimony that there was 
minimal damage that would not have resulted in a home insurance claim.
We are an informal alternative to the court system. We do not regulate the insurance
industry and we do not have the power to interrogate witnesses or to take evidence 
under oath. We do have the power to undertake some investigations and to make 
binding decisions as to what we think is the fair and reasonable outcome to individual 
case. Where evidence is conflicting, I therefore need to decide what is most likely 
based on the available evidence.
Without much contemporaneous evidence it is difficult to determine exactly what 
damage was caused and whether a home insurance claim would have still been 
made. I have to therefore weigh up the evidence that is available and consider what I 
think is most likely in all the circumstances.
Mr and Mrs C had been away for two and a half weeks before finding the initial 
insured leak according to the file. It is impossible therefore to know how long the leak 
had been going when Mr and Mrs C found it. I also note that they reported that water 
was dripping through the ceiling onto the floor below.
Mr and Mrs C referred to damage to the bathroom below when they reported the 
claim. From my experience, water also takes a while to penetrate a ceiling and it 
seems to me that for the water to have gone through the ceiling and been dripping 
onto the floor below, there would have been a significant volume of water leaking.
Mr and Mrs C have given their testimony about the ceiling below but it seems unlikely 
to me that there would have been no damage to the flooring of the airing cupboard 
and structural woodwork in the cupboard and the bathroom ceiling from the water 
penetrating, in addition to the staining of the ceiling.
I say this also because Mr and Mrs C point out that the photos in LVs loss adjusters 
report were all taken after the later leaks caused by its engineer but from those 
photos the only visible damage to the bathroom, below the area of the leak, seems to 
be staining of the ceiling. I cannot see any obvious bowing or cracking of the ceiling 
in those photos, and I note the lights seem to be on in the photos. However, I 
understand this ceiling needed to be replaced.
In April 2023, Mr and Mrs C have provided a photo of the bathroom ceiling, which 
shows a crack near the wall (although it appears to be a different colour ceiling than 
in the loss adjusters photos). It is not clear exactly when this was taken. Ive also 
seen the videos provided by Mr and Mrs C of a steady dripping from the cylinder, 
boiler and expansion vessel in the airing cupboard, being collected in buckets.The crack in the photo provided by Mr and Mrs C is relatively small and there is no 
bowing of the ceiling visible in this photo either. It would not be obvious just from this 
photo that the ceiling would need to be replaced.
So given that if even after the later leaks, the only visible damage to the bathroom 
below was staining of the ceiling and one crack, and the lights worked, it means it is 
difficult to assess the full extent of property damage that cant be obviously seen from 
the room below.
Having considered everything carefully, I therefore think it likely overall that there 
would have been some damage to the airing cupboard floor and the bathroom 
ceiling, that would have cost more than the policy excess for a home insurance claim 
and so while the later leaks were clearly significant, I think it is difficult to conclude 
that no home insurance claim would have been required at all.
Having determined that a home insurance claim would have been likely in any event, 
I do not think I need to determine exactly which repairs were required as a result of 
the initial insured leak or were required as a result of the contractors mistake. I say 
this because LV says its underwriters do not take account of the value of a claim 
when setting premiums and I have not seen any evidence that Mr and Mrs C have 
been charged more by any other insurer as a result of the value of the claim, as 
opposed to the fact that a claim was made at all. 
As I think a home insurance claim would have been made in any event, I do not 
therefore see that there is any award I can reasonably make in regard to LV 
recording a home insurance claim.
Handling of home insurance claim
While LV accepted responsibility for the damage (either as a result of the contractors 
error or under the home insurance) it is clear these were not carried out as quickly as 
they could have been, which exacerbated the problems caused.
I understand the water continued to leak, albeit largely being contained. Ive not seen 
any clear evidence about why that was and why it could not have been isolated but it 
may be that  a decision [was made] to keep running the system (rather than drain it 
down completely) in order that Mr and Mrs C had heating, as they said the heating 
was back on after a week but it meant that they had to empty buckets several times a 
day for around four weeks.
Elsewhere Mr and Mrs C say the leaks continued until late December 2022 but I also 
see that on 28 December 2022 they wrote to say our first floor bathroom and 
hall/kitchen have now been unaffected by leaks for a month and you have not 
instructed the drying contractor but just permitted the damage, mould and smell to 
grow.
It is therefore not entirely clear but in any case, I think the leaks should have been 
resolved sooner than they were.LV paid for a short hotel stay for Mr and Mrs C (which I understand was the period 
when the heating was not working) and offered alternative accommodation and the 
cost of a cattery for a longer period. While I can understand Mr and Mrs Cs reasons 
for preferring to stay at home, I do not think LV was at fault for not finding 
accommodation that was suitable for them. LV offered assistance in finding a hotel 
but they say didnt assist in finding alternative accommodation close enough to 
relatives that needed them and would allow suitable facilities to work from home.
LV did suggest various rental properties some of which were listed as having three
bedrooms which would have provided a workspace and would accept pets. Mr C 
says they should have checked their suitability better but LV was providing the 
information listed on a rental site, I dont think LV was being unreasonable in 
proposing these properties and it was up to Mr and Mrs C to consider if they were 
suitable for them. LV could only propose what was available and alternative 
accommodation in these circumstances will often be a compromise. I do not think 
that LV acted unreasonably in relation to the alternative accommodation. As they 
continued to live in the property, LV offered a disturbance allowance instead. I will 
address that further below.
Mr and Mrs C are also unhappy with a number of other aspects of the handling of the 
claim, including the time taken to start drying out the property and to start the repairs. 
Ultimately, I understand the repairs were all completed in June 2023.
Again, I do not think it is necessary to determine exactly what went wrong and when. 
I say this because even if I give Mr and Mrs C the benefit of any doubt and accept 
everything they have said about the handling of the repairs, I think LV has made an 
offer of compensation that would be reasonable to reflect everything that has 
happened.
LV offered a disturbance allowance in December 2022 of £10 per day and I can see 
that Mr C replied stating this was inadequate. LV offered a disturbance allowance 
again in July 2023. This time it offered £12.50 per day each for Mr and Mrs C and it 
offered this for the entire period of the claim, even though the property was 
inhabitable for much of it (so a total of 192 days.at £12.50 = £4,800).
I would reasonably expect a disturbance allowance if repairs were such that the 
customer would otherwise be offered alternative accommodation. And Mr and Mrs C 
say that LV has saved on that cost as they chose to remain at home (other than for 
one week). However, I have not seen any convincing evidence that the property was 
uninhabitable from the end February to June 2023. So there would be no obligation 
to pay alternative accommodation for that period. The disturbance allowance is 
therefore effectively compensation for the trouble caused by the repairs.
It seems to me to be appropriate to me in a case like this, to incorporate all of the 
issues into a global award for distress and inconvenience. Having considered 
everything, I consider that the sum additional sum of £850 compensation, taken 
together with the disturbance allowance and other payments already offered by LV, 
to be reasonable for the financial loss and the distress and inconvenience suffered by 
Mr and Mrs L in the circumstances. This award reflects the distress and 
inconvenience caused by the entire matter, including the damage caused to the 
property; further damage due to the delays, the missed appointments; time and effort 
involved in appointments, amongst other things. This is in line with awards made for 
cases where there has been exceptional distress and inconvenience.My provisional decision
I intend to uphold this complaint and require Liverpool Victoria Insurance Company 
Limited to pay Mr and Mrs C total compensation for distress and inconvenience 
caused by the handling of this matter of £5,650 (made up of the disturbance 
allowance already offered as above and an additional £850).
Responses to my provisional decision
I invited both parties to respond to my provisional decision with any further information or 
arguments they want considered. 
LV has confirmed that it accepts my provisional decision. 
Mr and Mrs C do not accept my provisional decision and have asked me to reconsider my 
findings. They have made a number of further submissions. I have considered everything 
they have said but set out the main points below: 
Mr C is an expert in insurance property damage claims.
I said at the start of my provisional decision that the complaint was not upheld but 
then determined that it was upheld. 
I have made errors of understanding relating to the technical nature of the failure and 
damage that resulted. 
I said there was another leak from the expansion vessel when this is not correct. The 
first leak was from the bottom of the expansion vessel. After LVs engineer came out 
the next day they found leaks throughout the system in the first floor cupboard area 
at joints in the copper pipework and from joints on the hot water cylinder, not the 
expansion vessel. The volume of water that would leak from these pipes and tank is 
far greater than that which could leak from the expansion vessel.  If the error in my 
decision is corrected it becomes obvious that the main source of the damage as the 
rupture of the pipework in the tank and cupboard pipework which failed as a result of 
LVs engineer. 
LV has said the leak was caused by a filling loop being left open. This has not been 
raised before and would have been evidence to the first engineer. LV has therefore 
prejudiced his position by not raising this previously. Even if it is correct, it is odd this 
was not raised previously; it is not in any reports or that there is any photographic 
evidence of it. 
If the cylinder was replaced as a gesture of goodwill, it should not be counted as part 
of the value of the claim. The heating engineers said the replacement of the tank cost 
£7,000 to £10,000 to replace. My decision is inconsistent in this respect as it is wrong 
to acknowledge this was not part of the claim and then allow it to be counted as part 
of the claim value. 
A disturbance allowance was not offered previously. If it was the matter would 
probably not have come to us.
LV says the value of the claim doesnt affect premiums going forward. They do not 
accept this but in any case say that I should consider wider industry practice and not 
just LVs underwriting criteria. All the insurers he approached for quotes asked the 
value of the claim and they would not have done so, if it was irrelevant to the price. 
They have spoken to two brokers who have told him the value of a claim does affect 
the price of future policies. 
Alternatively, if it has no impact LV should accept his proposal that the claim be 
recorded as being due to third party action. 
My conclusion that the cost of repairing the damage caused by the first leak would 
cost more than the excess and so therefore home insurance claim would have been  made is perverse and unsupported by the evidence. It was for them to decide if a 
claim would be made under their home insurance and they have provided evidence 
that they were not intending to do so. That decision would be affected not just by the 
level of damage but the effect on future insurance. Mr C would have done the 
redecoration and minor carpentry works required. I have applied the wrong test, by 
only looking at the loss. 
The only evidence about the effect of the first leak is from them. LV has chosen not 
to provide any evidence. 
I have apparently construed the absence of photographic evidence against them but 
LV attended and it should have taken photographs. 
I have not taken sufficient account of their actual knowledge of the damage and 
replaced this with my own experience despite lack of evidence to support my 
decision. 
They make no submission on the level of compensation save where it represents the 
increase in premiums  which they say it does not  and wants this addressed 
instead by the figure recorded for the claim being substantially reduced.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.I said at the start of my provisional decision that the complaint was not upheld, which was 
not correct, as I have upheld the complaint in part. This was a typing error but does not 
impact the decision or outcome.
Mr and Mrs C say that I have misunderstood the sequence of events and the different parts 
of the central heating system. They say I have referred to a second leak being from the 
expansion vessel, which is not correct, and that if I understood the different components it 
would be clear to me that the leaks that occurred from the cylinder and the pipework in the 
cupboard that houses the cylinder and expansion vessel, were the main cause of the 
damage to the property.  
I confirm that I understood when considering my provisional decision the sequence of events 
and that there had been multiples leaks after LVs initial attendance. I set out in the 
background section of my provisional decision a brief summary of the events that had 
happened. I set out that after LVs engineer first attended there was a leak from a radiator, 
that the system had kept filling putting pressure and causing further damage to the system 
(which was reference to the leaks from the joints in the rest of the pipework) and that there 
was another leak from the expansion vessel because it had split. The evidence on the file is 
that the expansion vessel had later split and needed replacing, so this is correct. I also set 
out that the cylinder had cracked split and was leaking. There is no dispute between the 
parties that there were multiple leaks from the pipework in the cupboard housing the cylinder 
and expansion vessel. 
I stated that it was difficult to know how much water had leaked initially, as Mr and Mrs C 
only discovered the leak after returning from holiday. They say I have construed a lack of 
photographs of the property damage at that time against them. I stated that there was no 
contemporaneous independent evidence of the damage caused by the first leak. I have not 
construed this against Mr and Mrs C but pointed out this makes it difficult to be certain what 
the extent of the damage caused by the first leak was. 
Mr and Mrs C have provided their testimony and while I have no reason to doubt what they 
say, it is just one piece of evidence, that I have to weigh up with everything else available to 
me, including my knowledge and experience of similar matters. 
I noted that Mr and Mrs C reported that the first leak was significant enough to have 
penetrated the ceiling below and drip onto the floor. They reported there was staining to the 
ceiling. To have caused this, there would have been a significant volume of water. So while it 
may have been a smaller/slower leak, it could have been going on for over two weeks and 
therefore involved a large volume of water altogether. I also noted that the photographs 
provided in the loss adjusters report, taken after the later leaks, dont show any damage to 
the ceiling other than staining. 
I therefore thought it was likely there would have been some damage to the woodwork, 
flooring and ceiling below that would have warranted a home insurance claim in any event. 
Mr and Mrs C are correct that the decision whether to make a home insurance claim or not 
would be for them to make and that this is influenced for most people by other factors and 
not just the amount of the excess. However, I have to consider what is most likely. It is not 
possible to know for sure. Mr C says he would have undertaken the required works himself 
but it seems to me that if there were damage to the flooring and ceiling that would cost more 
than the policy excess, most people would go ahead with a home insurance claim. I have no 
power to take evidence under oath, and this is not an exact science. I have to consider what 
I think is most likely, having weighed up all the evidence provided to me. Having considered 
everything again, I remain of the opinion that it is likely Mr and Mrs C would have still gone 
ahead with an insurance claim. With regard to the value of the claim, Mr and Mrs C says that the value of the claim is 
relevant otherwise other insurers wouldnt ask for it and I should consider the general 
industry practice not just LVs underwriting criteria. However, there is no evidence that Mr 
and Mrs C have been charged more as a result of the value of the claim, as opposed to 
having made any claim at all, and in the absence of any such evidence I remain of the 
opinion that there is no award I can reasonably make in this regard.
Mr and Mrs C also say that if it makes no difference to the premium, then LV should simply 
record the claim as being the result of third party action. However, as I do not think it has 
recorded the claim incorrectly, I do not consider it reasonable to require LV to change the 
way it recorded the claim. 
Mr and Mrs C say also say again that they were never offered a disturbance allowance. 
There is evidence on the file that they were offered an allowance of £10 per day in 
December 2022, which was refused. LV later offered £12.50 per day for the entire period of 
the claim. As there was no obligation to pay a disturbance allowance for any period the 
house was habitable, I considered this to be an offer of compensation.
I remain of the opinion that the additional sum of £850 compensation, taken together with the 
disturbance allowance and other payments already offered by LV, is reasonable 
compensation to reflect the financial loss and the distress and inconvenience suffered by Mr 
and Mrs C in the circumstances. This award reflects the distress and inconvenience caused 
by the entire matter, including the damage caused to the property; further damage due to the 
delays, the missed appointments; time and effort involved in appointments, amongst other 
things. This is also in line with awards made for cases where there has been exceptional 
distress and inconvenience.
My final decision
I uphold this complaint and require Liverpool Victoria Insurance Company Limited to pay Mr 
and Mrs C total compensation for distress and inconvenience caused by the handling of this 
matter of £5,650 (made up of the disturbance allowance already offered as above and an 
additional £850). If any part of this has already been paid then Liverpool Victoria Insurance 
Company only needs to pay the remaining balance. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs C and Mr C to 
accept or reject my decision before 1 December 2023.
 
Harriet McCarthy
Ombudsman