DRN-4088959
The complaint
Mr Y complained about advice he was given concerning the potential transfer of the benefits, 
from his defined-benefit (DB) occupational pension scheme to a personal pension plan. 
Mr Y thinks the advice he was given  which was not to transfer - was wrong and so hes 
made a complaint. HUB Financial Solutions Limited is responsible for answering this 
complaint. To keep things simple Ill therefore refer mainly to HUB.
What happened
At the time, Mr Y was a deferred member of a DB scheme which originated from previous 
employment. It seems the trustees of the DB scheme wrote to members like Mr Y in 2019 
explaining that the company had decided to offer enhanced terms to members who chose to 
transfer their benefits to a personal pension arrangement. Members of the DB scheme were 
also being offered a cash enhancement to transfer. They were also offered independent and 
regulated financial advice, the cost of which was being met by Mr Ys former employer. HUB 
was contracted to provide that advice.
Information gathered about Mr Ys circumstances were broadly as follows:
Mr Y was 59 years old and retired. He was married to Mrs Y who was 56 and both 
were in good health. Mr Y wasnt currently earning, but Mrs Ys salary was around 
£21,000. They had combined savings of almost £15,000.
Mr and Mrs Y owned their home which was worth approximately £425,000 which had 
an outstanding mortgage of £44,000.
The cash equivalent transfer value (CETV) of the DB pension was around £73,449. 
The CETV included a cash enhancement of £3,655 which was being offered if he 
transferred away.
Mr Y also had some other pensions. These were defined contribution (DC) schemes 
and in total these amounted to around £67,000. Mrs Y had two relatively modest DB 
pensions of her own. It was estimated that when she retired in her 60s, she might get 
almost £8,000 a year combined from these.
Mr Ys options were to keep the pension where it was and effectively do nothing. 
Alternatively, he could transfer away to a new personal pension arrangement and 
access the enhancement offer. Because Mr Y was already over 55, hed be able to 
access the money more or less immediately if he wished.
HUB set out its advice in a suitability report in June 2019. It advised Mr Y not to transfer out 
of his DB scheme even though it seems Mr Y had wanted to do so. HUB said this was based 
on Mr Y losing retirement benefits from the pension in the longer-term. It also pointed out 
that if he wanted access to cash, then his DC pensions would be the efficient use of his 
resources. As Ive said, he also had some savings.
The reason Mr Y seems to have complained is that having left the DB pension where it was 
as advised, he checked several years later and found the CETV of his DB pension had 
decreased in value by around £10,000. So, Mr Y says this means he has lost out. He 
complained first to HUB. In response, HUB said it hadnt done anything wrong and that it 
was acting in his best interests. 
Mr Y then referred his case to our Service. One of our investigators looked into the complaint 
and said it shouldnt be upheld. They thought HUBs original advice was suitable for Mr Y.
As Mr Y hasnt agreed and the complaint couldnt be resolved informally, its come to me for 
a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive considered the final response from HUB dated September 2021 and also HUBs 
response to our investigators view. Ive also taken into account relevant law and regulations, 
regulators rules, guidance and standards and codes of practice, and what I consider to have 
been good industry practice at the time. This includes the Principles for Business (PRIN) and 
the Conduct of Business Sourcebook (COBS). Where the evidence is incomplete, 
inconclusive or contradictory, I reach my conclusions on the balance of probabilities  that is, 
what I think is more likely than not to have happened based on the available evidence and 
the wider surrounding circumstances.
The applicable rules, regulations and requirements
The below is not a comprehensive list of the rules and regulations which applied at the time 
of the advice, but provides useful context for my assessment of HUB's actions here.
PRIN 6: A firm must pay due regard to the interests of its customers and treat them 
fairly.
PRIN 7: A firm must pay due regard to the information needs of its clients, and 
communicate information to them in a way which is clear, fair and not misleading.
COBS 2.1.1R: A firm must act honestly, fairly and professionally in accordance with 
the best interests of its client (the client's best interests rule).
The provisions in COBS 9 which deal with the obligations when giving a personal 
recommendation and assessing suitability and the provisions in COBS 19 which 
specifically relate to a DB pension transfer.
I have further considered that the regulator, the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA), states in 
COBS 19.1.6 that the starting assumption for a transfer from a DB scheme is that it is 
unsuitable. So, HUB should have only considered a transfer if it could clearly demonstrate 
that the transfer was in Mr Ys best interests. 
Ive used all the information we have to consider whether HUBs advice not to transfer was in 
Mr Ys best interests. 
Im sorry to disappoint Mr Y. However, I think theres very strong evidence that HUB 
provided suitable advice. Accordingly, Im not upholding his complaint.Financial viability
As Ive said, HUB was required to follow the regulators stance that the starting point was 
that such transfers are usually unsuitable. HUB referred in its transfer recommendation to a 
critical yield rate. The critical yield is essentially the average annual investment return that 
would be required on the transfer value - from the time of advice until retirement - to provide 
the same annuity benefits as the DB scheme. The critical yield is part of a range of different 
things which help show how likely it is that a transferred DB pension fund could achieve the 
necessary investment growth for a transfer-out to become financially viable. 
In Mr Ys case, the critical yield was probably of limited relevance as he was close to the 
schemes retirement age. In its suitability report, the HUB adviser said that the critical yield 
required to match the benefits of the DB scheme he was in at the time, at the normal 
retirement age (NRA) - HUB provided a critical yield comparison for the age of 60 - was over 
96% which is exceptionally high. To me this would strongly indicate that transferring certainly 
wasnt in Mr Ys interest, from a financial perspective. 
However, HUB also set out that the transfer value comparator (TVC) was £105,721. The 
TVC is a simple comparison of pension benefits. It compares the CETV, with how much it 
could cost to purchase, on the annuity market, a guaranteed income for life that the same 
DB scheme is offering. In Mr Ys case, as this was £105,721 this was much higher than the 
CETV he was being offered, even with the enhancement added. This means to buy a similar 
pension to the one he already had  and was being offered £73,449 for  Mr Y would need 
to pay over 40% more for it in the marketplace. 
In my view, this was a revealing window into what Mr Y would be giving up if he transferred 
away. The data was very clear indeed that hed lose out if transferring. And theres no doubt 
that it would result in lower pension benefits when he retired. 
Against this backdrop, HUB was, in my view, correct to recommend that Mr Y shouldnt 
transfer his DB pension.
Were the any other reasons to transfer away?
Sometimes the financial comparisons alone need putting into context. People have different 
circumstances and transfers from DB pensions can sometimes be right for certain people. I 
should be clear though, that this will be in the minority of occasions, and thats why the 
regulators guidance to firms (as Ive set out above) says the starting point ought to assume 
that transferring probably isnt going to be suitable.  
Ive looked very carefully at Mr and Mrs Ys situation. But Im afraid Ive seen no reasons to 
justify transferring away from his DB scheme.
To be clear, theres no doubt this was his money. And theres also no doubt that he went to 
HUB very much wanting to access it. Primarily he wanted to pay down his mortgage and 
save on the monthly payments; but he also wanted to spend the money elsewhere including 
on holidays.
However, its fair to point out that the main purpose of a pension is to provide an income in 
retirement. Mr and Mrs Y had clearly made some retirement provisions, but overall these 
were likely to support only a satisfactory level of income in later life. By using these funds in 
the way proposed, Mr Y would effectively be giving up the more valuable half of his pension 
provisions. Mr Y also didnt really appear to have a concrete plan to fund retirement if this 
pension was exited. Its true he did speak about potentially downsizing his home, but the 
details of how much hed get from this wasnt clear enough. Neither his other DC pensions, nor Mrs Ys pensions were going to provide an income so large as to make careful 
retirement planning redundant. 
Its also important to point out that as an adviser, HUB had certain regulatory responsibilities. 
Its job wasnt just to transact what Mr Y thought he wanted. HUBs job was to really 
understand his and Mrs Ys situation and provide advice that was in their best interests. It 
was being paid for the advice, albeit not by Mr Y himself, but it knew Mr Y was not 
experienced in these matters because he told it so. 
In my view, HUB pointed out what was obvious here. This was that whilst paying down a 
mortgage is generally a very good thing, it isnt if ones retirement is unduly compromised. 
From what I understand, Mr and Mrs Ys mortgage wasnt in any kind of distress and was 
being paid down in accordance with the payment plan. Ive also seen they had no other 
significant outstanding debts. We know that Mr Y already had three existing DC schemes. 
He also had some savings. And from what Ive seen, HUB gave Mr Y what I consider to 
have been a comprehensive, yet easy to understand, set of proposals as to how he could 
still easily achieve what he wanted to do. It also pointed out that following this advice would 
save him some tax which he neednt pay.
As for the loss of £10,000 due to revaluation of the DB scheme benefits several years later, 
Im afraid Mr Y hasnt actually lost that money, in my view. Valuations of DB scheme benefits 
are complex and are sensitive to Bond yields. In 2019 when this advice was given, interest 
rates were very low and typically this resulted in historically high DB valuations. But as high 
as these valuations were, Mr Y could still only replicate this DB scheme by buying an annuity 
for over 40% more than what he was being offered. This shows the true value of all the 
benefits and guarantees hed be giving up if he exited his DB scheme. As HUB explained, 
these benefits included a known pension for the rest of his life, indexation keeping pace with 
inflation, and a spouses pension for Mrs Y if Mr Y pre-deceased her. None of these 
guarantees were present in his DC schemes so I think HUBs advice to use these first was 
more suitable.
Also, its fair to say that if Mr Y for example, had gone to another financial adviser later on, 
then there could have been a resultant lowering in the CETV (as hes said there was). But in 
all likelihood, the advice would, or certainly should, have been even more likely to 
recommend he shouldnt transfer. This is because the financial comparisons could have 
looked even worse. This may only be a somewhat theoretical example as Mr Y could be now 
already drawing an annual pension from the scheme. However, the CETV is only ever a 
snapshot in time of what one could potentially transfer for. A DB scheme is much wider and 
more complex than this as it makes a promise to pay an estimated annual pension  this 
element hasnt been affected by any changes to the CETV in his case. Hell still get the 
pension he was always estimated to get.
Summary
At the time of the advice, Mr and Mrs Y were certainly not in a bad financial situation. Theyd 
clearly made some provisions for later life, had some reasonable savings and they had 
considerable equity in their home. But in my view, their overall pensions were moderate and 
so it was important that they used them as efficiently as possible.
As the critical yield and TVR both show in this case, from a purely financial comparison 
perspective, transferring away from Mr Ys DB scheme would leave him with considerably 
lower pension benefits. In this context, HUB was clearly right to issue the advice it did. All 
the data was strongly pointing to transferring being unsuitable.As for paying down the mortgage, HUB was correct to point out the significant and 
unnecessary tax bill Mr Y might incur if he used his DB scheme, although Im sure he could 
mitigate this to some degree with careful planning. However HUB provided some useful 
alternatives that would have achieved the same result for Mr Y, with only minor time delays. 
This involved the use of his DC schemes, if paying down his mortgage really was something 
he wanted to do. 
As Ive also explained, Mr Y hasnt actually lost any money. His estimated annual DB 
pension still exists and wont have changed. He may even have since crystallised the 
benefits. Its also completely reasonable to say that if advised again, correctly following the 
rules we still have in place now, no other business would likely recommend that he transfer 
away from the DB scheme in the same set of circumstances. In short, what Im saying is that 
transferring away wasnt suitable in 2019 and it still probably isnt suitable now unless theres 
been a dramatic shift in Mr Ys circumstances.
The best course of action, given all Mr and Mrs Ys circumstances of 2019, was for Mr Y to 
not transfer as advised by HUB. When his NRA then arrived, the best course of action was 
to use the DB pension in exactly the way it was intended. I think these circumstances were 
positive for Mr Y. On one hand hes had / still has some financial flexibility within his existing 
DC pensions schemes. On the other hand, Mr Y had a DB pension which pays a known 
pension income for life. One type of scheme nicely complements the other.
Im therefore not upholding this complaint. 
Once again, Im very sorry to disappoint Mr Y.
My final decision
I do not uphold this complaint.
I do not require HUB Financial Solutions Limited to do anything
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr Y to accept or 
reject my decision before 13 July 2023.
 
Michael Campbell
Ombudsman