DRN-2495797
Complaint
Mr H has complained about loans AvantCredit of UK, LLC (trading as Avant Credit) 
provided to him. 
He says he had a gambling addiction and had no way of paying his loan back.
Background
Avant Credit provided Mr H with a loan of £1,400.00 in April 2016. This loan was due to be 
repaid in 24 monthly instalments of around £85. Mr H fell into difficulty repaying this loan and 
it was sold to a third-party debt purchaser.
One of our adjudicators reviewed what Mr H and Avant Credit had told us. And he thought 
that Avant Credit hadnt done anything wrong or treated Mr H unfairly. So he didnt 
recommend that Mr Hs complaint be upheld. Mr H disagreed and asked for an ombudsman 
to look at his complaint.
My findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve explained how we handle complaints about unaffordable and irresponsible lending on
our website. And Ive used this approach to help me decide Mr Hs complaint.
Avant Credits decision to provide the loan to Mr H
Avant Credit needed to make sure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In practice, what this 
means is Avant Credit needed to carry out proportionate checks to be able to understand 
whether Mr H could afford to repay before providing this loan. 
Our website sets out what we typically think about when deciding whether a lenders checks 
were proportionate. Generally, we think its reasonable for a lenders checks to be less 
thorough  in terms of how much information it gathers and what it does to verify it  in the 
early stages of a lending relationship.
But we might think it needed to do more if, for example, a borrowers income was low or the
amount lent was high. And the longer the lending relationship goes on, the greater the risk of
it becoming unsustainable and the borrower experiencing financial difficulty. So wed expect
a lender to be able to show that it didnt continue to lend to a customer irresponsibly.
Avant Credit provided Mr H with a loan for £1,400.00 in April 2016. This loan had an APR of 
45.3% and was to be repaid in 24 instalments of around £85, which meant the total amount 
to be repaid was £2,050.23. Avant Credit says it agreed to Mr Hs application after he 
provided details of his monthly income and some information on his expenditure. It says it 
cross-checked this against information on a credit search it carried out and all of this 
information showed Mr H could to comfortably make the repayments he was committing to. 
On the other hand, Mr H has said he was in financial difficulty.
Ive carefully thought about what Mr H and Avant Credit have said. 
The first thing for me to say is that Avant Credit has provided a record of the credit search it 
performed. Avant Credit search did show that Mr H had had previous difficulties repaying 
credit (there were historic defaults) and some previous payday lending. But Mr Hs 
commitments at the time were reasonably maintained. Crucially, there wasnt anything to 
suggest that the information Mr H provided was inaccurate or that he wouldnt be able to 
make the relatively modest repayments that he was committing to.
I accept that Mr Hs actual circumstances dont appear to have been fully reflected either in 
the information he provided, or the information Avant Credit obtained. Equally I accept that if 
Avant Credit had gone into the depth of checks Mr H now says it should have  such as 
obtaining bank statements  it would have seen the full extent of Mr Hs difficulties, his 
gambling and the likely impact this would have on his ability to make these loan payments. 
But the key here is that Avant Credit was providing a loan with relatively low monthly 
payments  especially when compared to Mr Hs income. Its only fair and reasonable for me 
to uphold a complaint in circumstances where a lender did something wrong. Given the 
circumstances here, and the lack of obvious inconsistencies, I dont think that reasonable 
and proportionate checks would have extended into the level of checks Mr H is suggesting. 
As this is the case, I dont think that Avant Credit did anything wrong when deciding to lend 
to Mr H - it carried out proportionate checks and reasonably relied on what it found out which 
suggested the repayments were affordable. So overall I dont think that Avant Credit treated 
Mr H unfairly or unreasonably when providing him with his loan. 
Avant Credits decision to sell the debt on to a third-party debt collector
Ive also seen what Mr H has said about his account being defaulted and the balance being 
sold on to a third-party debt purchaser. It may help for me to start by saying that a lender is 
entitled to sell an account on whether or not it is in arrears. So I dont think selling on a debt 
in itself will mean that a lender did something wrong. That said, I have looked at whether 
Avant Credit acted fairly and reasonably when Mr H ran into difficulties making his 
payments. And having looked at everything, it does look as though Avant Credit provided 
some breathing space in order to allow Mr H to bring his account back up to date. 
Unfortunately, it looks as though Mr H wasnt able to bring the bring the account back on 
track and it eventually reached a stage where there was no reasonable prospect of this 
happening, or the contract being performed as envisioned at the outset. In these 
circumstances, I dont think that it was unreasonable for Avant Credit to have defaulted the 
account when it did or sell the balance to a third party.  
Id also add that Mr H should direct any concerns about the collection of any payments, after 
the sale of the debt, to the third-party debt purchaser in the event he considers that it is 
treating him, or that it has been treating him unfairly.   
Overall and having carefully considered everything, Im not upholding Mr Hs complaint. I 
appreciate this will be very disappointing for Mr H. But I hope hell understand the reasons 
for my decision and that hell at least feel his concerns have been listened to.
My final decisionFor the reasons Ive explained, Im not upholding Mr Hs complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 23 March 2021.
 
Jeshen Narayanan
Ombudsman