DRN-3379153
The complaint
Mr K complained he was mis-sold his motor insurance policy by Hyperformance Ltd 
(Hyperformance).
What happened
Hyperformance sold Mr K a motor insurance policy via a telephone call with one of its call 
agents. Unfortunately, Mr K was involved in an accident and a fault claim was made against 
him. 
During the claims process, Mr K discovered he would have to pay a £3,000 policy excess. 
Mr K said he feels the policy was mis-sold to him as he wasnt aware of this. He said 
English isnt his first language and he explained he was a new driver. He didnt think 
Hyperformance explained properly how the policy excess worked. Mr K said he thought the 
excess was high and his premium was high.
Hyperformance said it had investigated the sale of the policy by listening to the sales call. It 
confirmed the sales agent had communicated to Mr K information about the policy excess 
and other key details. Hyperformance said it sent Mr K a welcome pack which pointed Mr K 
to further information should he need to make a claim.
Our investigator decided not to uphold the complaint. He listened to the sales call and 
thought the key terms and conditions of the policy had been reasonably communicated to Mr 
K. He didnt think there was evidence on the call to indicate Mr K didnt understand what he 
had been sold. Mr K disagreed, so the complaint has been referred to an ombudsman.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As a broker Hyperformance was responsible for selling and administering the policy on 
behalf of the insurer. Mr K has indicated he was unhappy with the high level of premium he 
paid for the policy. However, its the insurer who sets the premium (or price) for the policy. 
So, I wont be able to consider this part of the complaint against Hyperformance. Mr K may 
choose to raise a complaint for this against his insurer, if he thinks theres evidence to 
suggest he was treated differently to other customers who had similar circumstances to 
himself.
I have considered how the policy was sold to Mr K. He registered some of his details via a 
comparison website before he spoke to a call agent from Hyperformance. As broker, 
Hyperformance was required to set out the key terms and conditions of the policy before it 
completed the sale of the policy. Mr K said he wasnt made aware of the policy excess.
So, I have listened carefully to the call where the policy was sold to Mr K. Several points 
were discussed, including the excess. Hyperformance took particular care in explaining the 
policy excess and set out that the £3,000 policy excess would still be payable if a third-party 
claim was made against Mr K. I can hear Mr K confirming that he understood this.
Mr K has raised concerns that he didnt understand what the policy excess was, and he had 
difficulty understanding English. However, I havent heard any evidence on the call to 
support this. Mr K seems to respond promptly to the questions hes asked, which I think 
illustrates he understands what has been said. At no point did Mr K make it known to 
Hyperformance he had difficulty understanding what was been said. Therefore, I havent 
seen anything in Hyperformances approach which suggests the way it sold the policy was 
unreasonable or unfair. I think it set out the key terms for Mr K to consider before he bought 
the policy. Hyperformance followed up the sales call by sending further documents about the 
policy. I think this approach is reasonable and it wouldve given Mr K further opportunity to 
understand the contract he had paid for.
Mr K thought the level of excess on the policy was high. Different insurers will offer different 
levels of excess on their policies, which will have an impact on the price of the policy. 
Hyperformance explained the excess and price to Mr K before he bought the policy - which 
he acknowledged before deciding to buy. So, I dont think Hyperformance has done anything 
wrong when it sold the policy.
In summary, I think Hyperformance has followed a reasonable process in selling the policy, 
so I dont uphold this complaint.
My final decision
My final decision is I dont uphold this complaint, I dont require Hyperformance Ltd to 
do anymore.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr K to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 April 2022.
 
Pete Averill
Ombudsman