DRN-1739670
The complaint
Mrs M says AXA France IARD mis-sold her a payment protection insurance (PPI) policy. 
What happened
Mrs M bought the policy in 2001 over a year after she took out a store card. 
Our adjudicator didnt uphold the complaint. Mrs M disagreed with the adjudicators opinion, 
so the complaint has been passed to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding Mrs Ms case.
Ive decided not to uphold Mrs Ms complaint for the following reasons.
The PPI was taken out over the phone over a year after the store card was taken out. So, I 
think Mrs M wouldve been aware that she had a choice about buying the PPI, and that she 
chose to take it. 
AXA didnt recommend the PPI to Mrs M so it didnt have to check if it was right for her. 
Its possible the information AXA gave Mrs M about the PPI wasnt as clear as it shouldve 
been. But Mrs M doesnt appear to have been affected by any of the main things the policy 
didnt cover  and based on what I know about her circumstances it looks like the policy 
couldve been useful to her. So I dont think better information wouldve stopped her buying 
it. 
The regulators rules about high levels of undisclosed commission and profit share dont 
apply in this case because AXA was not the lender.
Ive taken into account Mrs Ms comments, including that she says she wasnt working at the 
time the PPI was sold. But these points dont change my conclusion. Mrs M says she is 
unable to provide evidence of this  and, given the sale was so long ago, I dont feel that I 
can reasonably uphold the complaint solely based on what shes said. 
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold Mrs Ms complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs M to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 June 2020.
Phillip Lai-FangOmbudsman