DRN-2878173
The complaint
Mr H complains about the service he received from Virgin Media Mobile Finance Limited 
when he fell victim to a scam involving a mobile phone.
What happened
In July 2020, two mobile phone handsets were ordered in Mr Hs name and a loan 
agreement was signed for. The handsets were sent to Mr H. On receiving the handsets, Mr 
H contacted Virgin and said he hadnt ordered them. Virgin raised the issue with the fraud 
team and asked Mr H to return he handsets.
Mr H returned he handsets and contacted Virgin several times about the loan agreement. He 
says he asked Virgin to put a hold on the account but instead he just kept getting debt 
collection letters. 
Virgin issued a final response and offered compensation of £100. It also refunded a direct 
debit payment and removed the agreement from Mr Hs credit file.
Mr H wasnt happy with the response and complained to this service. 
Our investigator didnt uphold the complaint. She said that Virgin had resolved the complaint 
fairly and that Mr H had accepted the resolution.
Mr H didnt agree. He said the compensation didnt reflect the time it had taken him to 
resolve the issue and he wanted compensation of £500. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The nub of Mr Hs complaint is that, having fallen victim to the scam, he received debt 
collection letters and his bank account was debited. His credit file was affected, and he was 
unhappy about the length of time it took Virgin to sort things out.
Ive looked at what Virgin did when Mr H reported the scam. It started an investigation and 
ultimately closed the loan agreements and amended Mr Hs credit  file. Prior to that however 
it had debited Mr Hs account for a payment under the loan agreement. This happened whilst 
the investigation was ongoing.
I understand Mr Hs frustration that Virgin took a long time to resolve things. Virgin has 
acknowledged that it had a large workload at the time and that it took longer than usual to 
resolve the issue.
That said, I can see that Virgin closed the accounts in October 2020 and refunded the 
payment which had been debited from Mr Hs account. It stopped the letters from the debt 
collection agency and paid compensation of £100 to Mr H.
I understand Mr Hs frustration. He didnt order the phones and hes had to spend time trying 
to contact Virgin to sort things out. I understand that this wouldve caused a degree of 
trouble and upset. However, taking everything into consideration, I dont think there was 
excessive delay by Virgin  and I think the resolution and compensation offered and accepted 
was fair and reasonable.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold the complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 24 August 2021.
 
Emma Davy
Ombudsman