DRN-3657064
The complaint
Your text here Mr M complains that Gain Credit LLC, trading as Drafty, lent to him, and 
increased his credit limits, when he could not afford it.
What happened
Briefly, Mr M applied for a credit facility of £200 in September 2016. Drafty approved a credit 
facility of £650. The limit was increased three times  16 November 2016 to £800, on 
16 August 2017 to £1,000 and on 17 January 2018 to £1,200. 
The account got into arrears, was suspended in March 2019, defaulted in May 2019, and 
was terminated in June 2019. The debt was passed to a third party debt collector in 
June 2019 and it remains with that party. The outstanding sum in October 2021 was around 
£1,300. I do not have an up to date figure. 
Mr M complained to Drafty in 2021 and received a final response letter (FRL) in April 2021 
with which Mr M did not agree and so he referred the complaint to the Financial Ombudsman 
Service. Later he complained again after he had referred the complaint to us. Then on 
23 November 2021 Drafty issued a new FRL in which it thought that allowing the line of 
credit to continue beyond 13 February 2019 was not the right thing to have done. 
In June 2022, one of our adjudicators looked at the complaint and thought that Draftys 
decision to approve the credit facility initially was right. But that from 17 January 2018 Drafty 
ought to have stopped Mr M from using the facility and ought to have treated him with 
forbearance. 
Mr M accepted the adjudicators view.
Drafty agreed in part and said it would do the following:
to refund the interest and charges paid towards new drawdowns from 17 January 
2018
remove any adverse information in reference to the above-mentioned account from 
Mr Ms credit file from 17 January 2018.
But Drafty made the point that any amount given to the customer before this date was 
affordable and after this date was unaffordable so Drafty considered it was well within its 
rights to collect the principal as well as interest on any drawdowns prior to the uphold date.
The outstanding issue is an unresolved detail surrounding the redress and that is the reason 
the complaint has been passed to me. 
I will not be reviewing the merits of the complaint as that has been resolved, effectively, as 
both parties have agreed to the uphold date of 17 January 2018. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As the merits part of the Drafty account complaint has been agreed between the parties, 
then I am looking only at the redress calculations formula. 
The rationale for our adjudicators uphold  as accepted by Drafty  was that the continual 
repayment of the minimum payments each month ought to have prompted it to have done 
something rather than allow that repayment pattern to continue. And that before the 
January 2018 credit limit was increased it ought to have carried out further checks.  
Mr M had provided us with a copy of his bank statements from around that time and our 
adjudicator had reviewed them and could see that he was having difficulties managing his 
money. 
I have reviewed the bank statements as well to see what Drafty would have discovered if it 
had made those additional checks in or around January 2018. He was paying out to other 
high-cost creditors. This was more than 65% of his monthly income even before taking into 
consideration any of his normal monthly living costs and regular financial commitments. 
Mr M had borrowed a further £600 from several high-cost creditors including another open-
ended credit provider. And he consistently was using his overdraft facility for at least the last 
two months and by January 2018 it got to around £2,900.
There were several actions Drafty could have taken. But as none of these were taken and it 
agrees about that, its been passed to me to decide what Drafty ought to do fairly and 
reasonably to put things right. 
I dont think its fair and reasonable for a lender to allow a customer to continue using a 
facility that had become demonstrably unsustainable  instead I think its fair and reasonable 
to expect a lender to help the customer repay what theyve already drawn down and what 
they already owe. Where Mr Ms repayment record suggested he was already struggling to 
repay the amount owed, I dont think that Drafty continuing to allow interest to be charged on 
Mr Ms balance is fair and reasonable. 
So, although, I do accept that the balance up to the uphold point was legitimately lent and 
appeared affordable for Mr M at the time it was lent, once the point had been reached where 
Drafty accepted it ought to have exercised forbearance to allow Mr M to repay what was 
owed, then it ought to have ceased charging interest on this balance from 17 January 2018 
onwards.   
I realise Drafty has said it does not agree but thats my decision. Ive outlined below what 
Drafty needs to do to put things right for Mr M. 
Putting things right
My understanding is that the account was passed to a third party collector but the loan 
ownership remains with Drafty. So, it should bring that debt back in-house, remove any of 
the third party charges allocated to the account and not pass them on to Mr M. And Drafty 
should do as I have set out below. 
Re-work Mr Ms credit facility balance so that all interest, fees and charges applied to 
it from 17 January 2018 onwards are removed. AND
If an outstanding balance remains on the credit facility once these adjustments have 
been made Drafty should contact Mr M to arrange a suitable repayment plan for this. 
If it considers it appropriate to record negative information on Mr Ms credit file, it 
should backdate this to 17 January 2018
OR
If the effect of removing all interest, fees and charges results in there no longer being 
an outstanding balance, then any extra should be treated as overpayments and 
returned to Mr M, along with 8% simple interest* on the overpayments from the date 
they were made (if they were) until the date of settlement. 
If no outstanding balance remains after all adjustments have been made, then Drafty 
should remove any adverse information from Mr Ms credit file.
*HM Revenue & Customs requires Drafty to take off tax from this interest. Drafty must give 
Mr M a certificate showing how much tax it has taken off if he asks for one.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold Mr Ms complaint in part and I direct that Gain Credit LLC, 
trading as Drafty, should put things right for Mr M as outlined in my decision above.  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 17 March 2023.
 
Rachael Williams
Ombudsman