DRN-3875939
The complaint
C complain that American Express Services Europe Limited (Amex) unfairly closed their
account.
What happened
C are a business, represented here by Mr A. C opened a business account with Amex and
after several months Amex carried out a review of the account because another financial
business had registered a fraud marker against Mr A. Whilst the review was carried out,
Amex suspended the account and asked C for supporting documentation about Cs
activities. Once the review was completed, Amex notified C they were closing the account
immediately.
At the time, Cs account didnt hold any balance, so Amex refunded (on a pro rata basis) the
membership fee and closed the account. C complained to Amex about the closure, but
Amex didnt accept theyd closed the account unfairly.
C also held a personal account with Amex which is subject to a separate complaint.
C were unhappy with how Amex had handled the situation and brought a complaint to the
Financial Ombudsman Service for an independent review. It was looked into by one of our
adjudicators who asked for information from both parties about the complaint. C explained
what had happened and couldnt understand why the account had been closed, they also
believed that the closure had affected their ability to obtain other financial products.
Amex supplied details of their internal review and the information theyd relied on when they
closed the account. During the review process, Amex had learned of information registered
by a different financial business about Mr A which suggested he was involved in fraudulent
activities. Amex had asked Mr A for supporting documentation about Cs business, and
when they received it, they werent convinced the information was genuine. This prompted
Amex to issue an immediate notice to close the account.
After reviewing all the evidence, the adjudicator didnt think that Amex had treated C unfairly
and didnt uphold their complaint. C disagreed and asked for a further review of the
complaint, which has been passed to me. I issued a provisional decision where I said:
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
My reasoning doesnt differ greatly from that of the adjudicator here, but Im issuing this
provisional decision to separate the two complaints that C and Mr A now have. This one is
concerned with the business account and the additional complaint deals with Mr As
personal account.
When Amex received reports lodged by another financial business, these reports concerned
possible involvement in financial fraud, so its understandable that Amex would carry out
such a review to better understand the situation and whether they should continue to offer
financial services to C.
Amex suspended the account during the review, and its noted that the account had a zero
balance at the time. Im satisfied that Amex followed the terms of the account when they
suspended it based on the information they were in receipt of.
Information supplied by Mr A during the review process was primarily linked to Cs financial
activities (bank statements). The assessment of that information convinced Amex that the
information wasnt genuine. This prompted Amex to rely on the terms and conditions
associated with the account to close it immediately. Thats because Amex believed Mr A had
provided them with false or misleading information about C.
Ordinarily, Amex would have been required to issue C with a two-month notice to close the
account, but because they believed Mr A had provided false or misleading information, the
notice to close was immediate in line with the terms of the account.
I asked Mr A to provide the details of the information about Cs accounts that was passed to
Amex. These were bank statements C held with another financial business  Ill refer to them
as J. J were asked about the statements which they later confirmed were genuine.
The closure of an account is something that either party can choose to do. For Amex, its a
commercial decision and here they decided, based on information theyd received, that they
were going to close the account. I dont think this was an unreasonable decision for them to
take and was in line with the terms of the account.
Whilst I think it was reasonable for Amex to close the account based on the financial
information theyd received, I think that theres an argument here, based on the terms of the
account closure, that C should have been provided with notice, rather than be faced with the
immediate closure of their account.
But, I have to consider the situation as a whole and whilst I think that Amex should have
provided the usual notice to C, I dont think that this would have changed the outcome.
Thats because the account had a zero balance (so C didnt have an outstanding debt to
Amex), Amex refunded the membership fee at the time (on a pro-rata basis) and the account
was suspended. So, even if Amex had given the notice, I think it unlikely that they would
have lifted the suspension and allowed further payments to be made against the account.
I understand C believed theyd been prevented from accessing other financial products as a
result of Amexs actions, but Amex confirmed they hadnt lodged any fraud markers against
C/Mr A. Its unlikely that Amexs actions would have been responsible for any other issues
experienced by C, particularly when there were fraud markers already lodged by another
business in respect of Mr A. I recognise that Mr A thinks that these markers are incorrect,
but as far as Amex were concerned at the time, they were entitled to rely on the information
to inform their position on whether to continue to offer C financial services.
Overall, I think that Amex acted fairly when they decided to close the account but could have
issued the appropriate notice to C. But, my current thoughts are that I dont think that would
have changed the situation for C as it would likely have resulted in the continued suspension
of the account whilst the notice period was run down. Essentially, all that would have been
different was the date of the closure. There was no substantive impact on C once Amex
suspended the account.
I invited C and Amex to give me any more evidence and information they wanted me to
consider before issuing my final decision. Amex didnt have anything further to add and in 
summary C said:C believed the review of documents they supplied to Amex influenced the closure of 
their account and ultimately affected their business.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, and as neither party had anything that would change my opinion, I see no 
reason to reach a different conclusion. So, this final decision confirms the findings set out in 
my provisional decision. 
I considered the additional point made by C in their response. Essentially they argue that 
had Amex not misidentified the additional evidence they produced, the eventual closure of 
their account may not have happened. 
The evidence, which Ive already discussed, shows that the review started due to external 
information regarding Mr A. I think it likely that this, on its own, would have resulted in the 
closure of the account. The additional , albeit incorrect, assessment of the evidence supplied 
by C resulted in the use of the immediate closure terms laid out in the agreement. The 
assessment of that additional information may well have confirmed what Amex were already 
considering, but I think the only additional impact was the immediate closure rather than one 
with the appropriate notice.
Considering the type of information that Amex had received, I think it unlikely they would 
have continued their relationship with C. I appreciate that C think that its unfair for their 
account to be closed due to these external reports which they say they were unaware of at 
the time. Mr A feels strongly that the closure is the result of reports which he says are 
incorrect and is challenging them in a separate complaint. The relative merits of that 
complaint arent proper to this complaint, so Im unable to comment further about the reports 
here. But, as far as Amex were concerned, I dont think it was unreasonable for them to rely 
on them to close the account, although I accept they should have given C the proper notice.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask C to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 February 2023.
 
David Perry
Ombudsman