DRN-4139195
The complaint
Mr H complains his insurer, U K Insurance Limited trading as Churchill (UKI), has unfairly 
declined a claim for a stolen car under his motor insurance policy. 
What happened
Mr H says when he left for work on the morning of 1 June 2022, he noticed his car wasnt 
parked where he left it  which was a short distance from his address. He says he contacted 
the police to report his vehicle as stolen after returning home from work that evening.
When he spoke to UKI, Mr H said there wasnt any debris on the floor or signs of broken 
glass where his car had been parked. He explained hed bought the car using cash and 
didnt have the sellers details. Nor could he provide proof of purchase or photographs of the 
vehicle.  
Mr H said he only had one key for the vehicle which was still in his possession as it was 
inside his house. The key was subsequently shared with UKI. 
In August 2022, UKI declined Mr Hs claim saying it wasnt satisfied the incident happened 
as alleged or that the claim met the terms and conditions of the policy. In reaching this 
decision UKI said: the key supplied by Mr H didnt relate to the insured vehicle; the vehicle 
couldnt have been stolen by way of relay theft; the key couldnt be cloned and wasnt 
vulnerable to other theft methods. 
UKI added that as it wasnt covering the claim, it could pursue Mr H for the costs it had paid 
to date relating to the incident  and so, it would be seeking to recover the hire charges it 
incurred. 
Unhappy, Mr H brought a complaint to this Service. He said its impossible for him to prove 
the car was stolen as there werent any witnesses. He reiterated that hed only been given 
one key when he purchased the car. He said he didnt report the car as stolen until the 
evening as he was concerned about being late for work.
An Investigator considered it and said she thought it was reasonable for UKI to decline the 
claim but that she wasnt persuaded it had shown the fraud condition applies  and so, she 
recommended UKI remove this.
UKI replied providing further information including evidence which showed the key fob hadnt 
been used for five months prior to the car allegedly being stolen  meaning the vehicles last 
use pre-dated the start of the policy. It added that Mr Hs version of events hadnt been 
consistent. 
Our Investigator asked Mr H for further information, but this wasnt forthcoming. And so, on 
the evidence she did have, concluded UKI had fairly relied on the fraud condition to decline 
Mr Hs claim. 
Because Mr H disagreed the complaint has been passed to me for an Ombudsmans 
decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im not upholding this complaint and Ill explain why. 
As the policy holder Mr H must show that on the face of it, something happened which might 
be covered under the policy. Here, Mr H has reported his car as stolen to the police and UKI. 
Having done so, the onus switches to UKI who then are responsible for validating the claim 
and explaining  if applicable - why its not liable for covering it. 
Here, UKI has invoked the fraud condition to decline the claim saying the theft of Mr Hs car 
couldnt have happened as hes alleged and there are inconsistencies with his version of 
events.
The policy terms and conditions say: We will not pay a claim that is in any way fraudulent, 
false or exaggerated. If you, any person insured under this policy or anyone acting on your 
behalf attempts to deceive us or knowingly makes a fraudulent, false or exaggerated claim:
-your policy may be cancelled;
-we may reject your claim and any subsequent claims;
-we may keep any premium you have paid.
Its important to explain that Im not determining whether Mr H has acted fraudulently - rather 
I need to consider whether UKI has acted fairly by relying on the fraud condition to decline 
his claim. For UKI to rely on this condition, it needs to show it is more likely than not the 
condition was breached. So, Ive looked at the evidence provided to decide this.
Is the key fob the correct key for Mr Hs car?
Mr H said he retained the one key fob hed been given at the time of purchasing his vehicle. 
And it seems Mr H considers himself to have provided UKI with the correct key.
As part of its investigation, UKI arranged for a key specialist to forensically review the key 
fobs data. The specialist report showed the key fob didnt match Mr Hs vehicle  it was 
instead for a vehicle of a different model. And the experts opinion was that the key fob 
wouldnt work with Mr Hs vehicle. 
The data also showed the key fob was last used five months prior to the vehicle being 
reported stolen and was instead connected to another vehicle which had been reported as 
stolen earlier on in 2022. Its reasonable to assume that if the key fob was for Mr Hs vehicle, 
the data would show it had last been used the evening before - as Mr H said hed driven it 
the night before. But five months prior is before the policy had even started. And so, I can 
see why UKI had concerns about the accuracy of Mr Hs account of events when such a 
discrepancy exists.
UKI has also provided evidence to show the mileage on Mr Hs car at its last MOT differed to 
the mileage recorded on the key fob. 
The key specialist also explained Mr Hs vehicle couldnt have been stolen using the relay method because according to its vehicle specification its not equipped with advanced keys 
 which is required for a relay method theft. 
Whilst the key fob is an advanced key, its not coded for the insured vehicle  thus further 
supporting the position that the key Mr H submitted is not associated with Mr Hs vehicle. 
The expert added that the key fob cannot be cloned and isnt vulnerable to a code grabber  
another means in which cars are stolen.
Whilst I appreciate Mr H considers himself to have given an accurate account of what 
happened, I cant ignore the overwhelming evidence supplied by the key specialist which, in 
my opinion, shows the key fob Mr H supplied isnt the key for the insured vehicle. 
Mr H hasnt provided an explanation as to why the key doesnt match the insured vehicle 
other than to say it could have been mixed up. Given the inconsistencies in his testimony 
and the detailed and comprehensive expert findings, Im not persuaded Mr H has given UKI 
an honest and full account, and so I consider it reasonable for UKI to have concluded that Mr 
H has dishonestly represented his claim. And so, Im satisfied UKI has acted fairly by 
declining Mr Hs claim on the basis the fraud condition was breached.
Customer service
I understand Mr Hs frustration at having had to wait a few months for UKI to reach a 
decision on his claim, but its reasonable that UKI would need to carry out a thorough 
investigation given the serious implications. And as this included obtaining expert evidence, 
things took longer. From what Ive seen, Im satisfied there hasnt been any avoidable delays 
and so, I wont be asking UKI to pay compensation. 
Im aware Mr H was also unhappy hed been asked to continue paying premiums even 
though the claim had been declined. UKI has apologised for its error and returned the 
premiums to him - which is what Id expect it to do. 
Mr H also complained about the time it took UKI to return the key fob to him. Our Investigator 
shared with Mr H that UKI returned the key in August 2022 and provided the tracking 
reference details. UKI has recommended Mr H get in touch with his local sorting office if he 
still hasnt received it. From what Ive seen, UKI has taken the necessary action to return the 
key and did so promptly, and so, I wont be asking it to do anything else in respect of this. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 9 August 2023.
 
Nicola Beakhust
Ombudsman