DRN-4266561
The complaint
Mr S complains that Somerset Bridge Insurance Services Limited trading as Go Skippy 
Insurance didnt send him any correspondence in relation to his renewal, and auto renew as 
he expected and following an accident, he discovered he wasnt insured. 
What happened
Mr S had a car insurance policy taken out through Go Skippy, who were acting as 
intermediaries for the underwriter. He renewed the policy on 27 August 2021 and was sent 
his policy documents, which detailed the policy end date of 26 August 2022.
When the policy was due for renewal in 2022, Go Skippy didnt send Mr S any renewal 
documents, and he didnt realise that his policy had expired until 4 September 2022. He then 
immediately took out a new policy with Go Skippy. 
Unfortunately, in the interim period, on 2 September 2022, Mr S had a car accident in which 
both his and the third partys cars were damaged. He was at fault for the accident.
 
Following Mr S taking out the new policy and reporting to Go Skippy that he had had an 
accident, he made a complaint about the failure to send renewal documents which had left 
him uninsured and with liability for the repair bills arising from the accident. 
Go Skippy accepted that they had failed to issue the renewal correspondence in line with 
their terms of business and they asked for repair quotes for both vehicles. They also made 
contact with the third party insurer who had advised that they were dealing with the claim 
and would then recover funds from Go Skippy. 
Go Skippy then changed their view and declined to pay for the repairs. In their final response 
in early October 2022, they advised Mr S that although they accepted that they had failed to 
send the renewal correspondence, and that was their error, he had been issued with a letter 
at the start of his policy detailing the start and end dates, and so he should have known 
when his policy ended. As a result, they wouldnt be covering all aspects of the claim. They 
did award him £25 compensation for the failure to issue the renewal correspondence.
Mr S was unhappy with this and brought his complaint to us. 
One of our investigators looked into Mr Ss complaint. Initially he thought that Go Skippys 
offer would have been fair if there had been no impact on him, but as Mr S was involved in a 
road traffic accident during the 8 days he was left driving with no insurance, the investigator 
felt that award should be increased to £100. Following further representations from Mr S, he 
issued a further view in which he said that he thought Go Skippy should pay all costs 
associated with the claim and also pay £100 for distress and inconvenience. 
Go Skippy disagreed with our investigators view, and so the case has come to me to review. 
 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I am upholding Mr Ss complaint and I will explain why. 
In Go Skippys Terms of Business document, it states :
If your policy is not eligible for automatic renewal we will write, via your preferred 
method of communication, to you prior to your renewal date to remind you that your 
renewal is due and to advise you how much the new premium will be.
It is accepted by Go Skippy that this didnt happen - Mr Ss policy wasnt set for automatic 
renewal and neither did Go Skippy send him renewal documents. And so the renewal date 
passed without Mr S being made aware that his cover had expired. 
So in not sending the renewal documents, Go Skippy were in breach of their own terms of 
business, but also in breach of ICOBS 6.5.1 which details the requirements on insurers and 
intermediaries at renewal. It requires that: 
6.5.1 Renewals
(3) The firm must provide to the consumer the following information in good time before the 
renewal: 
(a) the premium to be paid by the consumer on renewal;
(b) in a way that is consistent with the presentation of 
(a) so that they can be easily compared: 
(i) except where (ii) applies, the premium for the policy which the firm proposes to 
renew, as set out at the inception of that policy; 
(ii) where one or more mid-term changes were made to the policy which the firm 
proposes to renew, an amount calculated by annualising (or otherwise adjusting as 
appropriate to the duration of the proposed policy) the premium in effect following the 
most recent mid-term change, excluding all fees or charges associated with those 
mid-term changes; 
(c) a statement alongside (a) and (b) indicating that the consumer: 
(i) should check that the level of cover offered by the renewal is appropriate for their 
needs; and 
(ii) is able, if they so wish, to compare the prices and levels of cover offered by 
alternative providers; and
(d) a statement informing the consumer whether the contract will automatically renew or 
whether the consumer needs to take action to accept the renewal offer.
(5) The firm must communicate the information in (3) and (4): 
(a) clearly and accurately; (b) in writing or another durable medium; and 
(c) in a way that is accessible and which draws the consumers attention to it as key 
information.
I also note that in the letter Mr S was sent following the 2021 renewal it said: 
Although you have only just arranged your policy we would like to make you aware that in 
certain circumstances we may automatically renew a policy and take payment by the same 
method as the previous year. We will always write, via your preferred method of contact, to 
advise you beforehand and give you the opportunity to let us know you do not wish to renew 
your policy.
If we cannot automatically renew your policy we will let you know in writing, via your 
preferred method of contact, to remind you your renewal is due.
Go Skippy have said that it was Mr Ss responsibility to know when his policy ended and to 
take action to renew. However, I am satisfied that in line with the requirements of ICOBS, Go 
Skippys terms of business, and the content of the renewal letter, it was reasonable for Mr S 
to expect Go Skippy to notify him when his renewal was due, and to rely on this. 
  
As they have failed in their obligations, I would expect Go Skippy to put Mr S back in the 
position he would have been in if the error hadnt occurred and he had renewed his policy. I 
have no reason to believe that if he had received the relevant documents, Mr S wouldnt 
have renewed his policy on time. 
 
Mr S is being pursued by the third party insurer for the repair costs to the third party vehicle, 
and I'm satisfied that he would not be responsible for these costs if the error hadnt occurred, 
as he would have renewed his policy on time. So I agree with the investigator, and I will be 
directing Go Skippy to meet all costs for all parties arising out of the claim and pay 
compensation for distress and inconvenience. I have included some detail below about how I 
think the costs should be settled bearing in mind Go Skippy is an intermediary, not the 
underwriter. 
Putting things right
In order to put things right, Go Skippy should:
Pay all costs arising out of the claim resulting from the accident on 2 September 
2022. 
oThe third party costs should be settled directly with their insurer and should 
include all charges that have accrued to date in respect of the claim made by 
the third party. 
oMr Ss repairs should be settled directly with him following receipt of a quote 
for repair work to his vehicle.
oAny policy excess that would have been due under the policy should be 
deducted from the above payments. The deduction should be made from Mr 
Ss repair settlement first, but if the excess exceeds his repair quote, the 
remainder will need to be deducted from the third party payment, and Mr S 
should be notified of any shortfall that he will need to cover.   
     
Pay Mr S a further £75 for the distress and inconvenience caused to Mr S by their 
error, bringing the total compensation to £100. This may already have been paid 
following the investigators view.  My final decision
My decision is that I uphold Mr Ss complaint and direct Somerset Bridge Insurance Services 
Limited trading as Go Skippy Insurance to put things right as above.  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 24 August 2023.
 
Joanne Ward
Ombudsman