DRN-3598280
The complaint
Mr E complains that U K Insurance Limited (UKI) settled his complaint and took ownership of 
the salvage of his car without his permission, under his motor insurance policy. 
What happened
Mr E was involved in an accident when driving his car in January 2022. He contacted UKI 
and it arranged for the car to be assessed. Mr E was subsequently contacted by phone to be 
told his car was a total loss. He was offered a settlement payment, which he thought was 
fair. But he says another element of his claim wasnt dealt with. This was about the fee he 
paid for his car to be recovered to a garage. 
Mr E says although he agreed to the settlement payment and provided his bank details. He 
was told he would receive written confirmation of what had been agreed. He didnt receive 
this. But the day after his call with UKI he emailed to say that he didnt accept its offer at this 
time. Mr E says he wasnt given the opportunity to retain the salvage of his car and raised a 
complaint with UKI.  
UKI says it didnt see Mr Es email until after the salvage of his vehicle had been processed. 
This meant the salvage couldnt be returned. It offered £50 for the delay in refunding the cost 
of the vehicle recovery. But it says Mr E accepted its offer of a settlement payment and 
made no mention of retaining salvage. UKI refers to its policy terms that say once a claim is 
settled as a total loss the car becomes its property.
In a follow up letter UKI explains there was a delay from 11 February 2022 until 13 February 
in the settlement payment being processed. It says this was because of missing information 
that was flagged up and had to be entered manually. Otherwise it says once the settlement 
had been processed the payment will be paid automatically. It says its agent that input the 
missing information wouldnt be expected to look through incoming emails nor would this be 
identified by its automated payment system. 
In its letter UKI says it acknowledges Mr Es point that he didnt provide explicit consent for it 
to write-off his car. It says feedback will be provided internally on this point. Mr E didnt think 
this was fair and referred his complaint to our service. Our investigator didnt uphold his 
complaint. He thought it was clear Mr E had agreed to the settlement and hadnt mentioned 
retaining the salvage. He says UKI acted in line with its policy terms when handling his 
claim.
Mr E disagreed. He didnt think hed provided consent for his claim to be settled in the way it 
was. So, he asked for an ombudsman to consider his complaint. 
It has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I have decided not to uphold Mr Es complaint. Im sorry to disappoint him 
but I will explain why I think my decision is fair. 
Ive listened to the call recording from 10 February 2022 between UKIs engineer and Mr E. 
The engineer describes the work needed to repair his car and says this will cost around 
£7,000. He explains that this exceeds the market value of Mr Es car and so it has been 
determined a total loss. The engineer explains how he calculated the market value and 
confirms this to be £6,300, which will be paid minus the £400 policy excess.
Mr E agrees with the engineer that he thinks this is a reasonable valuation. 
Around six minutes into the call Mr E mentions the recovery fee he paid, which has yet to be 
refunded. The engineer confirms that this will be paid and its for the claims team to arrange. 
He spends some time looking through the information Mr E had provided. But wasnt able to 
confirm if the invoice had been received. The engineer did, however, confirm the refund 
would be dealt with by UKIs claim team. 
Twelve minutes into the call the engineer tells Mr E the settlement payment can be provided 
by a direct electronic payment. He provides some further information to satisfy Mr E that he 
is who he says he is. Mr E confirms hes happy to proceed and gives his bank account 
details for a payment to be made. The engineer tells Mr E he will need to send in a section of 
his V5 logbook. He says this will be needed when dealing with the salvage. He also confirms 
Mr M will receive confirmation of the settlement payment in writing.
About twenty minutes into the call the engineer tells Mr E that when he gets a new car, he 
should contact UKIs customer services. It can then arrange for this car to be added to his 
policy for the remaining term. Mr E asks when he can collect his belongings from the car. 
Following some discussion, he says he will visit tomorrow for this purpose. The engineer 
says that when he processed the payment it will trigger salvage of Mr Es car either 
tomorrow or the following Monday. Mr E says he will ring to make sure the car is still there to 
be able to collect his belongings. The call then ends. 
Ive listened to the full call, which lasts around 25 minutes. Mr E doesnt mention retaining 
the salvage of his car. Ive read the email he sent early the following morning. This doesnt 
mention retaining the salvage of his car either. In the email Mr E says UKIs engineer didnt 
satisfy him that he would be paid in full for the recovery charge, and he wants confirmation 
before accepting UKIs settlement. 
Ive thought about whether it was reasonable for UKI to settle Mr Es claim in the way it did. 
Including disposing of the salvage of his car in light of the phone call discussion he had and 
his subsequent email. 
Ive read his policy terms to see what this says about how the claim will be handled in these 
circumstances. The terms say:
If your car is accidentally damaged, we can choose to either:
Repair  well repair the damage ourselves or pay to repair it.
Replace  well replace whatever is lost or damaged, if thats more cost-effective.
Repay  well settle your claim by sending a payment.
And:If your car is written off and we agree to settle your claim on that basis, we will have met our
responsibilities to you under the policy.
Also:
Once we settle your claim, your car will become our property and you must send us the 
registration document. All cover will then end unless we agree differently. 
The policy terms allow UKI to treat Mr Es car as a total loss and to deal with his claim by 
providing a settlement payment. The amount payable is confirmed in the policy terms as the 
Market value. The evidence supports that repairs would exceed the market value of Mr Ms 
car. So, I dont think UKI behaved unfairly in offering a settlement payment. 
Mr E agreed to the settlement payment he was offered, and this was processed. The terms 
say that if there is agreement for the car to be written-off UKI will have met its 
responsibilities. At this point ownership of the car reverts to UKI. I acknowledge Mr Es point 
about UKI not obtaining explicit consent to scrap his car. But I dont think it was required to 
do this. I think its clear by agreeing his car was a total loss, and accepting the settlement 
figure he was offered, Mr E agreed to his claim being settled in this way. 
Having considered all of this, although Im sorry Mr E is disappointed, I dont think UKI 
treated him unfairly when relying on its policy terms and processing his claim in the way it 
did. This includes disposing of the salvage of his car. So, I cant reasonably ask it to do 
anymore to resolve his complaint.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr E to accept or 
reject my decision before 17 December 2022.
 
Mike Waldron
Ombudsman