DRN-2958446
The complaint
Mrs H and Mrs T complain that The Co-operative Bank Plc, trading as Platform, has made a 
number of errors when administering their mortgage.
Mrs H and Mrs Ts complaint has been brought on their behalf by a representative. But for 
ease, in this decision Ill refer to the actions and complaint being brought as by Mrs H and 
Mrs T directly.
What happened
Mrs H and Mrs T took a buy to let (BTL) mortgage with Platform in 2007. They applied for a 
two-year fixed rate mortgage over a 15-year term. The application was made on the advice 
of a mortgage broker. 
Platform wrote to Mrs H and Mrs T in 2017 saying that an error had occurred in the 
administration of their mortgage. The end date of their mortgage had been recorded as 
1 April 2022 when it shouldve been 7 March 2022. It said this had since been rectified. 
Mrs H and Mrs T complained to Platform in July 2020. They said:
They had applied for a two-year fixed rate mortgage but had recently found out that 
they were actually provided with a three-year fixed rate which meant they paid a 
higher rate than that should have.
That Platform had reduced the term of their mortgage by a month.
That Platform wouldnt now grant them a term extension to their mortgage.
Unhappy with Platforms response, they referred the complaint to our service. Platform said 
that the complaint had been referred to us too late under the Financial Conduct Authority 
rules. 
One of our investigators looked into the complaint. He agreed that the first part of their 
complaint about the fixed rate had been referred to us too late. But he thought we could 
consider the complaint points regarding the term being reduced by a month and Platform 
declining the term extension.
Platform accepted this, but Mrs H and Mrs T didnt. So, the complaint was referred to 
another ombudsman to decide whether this complaint was one we had jurisdiction to 
consider. The ombudsman agreed with our investigator and issued a decision which said 
that we are unable to consider the complaint about the interest rate deal applied to Mrs H 
and Mrs Ts mortgage when it was first taken out in 2007 and whether this was correct, as 
their complaint about this has been raised too late according to our rules.
But the ombudsman was satisfied our service can consider Mrs H and Mrs Ts complaint 
about the administrative amendment made to the overall mortgage term in 2017 and the 
decision by Platform to decline a request for a term extension in 2020 as those issues have 
been brought in time.
The complaint was passed back to an investigator to consider the merits of the points which 
had been referred to us in time. He was satisfied that the mortgage end date of 
7 March 2022 was correct, so Platform was entitled to take steps to correct its mistake and 
he noted that Platform had given Mrs H and Mrs T four and a half years notice of this. He 
was also satisfied that Platform was entitled to decline the application for a further term 
extension.
Mrs H and Mrs T didnt accept this and asked for the complaint to be referred to an 
ombudsman. So, the complaint has been passed to me to consider and make a final 
decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Another ombudsman has already issued a decision regarding the complaint about the fixed 
rate that applied to the mortgage when it was first taken. This ombudsman decided that this 
particular complaint point had been referred to out of time. So, I wont be considering it any 
further here. I will be considering the remaining two complaint points that Mrs H and Mrs T 
have raised. Ill deal with them individually.
Platform reducing the term of the mortgage by a month
From the documents we have from Platform, it seems that the mortgage completed on 
7 March 2007. And it isnt disputed that the mortgage was originally supposed to run for a 
15-year term. This would mean that the mortgage should end on 7 March 2022. And Im 
satisfied that Mrs H and Mrs T wouldve been aware of this when they took the mortgage.
Due to an error at some point, the end date of the mortgage was amended to be 
1 April 2022. Its unclear why this was the case. But this was noticed by Platform, and 
Platform wrote to Mrs H and Mrs T in 2017 to make them aware of this. Whilst this may have 
been frustrating, this error and the subsequent rectification of it simply put Mrs H and Mrs T 
back in the position they shouldve been had it not occurred. I also note that Platform did 
offer to change the repayment date back when it originally informed Mrs H and Mrs T of the 
error, but it asked them to get in touch within three months of that letter. As they didnt 
respond, Im satisfied that Platform was entitled to make the amendment it did.
As the mortgage was operating on an interest only basis, the mortgage payment hasnt been 
impacted by this mistake. So, Mrs H and Mrs T havent lost out financially as a result of this. 
The impact that this has had is that Mrs H and Mrs T have to repay their mortgage around 
three weeks earlier than they were once led to believe. But they had almost five years to 
plan for this. And given that Platform did originally offer to put the end date back when it 
notified Mrs H and Mrs T of the error, I dont think that compensation is warranted in this 
regard. 
Platform declining a term extension to the mortgage
I understand this mortgage relates to an investment property which Mrs H and Mrs T rent 
out. And they currently dont wish to sell the property so would like the term to be extended. 
However, Platform has told us that its made a business decision not to allow term 
extensions on BTL mortgages. This is a commercial decision its entitled to make. And I see no reason why I should interfere with this decision in this case.
I understand why Mrs H and Mrs T may be frustrated by this. But I cant say that Platform 
has done anything wrong in this respect. 
My final decision
I understand that Mrs H and Mrs T feel strongly about this matter, but my final decision is 
that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs H and Mrs T 
to accept or reject my decision before 10 March 2022.
 
Rob Deadman
Ombudsman