DRN-3495715
The complaint
Miss W complains that Royal & Sun Alliance Insurance Limited (RSA) declined to pay for 
all the required repairs following her claim on her home insurance. 
What happened
Miss W had home insurance that was underwritten by RSA. In 2020 she made a claim after 
noticing internal and external cracking in her property. RSA sent out a loss adjuster who 
identified a leaking drain that was causing subsidence. It subsequently sent a drain expert to 
carry out repairs. 
In January 2021 she instructed a rodent expert to examine the drains as she had 
experienced problems with rats getting into the property. They carried out some additional 
work which Miss W paid for. She subsequently tried to claim some of the work back on her 
insurance but RSA declined to pay. It said that some of the work wasnt claim related and 
some had already been carried out by its experts. 
Miss W didnt agree and made a complaint. RSA didnt respond within the required 
timescales, so she brought her complaint to this service.
Our investigator considered everything but didnt recommend the complaint be upheld. She 
said the invoice Miss W had provided was for work that had either already been carried out 
by RSA or that wasnt covered under the policy. So she didnt think RSA should do anything 
more.
Miss W didnt agree and asked for the complaint to be reviewed by an ombudsman. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
RSA accepted Miss Ws claim for subsidence, however she isnt satisfied that all claim 
related work has been completed. Since RSA carried out the repairs, she has paid for a 
rodent specialist to fix further issues and thinks RSA should pay for the cost of some of 
these. 
Whats in dispute comes down to work quoted for by this company. Miss W provided a quote 
that itemised the required repairs, which was roughly as follows:
1. Repair the SVP (£685)
2. Excavate the gully pot and re-route the boiler (£725)
3. Rodent proofing repairs. (£325)
Both sides are in agreement that item 3 isnt covered by the insurance.  However items 1 
and 2 have been disputed at some stage during the claim. Miss W has confirmed that she 
now only considers item 1 to be reasonably included in the claim. So this is what Ive 
focussed my review on. 
When the claim was made RSA sent out a loss adjuster to inspect the damage. They said a 
drainage and subsidence expert would need to do a CCTV examination of the drains to 
determine the cause and required repairs. This was arranged for April 2021 and 
subsequently the relevant repairs were carried out. 
Based on the opinions of its loss adjuster and the drainage expert RSA confirmed that the 
claim had been settled in full. And Im satisfied it followed a reasonable process when 
reaching this decision.
However Miss C has disputed that its done enough to resolve the issues. Shes provided a 
report from a drain and rodent specialist who also inspected the pipes. Ive considered this 
report and I can see that it comments that the SVP has come apart and needs additional 
work. She has also provided comment from the expert stating that the damage is subsidence 
related. 
When there are conflicting expert reports, I need to decide which Im most persuaded by. 
Having considered everything, Im more persuaded by RSAs position. Ill explain why.
RSA appointed a loss adjuster with expertise in subsidence claims and subsequently a 
company that specialises in drain repairs and subsidence. Whereas Miss Ws expert 
specialises in identifying damage caused by rodents and repairing that, rather than deciding 
on structural damage and the cause. So Im more persuaded by RSAs reports and their 
conclusions about the damage and which parts relate to subsidence.
Further, RSAs expert carried out a drain survey in April 2021, four months after the initial 
report from Miss Ws expert. This looked inside the pipes connecting at the SVP and 
concluded they were in good working order. 
While I understand Miss Ws expert has since returned and carried out further work, Ive not 
seen anything that persuades me that RSAs original expert reports were incorrect in their 
findings. So from the evidence Ive seen Im satisfied RSA has acted fairly in declining to 
cover any additional costs. So I wont ask it to do anything further. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given, I dont uphold Miss Ws complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss W to accept 
or reject my decision before 11 August 2022.
 
Sophie Goodyear
Ombudsman