DRN-3475403
The complaint
Mr and Mrs L are unhappy that Mapfre Asistencia, Compania Internacional De Seguros y 
Reaseguros, S.A.(Mapfre) declined their travel insurance claim. 
Any reference to Mapfre includes all its agents.
What happened
Mr and Mrs L had an annual, multi-trip travel insurance policy which was underwritten by 
Mapfre. The policy started on 15 June 2019 and expired on 14 June 2020. 
In October 2019, Mr and Mrs L booked a trip and their intended travel dates were from 4 July 
2020 to 11 July 2020. They paid a deposit of £387.
Due to the travel disruptions surrounding Covid-19, Mr and Mrs Ls flight provider first 
changed the flight but then cancelled it completely on 25 June 2020. The accommodation 
provider also closed the resort they were due to stay at and said it couldnt refund the 
deposit that Mrs and Mrs L had paid.
Mr and Mrs L submitted a claim to Mapfre for the cost of the deposit. Mapfre assessed the 
claim but declined it. It said Mr and Mrs L had no insurance policy in place at the time the trip 
was cancelled. 
Mr and Mrs L said they received an email on 16 March 2020 from Mapfre which said policies 
taken out before 13 March 2020 would be covered for Covid-19 related claims and those 
taken out after 13 March 2020 would not be covered. It also said all other claims would 
continue to be accepted. Mr and Mrs L said this email wasnt clear and when it came to 
renewing the policy, they decided not to renew it. 
Unhappy with Mapfres response, Mr and Mrs L brought their complaint to this service. Our 
investigator looked into the complaint and didnt uphold it. She didnt think the claim had 
been declined unfairly by Mapfre as the policy had expired and not been renewed by Mr and 
Mrs L. They therefore had no cover in place at the time of cancellation. She also said if Mr 
and Mrs L were unclear with any aspect of the email they received on 16 March 2020, they 
had time to contact Mapfre and seek clarification about renewal and what this meant for 
them. But as theres no evidence of Mr and Mrs L contacting Mapfre from the information 
available, she didnt think Mapfre had declined the claim unfairly.
Mr and Mrs L didnt agree with the investigator and asked for the complaint to be reviewed 
by an ombudsman. So, its been passed to me. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The insurance industry regulator, the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA), has set out rules 
and guidance for insurers in the Insurance: Conduct of Business Sourcebook (ICOBS).
ICOBS says that insurers should act honestly, fairly and professionally in accordance with 
the best interests of their customers, and that they should handle claims promptly and fairly 
and shouldnt unreasonably reject a claim.
Ive reviewed the policy documents provided to us in relation to Mr and Mrs Ls claim. The 
policy certificate confirms the policy started on 15 June 2019 and expired on 14 June 2020. 
An auto-renewal letter was generated but the policy was not renewed by Mr and Mrs L. With 
that in mind, Im not persuaded that Mr and Mrs Ls claim has been declined unfairly or 
unreasonably by Mapfre. The trip was cancelled in June 2020 and at this point, they had no 
policy in place which would have provided cover for their claim. 
I appreciate Mr and Mrs Ls comments that the flight provider cancelled their flights so there 
was no possible way of travelling on 4 July 2020. I understand this but the crux of the matter 
is that Mr and Mrs L had no policy in place and therefore no cover was available at the point 
of cancellation for Mr and Mrs L.
I also appreciate their comments that the email they received on 16 March 2020 (which 
provided an update to coronavirus) was unclear to them. They say because of this, they 
decided not to renew their travel insurance policy. I understand there was a lot of uncertainty 
surrounding the situation at the time, but Ive reviewed the email. I dont think it was unclear. 
It confirms that if Mr and Mrs L purchased the policy before 13 March 2020, any subsequent 
claim would be considered in line with the terms and conditions. Mr and Mrs L took their 
policy out in June 2019 so they would potentially have had cover had the policy been 
renewed with Mapfre. Unfortunately, as Mr and Mrs Ls policy had expired by the time the 
trip was cancelled and as they had decided not to renew the policy, they had no policy or 
cover in place at the time the trip was cancelled. Their claim was therefore declined, and Im 
satisfied this was fair and reasonable. 
The email Mr and Mrs L received from Mapfre in March 2020 provided them time to contact 
the insurer if they thought it was unclear or confusing - their policy wasnt due for renewal 
until June 2020. But I cant see that they contacted Mapfre between those dates to seek 
clarification either. 
Overall, Im satisfied that Mr and Mrs Ls claim has been declined fairly and reasonably. I 
dont think there are any reasonable grounds upon which I could fairly ask Mapfre to accept 
the claim. It follows that I dont require Mapfre to do anything further. 
My final decision
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr L and Mrs L to 
accept or reject my decision before 4 July 2022.
 
Nimisha Radia
Ombudsman