DRN-2418460
The complaint
Mrs P complains that TSB Bank Plc wont refund £200 which failed to dispense from a cash 
machine. And shed like this refunded. 
What happened
Mrs P has a bank account with TSB. 
On the 13 March 2020 Mrs P attempted to withdraw £200 from a cash machine owned by 
another bank Ill call B. This transaction was attempted in a branch of Bank B. Mrs P 
explains that on entering her card and PIN, and selecting £200 her card was returned but the 
cash wasnt dispensed. At this point Mrs P attracted the attention of Bank B employee, who 
advised the machine had frozen and suggested she used another machine. A few minutes 
after the transaction Mrs P proceeded to use an adjacent machine and successfully 
withdrew £200.
Mrs P contacted TSB to explain her money hadnt dispensed  and they refunded the money 
to her account before commencing an investigation and contacting Bank B. However, on 
receiving information from Bank B TSB re-debited the amount from Mrs Ps account. The 
bank said that the evidence theyd received showed there were no errors recorded and no 
surplus funds. 
Mrs P wasnt happy with TSBs response so complained to our service. Mrs P is represented 
by her son, but for ease Ill refer to all comments as though they came directly from Mrs P. 
One of our investigators looked into Mrs Ps complaint but didnt uphold it. They explained 
that Bank B showed there were no errors with the transaction. Therefore they wouldnt be 
asking TSB to refund the £200. 
Mrs P didnt accept our investigators view. And she said:
Why hasnt CCTV been obtained, this would show whether the money dispensed or 
not. 
The Bank B member of staff would verify her version of events and evidence that the 
£200 didnt dispense. 
If youve requested the money but it doesnt dispense who is responsible for it?
Shes in agreement the money likely dispensed, but not at the time. So should she 
have waited a long period of time to collect the cash?
As Mrs P didnt accept our investigators conclusion its been passed to me for a decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
And in doing so Ive reached the same conclusion as our investigator for broadly the same 
reasons. And Ill explain why below. 
The ATM machine that Mrs P used wasnt owned by TSB but by Bank B. Bank B have 
confirmed there were no problems reported with the machine at the time of the disputed 
withdrawal  and theres no evidence the machine was tampered with. Theyve also 
provided evidence to show that when the ATM was balanced on the 17 March 2020 no 
surplus funds were found. And a copy of the journal roll which gives a details of the timings 
and notes dispensed for Mrs Ps transaction. 
From what Ive seen I dont think its unreasonable for TSB to decline Mrs Ps refund. I say 
this because:
Bank B have evidenced that no surplus funds was found in the purge bin on the 
17 March 2020. If Mrs Ps money hadnt successfully dispensed Id have expected to 
find £200 in the purge bin. But this wasnt the case. Looking at the Journal Roll 
provided by Bank B I can also see that the balance of the machine reduces by £200 
after Mrs Ps transaction is completed. Which again indicates to me that the money 
was dispensed from the machine. For me to reach a conclusion that Mrs Ps money 
hadnt dispensed, Id need to explain why theres a £200 discrepancy  which Im 
unable to do. 
The Journal Roll shows that four £10 notes and eight £20 notes were dispensed 
when Mrs P carried out her transaction. 
Ive considered the possibility of a cash trap. By this I mean a device installed by 
fraudsters to trap the cash once its dispensed from the machine. However, I think its 
highly unlikely this was installed on the machine Mrs P used. I say this because her 
transaction was carried out in branch  and therefore staff were present along with 
CCTV recording. I think its unlikely a fraudster would take such a significant risk to 
install a cash trap in branch in full view of staff and CCTV before returning at a later 
time to remove the cash trap and take the funds. 
Mrs P responded to our investigators view with a number of points. And I can understand 
her frustration with our conclusions. However, TSB are only liable to return the funds if 
theres evidence of an error with the machine and the funds were dispensed. And for the 
reasons Ive outlined above the evidence Ive seen shows this wasnt the case. Its not 
possible for me to ascertain exactly what happened here. And I appreciate this whole 
process has likely been a distressing experience for Mrs P. However, based on the evidence 
Ive seen I think its likely the money did dispense as requested by Mrs P. I accept that its 
likely Mrs P didnt get her £200, and I realise this will disappoint her, but I cant hold TSB 
liable if the ATM machine provided the money as directed. 
Mrs P has argued that the member of staff at Bank B would verify her version of events. And 
I dont doubt this is the case. However, the member of staff wasnt at the machine for the 
entirety of the transaction. And any statement they provide wouldnt override the evidence 
that Ive already seen from Bank B which demonstrates that the £200 did dispense. 
For the reasons Ive explained above I think on balance Mrs P £200 did dispense, and I 
wont be asking TSB to do anything further here. 
My final decision
My final decision is I dont uphold this complaint. Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs P to accept or 
reject my decision before 8 February 2021.
 
Jeff Burch
Ombudsman