DRN-3746805
The complaint
Ms R is unhappy PrePay Technologies Limited trading as Prepay Solutions wont refund 
money she lost as a result of a scam.
What happened
Monese is an agent of PrePay Technologies. As Ms Rs customer relationship is with 
Monese, Ive referred to Monese, rather than PrePay Technologies, throughout this decision.
 
Ms R received a text which prompted her to download an NHS coronavirus pass. The text 
said that she needed to pay a fee, which she did.
Later that day she received a call from someone claiming to work in Moneses fraud 
department. The caller asked whether shed responded to any text messages and suggested 
that her account was at risk of fraud.
The caller explained that shed need to move her money to a new safe account. Ms R 
followed the callers instructions and she sent a number of payments to a new account. Only 
two of those were successful  an initial payment of £5,461.96 and a subsequent payment of 
£4,000. Numerous other payments were made but returned to Ms Rs account and a final 
payment of £7,100 was blocked by Moneses security systems.
Monese sent an email to Ms R about the £7,100 payment and asked for some further 
information about it. Ms R explained what had happened  that shed been asked to move 
her money to a new account due to fraudulent activity. Eventually this payment was returned 
to Ms R.
After not receiving a promised call back, it appears that Ms R realised shed been the victim 
of a scam and contacted Monese. Monese said that it had been unable to recover Ms Rs 
money, so it wouldnt provide a refund to her.
Ms R referred the matter to our service and one of our investigators upheld her complaint. 
They thought that Monese should have found the payments Ms R made to be suspicious 
and, had it asked questions about the payments before they took place, Ms Rs loss would 
have been prevented.
Monese didnt agree. It said that it would refund half of the second payment, as the bank 
which received the money should refund the rest. It added that it did not think that the first 
payment made was sufficiently unusual that it ought to have triggered Moneses security 
systems.
As no agreement could be reached, the case was passed to me for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The starting position in law is that Ms R is responsible for transactions shes carried out 
herself (even as a result of deception).
However, taking into account the law, regulators rules and guidance, relevant codes of 
practice and what I consider to have been good industry practice at the time, I consider 
Monese should fairly and reasonably:
- Have been monitoring accounts and any payments made or received to counter 
various risks, including anti-money laundering, countering the financing of terrorism, 
and preventing fraud and scams.
- Have had systems in place to look out for unusual transactions or other signs that 
might indicate that its customers were at risk of fraud (among other things). This is 
particularly so given the increase in sophisticated fraud and scams in recent years, 
which payment service providers are generally more familiar with than the average 
customer. 
- In some circumstances, irrespective of the payment channel used, have taken 
additional steps, or make additional checks, before processing a payment, or in some 
cases decline to make a payment altogether, to help protect customers from the 
possibility of financial harm from fraud. 
In this case Im satisfied that Monese should have contacted Ms R before allowing the first 
payment to proceed. It was the largest payment that had been made in the previous six 
months (the only other payments of a similar size all appear to have gone to Ms Rs own 
account), it reduced the balance of the account to almost nothing (an unusual position for an 
account that otherwise held a healthy balance) and it was made to a new payee.
It doesnt appear that Monese provided any sort of warning to Ms R and I think, given how 
unusual and out of character the payment was, it ought to have contacted Ms R and 
discussed the payment before releasing it.
Given that when Monese contacted Ms R about the £7,100 payment, she informed it exactly 
what was happening, theres every reason to think she would have done the same had it 
contacted her about the first payment. Monese would never ask a customer to move money 
in this way and would have been able to advise her that she was falling victim to a scam. It 
follows that its more likely than not that had Monese done what it ought to have done here, 
the loss Ms R suffered would have been prevented.
Im also not persuaded that Ms R should bear any responsibility for what happened. I can 
understand why, as a layperson, she would have been worried by the call from Monese  
particularly after responding to the earlier text message. Ms R has provided evidence that 
the number which she was called on matches Moneses genuine number. She said that the 
fraudsters asked her to check the number on the back of her card and it matched the 
number she was called on. I understand why she found this to be compelling. Ms R also 
reports that the fraudster had a high level of knowledge about the Monese application. So, 
taking the above into account, I can understand why she thought she was dealing with the 
genuine Monese (even if, as Monese point out, the repeated failed payments prior to the 
second payment going through might have struck her as somewhat unusual).
Monese suggest that the bank which received Ms Rs funds should share some liability. But, 
our service can only deal with the complaint that weve received and, in any case, it cannot 
be assumed that the receiving bank has any liability in this case. So, my final decision is that this complaint should be upheld and Monese should refund Ms 
R in full. 
In relation to interest, I think Monese should pay 8% simple interest per annum on the first 
payment, as it was money that was in her current account and would likely have been used 
for day to day spending. Ms R says that the second payment came from a savings account 
that did not attract any interest. But for the scam, its likely that the second payment would 
have stayed where it was, not attracting interest, so I dont think any interest should be paid 
on the second payment.
Finally, I understand that Ms R was unhappy with the way Monese handled her claim  in 
particular that all correspondence with the fraud team was carried out via email. I appreciate 
that this was frustrating for Ms R, but, in general, it isnt my role to instruct Monese as to how 
its fraud department should correspond with customers. Instead, I can consider the overall 
service provided to Ms R, but I havent seen anything here to suggest that service fell 
significantly below the level Id expect.  
My final decision
I uphold this complaint about PrePay Technologies Limited trading as Prepay Solutions and 
instruct it to pay Ms R:
- The amount lost - £9,461.96, less any amount already recovered or returned. 
- 8% simple interest per annum on the £5,461.96 payment from the date it took place 
to the date of settlement, less any tax lawfully deductible.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms R to accept or 
reject my decision before 2 March 2023.
 
Rich Drury
Ombudsman