DRN-3976568
The complaint
Mr Z complains about losses he made after opening a trading account with CMC Markets 
UK plc. He complains that:
CMC Markets failed to carry out adequate due diligence when assessing Mr Zs risk 
profile. 
It failed to carry out adequate due diligence on the investments so therefore not 
safeguarding his interests. 
It failed to adequately disclose the risks associated with this type of trading. 
It failed to assess Mr Zs circumstances or attitude to risk. Mr Z had never previously 
traded Contracts for Differences (CFDs) or other leveraged products of such a high 
risk nature, and he had little to no capacity to make up the losses he incurred. 
What happened
Mr Z opened his account with CMC Markets in August 2014 and deposited £1,000. Within 
about a week he had placed just over 150 trades and initially made some significant profits 
from his trading. Mr Z continued trading until January 2018. In September 2020 he raised his 
complaint.
CMC Markets thought he had raised his complaint too late, so he referred the matter to this
service. One of our investigators considered whether this service could look into Mr Zs 
complaint. In short, she considered that she was able to look at Mr Zs complaints about
events which occurred in the 6 years preceding September 2020 when he raised his 
complaint. But as Mr Zs account had been opened in August 2014, she said that his 
complaint about CMC Markets allowing him to open the account was out of time. She then 
looked into the 6 years of trading from September 2014 to September 2020. She concluded 
that CMC Markets hadnt done anything wrong in that period. 
She explained that CMC Markets was providing an execution only account to Mr Z, and it 
was his responsibility to make trading decisions and decide how much and when to make 
deposits. She didnt agree CMC Markets had any obligation to monitor his account or stop 
him from trading  unless he specifically raised concerns with it. She didnt think the fact that 
Mr Z suffered trading losses was enough to require CMC Markets to compensate him. She 
explained that the majority of CMC Markets customers suffer trading losses. 
Mr Z didnt agree. He asked for a decision on jurisdiction which I issued in January 2023. In 
short I agreed that his complaint about the account opening had been made too late. He also 
disagreed with the investigators assessment. He said
He listed some of the circumstances which he said stopped him from complaining 
sooner. These included the captivating and addictive aspects of trading CFDs, as 
well as the fact that he didnt know he had the right to complain. He also said that I 
shouldnt forget that CMC Markets violated and failed to carry out numerous 
assessments and disclose or safeguard [him] at all. He explained that at the time he 
was a student and having a baby, he was looking for a career, and he was wheeled 
in. 
He reiterated that we therefore should consider the account opening as this was key 
to his complaint. 
In terms of his trading after September 2014, he explained that he was never 
assessed or re-evaluated even though he was constantly losing money. He felt that 
at the time they shouldve had some procedure for getting in touch with clients and 
evaluating their trading performance, especially with ones who had no financial 
background at all. 
As agreement couldnt be reached, the case was passed to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Jurisdiction
Ive reconsidered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whether Mr Zs 
complaint about CMC Markets decision to open his account in August 2014 is one this 
service can consider. 
Having done so, Im satisfied no new evidence has been presented to alter the findings I 
made in my previous decision. 
The only additional submissions that have been made by Mr Z are in relation to what he 
considers were the exceptional circumstances that prevented him from complaining in time. 
Ive considered Mr Zs submissions very carefully. DISP 2.8.4 gives an example of an 
exceptional circumstance as being one where the complainant has been or is incapacitated. 
This means that in the regulators view, for a circumstance to be deemed exceptional such 
that the time limit can be set aside, it needs to have directly prevented the consumer from 
raising their complaint. 
Whilst the circumstances Mr Z has listed were undoubtedly difficult, and Im sure a source of 
profound stress and anxiety at the time, they did not prevent Mr Z from raising his complaint. 
The very fact that he was able to continue to trade during that period demonstrates that he 
could, had he wanted to, also have complained about CMC Markets allowing him to open 
the account. 
This means that I dont agree that Mr Zs circumstances are such that I can set aside the 
time limits in DISP 2.8. As a result, I confirm that the rest of my decision will only focus on 
Mr Zs complaint as it pertains to events that occurred from September 2014 onwards. 
Mr Zs trading from September 2014 onwards
Ive therefore considered Mr Zs complaint about CMC Markets actions during this period. 
And Im sorry to disappoint Mr Z, but I dont have much to add to what the investigator has 
already said. I should start by saying that I dont agree that Mr Z wasnt made aware of the 
risks of trading CFDs. I say this because:CMC Markets highlighted the risks of trading CFDs when Mr Z opened his account. 
The terms of the account also highlighted that financial betting carries a high level of 
risk. 
The same terms invited Mr Z to read CMC Markets Risk Warning Notice, which 
outlined the risks to Mr Zs capital. 
CMC Markets displayed risk warnings on its website, at least from 2016 onwards, as 
evidence by archived pages which Ive consulted. 
In my view, CMC Markets did what it needed to do to ensure that Mr Z knew that he was 
investing in something which carried a high risk of capital loss. 
Ive then considered Mr Zs comments about the actions he thinks CMC Markets shouldve 
taken while he was trading  including monitoring his losses and stepping in. Whilst I 
appreciate why Mr Z thinks this is what CMC Markets shouldve done, it was not required to. 
Ultimately, as the investigator pointed out, the majority of consumers who trade CFDs lose 
money. In the pursuit of magnified profits due to the possibility of trading on margin, 
consumers take the risk of significant losses  there was nothing wrong or unlawful with 
CMC Markets providing this type of trading. But the account Mr Z had was execution only  
in other words, it was his and only his responsibility. He was ultimately in control of which 
trades to open or close, how much to deposit and when to withdraw. And having reviewed 
the evidence, Im not persuaded there was anything specific about his account or the way he 
traded that ought to have indicated to CMC Markets that it needed to intervene when it had 
no regulatory obligation to. 
For all these reasons, Im sorry to disappoint Mr Z, but I dont agree that CMC Markets did 
anything wrong from September 2014  and as such, Im satisfied it need not pay him any 
compensation. I acknowledge Mr Z feels strongly about his case, but I hope he can 
understand the reasons behind my decision. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr Z to accept or 
reject my decision before 22 March 2023.
 
Alessandro Pulzone
Ombudsman