DRN-4103408
The complaint
Mr P complains that after administration of his endowment policies was transferred to 
ReAssure Limited, he has been unable to obtain on-line surrender valuations.
What happened
Mr P has several endowment policies that are now managed by ReAssure. Mr P says that 
before the policies were transferred to ReAssure, he could obtain up-to-date policy 
valuations immediately on-line. Mr P says that ReAssure dont provide this option on its 
website or portal. Mr P complained to ReAssure a number of times that this wasnt what he 
expected to happen when the administration of the policies was transferred.
ReAssure didnt uphold Mr Ps complaint and said that it regretted it was unable to provide 
the functionality Mr P expected. 
Mr P brought the complaint to the Financial Ombudsman Service and one of our 
Investigators looked into things. The Investigator thought that ReAssure should have done 
more to manage Mr Ps expectations when he complained, and that the responses 
ReAssure provided contained some misinformation and there was a lack of clarity. The 
Investigator thought ReAssure should pay Mr P £100 for the upset and loss of expectation 
this had caused.
Mr P asked that an Ombudsman decides the complaint.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive decided to uphold part of Mr Ps complaint. I understand that Mr P will be disappointed, 
but I will now explain why I believe a payment of £100 is a fair and reasonable remedy in the 
circumstances of this complaint.
ReAssure doesnt currently have the functionality to provide an immediate policy valuation 
on-line. I understand this is something ReAssure is looking to provide in the future. Mr P was 
expecting this to be available when the policies transferred. Mr P says the transfer scheme 
guide issued at the time included a statement from an independent expert that said there 
would be no material adverse effecton standards of administration. Mr P feels this 
supports his expectation that an up-to-date on-line facility for surrender values would be 
available.
Mr P says he found it easy and convenient to review surrender values before the transfer 
using the ceding companys on-line functionality. I accept this is likely, but Mr P is still able to 
obtain an immediate valuation, or surrender valuation, by calling ReAssure. I cant tell 
ReAssure how it must provide policy valuations  that is a matter for its regulator the 
Financial Conduct Authority  but I can decide whether the way in which ReAssure provides 
valuations on its policies is fair and reasonable. In this case, although Mr P has to call 
ReAssure to obtain valuations, I dont consider this has a material adverse effect on the 
administration of Mr Ps policies. And Im not persuaded the service Mr P receives on his 
policies has been materially affected. Its not an identical service but ReAssure does provide 
a same day valuation which is fundamentally what the ceding service provided.
ReAssure has accepted that after the transfer of the policies took place it told Mr P that he 
couldnt obtain valuations over the telephone and accepts this was a mistake. Therefore, Im 
persuaded theres been a lack of clarity from ReAssure. This was upsetting for Mr P and 
added to his frustrations - and at the same time didnt really deal with Mr Ps expectations of 
what service ReAssure provided for valuations. Taking this into account I think that 
ReAssure should pay Mr P £100 to reflect the upset this caused him.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive outlined above Ive decided that ReAssure Limited should pay Mr P 
£100.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision before 16 October 2023.
 
Paul Lawton
Ombudsman