DRN-4031015
The complaint
Mr N complains that Haven Insurance Company Limited (Haven) hasnt paid for a claim he 
raised following an accident he was involved in during October 2018, under his motor 
insurance policy.  
What happened
Mr N says he was involved in an accident when driving in October 2018. He entered into an 
agreement with a claims management company (CMC) and a solicitor with respect to the 
damage and personal injury caused. Mr N says the accident wasnt his fault but after four 
years waiting, he hasnt been paid anything. 
Mr N says he had to pay for the repairs to his car himself. He has also suffered injuries and 
been affected mentally by the accident. He would like Haven to pay for the cost of the 
repairs, the personal injury he suffered and compensation for the inconvenience hes been 
caused. 
Mr N contacted our service with his complaint. We forwarded this to Haven for it to respond. 
In its final complaint response Haven says Mr N contacted it in October 2018 to inform it of 
the accident. He advised he was using a CMC and a solicitor to pursue his claim. Haven 
says the claim was closed in light of this. It was contacted again by Mr N in March 2021. At 
this time, it says it told him the claim was closed in October 2018. 
Haven says Mr N contacted it again in May 2021. It confirmed again that the claim had been 
closed in October 2018. This was because Mr N had explained he wasnt using its services 
to pursue his losses. This explanation was repeated in January 2022 following a further 
contact. Haven says as Mr N chose not to use its services but appointed a CMC and a 
solicitor  this meant there was no claim for it to handle. 
Mr N asked our service to consider the matter. Our investigator didnt uphold his complaint. 
She says the claim records provided by Haven support its explanation of why it closed Mr 
Ns claim in October 2018. She says the records show he used the service of a CMC to 
handle his claim. Because of this Haven acted correctly. 
Mr N didnt think this was fair. He says the CMC doesnt respond to his letters. He has 
approached another law firm but says the value of his claim is too low for it to take his case 
on. Mr N says Haven is obliged to at least pay for the cost of the repairs to his car as he had 
a valid insurance policy in place at the time of the accident. 
Because he didnt agree Mr N asked for an ombudsman to consider his complaint. 
It has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so Im not upholding Mr Ns complaint. Let me explain. 
Ive read the claim records supplied by Haven. These show the contact he made with it in 
October 2018. The notes state the circumstances of the accident are reportedly not the fault 
of Mr N. It says its services were offered to Mr N for Haven to handle a claim for repairs and 
a hire vehicle. The notes state Mr N had already appointed a CMC to deal with the matter. In 
addition, the records show hed appointed a solicitor to handle the personal injury aspect of 
his claim. 
The records from October 2018 say that Mr N was happy for Haven to close its file recording 
the incident as non-fault. 
The subsequent notes support Havens description of the contact Mr N made in 2021 and 
again in January 2022. I can see from the responses provided that it was explained to him 
that the claim had been closed because hed told it he was using a CMC and a solicitor to 
handle his claim. 
Its clear from his correspondence that Mr N is dissatisfied with the handling of this matter by 
the CMC and solicitor he appointed. In an email to Mr N dated 31 January 2022 Haven 
asked him to clarify if he would like his claim to be re-opened. But I cant see that Mr N 
responded to say he wanted this to happen.   
Had Mr N instructed Haven to handle his claim it would be expected to do so in line with its 
policy terms and conditions. But Mr N chose to use a CMC and a solicitor hed appointed 
separately. Im satisfied from the records and correspondence Haven sent to Mr N that the 
situation was made clear to him. Because of this, I dont think it did anything wrong. 
If Mr N wants Haven to re-open his claim, he should contact it to let it know. The business 
can then consider the matter. However, I cant reasonably ask Haven to do anything more in 
relation to Mr Ns complaint.
I understand Mr N has another complaint involving a different accident he was involved in. 
This is being dealt with separately so I cant consider it here.  
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr N to accept or 
reject my decision before 13 July 2023.
 
Mike Waldron
Ombudsman