DRN-2195366
The complaint
Ms FA complains TSB Bank Plc will not refund money taken from a joint account held with 
her mother  Ms NA.  Ms FA brings this complaint on their behalf.
TSB says the transactions were authorised.
What happened
Ms NA and Ms FA hold a joint account with TSB.  Ms FA says neither of them use a debit 
card for the account  and that Ms NA withdraws money by going into branch with a 
passbook.
It was during one of these visits that they realised the account balance was not what they 
expected it to be and so complained to TSB.  TSB told them there had been two transactions 
made online and that both were transfers to an account held solely in Ms FAs name.  Online 
banking for the account had also been set up on the day of the first transfer.
Once the money had been transferred into Ms FAs account, it had been withdrawn at 
ATMs, transferred into another account held by Ms FA or spent via a faster payment.
Ms FA also complained to TSB about the activity on her sole account.  She said she had lost 
her card and the PIN had been written down and placed in her purse. But TSB has no record 
of her card being reported as lost before the disputed transactions.
Ultimately, TSB said the activity on the accounts was not that of a fraudster and refused to 
uphold Ms NA and Ms FAs complaint.
So, they came to this service.
Initially, we assumed we would be looking into the complaints about the joint account as well 
as the accounts held in Ms FAs name.  But Ms FA confirmed she did not want us to 
investigate her complaint about her own accounts  just the joint account which she held 
with her mother.
However, our investigator thought that the two overlapped and so investigated the transfers 
made to Ms FAs sole account too before arriving at a view on the joint account.  Having 
done so, she didnt think she could ask TSB to do anymore.
Ms FA asked that an ombudsman consider their complaint.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im afraid I arrive at the same conclusion as the investigator and for very much the same 
reasons.
Generally speaking, if the evidence suggests its more likely than not that Ms NA or Ms FA 
authorised these transactions, then TSB is entitled to hold them liable for them.  And I 
remind myself that this is a joint account with both parties liable on an equal footing.  That 
means if one account holder authorised the transactions, the other account holder is bound 
by their actions.
And I think it is important that we consider the activity on Ms FAs sole accounts as it helps 
to assess her joint account complaint with her mother.  Im sure Ms FA had her own reasons 
for withdrawing that complaint, but when I consider her request in the context of this 
complaint, I have to decide the weight I place on it, if any.
In order to make these transfers from the joint account, into Ms FAs account and then to 
withdraw the money, a third party would need to know quite a lot of secure information.  I 
know Ms FA says she had lost her card and PIN - but this does not explain how someone 
was able to set up online banking on her account on the same day and make the transfers.
Our investigator examined in some detail the activity on all three accounts over the course of 
a few days.  I dont think I need to rehearse those details again.  However, the online activity 
along with the ATM withdrawals were all made in the city in which Ms FA and Ms NA live.  
The ATM withdrawals were quite close to their addresses.
There were successful log ins prior to the disputed activity on the joint account and I am 
afraid I do place some weight on Ms FAs reluctance for this service to consider the 
complaint regarding her sole accounts because it seems clear to me that these transactions 
are all linked.  If Ms FA did not authorise the activity on the joint account, then it follows she 
must be disputing the withdrawals on her joint account.  Yet, she has withdrawn her 
complaint.
I think, on balance, the evidence suggests Ms FA either made these transactions herself or 
knows who made them.  Either way, I think they were authorised and so I cant see TSB has 
done anything wrong in how it dealt with her complaint.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms A and Ms A to 
accept or reject my decision before 12 January 2021.
 
Shazia Ahmed
Ombudsman