DRN-4122527
The complaint
Mr N is unhappy about the service Barclays Bank UK Plc provided when he was trying to 
make a cash withdrawal from his account.
What happened
Mr N wanted to withdraw Euros in cash from his Euro account that he holds with Barclays. 
He needed the money for an overseas trip. Mr N said he made a request for the cash during 
an online chat with one of Barclays agents to have the money delivered to his local branch. 
He said he made numerous visits to the branch to collect his money, but this wasnt 
available for collection despite being told it would be there. 
Mr N also made two additional orders to receive Euros in cash to make sure he did receive it 
in time for his trip away. However, as Mr N was subsequently able to collect the original 
order, he didnt need the two extra orders that had been placed. Mr N is unhappy about the 
length of time it took Barclays to credit the two orders back to his account and the time it 
took Barclays to issue a final response.
Barclays accepted it could have provided better service. They apologised and paid Mr N 
£190 to reflect this. 
Our investigator didnt uphold the complaint. He said during the online chat Barclays asked 
Mr N for confirmation of the branch address he wanted the cash to be delivered to, but Mr N 
didnt reply. As such our investigator thought it was reasonable that Barclays didnt order the 
cash at that point. However, he recognised Barclays could have provided better service as it 
should have checked whether an order for the cash had actually been placed when Mr N  
phoned up to complain. He also thought Barclays were optimistic telling Mr N his cash would 
be ready from 1pm the day after it had been ordered. Our investigator said Barclays 
refunded the two extra cash orders back to Mr N within a reasonable period of time and 
issued a final response in time, so overall he thought the compensation of £190 was fair and 
reasonable. 
Mr N disagreed. As such, the complaint has been passed to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr N has raised a number of complaint points and although I havent addressed these 
individually, I have taken them into account when arriving at my decision.
Collecting the Euros
Ive looked at the online chat that took place between Mr N and Barclays. I can see that Mr N 
requested the cash to be delivered to his local branch and confirmed when hed like this to 
be available (7- 8 November). In response, Barclays provided the address of the branch to 
Mr N and wanted confirmation it was the right one. However, Mr N didnt reply to this 
message. 
Mr N has said Barclays didnt need to check the address because his sort code defines his 
local branch, he was clear it was his local branch and there is only one branch in his area. 
Whilst I take into account Mr Ns comments, I dont think it was unreasonable for Barclays to 
check this information as they wanted to make sure there was no misunderstanding between 
themselves and Mr N so that the cash was ordered to the right place. As Mr N didnt reply to 
confirm the branch address, it follows that I dont think it was unreasonable Barclays didnt 
order the cash that Mr N had requested.
Mr N visited the branch on 8 November expecting the cash to be ready for collection, but the 
counter was closed. Given that the cash hadnt been ordered, I dont think it was 
unreasonable Barclays didnt explain the opening times. However, Barclays apologised for 
this and awarded compensation. Barclays ultimately paid £140 for this aspect of the 
complaint.
During the branch visit it seems Mr N told the staff he had ordered cash and they took this at 
face value, I dont think this was unreasonable. And in addition to this, the counter wasnt 
open at that point. But I do agree with our investigator that when Mr N spoke to Barclays 
over the phone later that day, they should have checked whether an order for Euros had 
been made, and this could have prevented Mr N making a trip to the branch the following 
day. 
Mr N returned to branch on 9 November but the money wasnt there. As he was unhappy, he 
spoke to Barclays over the phone again. During the call Mr N confirmed he was given 
confirmation the money was there to collect but Ive seen nothing to suggest this. And having 
looked at the chat, I cant see Barclays ever confirmed this to Mr N because they were 
waiting on him to confirm the address of the branch. 
Because it became apparent there was no order, Barclays made Mr N an order for his 
Euros. I can see that Mr N was promised the funds would be delivered the following day, 10 
November and that it would be available for collection from 1pm. I think its reasonable for Mr 
N to expect this would happen because it was what he was told. 
Mr N visited the branch on 10 November but unfortunately the money had not been received 
by the branch. Barclays have said this was due to a known issue with the postal services. 
But I cant see that Mr N was made aware of this at the time. So I can understand why this 
would have been frustrating for Mr N. And I appreciate it was a worrying time for him as he 
was due to be going away. 
However, it seems that the cash was delivered one day later, on 11 November and collected 
by Mr N. In addition, the funds were also delivered within the time frame Mr N needed the 
cash as he was going away on 15 November.
Receiving the money back into his account
In order to ensure Mr N was able to get the cash he needed by 15 November Barclays made 
two additional orders for him. 
Mr N is unhappy about the length of time it took for Barclays to credit his account following 
the two additional cash orders he made. He said Barclays should have cancelled the orders 
and he already had his Euros. Having looked at Mr Ns statements I can see that both amounts debited on 10 November 
and were both credited on 24 November. So it took Mr N about two weeks to receive the 
money back into his account which I dont think is unreasonable. But I can see Mr N spent 
quite a lot of time on the phone chasing Barclays regarding this. Barclays acknowledged this 
was inconvenient for Mr N and that hed spent time speaking to them, so they made a further 
compensation payment of £50.
Final response letter
Mr N has also complained about the length of time it took Barclays to issue its final 
response. But Barclays issued its final response on 30 November which was just over three 
weeks from the time Mr N first complained, so it seems he wasnt waiting for an 
unreasonably long period of time for Barclays to issue its response on the matter.
Conclusions 
I am aware Mr N would like to be awarded his travel costs and his loss of earnings for the 
various trips he made to the branch and the time he spent on the phone. But I wont be 
awarding such losses. I say this because I dont think Barclays are at fault for all of the 
branch trips Mr N made. 
I do not doubt Mr N has been caused inconvenience here as the funds werent available on 
10 November when Barclays said they would be, but they were available the following day 
and Mr N was able to collect these, in time for his trip away. I dont think Barclays took too 
long in crediting Mr Ns account with the additional two orders he made. And I dont think Mr 
N had to wait an unreasonably long period of time before Barclays issued its final response.
Taking everything into account I think overall the compensation of £190 fairly reflects the 
inconvenience Mr N experienced. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr N to accept or 
reject my decision before 27 October 2023.
 
Marie Camenzuli
Ombudsman