DRN-3520813
The complaint
Mr M says Lendable Ltd irresponsibly lent to him.
What happened
This complaint is about 2 loans Lendable provided to Mr M. Mr Ms borrowing history is as 
follows:
Loan Amount Date taken Term Usual monthly 
Instalment
1 £8000 January 2019 60 months £210.84
2 £3000 July 2020 48 months £124.39
I issued a provisional decision on this complaint in May 2022. Both parties have received a 
copy of that provisional decision, but for completeness I include an extract from the decision 
below. I said;
Did Lendable complete reasonable and proportionate checks to satisfy itself that Mr M 
would be able to repay the loans without experiencing significant adverse consequences?
Lendable has provided evidence to show that before lending it carried out checks. It said it 
asked Mr M how much income he received a month and then had this verified online. It says 
it used a third party that provided it with information that showed the flow of money in and 
out of Mr Ms account. It says it also ran a credit search each time too. Based on those 
checks Lendable thought it was fair to lend on both occasions, for loans 1 and 2.
Based on the term of the loan and repayment amounts for each loan, I dont think the checks 
were proportionate. For loan 1, I think Lendable ought to have found out more about Mr Ms 
expenditure so it could consider how much disposable income he would have. For loan 2, as 
this loan was to be had in addition and concurrently with loan 1, I think at this stage it should 
have carried out a complete review of Mr Ms finances. This is so it could be sure on either 
occasion that Mr M was able to repay the loans in a sustainable way.
Mr M has provided copies of his bank statements from the time of each loan and I have been 
able to look through these to see what Lendable would have most likely gathered if it had 
carried out proportionate checks. Leading up to the application for both loans, I can see Mr 
M managed his account well with no missed payments or anything else that ought to have 
caused Lendable any concerns. Had Lendable carried out proportionate checks on either 
occasion, it would have seen that Mr M would have been able to afford the loan repayments. 
So, even though I have concluded it didnt carry out proportionate checks. If it had, I think it 
would have still granted the loans anyway.  
Did Lendable act unfairly or unreasonably in some other way?
Ive also thought about whether Lendable acted unfairly in some other way and I havent 
seen any evidence that it did.
I asked both parties to let me have any comments, or additional evidence, in response to 
my provisional decision. Both parties responded but neither had anything further to add.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Both parties have not made any further points. So, as neither party has anything further to 
add, I dont see any reason to depart from my findings within my provisional decision. With 
that being the case, I do not uphold Mr Ms complaint. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold Mr Ms complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 11 July 2022.
 
Mark Richardson
Ombudsman