DRN-4209368
The complaint
Miss R has complained that Monzo Bank Ltd registered a marker against her at CIFAS, the 
national fraud database.
What happened
Both sides are most familiar with the case, so Ill summarise what happened in brief.
In March 2021, Miss Rs Monzo account received a credit of £9,800. Miss Rs Monzo app 
was used to forward this money on quickly in two bank transfers. Monzo later found out that 
the credit was the proceeds of fraud.
Monzo closed Miss Rs account and registered a marker against her at CIFAS.
Miss R has explained that, in June 2020, a thief robbed her of her phone. Shed left her 
phone unlocked and unprotected, and shed recorded all her security details on it in an 
undisguised format, so she suggested the thief gained access to her account that way. She 
didnt tell Monzo about her phone at the time due to her mental health, and because the 
terms and conditions said she only had to report her card as missing. She also lost her card, 
but didnt report that missing either, because she used Apple Pay instead. She was adamant 
that the fraudulent credit and the subsequent outward payments happened without her 
knowledge or consent, and she didnt authorise them. She hadnt noticed anything was 
wrong at the time as she wasnt looking at her account and had turned notifications off.
Our investigator looked into things independently and didnt uphold the complaint. Miss R 
appealed, so the complaints been passed to me to decide.
I sent Miss R and Monzo a provisional decision on 22 June 2023, to explain why I didnt 
think the complaint should be upheld. In that decision, I said:
First, I will clarify that while I have considered everything both sides have submitted, we are 
an informal alternative to the courts, and we dont look at things in quite as formal a way as 
the courts do. So I wont address the case on a point by point basis. Instead, I will focus on 
what I have found to be the key points.
In order to register this marker, Monzo were not required to prove beyond all reasonable 
doubt that Miss R had done something wrong. They did need to have reasonable grounds to 
believe that shed misused her account, which went beyond a suspicion or concern, and 
which had appropriate supporting evidence. Having carefully considered everything that both 
sides have said and provided, I currently think that this marker does have sufficient grounds. 
Ill explain why.
Im satisfied from Monzos technical evidence that the payments in dispute used Miss Rs 
mobile app and security details, on her registered mobile phone. I can see that these 
transactions were properly authenticated. The question, then, is whether they were made 
with Miss Rs consent or not.
First Ive considered the possibility that this was done by someone who Miss R didnt know  
for example, a third-party thief.
The phone used to forward on the fraudulent funds was not the phone which was stolen in 
June 2020. The phone which was stolen in June 2020 was never used to access Miss Rs 
Monzo app afterwards.
The phone used to forward on the fraudulent funds was one Miss R registered after her 
previous phone was stolen. It was the only device active on the account in 2021, and was 
the same device Miss R used for her genuine account activity both before and after the fraud 
incident. I am satisfied that this was Miss Rs current phone at the time.
The fraudulent funds were forwarded on at the same IP address Miss R used frequently for 
her genuine account usage both before and after the fraud incident. This indicates that it was 
done in a location where Miss R usually carried out her online banking, such as her home.
The fraudulent funds were sent on to a payee Ill refer to as D. D was set up as a payee on 
Miss Rs account not in March 2021, but in February 2021. Miss Rs phone was used to 
send D £1,500 on 17 February 2021. Again, this was done at an IP address which Miss R 
frequently used for her genuine activity. This £1,500 payment was made using almost all of 
Miss Rs account balance at the time. Miss R accessed her online banking very often after 
this payment and made other, genuine payments from the same device at the same IP 
address in the days afterwards. But she never reported that £1,500 as unauthorised or 
unusual, even though it used up nearly all the balance. This strongly suggests that the 
payment to D in February 2021 was genuine.
So the stolen phone from 2020 was not relevant to the fraud. In 2021, it was only Miss Rs 
genuine, current phone which was used, from the usual locations where she carried out her 
online banking, accessed in the usual way. From the evidence, there does not appear to 
have been any unauthorised access to her account even after her old phone was lost.
According to statements Miss Rs representative took, Miss R immediately told a family 
member  a police officer  about her stolen phone back in 2020. They helped Miss R wipe 
her old phone, and gave her advice on cyber-security, such that she became extremely 
aware and fully enlightened about phone security. Meanwhile, Miss R said she always had 
her phone with her. And I can see that her 2021 phone was not stolen, as she was still using 
it to access her account and correspond with Monzo after the fraud incident.
Putting all that together, I do not see a likely or plausible way that a third-party thief couldve 
gained possession of Miss Rs 2021 phone, accessed it without her consent, and given it 
back to her, all without her noticing, and all at the usual locations where she carried out her 
normal online banking  on at least two separate occasions in different months. Indeed, it is 
not plausible that a thief would give Miss Rs phone back to her at all after stealing it  that 
would substantially increase their chances of being caught while actively reducing how much 
they could benefit from the theft.Further, Id expect a thief to try to use the account as much as possible, as quickly as 
possible, before the fraud is found out and/or before the account is secured. It is not likely or 
plausible that they would wait eight months to access Miss Rs account after stealing her 
phone with her details on it, then wait a further month to use it again.
While Miss R says she wasnt checking her Monzo account, I can see that she actually used 
the account frequently and accessed her online banking quite a lot after the payments to D 
in both February and March 2021. I am satisfied this was her as she accessed her account 
to carry out other genuine, undisputed activity. And the February payment to D used up 
nearly all of her account balance. But again, Miss R didnt tell Monzo anything was wrong at 
the time. It is most likely that Miss R was aware of these payments at the time, and it is very 
unlikely that she would not report the payments if they were made without her consent.
Taking everything into account, it is not likely or plausible that an unknown thief did this.
It is technically possible that someone close to Miss R, such as a friend or family member, 
may have made the payments to D without her permission. But I find that that is not likely or 
plausible either.
Miss Rs previous phone, with her security details on it, was stolen by an unknown third-
party  not by someone she knew. So the stolen phone wouldnt be relevant. And Miss R 
confirmed that she didnt give anyone else access to her account, nor keep a record of her 
security details after that incident. So theres not a likely explanation for how a known party 
wouldve learned Miss Rs security details in 2021. Its not clear how theyd be able to get 
through the 2021 phones lock, either. Again, its not very likely that they could take the 
phone, use it in Miss Rs usual locations, and replace it, at least twice in different months, all 
without Miss R ever noticing, despite her keeping her phone with her. And this possibility 
doesnt explain why Miss R chose not to report any of the payments to D as unauthorised 
when it looks like she wouldve been aware of them at the time or shortly afterwards.
I find that its not likely or plausible that a known party did this without Miss Rs consent.
Ive then considered the remaining possibility: that Miss R either forwarded on the fraudulent 
funds herself or gave someone else permission to do it for her.
This possibility is very well supported by the circumstances of the case and the evidence at 
hand. It neatly explains how someone had access to Miss Rs 2021 phone  the only active 
device on the account, how they accessed it from her usual IP addresses, how they knew 
her security details, why Miss R didnt report the payments to D as unauthorised when she 
wouldve been aware of them, and so on.
I note that while Miss R claims her card was also stolen, she not only never reported it as 
lost or stolen, but continued to use it for her genuine spending. I can see that the genuine 
chip in Miss Rs physical card was read a number of times for Miss Rs usual spending right 
through to March 2021 inclusive. There was only one card on the account. Im satisfied that 
Miss Rs card was not stolen. This is only a more minor point, but it also calls Miss Rs 
testimony into question. As Ive explored above, the evidence also contradicts her testimony 
about which phone was used and about her not checking her account.Ive not seen any evidence which shows its implausible or unlikely that Miss R couldve 
authorised these payments or given someone else permission to make them. Ultimately, this 
is the only likely or plausible possibility at hand. 
In summary, Im satisfied that Miss Rs phone and app were used to forward on fraudulent 
funds, to a payee which Miss R appears to have set up and paid previously, at IP addresses 
that match with her genuine use. Im satisfied that the phone in question was not lost, as 
Miss R continued to use it afterwards. It is not likely or plausible that this was done without 
Miss Rs knowledge or consent, either by an unknown or known party. The only likely and 
plausible possibility remaining is that Miss R forwarded on the fraudulent funds or gave 
someone else permission to do it. Miss R has not provided any evidence that she was 
entitled to the money, and confirmed that she cannot evidence any entitlement.
So it seems fair that Monzo keep the appropriate marker registered at CIFAS. It also seems 
fair that they closed Miss Rs account, which they were allowed to do under the terms. 
CIFAS markers last for six years, and I have found no good reason why this one should be 
removed. This is a difficult message for me to give, and I know its a difficult message for 
Miss R to receive. But given the evidence I have, and the balance of probabilities, Im 
currently unable to reasonably reach any other conclusion.
Lastly, Miss Rs representative suggested Monzo shouldve blocked the payments which 
forwarded on the fraudulent funds. But Im afraid thats not relevant to this case. Even if 
Monzo had blocked the payments, they would still have been entitled to register and 
maintain a CIFAS marker against Miss R for attempting to forward on fraudulent funds  
regardless of whether she was successful in doing so or not. 
I said Id consider anything else anyone wanted to give me  so long as I received it before 
20 July 2023. Monzo accepted the provisional decision and confirmed they had nothing 
further to add. Miss R and her representatives didnt respond.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Neither side have sent me any new evidence or arguments. So having reconsidered the 
case, Ive come to the same conclusion as before, and for the same reasons as set out in 
my provisional decision above.
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss R to accept 
or reject my decision before 21 August 2023.
 
Adam Charles
Ombudsman