DRN-4360291
The complaint
Mr M complains that Nationwide Building Society blocked his account and wouldnt allow him 
access to funds.
What happened
In January 2023 Mr M was due to receive money from the job centre to buy clothes for a job 
interview. But he says Nationwide had blocked his account so he couldnt retrieve the funds.
He phoned Nationwides collections department and went to a branch, but he says he was 
made to wait several hours and by the time the money was released to him, hed missed the 
job interview. Mr M feels he has been treated badly and that the branch staff discussed 
something in relation to his character with a member of its collections team.
Mr M also complains that Nationwide took £10 a month from his benefit payments due to his 
account being overdrawn, which meant some days he went without food. And because his 
account was blocked, he often had to travel to a local branch to access funds. Mr M is also 
unhappy with how his complaint was handled as it made incorrect statements about a 
number of issues.
Nationwide didnt think it made any errors. It said that the information provided to Mr M was 
correct as - at that point, the funds hadnt been received from the job centre. And that the 
funds were released to Mr M quickly once they had been received.
It also explained that a temporary reducing overdraft had been set up on Mr Ms account due 
to him being overdrawn after he spent money he wasnt entitled to. It also said Mr Ms 
complaint had been dealt with appropriately.
Mr M wasnt happy with its response and brought his complaint to our service. Our 
investigator didnt think the complaint should be upheld. He said Nationwide had shown the 
funds hadnt credited Mr Ms account when hed first contacted Nationwide. He 
acknowledged that there was initially a discussion on whether the funds should be released 
but ultimately, he found the funds had been released in a timely manner after the funds 
arrived in the account. So, he didnt think Nationwide could be held responsible for Mr M 
missing his interview. He acknowledged Mr M was told the branch hadnt been in contact 
with the collections department, but he noted that Nationwide had sent a follow up letter 
explaining it had made a mistake.
Mr M didnt accept our investigators opinion and as an agreement couldnt be reached, the 
complaint has been passed to me to decide.
I issued my provisional decision on 15 September 2023 in which I said: 
 Im sorry to hear of the impact this matter has had on Mr Ms health, and I appreciate this 
has been a very challenging time for him. While I empathise with Mr M, I must put aside my 
feelings of empathy and consider his complaint impartially. I would also like to reassure Mr M 
that I have taken everything hes said into consideration, but I havent addressed it all here. 
Instead, Ive focused on what is key to the decision Ive reached.
To uphold this complaint, I must find that Nationwide did something wrong in its handling of 
Mr Ms account. Having reviewed Mr Ms complaint in detail, I cant see any issues with its 
overall handling. I know this will come as a disappointment to Mr M, but Ill explain why.
£10 monthly deduction
Its not in dispute that Mr M had raised a fraud case regarding a transaction debited to his 
account of £79.99. Nationwide credited this amount to Mr Ms account while it investigated 
the matter. This is what I expect a business to do when a transaction is in dispute. However, 
a refund was also credited by the merchant. As Mr M received two refunds of £79.99, 
Nationwide debited his account to correct the account balance. Again, this is what Id expect 
a business to do in these circumstances. So, Im satisfied Nationwide didnt do anything 
wrong here. However, by this time Mr M had spent both refunds leaving his account in an 
unarranged overdraft.
Mr M says that Nationwide took money out of his benefits. And I can understand why Mr M 
thinks this is what happened. But Im satisfied that Nationwide set up a temporary reducing 
overdraft facility. I think it would be helpful to explain that when an account goes overdrawn 
without agreement, the bank can ask for the full amount to be repaid immediately. But given 
Mr Ms circumstances, Nationwide provided a temporary overdraft facility which reduced by 
£10 per month. And Ive seen that Mr M agreed to this arrangement. Overall, I think this is 
fair given the circumstances of how the overdraft came about - as set out above, as it gave 
Mr M time to reduce what he owed without incurring interest and charges.
I can see that Nationwide restricted Mr Ms account when the agreement to reduce the 
overdraft failed on three occasions. I dont think it was unreasonable for it to have taken this 
action in the circumstances as it prevented further debt accruing on the account. Ive seen 
that Mr M phoned its collections department and informed the agent he didnt have money 
for food, and he was allowed to withdraw his universal credit in full, and I think thats fair. Mr 
M was later able to pay the outstanding balance off in full as hed received a bursary. At this 
point the restriction was lifted, and I think thats reasonable.
Blocked funds from the job centre
I listened to the phone calls Mr M had with Nationwides collection team which related to the 
funds Mr M was due from the job centre to buy clothes for a job interview. Im satisfied that 
during the phone calls, the agents informed Mr M the money from the job centre had not yet 
been deposited into his account. And that funds couldnt be released as Mr Ms account was 
overdrawn.
I appreciate Mr M was initially given the impression that the funds would not be released due 
to the outstanding debt, however, the second agent he spoke to explained that she would 
need to see what sort of benefits these were (when they arrived) to determine whether they 
could be withdrawn or not. The agent asked Mr M to phone back once the money was in his 
account. As Im satisfied that Nationwide has evidenced that at this point, the funds from the 
job centre hadnt been received into the account, I dont think it acted unfairly here.
I understand Mr M was frustrated he had to wait some time in branch to access the money. 
But Im satisfied this wasnt due to a bank error. It not unusual for payments initiated by a 
third party (in this case the job centre) to take some time to reach the beneficiary account 
(Mr Ms account in this case). And it would appear Mr M attended the branch shortly after his 
appointment at the job centre at which point the funds hadnt yet credited his account. Im 
satisfied that Nationwide had to wait until the money was available before agreeing to Mr Ms withdrawal request. And Im satisfied the money was released to him in good time, once it 
was available. So, I cant hold Nationwide responsible for Mr M missing his interview.
Customer service
I appreciate Mr M felt the first agent (Ill refer to her as D) he spoke to spoke down to him. 
During the phone call D said Mr M would need to arrange to pay the debt to access the full 
payment from the job centre. And I can understand why this was frustrating to Mr M, but Im 
satisfied D was professional and polite during the phone call. And as Mr M wasnt willing to  
discuss it further with D, he was passed to another agent.
Mr M is adamant that when the branch staff contacted the collections team, they also spoke 
to D. But Nationwide has provided a recording of the phone call between the branch and the 
collections team and Im satisfied it was a different agent that the branch staff spoke to. Im 
also satisfied this phone call was professional and there was nothing unpleasant said about 
Mr M, or any comments made in relation to his character as he has suggested.
I accept the complaints handler initially said the call between the branch and collections 
department didnt take place. However, I note in an email to Mr M, Nationwide acknowledges 
this was incorrect. I can understand why this was upsetting to Mr M, but I find Nationwides 
apology for this to be appropriate.
I appreciate how difficult this experience was for Mr M, so I know this will be disappointing to 
him, but I dont think Nationwide need to do anything more regarding this complaint.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr M didnt accept my provisional decision. I appreciate how upsetting he has found this 
complaint, but as neither party has provided any additional information for me to consider, I 
see no reason to depart from what I said provisionally.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 18 October 2023.
 
Oluwatobi Balogun
Ombudsman