DRN-3826436
The complaint
Miss K has complained that Progressive Money Limited (PML) acted irresponsibly when it
agreed to give her a loan for £11,000 in 2017.
Background
Miss K applied for an unsecured loan from PML in July 2017 which she said was to
consolidate two different car loans and complete some home improvements.
She applied online to borrow £11,00 over 72 months at a monthly repayment of £351.94
which would mean that she would repay a total of £25,339.28. She has told us that at the
time she was gambling heavily and already in considerable debt. She believes it was
irresponsible of PML to provide her with the loan and says that she ended up having to take
out another loan in early 2018 to consolidate this debt as it was unaffordable.
She wants PML to refund the interest applied to the loan as well as the associated
administration fees that were added to the borrowing at the time of application.
PML has said that it carried out all necessary checks at the time of application and had
several phone calls with Miss K where it questioned and confirmed some of the information
that was provided during these checks. It has said it was unaware that she was gambling as
there was no evidence of it on the bank statements she provided to it. It believes all of the
checks it ran showed Miss K was in a good financial position, the lending was both
affordable and sustainable and it didnt make a mistake when it provided her with the loan.
I issued a provisional decision on 11 November 2022. In it I found that PML had failed to 
properly consider whether or not the loan was affordable and sustainable for Miss K. As 
such I said I was intending on upholding the complaint and asking PML to refund Miss K all 
the interest and charges she paid for loan, including simple interest. I asked both parties to 
respond by 24 November with any additional comments after which I would issue my final 
decision.
Miss K responded saying she agreed with my decision, but she wanted the simple intertest 
to be payable from the time she paid the fees and interest charges until the date she 
receives the refund from PML. I agree this is a reasonable request and so will amend the 
redress directions along those lines. 
PML responded to say it disagreed with my findings and that it didnt think Miss Ks earlier 
borrowing in April 2017 was an indicator that she was struggling to manage her finances. It 
also wanted me to clarify where in CONC it states a consumer must make more than the 
minimum monthly repayment on their credit card. Finally, it said that Miss K had provided 
incorrect information at the point of application and that if she had not done this it wouldnt 
have provided the credit. 
Ive answered the questions raised by PML below. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In regard to the first comment raised by PML, I still believe that the fact that Miss K had 
taken out two loans within days of each other in April 2017 shouldve alerted PML that she 
may be struggling to manage her finances at that time. PML has also noted that Miss K was 
in the process of refinancing her mortgage when she applied for the loan with it. It has taken 
that as an indicator that Miss Ks outgoings were likely to reduce which would lead me to ask 
why she would then need the additional, high-cost credit, she was applying for from PML? 
Had Miss K been in as strong a financial position as PML have suggested she was in, it 
would seem unlikely that she wouldve needed to apply for additional credit. So, I dont agree 
that her lending history was indicative of someone who was managing their finances well 
and I think PML shouldve realised this at the point she applied for credit with it. 
PML has also asked me to clarify where in CONC it says people have to make more than 
the minimum monthly repayments on their credit card to be eligible for additional credit. No 
such rule exists in CONC as Im sure PML is aware and thats not what I suggested in the 
provisional decision. Rather I said that when reviewing a potential customers credit history 
and indebtedness its worth noting how open lines of credit are being managed. In Miss Ks 
case she had a high amount of existing credit card debt that she was trying to repay. The 
fact that she was only just managing to make the minimum repayments meant that the 
capital owed was barely decreasing and the majority of her monthly repayments were just 
covering the interest due. So, the debt owed wasnt reducing. Again, taken in context with 
her repeated lending elsewhere, this was another indicator that Miss K was becoming 
increasing dependent on credit and not managing her finances well. 
The final point raised by PML was that Miss K wasnt forthright in the information she 
provided it at the point of application. It says that if she had been then it wouldnt have 
approved her application. However, the reason Im upholding Miss Ks complaint is because 
I think PML failed to notice a pattern of borrowing and poor finance management that was 
apparent from the information held in Miss Ks credit file and not because of any information 
she provided at the point of application. And PML has confirmed it had a full copy of Miss Ks 
credit file to review. 
Therefore, for the reasons set out in my provisional decision, and repeated above, Im 
upholding Miss Ks complaint against PML.  
Putting things right
Progressive Money Limited should:
 refund all the interest and charges associated with the loan taken by Miss K in 2017
 And pay 8% simple interest on this amount calculated from the date the loan was 
taken until the date of the refund*
*HM Revenue & Customs may require Progressive Money Limited to deduct tax from this interest. Progressive Money Limited 
should give Miss K a certificate showing how much tax its deducted, if she asks for one.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above and in my provisional decision Im upholding Miss Ks 
complaint against Progressive Money Limited. Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss K to accept 
or reject my decision before 29 December 2022.
 
Karen Hanlon
Ombudsman