DRN-3373972
The complaint
Mr M complains that Barclays Bank UK PLC trading as Barclaycard irresponsibly increased 
the credit limit on his account to unaffordable levels.
What happened
Mr M says Barclaycard increased the credit limit on his credit card account to unaffordable 
levels. He says the increases were irresponsible without proper checks being carried out. Mr 
M would like the interest and charges refunded as well as the adverse information recorded 
on his credit file removed.
Barclaycard says it carried out a review of customers accounts and identified Mr Ms 
account as one that it may have set the credit limit too high. It says it refunded interest and 
charges over and above that figure and paid Mr M £175 compensation which included £100 
for a delay in responding to him. Barclaycard says the account was opened in 2010 and it 
carried out a number of credit limit increases up to 2015 which it says were correctly 
considered. It says it reviewed Mr Ms credit file, his payment history and carried out 
affordability checks which didnt show any concerns. It also says Mr M managed his account 
well for some significant time after the last increase.
Mr M brought his complaint to us and our investigator didnt uphold it. The investigator 
thought that Barclaycard couldnt provide all of the information about Mr Ms income and 
expenditure but thought checks were carried out. And that there were no signs of 
unaffordability on Mr Ms credit file. The investigator also thought Mr M managed his account 
appropriately and didnt think there any evidence the lending was unaffordable at the time of 
the lending.
Mr M doesnt accept that view and says Barclaycard refunded some interest and charges so 
the credit limit increases must have been unaffordable. He says the final increase caused 
him to go into significant debt.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I have come to the overall view that I dont uphold this complaint. I 
appreciate Mr M will be disappointed by my decision.
Lenders and credit providers should carry out reasonable and proportionate checks on any 
lending or credit application. This complaint by Mr M is about increases to a credit card 
account credit limit and those same checks must have of course be carried out. The level of 
those checks will vary depending on the type and amount of the lending and it follows that I 
wouldnt have expected Barclaycards checks to have been as detailed here as for example 
a mortgage to a new customer.
Due to the passage of time Barclaycard doesnt have all of the information it obtained when 
the account was first opened and for some of the earlier credit limit increases. But I think in 
any event this complaint is mainly about the later credit limit increases between 2014 and 
2015. I do not need to repeat the details of the increases as they are set out in the 
investigators view.
I have looked carefully at Barclaycards records and at Mr Ms account statements. Mr M 
hasnt been able to provide his bank account statements and hasnt provided us with 
information about his finances at the time. I can see that before the credit limit increases 
Barclaycard looked at Mr Ms credit file and carried out affordability assessments which I can 
see he comfortably passed. I can also see that Barclaycard looked at Mr Ms account 
management before the credit limit increases which I dont think showed any signs of 
financial difficulties. So, Im satisfied that Barclaycard did carry out checks on the credit limit 
increases and think such checks were reasonable and proportionate.
I have also looked at Mr Ms account statements after the last credit limit increase. I can see 
that Mr M didnt use the full balance for some significant time after it was approved and that 
he made required monthly payments for the following year. I think that provides additional 
evidence that the lending was affordable and think it likely Mr Ms financial difficulties took 
place some considerable time after the last credit limit increase in 2015. I have not seen any 
evidence that Mr M told Barclaycard about any financial difficulties at the time and dont think 
it could have helped or supported Mr M in those circumstances.
I appreciate Mr M says that Barclaycard refunded some interest and charges and so the 
lending must have been unaffordable. But I disagree and think that Barclaycard carried out a 
general review of its customers accounts and made a decision to offer compensation to all 
that may have been affected. And that it fairly refunded charges and interest to Mr M when it 
decided that it would have set his credit limit lower. I dont think it follows that the increases 
themselves were unaffordable and have made clear that Mr M made required payments and 
didnt in any event use the full available balance at or around the time.
Overall, Im satisfied that Barclaycard doesnt need to do anything further in the 
circumstances of this complaint.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 8 June 2022.
 
David Singh
Ombudsman