DRN-3479643
The complaint
Mr H complains that Ulster Bank Ltd retained his information without permission after it failed
to close a credit card account.
What happened
The background to this complaint and my initial conclusions were set out in my provisional 
decision. I said: 
Mr H was a customer of Ulster Bank when he entered into a Debt Relief Order (DRO). An 
Ulster Bank credit card in Mr Hs name was included in the DRO with the outstanding 
balance being discharged when it came to an end in 2012. Mr H has explained he 
assumed his accounts included in the DRO would be closed once it ended.
Mr H didnt receive any further correspondence from Ulster Bank until April 2021 when it 
wrote to provide information about a change in business structure. Mr H responded and 
complained as he didnt realise he had open accounts or was still a customer of the bank. 
Mr H has raised concerns over Ulster Banks retention of his private information.
Ulster Bank says it issued a final response on 29 April 2021 by email and post. Mr H has told 
us the final response wasnt received.
An investigator at this service looked at Mr Hs complaint and upheld it. They said Ulster 
Bank should ensure no further correspondence is sent to Mr H.
Mr H has told us he thinks the final response was fraudulently produced, not on the date 
Ulster Bank says it was sent. Mr H also said the email address Ulster Bank used to send 
its final response wasnt his and that he hadnt received a copy. As Mr H and the 
investigator didnt agree, his complaint has been passed to me to make a decision.
What Ive provisionally decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
First, Im aware Ive set out the background to this complaint in far less detail than the parties 
and Ive done so using my own words. Im not going to respond to every single point made 
by all the parties involved. No discourtesy is intended by this. Instead, Ive focussed on what 
I think are the key issues here.
Our rules allow me to take this approach. It simply reflects the informal nature of our 
service as a free alternative to the courts. If theres something I havent mentioned, it isnt 
because Ive ignored it. I havent. Im satisfied I dont need to comment on every individual 
argument to be able to reach what I think is the right outcome.
There are several issues at play here. Im going to start by looking at what happened when 
Mr Hs DRO ended. Ulster Bank hasnt provided any evidence to show it followed the 
correct process by leaving Mr Hs credit card account open on its systems once Mr Hs 
DRO was over. Given how a DRO operates, it does seem unusual that Mr Hs credit card 
account wasnt closed. Ultimately, the DRO meant the account balance was written off.
In addition, Ulster Bank didnt send Mr H any correspondence, statements or information 
to show the account remained open. Ulster Bank has confirmed it didnt report Mr Hs 
account on his credit file, the case handler told us it just remained open on its systems. I 
havent seen anything that satisfactorily explains why the credit card account remained 
open for so many years. Im not persuaded Ulster Bank has acted reasonably.
Mr H has told us he thought the account was closed, in line with information provided by the 
insolvency service. And Mr H has told us hes upset that Ulster Bank has retained his private 
information unnecessarily for around nine years, without good reason. I can understand why 
Mr H thought the credit card had been closed that that he was no longer a customer of Ulster 
Bank.
Like the investigator, I think its important that Ulster Bank ceases correspondence with 
Mr H. Ulster Bank should also take steps to ensure the credit card account is closed on its 
systems. Mr H has given clear guidance on the fact he didnt know the account was 
opened and doesnt consider himself to be a customer of Ulster Bank.
I can see this issue is very important to Mr H. I understand theres no financial loss and 
the impact of the issue on a day to day basis has been minimal. But its clear Mr H has 
been distressed by Ulster Banks decision to leave his credit card account open which 
meant its retained personal information about him beyond the point it wouldve done had 
the account been closed. Im satisfied the issues raised have caused Mr H unnecessary 
distress and inconvenience. Based on the information Ive seen so far, I intend to tell 
Ulster Bank to pay Mr H £200 to reflect that.
Mr H has raised concerns about whether the final response issued on 29 April 2021 is 
genuine. Ive looked at the data Mr H provided and can see his point. Ulster Bank has 
explained the date reflects the point at which a complaints handler prepared its file for 
submission to this service. I note Mr Hs concerns, but Im satisfied thats a plausible 
explanation.
Mr H has also confirmed he didnt receive the final response by email or in the post. Ulster 
Bank has provided an email address it says the final response was sent to, but Mr H says 
its not one hes ever used. Ulster Bank has provided systems information that records the 
email address as being registered in 2009. In addition, Ulster Bank has sent further 
systems evidence to show the final response was emailed to that address on 29 April 2021 
as claimed. I dont know why the email address on file doesnt match Mr Hs details. But Im 
satisfied the final response was emailed.
I understand the final response wasnt received in the post either. But the final response Ive 
seen is correctly addressed, in line with details Mr H has provided to this service. Im sorry to 
disappoint Mr H but Im satisfied the final response was sent to him as claimed and set out
Ulster Banks explanation of why his account remained open.
I invited both parties to respond with any additional comments or information they wanted 
me to consider before reaching my final decision. Mr H responded and said he was minded 
to accept but wanted written confirmation Ulster Bank would close his account and cease all 
correspondence with him. Mr H also asked about the time frame for receiving the 
compensation awarded. Ulster Bank responded and confirmed it had nothing further to add. What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr H has asked for written confirmation that shows his account has been closed and that 
Ulster Bank wont contact him again. Ulster Bank has confirmed it has reviewed the 
provisional decision and has nothing further to add. In addition, if Mr H accepts, this final 
decision will become legally binding on Ulster Bank.
We ask businesses to settle within four weeks of acceptance. If Mr H experiences delays, 
hes welcome to contact our investigator for assistance. 
As neither party has provided new information for me to consider, Im going to proceed in 
line with my provisional decision. I still think Mr Hs complaint should be upheld, for the same 
reasons. 
My final decision
My decision is that I uphold Mr Hs complaint and direct Ulster Bank to settle as follows: 
- Close the credit card account
- Cease all correspondence with Mr H
- Pay Mr H £200 for the distress and inconvenience caused
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 8 July 2022.
 
Marco Manente
Ombudsman