DRN-1139422
 
The complaint
Mr Ms unhappy with how Domestic & General Insurance Plcs (D&G) dealt with his claim 
made on an appliance insurance policy.
What happened
Briefly, Mr Ms claim on the policy for his mobile phone was ultimately accepted by D&G in 
June 2019. Mr M had asked on more than one occasion that the cash settlement of £959 
and £40 for time without use of the phone be paid to him by cheque  not to his bank 
account  and D&P agreed.
Unfortunately, due to D&Ps error, the agreed amounts were paid to Mr Ms bank account by 
BACS transfer. 
Mr M complained because the amounts hadnt been paid by the agreed method. He said he 
couldnt access the amounts since the bank account was overdrawn by more than the claim 
payment. He wanted D&G to issue a cheque for the agreed amounts.  
D&P expressed regret but said it wouldnt issue a cheque as it had already paid the claim 
once. Instead, it offered to pay Mr M £10 as compensation for its mistake. Unhappy with 
D&Gs response, Mr M complained to us.
Our investigator considered the complaint but didnt recommend it be upheld. They 
contacted Mr Ms bank and checked his transactions and, as a result, werent persuaded 
that Mr M didnt have access to the payments. They felt D&Ps offer was fair.
Mr M didnt agree with the investigator, so the case was passed to me to review afresh. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided not to uphold the complaint. Ill explain why.
This service doesnt regulate the insurance industry and weve no power to punish or fine 
financial businesses. Instead, we can award compensation to consumers, for example for 
distress and inconvenience, where a financial business is responsible for something going 
wrong.
Its not in dispute that D&G made a mistake in paying Mr Ms claim direct into his bank 
account rather than by cheque as agreed. The issue for me to consider is whether its 
response was a fair one in the circumstancesI understand Mr Ms frustration with what happened and Ive no doubt that he was left 
disappointed by D&Gs actions. Nevertheless, Ive taken into account that D&G did ultimately 
pay the claim, and it did so into one of Mr Ms bank accounts. 
Ive also taken into account what Mr M appears to have told D&P, which is that his bank 
account was overdrawn by around £1,500  due to fraudulent activity  when the claim was 
paid. And that he couldnt access D&Gs payment as a result. But, weve checked with 
Mr Ms bank and its confirmed that the account wasnt overdrawn by £1,500 at the time the 
claim was paid. I gather the claim payment left the account in credit. Whats more, the bank 
had no record of any outstanding fraud investigation regarding the account.    
Given D&Gs actions, and the overall impact on Mr M, Im not persuaded I should ask it to 
pay him any more.  
My final decision
For the reasons given, Ive decided not to uphold the complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 8 June 2020.
Nimish Patel
Ombudsman