DRN-3136411
The complaint
A company Ill refer to as G has complained that Allianz Insurance Plc unfairly turned down
its business interruption insurance claim after it was impacted by the Covid-19 pandemic.
Mr B, a director of G, has brought the complaint on Gs behalf. G has been helped in 
bringing its complaint by a representative. However, for ease of reading, Ill refer to all 
actions and comments as being those of G.
What happened
G held a business interruption insurance policy with Allianz. It claimed on its policy after its 
business was impacted by the Governments response to the Covid-19 pandemic. 
Allianz turned down the claim on the basis that Gs business hadnt been impacted by 
material damage. 
Unhappy with Allianzs response, G brought its complaint to us. It thought there should be 
cover under Any other Event within the core business interruption section and the extension 
for denial of access. 
G said the definition of damage includes loss and the definition should be broad enough to 
not just include physical damage to property. It referred to the case of MDS Inc. v Factory 
Mutual Insurance Company (2020) as well as other case law to support its view. G said its 
property had suffered damage as it had been forced to close.
G said businesses in its vicinity had been prevented from accessing their premises and the 
extension doesnt require the prevention or hinderance in accessing the property to be a 
physical one. G said that where there are two proximate causes of loss and neither is 
specifically excluded then the policy should provide cover. It referred to the Supreme Court 
judgment in the Financial Conduct Authoritys test case to support this. 
G also said that it shouldnt be penalised for any ambiguity within the policy and it had 
attempted to mitigate its losses and also complied with all claims conditions. G added that it 
had expected to be covered following a statement made by the Government towards the
start of the pandemic and it had a reasonable expectation of being covered for a closure in 
these circumstances. 
G said that it had purchased a business interruption policy but had been denied cover when 
it needed it most. 
Our investigator looked into Gs complaint but didnt recommend it be upheld as he didnt 
think Covid-19 had caused damage to property. 
G asked for an ombudsmans decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im sorry to hear that the pandemic and the Governments related actions have had an
impact on G. But I wont be upholding its complaint. Ill explain why.
Business interruption insurance offers protection from risks common to a business, but
different policies can provide different types of cover. What is and isnt covered is set out in
the policy terms and conditions. Ive therefore looked carefully at this particular policy to see
if Allianz have acted fairly, reasonably and in line with the terms and conditions of the policy
when declining Gs claim.
G has made a number of detailed points; however, I dont intend to address them all and will
instead comment on what I consider to be the central issues to this complaint.
Damage
The core business interruption section of the policy says that Allianz will cover business 
interruption caused by a list of specified events. The policy defines business interruption as:
Loss resulting from interruption of or interference with the Business carried on 
by the Insured at the Premises in consequence of an Event to property used by 
the Insured at the Premises for the purpose of the Business.
Event is specifically defined the policy as:
Loss or destruction of or damage to property used by the Insured at the 
Premises for the purpose of the Business.
For this to provide cover there would need to be loss or destruction of or damage to property 
used by G at its premises. In an insurance context loss, destruction or damage is generally 
accepted to mean a physical loss. In any event, I havent seen anything to persuade me that 
Covid-19 caused loss, destruction or damage to property used by G at its premises.
G has referred to MDS Inc. v Factory Mutual Insurance Company (2020) which I understand
has been overturned by the court of appeal, as well as other case law. However, Ive 
considered other cases which I think are more relevant to the circumstances of this 
complaint, including TKC London Ltd v Allianz Insurance PLC [2020] EWHC 2710 (Comm), 
Merlin v British Nuclear Fuels Plc [1990] 2 QB 557 and Hunter v London Docklands 
Development Corporation [1996] 2 WLR 348.
I think that, for damage to have occurred, there would need to be a physical change or
altered state to Gs property, which made it less valuable. Alternatively, its possible damage
could be said to have occurred if specialist cleaning was required to remove a cause of
potential damage.
Even if SARS-CoV-2 (the virus that causes Covid-19) was present at Gs premises, the
Governments guidance on cleaning in non-healthcare settings doesnt recommend any
cleaning by a specialist. Theres also no evidence of an excessive amount of SARS-CoV-2
on Gs property, and the presence of any particular virus isnt automatically damage. So I
dont think Covid-19 has damaged Gs property and therefore there isnt cover for Gs claim 
under this section of the policy.Denial of access
The cover under the policy is extended through various extensions. The policy says:
Any claim resulting from interruption or interference with the Business in 
consequence of
A. loss, destruction or damage at any Situation or to any Property shown below, or
B. any of the under-noted Contingencies
within the United Kingdom, shall be understood to be Business Interruption by an 
Event covered by this Section
Denial of access is listed under Property and says:
Property in the immediate vicinity of the Premises, which prevents or hinders 
the use of or access to the Premises whether the Premises or property in the 
Premises is destroyed or damaged or not, but excluding loss or destruction of or 
damage to the property of any supply undertaking from which the Insured 
obtains electricity, gas, water or telecommunications services which prevents or 
hinders the supply of such services to the Premises.
For this to provide cover there would need to be loss, destruction or damage to property in 
the immediate vicinity of Gs premises which prevented or hindered access to Gs premises. 
Ive noted Gs point about the prevention of access not needing to be physical however, it 
would still need to be because of damage to property in Gs vicinity. I dont think the closure 
of premises in Gs vicinity by the Government amounts to loss, destruction or damage to 
property for the reasons set out above. So, I dont think this extension provides cover for Gs 
claim. 
Other issues
I understand G thinks that the wording of the policy is ambiguous; however, I dont agree 
that its likely to be considered ambiguous. I think its clear that the policy requires loss or 
destruction of or damage to property in order to provide cover.
As there isnt anything in the policy that provides cover, I dont think it makes a difference if 
there isnt a specific exclusion in the policy that excludes the circumstances of Gs claim. I 
also dont think its relevant that G took steps to mitigate its losses and comply with claim 
conditions, as there isnt cover under the policy.
Although G might have had an expectation that its claim would be covered, or understood 
the same from a Government announcement, whether that is the case would still depend on 
the wording within its specific policy. And in this case, I dont think Gs policy provides cover 
for its claim. 
 
I appreciate this isnt the outcome G was hoping for but, having considered the matter very 
carefully, I dont think I can fairly require Allianz to pay its claim. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask G to accept or 
reject my decision before 13 January 2022.
 
Sarann Taylor
Ombudsman