DRN-4008155
The complaint
Ms B complains about the length of time Metro Bank Plc blocked her account for when she 
was trying to make a payment.
What happened
The background to this complaint is well known to both parties, and the facts are not in 
dispute, so I will mention it only briefly here. In July 2022 Ms B received funds into her newly 
opened Metro account, which prompted a review by the bank. After discussing the issue with 
her the bank thought she was falling victim to a scam, so maintained the restriction on her 
account. 
Ms B complained, but Metro maintained that theyd stuck by the terms of their account. She 
referred the complaint to our service. In November 2022 Metro adjusted the type of block to 
allow Ms B to use the debit card associated with the account. They apologised and said they 
should have done this earlier. They offered to pay her £250 compensation for the 
inconvenience caused.
Our investigator looked into the complaint and thought this was a fair offer. They said they 
were satisfied it was fair for Metro to block the account, as they were trying to prevent her 
sending money to a scammer. But in this case, they didnt look for alternative arrangements 
earlier. As such, they felt the £250 offer was a fair reflection of the inconvenience caused.
Ms B disagreed, saying she would accept £500. Metro declined to offer this. As no 
agreement could be reached the complaint has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Metro outline in their terms why they may refuse to carry out transactions or prevent all 
access to an account. In this case, based on the transactions on the newly opened account, 
I see it was reasonable to block Ms Bs account until they could discuss the activity with her, 
and also with the source of the funds paid in to her account. Im satisfied this was in line with 
the terms of her account.
Once Ms B had told them what she intended to use the funds for, Im satisfied that it was 
appropriate for them to maintain the block. I appreciate this isnt what Ms B wanted, but they 
saw there was a very real risk she was falling victim to a scam here. And considering the 
wider circumstances of Ms Bs complaint, I think its very likely she was. 
If Metro had released the funds in Ms Bs account to her its likely she would have suffered a 
considerable financial loss. On that basis, I dont think its unreasonable that Metro 
prevented her from carrying out transactions on the account until they had a better 
understanding of the account activity.
Metro have now confirmed they could have allowed Ms B to carry out debit card payments 
much sooner than they did. By 23 August 2022, when Metro would have reasonable 
suspicions that she was falling victim to a scam, the bank could still have taken steps to 
allow debit card payments. I see there was a delay of approximately three months in 
allowing Ms B access to her funds. 
Im satisfied by not acting early Metro have treated Ms B unfairly. But I also have to temper 
this slightly, as if they had allowed her to freely use the account, its likely she would have 
lost further money to the scam. 
No income, such as pensions or investment credits were received during this time. Metro 
have said they would likely have let Ms B withdraw these had any been received. And my 
understanding is that Ms B also had other banking facilities elsewhere. While I accept the 
total blocking of the account would have been inconvenient for her, I do think the impact 
wasnt extensive, or long lasting.
Taking this all into account, and I appreciate this may not be what Ms B was hoping for, Im 
satisfied the offer of £250 is a fair reflection of the inconvenience caused to her by Metros 
error. 
My final decision
My final decision is that Metro Bank Plc must pay Ms B £250 compensation.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms B to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 August 2023.
 
Thom Bennett
Ombudsman