DRN-2905351
The complaint
Miss C complains Red Sands Insurance Company (Europe) Limited have unfairly turned 
down a claim on her pet insurance policy.
Other companies have been involved in this complaint, but as Red Sands are responsible for 
it, Ive just referred to them in this decision. 
What happened
Miss C rescued her dog in October 2018 and took her for a visit to the vets on 
17 October 2018 for a check-up. Miss C was told there was scarring on her dogs right eye, 
but no ulcer was present. In September 2020 Miss Cs dog had treatment for a sore eye, 
where ultimately an ulcer was diagnosed. Miss C submitted a claim but it was turned down 
as a pre-existing condition. Miss C asked her vets to get in touch with Red Sands  which 
they did saying they thought it unlikely the two issues were linked, but the claim was still 
turned down. So, Miss C complained.
Red Sands said due to the issues presenting in the same eye they couldnt rule out these 
two issues being linked. So, they said the claim had been correctly identified as pre-existing 
because of clinical signs / symptoms related to eye issues. Red Sands added as they 
werent told about any eye issues before they couldnt place an exclusion on the policy when 
it started. They also considered the vets evidence, but still felt the claim had been turned 
down fairly  and they said theyd add an exclusion for Eyes and Sight from 
19 October 2019 which is when Miss Cs policy started.
Unhappy with this, Miss C asked us to look into things. One of our investigators did so but 
found Red Sands had acted fairly in turning down the claim and applying the exclusion on to 
her policy.
Miss C didnt accept this. She said there couldnt have ever been an exclusion for her dogs 
eye as there was no pre-existing condition which her specialist vet has said could be a birth 
defect. Miss C said if Red Sands wish to exclude treatment for rescue animals due to having 
no previous history then they should have a vet check over the dog and write a report 
showing exactly what will be covered. 
Because Miss C didnt agree, the complaints been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The starting point in this case is considering whether Red Sands have applied the relevant 
policy terms fairly. The terms theyve referred to say the following wont be covered:
Any claim or costs for or relating to a pre-existing condition(s) or for an accident, injury or 
illness that first showed clinical signs at any time before the commencement date of the 
policy or within 14 days of the commencement date.
1.3.1 Any pre-existing condition or claim for costs relating to an injury or illness that relates 
to or results from an accident, injury, illness or clinical signs your pet had before the 
commencement date:
1.3.2 Any injury or illness that has the same diagnosis or clinical signs as an accident, injury, 
illness or clinical signs your pet had before the commencement date:
I can understand Miss Cs frustration at Red Sands decision, especially given the cost of the 
treatment shes had to cover, and that shes got two vets telling her different information. 
But, I do think Red Sands have acted fairly. Ill explain why.
What the above policy terms mean for Miss C is, in effect, if shed told Red Sands about the 
scarring on her dogs eye when taking out the policy then theyd have placed an exclusion 
on the policy for anything to do with Eyes and Sight as theyve explained.
So, whether she told Red Sands when taking out the policy, or they found out when she 
made a claim as had happened here, Red Sands wouldnt have met the claim.
I note Miss C strongly disagreed her claim from September 2020 is a pre-existing condition. 
But, with reference to the policy terms, it is. Red Sands consider the scarring of the eye an 
injury or illness that happened before the start of the policy which  reading the policy 
terms, is correct.
I have noted Miss C got two vets to confirm their opinion that this isnt a pre-existing 
condition. But both of them have said they cant say it is  meaning they also cant say its 
not.
So, taking everything into account I think Red Sands have acted fairly by treating this claim 
as a pre-existing condition and therefore excluding it under the terms of the policy. And even 
setting this aside, it would still have been excluded because of the previous scarring issues 
identified in October 2018 for which Red Sands have now placed an exclusion on her policy 
for.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained above, I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss C to accept 
or reject my decision before 15 September 2021.
 
Jon Pearce
Ombudsman