DRN-2884049
The complaint
Mr C and Mrs J complain about the treatment they received from One Savings Bank Plc 
trading as Kent Reliance when they applied to re-mortgage their existing property.
What happened
Mr C and Mrs J wanted to re-mortgage their residential property in order to buy another 
property. They submitted a re-mortgage application to Kent Reliance through their broker on 
21 July 2020. A valuation was instructed for 7 August 2020 and the report was received by 
Kent Reliance on the same day. But Kent Reliance then wrote to the broker on 13 August 
2020 to say that the application had been submitted for a property in Scotland and Kent 
Reliance did not lend on properties in Scotland. It also said that the valuation report showed 
that the property was unsuitable security for other reasons so the result would have been the 
same regardless of location.
Mr C disputed Kent Reliances decision. And he supplied information to Kent Reliance to 
challenge the valuation report. But Kent Reliance didnt agree to change its decision.
Due to time constraints Mr C and Mrs J re-mortgaged another property with Kent Reliance 
instead. They say that the ended up paying significantly higher fees and interest as a result.
Mr C complained about Kent Reliances decision. He said in particular that he had made a 
number of calls to Kent Reliance and its staff had assured him that everything looked good 
in relation to the mortgage application. As a result, he had agreed to pay an additional 
deposit on the property he was looking to buy in order to secure it. 
Kent Reliance responded. It said, in summary:
When the broker originally submitted the mortgage application pre-underwriting 
checks should have been done by the relevant team to see if the security property 
was located in any area where Kent Reliance doesnt lend. Due to a communication 
breakdown this wasnt picked up and the application was allowed to go further. 
However, as soon as the error was noticed Kent Reliance notified the broker and 
refunded all costs incurred to date;
The majority of the calls between Mr C and Kent Reliance were general enquiries. 
But it agreed that due to the pre checks not being carried out correctly Mr C had 
been led to believe that the application would be successful;
As the application had been made through a broker all communications should have 
been directed through the broker. Mr C had been informed of this during a call on 11 
August, but he continued to ask further questions;
While it was unable to overturn the lending decision made it agreed that it had made 
an error. It apologised for the distress and inconvenience caused. And it offered Mr C 
and Mrs J £150 compensation.
Mr C and Mrs J werent happy with Kent Reliances decision and brought their complaint to 
this service. 
Our investigator looked at the complaint and said, in summary:
She felt that both the broker and Kent Reliance were responsible for identifying that 
the property was in Scotland and therefore didnt fall within Kent Reliances lending 
criteria;
Further, she felt that Kent Reliance should have recognised the error earlier in the 
process, when it assessed the application and in its discussions with Mr C;
The delay in identifying the error added to the ongoing stress that Mr C and Mrs J 
had been experiencing and could have been avoided. In addition, the discussions 
about the valuation caused Mr C further confusion and inconvenience as he tried to 
challenge the valuation report when the real issue was that Kent Reliance didnt offer 
residential mortgages in Scotland;
For these reasons, she recommended that Kent Reliance should increase its award 
from £150 to £300 for the trouble and upset caused to Mr C and Mrs J. 
Mr C doesnt agree with our investigators conclusions. He says in particular that the 
proposed amount of compensation is far less than the money he lost due to the time he had 
to invest and the stress he suffered. And he said he was left with no other option than to 
proceed with another far more expensive mortgage in order to secure the property he 
wished to buy. He wants Kent Reliance to pay him £4,000 as a minimum, as this was the set 
up fee he had to pay on the other mortgage.
 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr C has raised a large number of issues. Ive carefully considered everything he has to say, 
but have concentrated my response on those issues which I find to be central to his 
complaint.
Kent Reliance is entitled to set its own lending criteria. And it says that its lending criteria 
provides that it will only lend on properties in England and Wales. Im satisfied that this 
information was set out on its intermediary website. So Im satisfied that Mr C and Mrs Js 
broker should have realised Kent Reliance would not lend on the property as it was in 
Scotland. But I agree with our investigator that Kent Reliance should also have picked up 
this issue sooner, either during its initial checks or during its telephone conversations with Mr 
C and his broker. 
I appreciate that it would have been frustrating in any event to discover that the application 
had been declined three weeks into the process when it should never have proceeded. But 
Mr C has explained that he was under time constraints due to an earlier mortgage falling 
through as a result of Covid 19. And, although this was not Kent Reliances fault, it did mean 
that Mr C was under additional pressure. Im satisfied that, if Mr C and Mrs J had been 
notified sooner they would have had more time to consider their options and would therefore 
have suffered less distress and inconvenience.
The mortgage was declined due to the fact that the property was in Scotland. But I agree 
with our investigator that the telephone discussions Mr C had with Kent Reliance were 
unhelpful, as they focussed on the outcome of the valuation. This led Mr C to spending 
additional time evidencing to Kent Reliance that certain issues referred to in the valuation 
were in his view incorrect. I agree that this not only made things more confusing for him but 
caused him further frustration and inconvenience as he spent time trying to challenge these 
issues.Our investigator recommended that Kent Reliance should pay Mr C and Mrs J a total of £300 
compensation. And while I appreciate that Mr C and Mrs J dont think that this is sufficient, I 
find it to be fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In reaching my decision Ive taken account of the fact that Mr C says that he paid the seller a 
further £2,000 deposit (in addition to the deposit already paid) in order for the seller to give 
him more time to complete. Mr C says that he took this action following phone conversations 
with Kent Reliance when he says he was assured that his application was looking good. But, 
although Ive listed to the calls supplied to this service, I am not persuaded that Kent 
Reliance give firm confirmation in the calls that the application had been approved. 
When a mortgage application is submitted it is never guaranteed that the mortgage will be 
approved as it is always subject to underwriting and the valuation report. Im satisfied that it 
was Mr Cs decision to make the further payment to the seller. So this does not change my 
decision.
Mr C has also said that, because of the time constraints, they ended up having to take a 
buy-to-let mortgage on another property with Kent Reliance but that this had large fees and 
higher interest.
Ive considered what Mr C has to say. But I agree with our investigator that it was Mr C and 
Mrs Js choice to proceed with the buy to let mortgage with Kent Reliance. Im satisfied that, 
if there were other lenders available, they could have been approached while the buy to let 
application was being considered by Kent Reliance. So, again, this doesnt change my 
decision.
 
Putting things right
To put things right, Kent Reliance should pay Mr C and Mrs J a total of £300 compensation.
My final decision
My decision is that I uphold this complaint. I order One Savings Bank Plc trading as Kent 
Reliance to pay Mr C and Mrs J £300 compensation (including the £150 compensation it has 
previously offered).
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C and Mrs J to 
accept or reject my decision before 7 January 2022.
 
Alison Cribbs
Ombudsman