DRN-3865108
The complaint
Mr J complains about how Vitality Health Limited dealt with a claim against a group private 
medical insurance policy.  
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here in full. In summary, Mr J changed his employment in September 2021. Hed 
previously had the benefit of a group private medical insurance policy via his                
ex-employer. He joined a group private medical insurance policy via his new employer. 
His cover start date was 12 October 2021 and his cover was on a moratorium basis, 
which Ill refer to in more detail below. 
In 2022, Mr J made a claim on the policy following a referral to a consultant 
endocrinologist in relation to his Hashimotos disease. Mr J had been diagnosed with 
Hashimotos disease some years before and it had previously been well controlled. 
Vitality declined Mr Js claim. It relied on the moratorium provision and said that Mr Js 
Hashimotos disease was a pre-existing condition. Mr J complained to Vitality about that. 
Vitality maintained its position about Mr Js claim but apologised for failing to return his 
calls during the claim. Mr J pursued his complaint.  
Mr J says that Vitality has misapplied the moratorium provision which has produced an 
unfair outcome. He complains about the claims process. He says that Vitality gave him 
inconsistent and misleading information during his claim and that it relied on information 
in on-line forms and in the referral letter. Mr J says that the moratorium provision wasnt 
communicated to him clearly. He says that hes delayed seeking medical advice, which 
has caused him stress. Mr J wants Vitality to approve his claim. 
One of our investigators looked at what had happened. He didnt think that Vitality had 
acted unreasonably. The investigator said that Mr J should take up with his employer his 
concern about the information he received when he joined the group scheme. He said 
that Vitality was entitled to rely on the moratorium provision in the policy. 
Mr J didnt agree with the investigator. He said that the investigator hadnt considered 
the following:
Hes faced unreasonable barriers to submit a claim as to make a successful 
claim hed have to ignore medical advice and avoid regular check-ups and blood 
tests, which is dangerous for others and his health. 
Vitality was inconsistent in its dealings with him as it told him during his claim that 
it covered flare-ups of conditions and that his claim would be covered. 
Mr J asked that an ombudsman consider his complaint, so it was passed to me to 
decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
the relevant terms and conditions
The starting point is the terms and conditions of the policy, the relevant part of which says   
as follows:
EXCLUSIONS  WHATS NOT COVERED
[]
MEDICAL CONDITIONS
We will not pay for the following:
a) if you [] have a moratorium underwriting basis:
We will not pay for treatment of any medical condition or related condition which in the five 
years before your cover start date you:
have received medical treatment for
had symptoms of
have asked advice on or
to the best of your knowledge were aware existed.
This is called a pre-existing medical condition.
However, subject to the plan terms and conditions, a pre-existing medical condition can 
become eligible for cover providing you have not:
consulted anyone (e.g. a GP [] for medical treatment or advice (including       
check-ups), or
taken medication (including prescription or over-the-counter drugs, medicines []
for that pre-existing medical condition or any related condition for two continuous years 
after your cover start date.
has the claim been declined unfairly?
The relevant rules and industry guidance say that Vitality has a responsibility to handle 
claims promptly and fairly and it shouldnt reject a claim unreasonably. Im not upholding                
Mr Js complaint because I dont think that Vitality treated him unfairly or unreasonably. I say 
that because:   
Insurance policies arent designed to cover every eventuality or situation. An 
insurer will decide what risks its willing to cover and set these out in the terms and 
conditions of the policy document. The onus is on the consumer to show that the 
claim falls under one of the agreed areas of cover within the policy. If the event is 
covered in principle but is declined on the basis of an exclusion set out in the policy 
the onus shifts to the insurer to show how that exclusion applies.
Vitalitys contract is with Mr Js employer, so Vitality isnt responsible for providing 
information to Mr J about the policy. And Mr Js membership via his new employer  
is separate and distinct from the benefits he had with his previous employer. 
Mr Js membership certificate says that his membership is on a moratorium basis. 
That means that it doesnt cover pre-existing medical conditions Mr J had in the five 
years before the policy began until he has been a member for two years in a row and 
had a period of two years in a row trouble-free from that condition.  Mr Js Hashimotos disease is a pre-existing medical condition under the terms of the 
policy, and he hasnt had two consecutive years trouble free since joining the group 
scheme with his current employer. I think Vitality had sufficient information to 
conclude that Mr Js claim related to a pre-existing condition. I think that was a 
reasonable conclusion on the basis of the information Mr J provided and the referral 
letter. Vitality was entitled to rely on the exclusion in the policy and didnt act unfairly 
or unreasonably in declining Mr Js claim. 
Mr J says that hes faced unreasonable barriers to submitting a claim because in 
order to make a successful claim hed have to ignore medical advice and avoid 
regular check-ups and blood tests, which is dangerous for others and his health. I 
dont think that Vitality put in place unreasonable barriers to a claim. I havent seen 
that anything was particularly difficult about Mr J submitting a claim. Vitality didnt 
advise Mr J to ignore medical advice and avoid check-ups. A moratorium provision 
like the one here is common in this type of policy and I think that Vitality was 
entitled to rely on it. 
Mr J says that Vitality was inconsistent in its dealings with him as it told him during 
his claim that it covered flare-ups of conditions and that his claim would be 
covered. Mr Js cover includes flare-ups of a chronic condition in certain 
circumstances, so thats what may have been referred to. Any misinformation 
Vitality gave to Mr J during the claims process doesnt alter the outcome here. It 
remains the case that Vitality acted fairly and reasonably in declining the claim. 
Vitality apologised to Mr J for not returning his calls during the claims process. I 
dont think it needs to do any more than that about service failures.
For the reasons Ive explained, Im satisfied that Vitality was entitled to decline      
Mr Js claim and that it didnt act unfairly or unreasonably in doing so. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold Mr Js complaint.  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr J to accept or 
reject my decision before 6 March 2023.
 
Louise Povey
Ombudsman