DRN-3777993
The complaint
Mr B has complained about QIC Europe Ltds (QICs) handling of a claim he made for 
damage to his shed, caused by a storm.
What happened
In February 2022, Mr B submitted a claim to QIC for damage to his shed roof. He said a 
storm had blown half of the shed roof eight metres down his garden. 
QIC declined Mr Bs claim on the basis that the shed was already structurally unsound 
before the storm occurred. It said that the bowing in the roof decking, evidence of wear in the 
felt roof, water staining in the shed and the existence of rot in the roof decking all indicated 
that the shed had not been well maintained prior to the storm event. 
Mr B says the shed only became structurally unsound by the time QIC sent someone out to 
view the shed, several months after hed notified them of his claim. Unhappy with the claim 
decision, Mr B complained to QIC and received its final response on 7 June 2022. 
QIC didnt uphold Mr Bs complaint on the basis that the claim was correctly declined. QIC 
confirmed its view that the damage was caused by the poor and aging condition of the shed.
Mr B didnt agree with the final response letter. He said that 18 February (the date he notified 
QIC of his claim) was the date of Storm Eunice, which was well documented on hundreds 
of websites as being the worst storm in recorded history. With regard to the state of the roof, 
he said the bend in the roof members was as a result of the months it had sat there with no 
roof until the surveyor had come to inspect it. 
QIC referred the claim to its in-house surveyor for review. The surveyor agreed with the 
decision to decline the claim for the same reasons initially given. Unhappy with QICs 
response, Mr B brought his complaint to this service.
Our investigator considered Mr Bs complaint, but she didnt think it should be upheld. She 
concluded that QICs decision to decline the claim had been made in line with the policy 
terms and conditions and was reasonable. She agreed with Mr B that there had been storm 
conditions, and she thought that the reported damage was consistent with damage typically 
caused by a storm. However, after taking account of all of the available evidence she 
concluded that the storm was not most likely the dominant cause of the damage. Rather, the 
gradual deterioration of the shed was most likely the dominant cause, which the storm 
highlighted. 
Mr B didnt accept our investigators opinion and requested an ombudsmans decision on his 
complaint.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive come to the same conclusion as our investigator. Ill explain why.
Mr B is unhappy that QIC declined his claim and believes the photographic evidence 
provided shows that the damage to his shed was caused by a storm, not gradual wear and 
tear, as argued by QIC.
So, Ive considered the claims decision reached by QIC to see whether it was made in 
accordance with the policy terms and conditions and was fair and reasonable in the 
circumstances.
When our service considers complaints about claims for storm damage, we ask ourselves 
three questions. Unless the answer to all three questions is yes, its likely that the claim 
wouldnt succeed. The three questions we ask are:
 Were there storm conditions on or around the date of reported damage? 
 Is the damage reported consistent with damage typically caused by a storm? 
 Were the storm conditions the main cause of damage?
So, Ive next gone on to consider each of these questions in turn.
Were there storm conditions? 
QIC initially said the winds reported on the date of loss didnt meet the policy definition of 
storm. However, our investigator obtained additional weather reports which demonstrated 
that the windspeeds on the date of loss peaked at around 69mph. She concluded that the 
definition of storm in the policy terms and conditions had been met, as the required wind 
speed of at least 55 mph was able to be evidenced. 
So, based on the available weather reporting data Ive seen, Im satisfied there were storm 
conditions. 
Is the damage consistent with storm damage? 
The damage in this case, that is, a roof being blown off a shed, is consistent with damage 
typically caused by storm force winds. 
Was the storm the main cause of damage?
Mr B says that the bend in the roof members and any rusting of screws was caused by the 
months the shed had been without a roof, until QICs surveyor came to inspect it. He argued 
that the roof beam would bow within hours if it was suitably soaked. Mr B also said he 
couldnt see any evidence of rot in the photographs. Rather, he said the photo which showed 
the primary bolt holding the roof beam, which was pristine, provided evidence to the 
contrary. 
However, QIC says the storm wasnt the main cause of damage. The complaint handler for 
QIC reviewed the photographs of the shed with the in-house surveying team and they 
confirmed the initial view that the shed roof was visibly in a poor condition and would have 
been like this for some time. They pointed to a photograph that showed heavy rotting to the 
wooden decking. And while they accepted that bowing of the roof decking can start to occur 
soon after it had been exposed to the elements, they said that the level of rotting to the 
decking shown demonstrates it was a long term issue that had been occurring for a 
considerable amount of time prior to the incident. In addition, QICs surveying team pointed 
to vegetation growing inside the shed, and a photograph that showed the felt had frayed and 
split at the edges, which they say was the result of deterioration over a long period of time. QIC says that this evidence shows the roof was in need of maintenance before the incident 
and its poor condition would have been highlighted by the winds that were experienced.
Ive carefully considered all of the evidence, including the photographs provided, in coming 
to my decision on this complaint. On the one hand, Mr B says the photographs support his 
belief that the shed was in good condition and the main cause of the damage was the storm. 
On the other hand, QIC says the shed had not been maintained and the roof was in a poor 
state of repair.
Where the evidence is inconsistent or contradictory, as it is here, I make my decision based 
on the balance of probabilities, that is, what I think more likely than not, happened, given the 
available evidence and surrounding circumstances. 
Under the storm section of Mr Bs policy, it explains QIC will not cover: d. anything that 
happens gradually. Having carefully considered the available evidence, I think it more likely 
than not, that the dominant cause of the damage was gradual wear and tear. So, QIC have 
acted within the policy terms and conditions and have fairly declined Mr Bs claim. I therefore 
do not uphold this complaint. 
My final decision
For the reasons set out in this decision, my final decision is that I do not uphold Mr Bs 
complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 13 December 2022.
 
Carolyn Harwood
Ombudsman