DRN-3542924
The complaint
Mr T complains that Starling Bank Limited (Starling) didnt raise a chargeback against a 
debit card payment when he asked it to do so.
What happened
Mr T says he attended a conference abroad and he paid a lot of money to attend a workshop 
where hed be given a tablet computer. He says when the tablet wasnt provided, he raised a 
chargeback with Starling, but it declined his claim. Mr T told us:
Hed paid around $3,200 to attend a conference and two workshops. There was a 
premium of $396 for one particular workshop, and the advertisement stated hed be 
given tablet. This was a condition of sale because the other workshops he attended 
either charged a zero or nominal premium;
the tablets shouldve been provided on the day of the workshop, but they didnt 
arrive, and the conference organiser then said the tablets would be provided the 
following day. On the last day of the conference, the organisers said theyd post the 
tablets to the delegates;
he contacted the conference organisers but didnt have any faith in their promises 
and he asked Starling to raise a chargeback;
the bank rejected his claim and told him that the organisers had fulfilled the contract 
 hed attended the workshop that hed paid for;
he disagrees and he wants a refund for the cost of a brand-new tablet.
Starling rejected Mr Ts complaint. It said that although it understood Mr Ts situation, there 
were no valid grounds under which it could dispute this payment under Mastercards 
chargeback rules; the invoice showed that no cost could be associated with the tablet. And 
the service that Mr T had paid for  the workshop  had been provided and utilised. In 
conclusion it said the merchant had completed and fulfilled its obligation linked to the 
transaction.
Our investigator looked at this complaint and said he didnt think it should be upheld. He 
acknowledged that Mr T had now received a refund from the conference organiser in respect 
of the missing tablet  so wasnt out of pocket  but he recognised he felt let down by 
Starling.
The investigator explained how the chargeback scheme operates and said that in this 
particular case, Starling had to follow the rules set out by Mastercard  it was a Mastercard 
debit card issued by Starling that Mr T had used to make his purchase.
He said it wasnt unreasonable for Starling not to raise a chargeback claim  it simply didnt 
have sufficient evidence to show that the provision of a tablet was included in the cost of the 
workshop. And because of this, it was fair to conclude that a chargeback claim was unlikely 
to have been successful.
Mr T disagreed so the complaint comes to me to decide. He says Starling shouldve raised a 
chargeback when he asked it to because when he signed up for the workshop, the order 
screen showed a tablet was included, and its just unfortunate that he didnt take a copy of it. 
He says the receipt shouldve itemised the tablet and the fact it didnt is a failure by the 
conference organiser. He says, The consumer is always correct and the onus is on the 
vendor to prove otherwise.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I have to tell Mr T that Im not going to uphold his complaint because the 
merchant has already refunded Mr T the full value of the tablet.
The chargeback process allows debit and credit card users to ask for a transaction to be 
reversed if there's a problem with the goods or services paid for. There's no automatic right 
to a chargeback, and a chargeback isnt a guaranteed method of getting a refund. The 
process is limited to specific criteria. So, before ordering a bank to refund all or part of the 
cost of something, Id need to be satisfied that it acted incorrectly in the way it made a 
chargeback claim under the chargeback regulations.
We generally consider that, as a matter of good practice, the card issuer should attempt a 
chargeback if the card holder has challenged a transaction and - taking into account relevant 
card scheme rules  it looks as if theres a fair chance that a chargeback request might 
succeed. But just because the customer makes a request it doesnt mean the chargeback 
will necessarily succeed. This is because the rules lay down strict conditions which must be 
satisfied for a chargeback claim to succeed.
These regulations are created by a third party, in this case MasterCard, and the bank has to 
follow them if it wants to initiate a chargeback. MasterCard is an international organisation 
which facilitates payments between different banks in the same and different countries. Its 
regulations seek to maintain a balance between merchants supplying goods and services, 
customers of these merchants, and the banks acting for each of them. Accordingly, in the 
case of the purchase and supply of goods or services, the regulations only permit a 
chargeback to the extent that there is a valid chargeback reason.
Ive carefully looked at all the information provided by both Mr T and Starling, and I think its 
arguable that Starling shouldve raised a chargeback when Mr T first asked it to. I say this 
because the fact that Mr T did eventually get a refund from the merchant suggests to me that 
a chargeback may have been successful, although I have to accept that its equally possible 
that a chargeback claim may have been successfully defended by the merchant on the basis 
that it had already arranged for a refund / replacement to be sent to Mr T.
In any event, I think both of these possible scenarios suggest that provision of the tablet was 
part of the contract between Mr T and the merchant. And although its not uncommon for 
contracts not to set out everything, Mr Ts additional evidence  the YouTube advert  
supports this position.
So, taking everything into account, I think it would have been reasonable for Starling to have 
either attempted the chargeback, or at the very least made further enquiries.
In any event, I dont need to reach a finding on this because it wouldnt make a difference to 
the outcome of this complaint, as I understand the merchant  in this case the conference 
organiser  has already reimbursed Mr T with the full value of the tablet. And, of course, the 
workshops that Mr T paid for, were delivered by the merchant, and were attended by Mr T.Ive gone on to consider the service that Mr T received from Starling, specifically whether it 
caused unnecessary delays in the way it handled his claim, but Im not persuaded that it did. 
I can see it replied promptly to all communications from Mr T, and there were no lengthy 
delays by Starling where Mr T simply didnt hear from the bank.
Taking everything into consideration, Im not persuaded that Mr T experienced any detriment 
or was caused any inconvenience by Starling. It follows that I do not uphold this complaint.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr T to accept or 
reject my decision before 4 November 2022.
 
Andrew Macnamara
Ombudsman