The complaint
Mr and Mrs W complain that Fairmead Insurance Limiteds contractors didnt properly secure 
their property while repair works were being carried out. They say this led to Mr Ws bike 
being stolen from their garage.
What happened
Mr and Mrs Ws back wall was damaged. So they put in a claim to Fairmead to get the wall 
rebuilt. Fairmead accepted the claim and appointed a contractor to carry out the repairs.
The contractor started the work and took down part of the wall. Due to bad weather though, 
they had to stop work for a few days. They secured the site with fencing and fixed it to the 
wall. 
Unfortunately, a thief/thieves was able to access Mr and Mrs Ws garage and stole Mr Ws 
bike. Mr and Mrs W didnt think Fairmeads contractor had secured their property properly 
and shouldnt have started taking their wall down when bad weather was pending. So they 
asked Fairmead to pay them the cost of replacing Mr Ws bike.
Fairmead didnt agree its contractor hadnt taken reasonable precautions to secure the 
property. So it didnt agree to reimburse Mr W for the cost of his bike. And it told Mr W that 
his policy didnt cover pedal cycles, so he wouldnt be able to claim for it.
Mr and Mrs W were unhappy with Fairmeads decision, and they asked us to look into their 
complaint.
Our investigator didnt think Mr and Mrs Ws complaint should be upheld. He noted that the 
thief had got through the fencing using a cordless drill. So he thought it showed the thief had 
been intent on getting access to the garage. He didnt think the contractors had been 
reckless by using that particular type of fencing to protect Mr and Mrs Ws home. He also 
didnt think the contractor had done anything wrong by starting the works when they did. So 
he didnt think Fairmead needed to pay Mr W for the cost of his bike.
Mr and Mrs W disagreed. Mr W said hed told the contractors to take better precautions. He 
said that they shouldve put the fencing on the inside of the wall and used security screws. 
He felt the contractor had been negligent and shouldve done more to secure the area. He 
maintained the contractors shouldnt have taken the wall down given the weather.
The complaints been passed to me to decide. It seems Mr W told the investigator though 
that he didnt want to complain that his bike wasnt covered by the policy. So I havent 
considered this here.
DRN-1956119What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Having done so, while Im sorry to 
disappoint Mr and Mrs W, Ive decided not to uphold their complaint. Ill explain why.
Its clear Mr and Mrs W have suffered a genuine theft from their garage. I know how strongly 
they feel about this matter and I sympathise with their position. But in making my decision, I 
have to decide whether I think Fairmeads contractors acted negligently or unreasonably. 
And I dont think they did.
Its unfortunate that when the works began, there was a period of bad weather which meant 
the contractors had to stop the work for a few days. But I think given the time of year, it was 
always quite possible that there would be spells of bad weather which could delay things. I 
dont think this was a reason for the contractor not to begin works. And I dont think they 
couldve known exactly when bad weather would start. They did need though to make sure 
the property was reasonably secured for the period they were off-site.
The contractor used a type of fencing caused Heras fencing, which was fixed to Mr and Mrs 
Ws wall. Ive looked into Heras fencing and I can see its used widely in the construction 
industry to secure sites. Ive also seen photographs of the fencing fixed to the brickwork 
using timber and screwed fixings. So it seems to me that the contractor did take reasonable 
steps to ensure the property was secure.
Mr W says he told the contractor he thought they needed to take more precautions to make 
the property secure. I appreciate he thinks they should have put the fencing inside the wall 
and used security screws.  But based on what Ive seen, I dont think the contractor was 
acting unreasonably or negligently in securing the property in the way they did.
Ive considered both the police report and the contractors report about how the thief got into 
the garage. The contractors report says that the fencing had been unscrewed from the lats 
and removed with a cordless drill. So it seems that the thief used a drill to unscrew the 
fencing and get into the property, rather than through the fencing being left unsecured or 
loose. It looks like the thief strongly intended to access the property and get into Mr and Mrs 
Ws garage. 
And while I accept it mightve been possible that security screws couldve deterred the thief, 
its at least equally possible that they couldve still got in using a cordless drill. So I still dont 
think that Fairmeads contractor acted negligently in securing the property the way they did.
Overall, while I understand how frustrating and upsetting the break-in mustve been for Mr 
and Mrs W; I simply havent seen enough to show me that Fairmeads contractors didnt take 
reasonable steps to secure their property. So Im not telling Fairmead to do anything more.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above, my final decision is that I dont uphold Mr and Mrs Ws 
complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W and Mrs W 
to accept or reject my decision before 24 July 2020.Lisa Barham
Ombudsman