DRN-1990584
The complaint
Mr M and Ms B complain that Leeds Building Society (when it was trading as Leeds & 
Holbeck Building Society) mis-sold them a payment protection insurance (PPI) policy.
What happened
This complaint concerns a PPI policy that protected Mr Ms mortgage monthly repayments in 
the event he couldnt work as a result of accident, sickness or unemployment. 
Our adjudicator didnt uphold their complaint. Mr M and Ms B didnt agree with this view. 
Mr M and Ms B mainly complain that it wasnt made clear that PPI was optional  they told 
us they were given the impression during a telephone conversation that the policy was 
required. Mr M said he wouldnt have taken out PPI if it was represented as optional rather 
than necessary. He told us it wasnt something they needed as he had excellent sick pay 
benefits through work.
So the case has been passed to me to make a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding this case.
Only Mr M had PPI but Ms B was a joint party to the mortgage as well. So Ive looked at both 
their circumstances when the policy was taken out.  
I agree with the adjudicator and Ive decided not to uphold Mr M and Ms Bs complaint. 
Heres why I say this.
Theres only limited information now available from the point of sale. Leeds Building Society 
couldnt provide any documents signed by Mr M from the time of sale. But this isnt a reason 
for me to uphold the complaint. Its not surprising, given how long ago this sale happened, 
that paperwork isnt still available. I wouldnt reasonably expect Leeds Building Society or 
Mr M to have kept this. 
Although Leeds Building Society says it cant say for certain how the PPI was sold, Mr M 
clearly recalls arranging this during a telephone conversation  and thats one way that it 
seems Leeds Building Society sold PPI around this time. So I think thats very likely what 
happened.
Leeds Building Society cant supply any call recording or telephone script (unsurprisingly 
after so long). Mr M says that PPI was strongly recommended to him. But thats not the 
same thing as telling him that he had no choice about having it. It seems to me that if 
Mr M and Ms B hadnt had any choice in the matter then a recommendation wouldnt have 
been needed. 
I've also taken into account that Mr M and Ms B also mentioned having seen a leaflet about 
the PPI which included the following: 
"We believe you cannot afford to be without Mortgage Payment Protection". 
But I agree with our adjudicator that wording doesnt suggest the policy wasnt optional. 
Where evidence is contradictory or incomplete (as some of it is here), Ive based my 
decision on the balance of probabilities  so, on what I think is most likely given the available 
information and the wider circumstances. I have to be impartial. Sometimes I need to make 
reasonable assumptions about whats most likely. This means that what Mr M and Ms B say 
isnt enough on its own for me to be able to uphold the complaint on the basis that it wasnt 
made clear that the policy was optional.
In order to uphold this complaint Id have to find that its likely that Mr M and Ms B werent 
given a fair choice about PPI or that it was added to the mortgage account without their 
consent. But I cant fairly say this based on the limited information Ive got. 
Mr M and Ms Bs home wouldve been at risk if the mortgage payments werent kept up to 
date. PPI provided a dependable means of ensuring the monthly mortgage repayments were 
protected even if Mr M couldnt work. Given the importance of protecting their mortgage 
monthly repayments, I can see why Mr M and Ms B mightve felt PPI was useful. 
On balance, I think its more likely that Mr M and Ms B wanted to have the benefits and 
security of having PPI and they decided to buy the policy, knowing it was up to them to 
choose if they wanted it or not.
Leeds Building Society says it recommended the PPI to Mr M and Ms B. Given that it cant 
say for certain how the PPI was sold I think thats the fairest way to look at the complaint as 
it gives Mr M and Ms B the best chance of succeeding in their complaint. Thats because if a 
business makes a recommendation about PPI, it doesnt just have to give important policy 
information in a clear way. There is an additional obligation on the lender as it also has to 
take reasonable steps to make sure the cover it recommends is suitable. 
So Ive also looked at the complaint this way too and assumed that Leeds Building Society 
personally recommended the PPI to Mr M and Ms B.
Leeds Building Society doesnt any longer have a policy document from the exact date Mr M 
took out PPI. But it has provided a policy document which was in use soon afterwards  so 
I think its likely that in all main respects the policy that Mr M took out wouldve had similar 
terms and conditions.
Although Ms B was working, I havent seen anything to suggest it was inappropriate that the 
cover was just in Mr Ms name.
Mr M was eligible for the PPI cover. I appreciate that he doesnt dispute this. But I just 
wanted to cover this point because its something we think about when looking at complaints 
like this. If Mr M hadnt been eligible for the policy then our adjudicator wouldve 
recommended upholding the complaint.Ive taken into account what Mr M told us about his sick pay entitlement. It seems likely this 
was at least 6 months' full sick pay followed by half pay for 6 months. Its possible he was 
entitled to more than this  but it would be unusual for someone in his employment situation 
to have had as much sick pay as Mr M mentioned he wouldve had. So, although Ive no 
reason to doubt that hes certain about what hes told us, since Mr M cant send me anything 
to show hes correct when he says he wouldve got full sick pay for at least 12 months, 
I cant fairly assess his complaint on the basis that hes right about this.    
The policy wouldve paid a monthly benefit and paid out on top of Mr Ms sick pay for up to 
12 months per claim if Mr M was too sick to return to work. So I think this couldve been a 
useful benefit in what wouldve been difficult circumstances for Mr M and Ms B  especially if 
they mightve faced extra costs if Mr M was sick or disabled.
The mortgage was taken out when they were both in paid work. So I think losing Mr Ms full 
income wouldve likely had a big impact on their joint finances if, as seems likely to me, Mr M 
could only rely on getting full pay for just six months if he was off work sick.
The policy wouldve also paid out if Mr M had lost his job. 
Even if the possibility of being made redundant seemed unlikely, there could be no 
guarantee that his job would remain secure indefinitely. And PPI wouldve paid out, in 
addition to any redundancy pay, providing additional financial security in that situation. . 
Mr M couldve made repeated claims on the policy so in this way it offered long term cover 
for the mortgage. 
So I can see why they mightve wanted PPI at the time even if theyve forgotten this now. 
I think that Mr M and Ms B couldve benefitted from having PPI and a recommendation 
wouldve been suitable for them.
There were some things the policy didnt cover. But it doesnt look as if those applied in 
Mr Ms case. So, I dont think having more information about things the policy didnt cover 
wouldve affected Mr M and Ms Bs decision to take out the policy to cover Mr M.
Mr M wouldve been able to choose the level of cover he wanted to pay for  and he took 
this insurance when it wasnt essential to do so, which makes me think he wanted to have 
the policy benefits at the time. 
If the policy hadnt been affordable for them, then this might be a reason for me to uphold the 
complaint, so Ive considered this possibility. But Ive seen nothing to suggest that paying for 
the policy was difficult for Mr M and Ms B. So this isnt a reason for me to uphold the 
complaint.  
Overall its possible there may have been some failings in the way this policy was sold. But 
I think Mr M and Ms B still wouldve decided to buy the policy for Mr M if theyd been better 
informed as the policy gave them useful protection in their particular situation. I dont think 
better information wouldve stopped them buying it.
I've taken carefully into account everything Mr M has said in response to our adjudicators 
view, but this doesnt affect my decision. 
I appreciate Mr M and Ms B feel strongly about this complaint. I understand that what Ive 
said will come as a disappointment. In my decision I've dealt with all the main points that have an impact on the outcome of this complaint and I hope that setting out the reasons as 
Ive done will help explain how Ive reached my conclusion. 
I dont find that Mr M and Ms B lost out as a result of anything that Leeds Building Society 
did wrong. So it doesnt need to do anything to put things right.
My final decision
For these reasons, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms B and Mr M to 
accept or reject my decision before 14 October 2020.
 
Susan Webb
Ombudsman