DRN-4252957
The complaint
Mrs H complains that Advantage Finance Ltd (AF) was irresponsible to have agreed
car finance for her in 2016.
What happened
AF entered into a hire purchase agreement for a car with Mrs H in October 2016. The
price of the car was £8,398. The total amount owing under the agreement (including
interest and fees) came to £15,196.60. This was to be repaid over 59 monthly
instalments of £250.36 and a final payment of £425.36.
As it was a hire purchase agreement, AF remained the vehicle owner until Mrs H had
made all her repayments and so she was, in essence, paying for the use of it. Mrs H
made her payments by direct debit. A few were returned but then paid shortly after,
apart from one missed payment which Mrs H paid a higher monthly fee to clear over
a period of six months in 2020. The agreement ran to term and was repaid in full. The
account was closed in October 2021.
Mrs H complained to AF that it had agreed credit for her with a very high interest rate
which wasnt affordable in her circumstances. She said she had three dependents at
the time and the repayments left her with little disposable income each month. Mrs H
said she needed to take out high cost short term loans to top up her income
throughout the term.
AF disagreed that it had been irresponsible to lend to Mrs H. It says it carried out an
affordability check beforehand and verified her income, assessed her existing level of
debt and estimated her expenses. AF noted that Mrs H had some historic financial
difficulties but its check didnt raise any recent concerns. AF didnt uphold Mrs Hs
complaint.
Mrs H didnt accept this response and brought her complaint to us. One of our
investigators looked into it and recommended that it be upheld. They concluded that
AF would likely have found out through further checks that the credit wasnt affordable for 
Mrs H. They recommended that AF refund all payments Mrs H made above the price of the 
car, along with compensatory interest.
AF didnt accept this recommendation and asked for the complaint to come to an
ombudsman to decide and it came to me. I issued a provisional decision on 13 June 2023 
explaining why I didnt plan to uphold Mrs Hs complaint. I shared my reasons and the 
information Id relied on in that decision.
AF didnt respond to my provisional decision. Mrs H didnt agree with it and provided some 
comments and new information for me to consider when making my final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having considered everything again and Mrs Hs response to my provisional decision, I am 
not upholding her complaint. I am sorry that this isnt the answer Mrs H wishes for and I want 
to reassure her that have I carefully considered everything she said in response to my 
provisional decision. Ill set out my reasons for not upholding her complaint again in this final 
decision and address Mrs Hs responses where appropriate. 
As Id said in my provisional decision, AF will be familiar with the regulations in place at the 
time so Ill summarise its main obligations. AF needed to check that Mrs H could afford to 
meet her repayments sustainably before entering into a credit agreement with her. In other 
words, it needed to check that she could meet her repayments out of her usual means 
without experiencing undue difficulty or adverse consequences, for example while meeting 
any existing commitments and without having to borrow or realise assets. The necessary 
checks needed to take into account both the nature of the credit (its type, amount, term etc.) 
and Mrs Hs particular circumstances.
The overarching requirement was that AF needed to pay due regard to Mrs Hs interests
and treat her fairly. The regulators guidance (CONC) paragraph 2.2.2G gave an example
of contravening this requirement as targeting customers with regulated credit agreements
which are unsuitable for them by virtue of their indebtedness, poor credit history, age,
health, disability or any other reason. 
With this in mind, my main considerations are did AF complete reasonable and
proportionate checks when assessing Mrs Hs application to satisfy itself that she would
be able to make the repayments under the agreement out of her usual means without
undue difficulty? If not, what would reasonable and proportionate checks have shown and 
ultimately, did AF make a fair lending decision? 
Did AF complete reasonable and proportionate checks?
Mrs Hs income was noted as £2,100 on her application form. AF provided a copy of
Mrs Hs September 2016 payslip, which showed a monthly net figure of £1,564 after tax
and deductions. AF relied on the higher figure of £2,100 which it calculated based on the
year to date figures shown on the payslip so as to take into account income fluctuations. It
recorded Mrs Hs mortgage payments as £693, her other debts as £318 and estimated her
bills as £173 plus council tax at £58  a total of £1,242. This left Mrs H with an estimated
disposable income of £858 to meet her finance repayments and any other costs.
As mentioned, AF relied on a year to date figure to come to an average estimate of
Mrs Hs monthly income. I havent seen any evidence that AF looked into this before doing
so. I dont know what might have happened earlier in the year for example Mrs H may
have been paid an annual bonus or had fewer deductions from her wages. At the time of
taking out the credit Mrs H was paying money directly from her pre-tax wages into a salary
sacrifice scheme and having deductions for health care and child care vouchers. Using
this net figure of £1,564 alongside the above expenses estimate of £1,242 means Mrs H
could end up spending more than a third of her wages on debt and have an estimated £72
left each month. While the credit might have been affordable on a pounds and pence basis
I cant find that it looked sustainable for Mrs H based on these figures, given she had
dependents and would need to meet her repayments for five years.
AF said that Mrs Hs credit file didnt show that she was having current financial difficulty. It 
said that shed had some issues in the past, as did many of its customers. Mrs Hs credit
file showed that she had a history of borrowing from short term lenders and had recently
taken out a payday loan with repayments of £245. The only other active debt Mrs H hadwas a credit card with a balance of £771. Mrs H had a defaulted account from 2011 with a
balance of £4,266 and a county court judgement of £4,538 awarded in early 2015 which
hadnt yet been repaid. These may have been related and I dont know what Mrs H was
paying, or should have been paying, towards this debt. I accept that the adverse
information Mrs H had on her credit file had happened more than 12 months before she
took out this credit, but she had just taken out a short term loan which could suggest that
she had an ongoing need to supplement her income.
Altogether, I think it would have been a proportionate response for AF to have looked into
Mrs Hs circumstances in more detail before agreeing to lend to her on this occasion.
In response to my provisional decision, Mrs H said that AF didnt complete the necessary 
checks on her expenditure at the time the finance was approved. She also said that she 
didnt complete an income and expenditure assessment at the time and that AF based their 
decision to lend solely on her income/pay slip. Mrs H said that AF was therefore 
irresponsible to lend to her. 
As Ive explained above, Ive concluded that AF didnt carry out a proportionate check before 
lending to Mrs H. However, this isnt enough to uphold her complaint. When we find a 
business has made an error, we also need to find that this error has caused a loss for a 
consumer and that this loss would not have happened but for this error. In this case Ive 
concluded that AF didnt complete a proportionate assessment. Ive therefore gone on to 
consider whether AF would still have agreed to lend to Mrs H if everything had gone as it 
should have. 
What might proportionate checks have shown?
Mrs H has provided us with her bank statements from the time and Ive reviewed these. To
be clear Im not suggesting that AF ought to have done so but this is the information I have
and think its reasonable to rely on this to get some understanding of what a proportionate
check would likely have revealed to AF.
Mrs H was paid an amount of £1,564 in August and September 2016 and she also had
monthly child benefit payments of £192, a total of £1,756. Our investigator noted that Mrs H 
was spending about £1,600 a month, which Id consider a minimum figure having reviewed 
her bank statements. In addition to her credit card and short term loan repayments, Mrs H 
was paying at least £50 a month in overdraft and returned direct debit fees as she was
regularly using her £1,400 overdraft.
AF said that Mrs Hs mortgage was jointly held with her husband and so it was fair to
assume that he paid something towards this. Ive seen no evidence of this and Mrs H is
liable for the full monthly payment, which came out of her account.
Mrs H told us that her husband was self-employed and paid for irregular costs such as
birthday presents, clothes, school trips, extra food and travel costs, while meeting his own
personal and work costs. The bank statements support what Mrs H told us as it shows ad-
hoc payments into the account from her husband. I didnt include irregular costs in my
considerations above nor did I include any ad-hoc payments from Mrs Hs husband. While
it seems likely Mrs H shared some expenses with her husband, ultimately she was solely
liable for this credit and I dont think its fair to assume a level of contribution which would
render the credit affordable.
However, Mrs H had other sources of income. I can see payments of £480 into Mrs Hs
account on 23 September and 7 October 2016 from her employer. Mrs H told us that
these amounts were for additional freelance work which was sporadic and not guaranteed.I dont doubt what Mrs H told us about the nature of this work however, had AF looked into
Mrs Hs finances in more depth I think it would have continued with its offer of credit. The
amounts were substantial enough and frequent enough that it seems more likely than not
Mrs H would have enough disposable income to support her repayments. I can see from
the bank statements that Mrs H was also paid £480 in late October and £600 in late
November. In December Mrs H received £925 from another company.
I concluded in my provisional decision that a proportionate assessment wouldnt have 
caused concerns for AF. Mrs Hs level of income meant she would be able to meet her 
repayments of £250 while meeting her existing commitments and usual living costs. 
In response to my provisional decision Mrs H told us that she paid about £500 a month in 
nursery fees, about half of which was paid via the salary sacrifice scheme. Mrs H also said 
that her husband was working part-time and had his own costs and so she took on the 
majority of the credit responsibilities. As I explained above, I estimated that Mrs Hs monthly 
spending was at least £1,600 a month based on her bank statements, which included 
nursery fees. 
Mrs H also told us that that in addition to the bank account I referred to (where she was 
paying about £50 a month for her overdraft usage), she had another bank account with an 
overdraft of over £2,000 at the time. Mrs H provided bank statements for this other account 
for September, October and November 2016 which show she was paying about £40 a month 
in overdraft interest and fees for this debt. This additional regular commitment doesnt 
change my view that the monthly repayments would have seemed affordable to AF. 
I have reconsidered that some of Mrs Hs income was for additional work which wasnt 
guaranteed. But because of the history of a higher level of pay and the evidence from her 
bank statements of the regularity and level of these funds, Ive concluded that it was more 
likely than not that AF would have continued with its decision to lend. And so I cant find that 
it was irresponsible to have proceeded on the basis of the information it had.
Did AF make a fair lending decision?
Even if credit is affordable a lender might not be acting fairly by entering into an agreement 
depending on the customers circumstances (as per CONC 2.2.2G). As mentioned Mrs H 
said in response to my provisional decision that in addition to the debts Id considered, she 
had another overdraft of over £2,000. Mrs H also said that both she and her husband were 
maxed out with living expenditure which could be seen from their bank statements. I 
appreciate Mrs Hs strength of feeling on this point and I have carefully reconsidered 
whether AF made a fair lending decision here. 
As Ive said above, Mrs H held a credit card and two bank accounts and she had reached 
her credit limits on these. Mrs H also had a county court judgement of £4,538 awarded 
against her in early 2015 (but I dont know what the status of this was at the time) and she 
had recently taken out a short term loan. I think it is fair to say that her finances were 
pressured. However, I havent seen enough to suggest that Mrs H was struggling with her 
finances to the extent that it was foreseeable she would have difficulty meeting her 
repayments and that AF should have declined to lend to her.
Mrs H provided evidence that shed taken out a payday loan in March 2017 and another in 
June. Mrs H also provided evidence of taking out a line of credit with a high cost lender 
some years later in March 2020. I can see from the customer contact information provided 
that Mrs H missed payments to AF around these times and told AF that this was because 
her pay dates had changed. Taking everything into account, Ive concluded that its more likely that Mrs H experienced cash flow issues on a few occasions and managed her 
finances accordingly as opposed to the credit having such an adverse impact on her 
finances that she needed to borrow to cover the repayments. The agreement ran to term and 
was repaid in full and the account was closed in October 2021. 
Mrs H said that the interest rate charged for the credit was extremely high and that she
couldnt afford to borrow at this rate. I appreciate that Mrs H might not make the same
decision about the credit now, but I havent found that AF made an irresponsible lending 
decision which adversely impacted on her. I am sorry that this will be a disappointing 
outcome for Mrs H but my final decision is that I am not upholding her complaint.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I am not upholding Mrs Hs complaint about Advantage 
Finance Ltd.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs H to accept or 
reject my decision before 16 August 2023.
 
Michelle Boundy
Ombudsman