DRN-4248409
The complaint
Miss R is unhappy with the interest Ikano Bank AB (publ) (Ikano) has applied to a fixed 
sum loan agreement she has with it. 
What happened
In February 2022, Miss R purchased furniture from a company I shall call D. The total price 
was £768, and Miss R paid a £100 deposit. The remaining £668 was financed via a fixed 
sum loan provided by Ikano. Under the agreement Miss R was given a 12-month deferred 
period. If the total amount was repaid within that, then no interest would be applied. 
Following the deferred period, the agreement stated that monthly payments of £33.51 would 
be required until the loan is paid back in full. The maximum number of monthly payments 
would be 36. 
A welcome letter was sent by Ikano that explained the actual date Miss R needed to repay 
the loan for interest to not be charged was 7 February 2023. However due to an issue with 
the door number, Miss R says it was never received.  
Miss R says the sales advisor at D told her the deferred period ended in March 2023. In 
June 2022, Miss R contacted Ikano to enquire why monthly payments werent being taken. 
The advisor explained that these wouldnt start until the 12-month deferred period ended and 
the first due date would be 6 March 2023. The advisor went on to explain that any payments 
made within the 12-month period would be interest free. But if any balance remained on the 
loan after that date, interest would be applied onto the account. 
Following this call Miss R tried to make payments, but these were returned. In September 
2022, Miss R called Ikano again regarding the returned payments. It was identified the issue 
was due to an incorrect reference number not being input. The correct reference number 
was provided. At the end of the call the advisor explained the deferred period expiry date for 
no interest to be charged was 7 February 2023. Miss R didnt reply further, and the call was 
ended by the advisor. On this call the incorrect door number was also updated. 
In January 2023, Ikano sent Miss R a reminder letter to the updated address. This explained 
that if she wanted to pay back the loan without any interest charges, she needed to pay the 
remaining balance of £368 by 7 February 2023. As this didnt happen Ikano applied interest. 
Miss R paid what she believed was the outstanding £368 at the beginning of March 2023. 
However, as interest had been applied a balance remained due. Unhappy that Ikano had 
applied interest, Miss R raised a complaint. Miss R said she had repaid the full amount 
inside the deferred period given to her by Ds sales advisor. 
Ikano issued its final response and said sufficient notice of the deferred period expiry date 
had been provided and therefore it wouldnt be removing the interest it had charged. 
Unhappy with Ikanos response Miss R referred her complaint to our service. One of our 
investigators considered the complaint and concluded that Ikano had given Miss R correct 
notice of the deferred period expiry when it sent her the reminder in January 2023. They also 
said any issues with the payments being returned werent down to an error by Ikano. 
Miss R didnt agree and again said she had been told by a sales assistant that she had until 
March 2023 to repay the loan without interest being charged. As Miss R didnt agree the 
complaint has been passed to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I would like to point out Ive read and considered the whole file, but Ill concentrate my 
comments on what I think is relevant. If I dont comment on any specific point, its not 
because Ive failed to take it on board and think about it but because I dont think I need to 
comment on it in order to reach what I think is the right outcome.
Miss R has said she was told when purchasing the furniture from D that she had until March 
2023 to repay the loan for interest to not apply. I wasnt present for those discussions and 
there isnt anything in writing from D that appears to confirm this. So, while I dont doubt Miss 
Rs testimony, I feel its important here to look at the other evidence thats been provided.  
The loan agreement is signed in February 2022 and explains the loan comes with a 12-
month deferred period. The agreement says no payments are due for the first 12 months 
and if the amount of credit is paid back in full on or before the end of the deferred period no 
interest would be charged. It doesnt however give any specific date when the deferred 
period ends. 
This information was included in the welcome letter. There was an issue that meant this was 
sent to an incorrect door number. This however doesnt appear to be down to an error by 
Ikano. It seems Miss Rs door number changed and that caused the problem. At the time of 
the paperwork being sent, both Miss R and Ikano believed it was being sent to the correct 
address. I say this as when calling Ikano in June 2023, Miss R was still providing the 
incorrect door number. I do appreciate that because of the door number issue, Miss R says 
she didnt receive the welcome letter from Ikano. 
When Miss R called Ikano in June 2022 to enquire why payments werent being taken, she 
was given incorrect information regarding the deferred period end date. Listening to the call 
the advisor does indicate that its only after 6 March 2023 that interest would apply. Given 
what had happened up to this point, I can see why Miss R believed she had until early March 
2023 to repay the loan for no interest to be charged. 
Ikano does provide the correct information on the following call that Miss R made to it in 
September 2022. However, it isnt clear whether Miss R heard this or not. Miss R is in 
conversation with the advisor right up until they provide the deferred period expiry date as 
being 7 February 2023. At that point while the call appears to still be connected, Miss R 
doesnt respond. 
Importantly here, in January 2023 Ikano sent a reminder letter of when the deferred period 
ended in. This was sent to the updated door number, so I have no reason to believe it wasnt 
received by Miss R. This letter gave the correct deferred period end date and so at that point 
Ikano had clarified any previous misinformation provided by it or D.
Miss R was given notice of the correct deferred period end date, in time, and payment in full 
wasnt received by then. I cant therefore say Ikano has acted unfairly here in applying the 
interest it has.
While it doesnt form part of what Ive considered in this decision, I would like to remind 
Ikano of its obligation to treat Miss R with forbearance and due consideration in relation to 
the any outstanding amount that remains owed. 
My final decision
I dont uphold Miss Rs complaint against Ikano Bank AB (publ). Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss R to accept 
or reject my decision before 17 January 2024.
 
Paul Blower
Ombudsman