DRN-3130849
The complaint
Mr W complains that esure Insurance Limited, trading as Sheilas Wheels (esure) have 
delayed in the repair of his car, not paid the full value, and provided poor communication and 
customer service.   
    
What happened
In November 2020 Mr Ws car was maliciously damaged and he made a claim under his 
policy. The car went to an approved garage for repair and Mr W paid his £1000 excess. 
Mr W was initially told that the repair would be a couple of weeks but it took longer. He made 
repeated calls to esure for updates but didnt receive calls back when promised. 
He was then told the car would be ready on 29 December 2020, but the date passed with no 
contact.
Mr W was then informed on 11 January 2021 that his car was ready. When he went to 
collect it, he says that he found that there were a number of problems with the repair, and he 
was not satisfied that it had been done properly. 
Mr W phoned esure and complained. He was assured that it would be put right, but the 
following day he received an e mail advising that his complaint had been closed. 
Mr W got back in touch with esure and they agreed to arrange a third-party inspection. He 
was given a date and booked the day off work. He was told that he would be present to 
witness the inspection, but it took place without him or the insurer being present. 
He was then advised there would be another inspection which he could attend, but this again 
took place without him. 
Esure admitted that the repair had not been undertaken at the required standard and offered 
two options, either that he car was sent to another garage or written off. 
Mr W says that he no longer felt that he could trust the insurer, having waited over 90 days 
for his repair, and he opted to have the car written off. He was offered £16000 (less his 
£1000 excess) as a valuation. He provided evidence of valuations for the car ranging from 
£19800 for poor condition up to £28000 for excellent condition. The third-party engineer 
report said that prior to the accident the car was in above average condition. 
Esure contacted Mr W and offered an increase to £17000 if he dropped all complaints. Mr W 
accepted this but feels that he was pressured into this as he says he was lied to, misled and 
bullied by e sure. The new offer includes a £500 increase in the valuation (meaning the car 
valuation was actually £16500), £80 for transferring his number plate, and £420 for trouble 
and upset. No excess would be deducted. 
Mr W was unhappy with esures response and brought his complaint to us. 
One of our investigators has looked into Mr Ws complaint. Initially she recommended an 
increased figure for valuation, but following further representations, she later revised this 
view, and felt the initial valuation was fair.  
 
Mr W disagreed with our investigators view, and so the case has come to me to review.
  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Firstly I have to consider whether the valuation of Mr Ws car was fairly arrived at, and 
secondly whether the service provided by e sure was reasonable. 
The valuation
In Section 21 of the policy booklet Damage to your car it says  We wont pay more that 
the market value of your car at the time of the loss, less the excess.
Esure have obtained information from Cazana, CAP and Glass to determine the market 
value the vehicle. The mileage adjusted valuations provided were CAP - £15,950, Glass - 
£18,040 and Cazana £17,905. 
Our approach to how to work out the market value of the car is to take the average of the 
two higher valuations and deduct 50% of the cost of the repair estimate for pre-existing 
damage 
Using our approach, the starting point for assessing market value of the car would be 
£17972.50. 
We would then deduct 50% of the costs of repairing any pre existing damage. 
Although the car was stated on the independent engineers report to be in above average 
condition, they still identified some damage which would need repairing before it could be 
sold. This damage was corrosion to all the wheel arches, and impact damage to one of the 
alloy wheels. Esure obtained an estimate for repairing this damage, and the cost came to 
£4250. If we were to deduct 50% of this off the average valuation, it would reduce the market 
value to £15847.50. This is less than the £16500 valuation offered to Mr W by esure. I am 
therefore satisfied that the market value offered by esure in settlement of this claim is fair, 
and in line with the terms of the policy and our approach.   
Payment of the policy excess
Mr W paid the policy excess to the repairer at the outset of the claim, when he thought that 
his car was going to be repaired. Following the repairs being unsatisfactory, the car was 
written off and Mr W received his settlement offer of £17000.  
The Senior Engineers note says ESD Agreed valuation with customer of £17000 in full and 
final settlement of his claim. .PH has already paid his excess to A (the repairer) so do not 
deduct any excess from the payment. 
As I understand it, Mr W was paid £17000 which was the final settlement agreed upon, and 
no excess was deducted. This was because he had already paid it over to the garage at the 
outset, and so by paying Mr W the full £17000, esure were effectively refunding the £1000 
excess he had paid and so nothing further is due. 
When the investigator issued her view on this there was some confusion, and she thought 
that the £17000 was the offer after deduction of the excess, but having clarified the position with esure and looked at the notes and correspondence that was sent to Mr W at the time, I 
am satisfied that the offer was always £17000 and that Mr W knew that.  
Distress and Inconvenience
As part of the settlement, esure have offered Mr W £420 for the trouble and upset caused by 
the length of time it had taken to deal with the repairs and the eventual writing off the vehicle. 
This formed part of the final settlement offer of £17000.  
I appreciate that this whole process has been very frustrating for Mr W and has taken longer 
than it should have. His frustration has also been exacerbated his dissatisfaction with the 
valuation and that he has had to spend additional money to replace his car. However, I do 
agree that £420 is a fair offer and within the range of awards that we would make for distress 
and inconvenience in these circumstances, and so I dont propose to increase this. 
I appreciate that this will be disappointing for Mr W, but I hope that my reasons give him a 
clear picture of why I am not upholding her complaint. 
 
My final decision
My decision is that I am not upholding this complaint, and will not be asking esure Insurance 
Limited trading as Sheilas Wheels to do anything further. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 20 January 2022.
 
Joanne Ward
Ombudsman