DRN-2079363
The complaint
Mr H is unhappy with how Barclays Bank UK PLC has dealt with his Right to erasure 
request.
What happened
Mr H has brought his complaint to our service through a representative. I will refer to any 
correspondence received on Mr Hs behalf as if he presented this himself. I would also like to 
reassure Mr H I have read his complaint in detail and understand a lot has happened since 
2018, but Ive only summarised the key events below.
In May 2018, Mr H put in a Subject Access Request (SAR) with Barclays to see the personal 
data it held for him. And in July 2018 he put in a request to have his personal data erased by 
it. Barclays took a number of months to respond to Mr H and at this time told him it wasnt 
possible to delete his data, as it retained data for six years. It offered him £100 
compensation for the time it had taken to respond and in recognition of the time spent on the 
phone trying to resolve his request.
Mr H put in a further SAR in October 2018, however this wasnt processed by Barclays as it 
regarded this as a duplicate. Mr Hs second SAR was later accepted, but he requested that 
his data erasure be backdated to when he first raised his requests, so around July 2018. 
Barclays responded to this in May 2019, but didnt agree to it. It said it would delete his data 
six years from the date his final account closed. At this time it offered Mr H a further £200 for 
the delays and the frustration hed experienced. 
Mr H continued to correspond with Barclays, as he was still awaiting a satisfactory outcome 
to his complaint and erasure request. In August 2019 Barclays told Mr H there were ongoing 
discussions around its erasure policy, so it couldnt do anything at this time and his request 
was placed in a queue. But it offered Mr H a further £100 for the delays. And in November 
2019, Barclays explained to Mr H that it had updated its data retention policy to keep data for 
ten years. Mr H questioned Barclays around this and its GDPR policy. And at this time he 
had an ongoing complaint with the Information Commissioners Office (ICO).
Mr H received letters in December 2019 stating that Barclays was processing his SAR. He 
hadnt placed a request at this time, so contacted Barclays to establish what was going on 
and share his concerns about potential fraudulent activity. It took Mr H speaking to a number 
of departments and different operatives before Barclays was able to locate the reference on 
the letter and determine the request was made on Mr Hs behalf by the ICO.
In February 2020, Barclays issued its last response to the complaint. It referred Mr H to its 
website for further information on its GDPR policy and confirmed the team who deal with 
GDPR requests dont deal directly with customers. It awarded Mr H a further £125 for the 
service hed received.
Mr H then brought his complaint to our service. He explained that hed received poor service 
throughout. He said he was still receiving marketing emails from Barclays, despite no longer 
holding any products with it  and having requested that these stop.
To put things right Mr H asked our service to get Barclays to explain when his data retention 
period ended and why it had increased the data retention to ten years. He wanted to know if 
this policy impacted all customers and if all customers affected by this issue had been 
written to. And he wanted to understand why he hadnt been told about the change 
proactively and instead he discovered this as a result of his complaint.
Our investigator looked into the complaint and got confirmation from Barclays that Mr H 
would no longer receive any marketing information. She was able to provide him with a date 
in May 2029 when his data would be automatically erased. In relation to the ten-year 
retention, she said she was satisfied Barclays was entitled to increase its retention time in 
the way it had. And that the rules on this said data could be held for up to ten years, so its 
timescales were within these and meant she couldnt say it was acting unfairly. She also felt 
the amount of compensation Mr H had been offered was fair, considering the errors Barclays 
had made. 
Following her investigation, Mr H explained that he wasnt looking for a monetary 
compensation award. His representative, on his behalf, explained they wanted Barclays to 
admit itd done something wrong and that its customer service isnt as good as it could be. 
He explained he wanted Barclays staff to be provided with training and for the departments 
to have better communication with one another. He wanted assurances that other people 
wouldnt have to go through what he  and his family  had in trying to have his data erased. 
Mr H said he would donate any monetary compensation to charity if it was awarded, as hes 
looking for acknowledgement not financial gain. And that way other people could be helped 
by what had happened.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I understand that at this point in time Barclays has actioned Mr Hs requests and has 
stopped contacting him. And his data will be erased in 2029, in line with Barclays retention 
policy. So the issue that remains outstanding is how Barclays has put its errors right. Mr H, 
through his representative, feels very strongly about how hes been treated and the impact 
this has had on him and his family. And I know he isnt looking for monetary compensation 
but for Barclays staff to receive additional training and for this not to happen to anyone else.
As our investigator explained, what Mr H has asked for to resolve this case isnt something 
that I can award on an individual case. Our service isnt able to punish a business or dictate 
to it how it should operate. If our service was to see a pattern in complaints we received, 
then this may be something we discuss with the business involved  and possibly the 
regulator if we determined it needed to be escalated. But these conversations and anything 
that resulted from them would be dealt with at a higher level between our organisations. It 
wouldnt be awarded as the outcome of an individual complaint, and I havent seen the need 
to instigate this process, based on this individual case.
Barclays has made a compensation award to Mr H for the distress it caused him through the 
way it handled his requests. While I accept Mr H has said any compensation will be donated 
to charity, as this isnt about receiving a financial award, I have considered whether Barclays 
offer is fair in the circumstances.
Im aware that Mr Hs health conditions mean this situation has had a greater impact on him 
than it may have done on someone else. And that this has meant the situation has caused 
distress to those supporting Mr H too  although I can only award compensation to him, as he is the eligible complainant in this case. Ive also kept in mind how long this situation has 
been on-going for Mr H. But with this in mind, I do think the total compensation Barclays has 
offered (£525) is fair.
I say this because, while there have been delays, Barclays has acknowledged these and the 
compensation was offered at regular intervals, each time taking into account what had 
happened in the progress of the requests. And while I wouldve hoped Barclays couldve 
dealt with Mr Hs request sooner, I cant punish it for reviewing its data retention policies. 
And I accept that a process like this will take some time, likely due to the departments 
involved and the multiple considerations needed. That said, it shouldve made this process 
clearer to Mr H at the earliest available opportunity, knowing he had an ongoing complaint. 
But again, Im satisfied that the award it made does compensate Mr H for this.
While I accept that Barclays started processing a further SAR due to a request from the ICO, 
I appreciate why Mr H was confused by the letter he received about this. And that Mr H not 
being able to speak to a department at Barclays who could quickly identify the reason for the 
letter added to his distress. But I can see Barclays was able to resolve Mr Hs issues within a 
few days at this time, so while it wouldve been better if he couldve had his concerns dealt 
with immediately, there wasnt a substantial delay. I accept Mr Hs point that if the 
departments were more joined up and had better communication this may not have been an 
issue. But as Ive set out, this isnt something I can award. And while I do appreciate the 
impact this had on him, I cant say its unreasonable for large organisations, such as 
Barclays, to take a few days to resolve a consumer query. I understand there were some 
further issues with correspondence a short while after this, but Mr H, through some effort on 
his part, was able to resolve this too. 
I accept that Barclays communication with Mr H has been below the standard I would 
expect, and he has been caused inconvenience and upset by the way it handled his 
requests. But it has also acknowledged this and apologised for it. Considering the overall 
case, Im satisfied Barclays has offered compensation in line with what we wouldve 
awarded. And Im conscious that this complaint is really about Barclays acknowledging 
wrong-doing and I think its done this, by way of the apologies and compensation. So while I 
agree it has made mistakes, I dont consider it needs to offer anything additional. I 
understand two payments are still outstanding, so if Mr H now wants to accept these, he 
should let our service or Barclays know.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, Im not upholding Mr Hs complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 November 2020.
 
Amy Osborne
Ombudsman