DRN-2522704
The complaint
Mr T complains that HSBC UK Bank Plc mis-sold him a home insurance policy so that his 
laptop wasnt covered when he made a claim for damage to it.
What happened
In December 2019, in the course of applying for a mortgage with a mortgage adviser in the 
bank, Mr T arranged home insurance through the adviser. He discussed covering his road 
bike and his laptop when travelling abroad. The question of insuring them for foreign travel 
was looked at but the cost of increasing the cover for that was too much, so Mr T settled for 
the basic package for home insurance. He says he made it clear that these were the only 
two items of value that he had and he left the meeting feeling comfortable that they were 
insured. For that reason, when the insurance documents arrived he only skimmed through 
them
Some months later Mr Ts laptop was damaged in an accident, but when he tried to claim 
from his insurer he was told portable equipment like the laptop wasnt covered as he didnt 
have extended accidental damage or personal belongings cover. He complained to HSBC 
explaining that he had been told the items were covered. He also spoke to the adviser whod 
arranged the policy and says she was surprised the laptop wasnt covered. He asked that 
HSBC pay him the cost of repair for his laptop.
HSBC explained that the policy was sold on a non-advised basis meaning that it hadnt 
recommended the policy nor did it advise on the suitability of cover provided. It said Mr T 
should have read the documents when he received them from the insurer.
On referral to this service our investigator said that HSBC has acted reasonably.
Mr T disagreed, pointing out that even though the policy was sold non-advised he had made 
it clear what cover he wanted and HSBC had failed to arrange that. He asked for an 
ombudsmans decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Its clear from the terms of the policy that the laptop wasnt covered for accidental loss or 
damage. This is because Mr T didnt take out the extra accidental damage cover or personal 
belongings cover. Ive considered what Mr T has said about the meeting (there are no notes 
of it), but I accept that the possibility of insuring the bike and pedal cycle for foreign travel 
was discussed but the cost of doing this was prohibitive. Mr T says he opted for the basic 
cover. And although he was concerned about the bike and the laptop he would also have 
been concerned to fully insure his property as required when taking out his mortgage. 
Having considered the matter I dont think it was for the adviser to specifically go through the 
various types of extra cover available particularly accidental damage. The laptop would have 
been covered for theft, fire, flood and other types of damage except for accidental loss or 
damage. I note that Mr T had a call with the adviser at the time he made the claim and says 
she was surprised that the laptop wasnt covered. Unfortunately theres no recording of that 
call and the adviser doesnt recollect it. So I cant, without knowing the full context of the call, 
make any finding about it.
In carrying out a non-advised sale HSBC had a responsibility to provide information that was 
clear, fair and not misleading so Mr T could make an informed decision on whether the 
policy was suitable for him. And whilst I dont doubt Mr Ts recollection of his meeting it 
appears to me that the discussion centred on Mr Ts desire to have his items covered for 
foreign travel. When that was found to be unaffordable he opted for basic cover which is 
what his laptop was covered for. Mr T says when he received the policy documents, he only 
skimmed through them. There is a clear warning in bold lettering on the front page of the 
schedule that the policyholder should check that it is complete and accurate. And the page 
setting out the optional extra cover sets out the answer no to each option. I dont think that 
the discussion about the laptop and bike took away the need, on a non-advised sale, for him 
to ensure the right information had been given to HSBC and the insurer.
On the question of the pedal bike, Ive note that this wasnt covered at all, and arguably the 
adviser was given the information that Mr T required cover for it. Nevertheless the schedule 
makes it clear that the optional pedal cycle cover wasnt selected. And fortunately Mr T 
hasnt had to make a claim for his bike, so he is able to correct that.
So overall I cant say that the policy was mis-sold to Mr T. I think he opted for the basic cover 
and when he received the documents should have read through them to ensure he had the 
cover he wanted.
My final decision
I dont uphold the complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr T to accept or 
reject my decision before 13 April 2021.
 
Ray Lawley
Ombudsman