DRN-3574556
The complaint
Mrs D complains that ERGO Reiseversicherung AG has turned down a cancellation claim 
she made on a travel insurance policy.
What happened
In September 2019, Mrs D took out a single trip travel insurance policy through a broker to 
cover a holiday shed booked. She was due to travel between 1 and 20 April 2020.
Unfortunately, on 3 March 2020, a close relative of Mrs Ds attempted suicide and was 
hospitalised. Mrs D therefore cancelled her trip and made a claim on her travel insurance 
policy for the costs associated with the cancellation.
ERGO ultimately turned down Mrs Ds claim. It said the policy specifically excluded claims 
which were due to attempted suicide. However, it sent its claims decision to an incorrect 
email address and Mrs D didnt receive its response.
Mrs D was unhappy with the way ERGO had handled her claim and asked us to look into her 
complaint. She also said that given the situation which had unfolded surrounding Covid-19, 
she wouldnt have been able to travel as planned in April 2020 in any event.
In August 2021, ERGO resent its claims decision to Mrs D and so our investigator 
considered both the claims decision and the way ERGO had handled Mrs Ds claim. He 
thought itd been fair for ERGO to rely on the attempted suicide exclusion to turn down Mrs 
Ds claim. And while he acknowledged that Covid-19 wouldve prevented Mrs D from 
travelling in any event, he didnt think that had been the reason why the trip had been 
cancelled. So he didnt think ERGO needed to pay Mrs Ds claim.
However, he noted that Mrs D hadnt been made aware of the claims decision until August 
2021 and he felt that the additional calls shed had to pay and chases shed had to send had 
caused her unnecessary upset. So he recommended that ERGO should pay Mrs D £100.
ERGO didnt respond to our investigators view.
Mrs D disagreed. She felt £100 compensation was a joke. She didnt think that her 
circumstances fell within the wording of the exclusion ERGO had relied on. And she 
maintained that due to Covid-19 and the closure of borders, she wouldnt have been able to 
travel anyway.
The complaints been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, whilst Im sorry to disappoint Mrs D, I think it was fair for ERGO to turn 
down her claim and Ill explain why.
The relevant regulators rules say that insurers must handle claims promptly and fairly. And 
they mustnt turn down claims unreasonably. So Ive considered, amongst other things, the 
terms of Mrs Ds policy and the circumstances of her claim, to decide whether ERGO treated 
her fairly.
Firstly, I dont doubt what a distressing and worrying situation this mustve been for Mrs D 
and her family and I do hope her relative has now made a full recovery. Its clear that Mrs D 
had no choice but to cancel her holiday and I sympathise with her position.
In making my decision though, I need to carefully consider the policy terms and conditions, 
as these form the basis of Mrs Ds contract with ERGO. The policy terms set out a list of the 
insured events ERGO has chosen to cover and things it has specifically chosen to exclude. 
The contract includes a section called General Exclusions which apply to all sections of the 
policy and ERGO says it wont pay claims which are directly or indirectly related to any of the 
listed exclusions. One of these is:
any claim arising or resulting from depression, anxiety, stress, depressive illness of any 
type, suicide or attempted suicide or injuring Yourself deliberately or putting Yourself in 
danger (unless You are trying to save a human life).
ERGO has relied on this exclusion to turn down Mrs Ds claim and so Ive next thought about 
whether it was fair for it to do so. The claim form Mrs D completed says that the cause of the 
claim was her close relatives attempted suicide. And the medical certificate completed by 
the consultant treating Mrs Ds close relative says that one of the specific diagnoses was an 
overdose. On the basis of the available evidence then, I think it was fair for ERGO to 
conclude that Mrs Ds claim was directly caused by attempted suicide and to rely on this 
exclusion to turn down her claim.
I appreciate Mrs D feels that the exclusion isnt worded in such a way as to apply to her 
situation. Its clear she feels it only relates to a policyholders attempted suicide. I disagree. I 
think the term is sufficiently clear that any claim arising or resulting from attempted suicide 
wont be covered. The clause is separated by an or which goes on to refer to a 
policyholders own deliberate injury to themselves. But this distinction doesnt only refer to a 
policyholders attempted suicide. 
Mrs D has also referred to the fact that due to Covid-19, she wouldnt have been able to 
travel in any event. Like our investigator, I accept that given border closures and global 
restrictions on travel and movement, Mrs Ds holiday would have to have been cancelled. 
But I cant consider cases with hindsight or think about what might have happened. In this 
case, Mrs Ds trip wasnt cancelled because of Covid-19. It had had to be cancelled around a 
week before Covid-19 was categorised as a pandemic and broadly two weeks before advice 
against travel was issued by the Foreign, Commonwealth & Development Office. Id add too 
that if the flights had had to be cancelled by the airline as a result of Covid-19, it wouldve 
been its responsibility to refund Mrs Ds costs. So I dont think I could reasonably direct 
ERGO to pay Mrs Ds claim on this basis either.
In summary then, I dont think ERGO acted unfairly when it turned down Mrs Ds claim.
However, I dont think that ERGO handled Mrs Ds claim as well as it shouldve done. I 
acknowledge that when Mrs D made her claim, the impact of Covid-19 on travel insurers 
was just beginning to be felt. This had an understandable effect on claims and the way 
insurers had to operate, which inevitably led to delays.
Regardless though, what is clear is that although ERGO did send Mrs D its claims decision 
in September 2020, it used the wrong email address. This led to Mrs D needing to chase things up and ultimately, bring a complaint to this service before she received ERGOs 
answer on her claim  around 18 months after the claim had been made. I think that this is 
likely to have caused Mrs D additional upset and inconvenience at an already worrying time 
for her and her family. And so I think its appropriate that ERGO pay Mrs D compensation to 
reflect the impact of this error, which added to the distressing situation she was already in. 
Like the investigator, I find that £100 is fair compensation to recognise the additional period 
whilst Mrs D waited for an answer on her claim and so I now direct ERGO to pay this amount 
to Mrs D.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above, my final decision is that I uphold this complaint in part.
I direct ERGO Reiseversicherung AG to pay Mrs D £100 compensation.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs D to accept or 
reject my decision before 1 August 2022.
 
Lisa Barham
Ombudsman