DRN-3517122
The complaint
Miss N complains about Ageas Insurance Limiteds handling of a burglary claim under her 
contents insurance policy.
What happened
Miss N is represented in this complaint. She had contents insurance with Ageas and in 
October 2019 she made a claim when her home was burgled. 
At the outset, Ageas asked Miss N to provide a full list of stolen items including a direct 
replacement cost for each item, proof of ownership and a copy of her tenancy agreement. It 
also told her it would use a supplier to validate the jewellery aspect of the claim and it asked 
for receipts for the damage to the window and information about any other damage. 
In April 2020 Miss N complained to this service about delays. Following that complaint, 
Ageas asked her to provide further evidence to validate her claim. It said that, in isolation, 
the receipts shed provided didnt prove she owned the items shed claimed for. 
Miss N subsequently complained to Ageas about the fact it continued to ask for information 
to substantiate her claim and that she thought its requests were unreasonable.
In its final response dated May 2021, Ageas explained it wasnt satisfied Miss N had shown 
she owned the items shed claimed for. It said it was concerned the high value items were 
almost all purchased in cash and that the receipts shed provided werent proof of ownership. 
It wanted to see bank statements showing cash withdrawals to match up to the time the 
items were purchased and an explanation about the discounts Miss N received.
Miss N complained to this service. She explained shed submitted bank statements, receipts, 
boarding passes and flight details, yet the loss adjuster still wanted her to provide evidence 
relating to the discounts shed received and more bank statements. She said it was 
unreasonable to ask for proof of ownership for older items and explained Ageas handling of 
the claim had affected her both financially and mentally. She also said the broken window 
hadnt been paid for. 
Ageas said it accepted a theft had taken place. But it explained Miss N had been given 
sufficient time to provide proof of ownership and had failed to do so. As the issue had been 
going on so long without proof being provided, it would only settle the claim on strict burden 
of proof. It didnt accept its requests were unreasonable and argued that if all the information 
Miss N had provided was genuine, proof of ownership shouldnt be hard to obtain. It didnt 
accept the pandemic had affected Miss Ns ability to get the evidence and explained the fact 
she seemed unwilling to provide the information added to its suspicion she was trying to 
claim for items she didnt buy by using false documents.
Our investigator didnt think the claim should be upheld. He didnt feel Ageas had acted 
unfairly by insisting Miss N met the strict burden of proof and he felt it had given her enough 
time to do so, notwithstanding the pandemic. He noted the items claimed for were high value 
items and he didnt feel Miss N had shown proof of ownership. 
Our investigator observed that the email concerning the discounts was from a personal 
account and therefore it didnt constitute proof of ownership. He accepted it was difficult for 
Miss N to provide bank statements showing withdrawals that correlated with the cash 
purchases, but he said the burden of proof was on Miss N to show she was the owner of the 
items. Overall, our investigator didnt think Ageas had acted unfairly.
Responding to our investigators view, Miss N produced some bank statements, 
photographs and receipts. Ageas said following its review of those bank statements it was 
prepared to settle the claim for three items, which amounted to £1699.50 (less the policy 
excess). However, it maintained it wouldnt pay for the remaining items as Miss N had been 
unable to provide the relevant bank statements displaying cash withdrawals that could be 
linked to the purchases. 
Our investigator thought this was fair and so Miss N has asked for her complaint to be 
reviewed by an ombudsman. She believes Ageas is determined not to settle the claim 
despite her having provided pictures and bank statements supporting her lifestyle. Her 
representative has explained Miss N feels let down by the insurance industry given this claim 
has been ongoing for over two and half years and she feels Ageas hasnt treated her fairly.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The issue of delays was considered under a separate complaint and so I wont look at 
anything that has already been considered as part of that complaint. Ageas has explained 
that as Miss N lived in a rented property, the window is the responsibility of her landlord, so I 
wont consider that element of the complaint either.
Ageas settlement of this claim is restricted to three items of clothing in respect of which Miss 
N has produced a receipt showing she paid using a bank card and a letter from the bank 
showing the bank card is in her name. It has declined to pay for the other items Miss N has 
claimed for which include mostly items of clothing, a diamond ring and some cash. 
The terms and conditions of the policy state we may cancel the policywhere you are 
required to co-operate with us, or send us information or documentation and you fail to do so 
in a way that affects our ability to process a claim, or our ability to defend our interests. Its 
not unreasonable for insurers to ask for information and evidence when investigating claims 
and the nature of that evidence may vary depending on the circumstances.
Ageas had concerns about Miss Ns claim for a number of reasons including the high value 
of items that were paid for in cash, the fact some receipts show staff discounts when Miss N 
doesnt work in retail and the fact that none of her electrical items were reported stolen, 
which it felt was unusual. Ive considered these reasons and, in the circumstances, I dont 
think it was unreasonable for Ageas to have asked Miss N for evidence that she owned the 
items that shed reported stolen. However, the crux of this complaint is whether the nature of 
the evidence Ageas has asked for to substantiate Miss Ns claim was reasonable or whether 
she has done enough to demonstrate she owned the items she claimed for.
Miss N has provided evidence that she sold her house. While I accept this means she might 
have had access to a large amount of cash, it doesnt amount to proof that she used that 
cash to buy the items shes claimed for. Miss Ns representative has also argued that other 
items in Miss Ns home are consistent with her lifestyle, but Ageas is concerned her income 
isnt consistent with the spending, hence its decision to settle the claim on a strict proof 
basis and Im satisfied thats reasonable.Regarding the cash that Miss N claimed for, Ageas said the policy limit for cash was £500 
and it declined to settle the claim for the cash because no bank statement had been 
provided showing a cash withdrawal or payment specific enough to tie it to this sum of 
money. I havent seen a satisfactory explanation from Miss N and Im satisfied Ageas 
requirement for an explanation as to the source of the cash is reasonable.
Miss N also claimed for a diamond ring, for which she provided a valuation for £8,250. 
Ageas said there were no identifying details to tie the valuation to the ring to and that a 
valuation wasnt proof of ownership. It also said the ring wasnt specified and therefore the 
£2,000 single article limit would apply. Im satisfied that as the ring wasnt specified, the 
policy limit was fairly applied. Im also satisfied that, in the absence of other evidence that 
Miss N owned a diamond ring  for example if it had been specified on the policy this would 
have provided substantiation for the fact shed owned a ring, as would a photograph of her 
wearing the ring or a more detailed description of the ring on the valuation  Ageas handling 
of this element of the claim was fair.
Miss N initially provided a list of stolen items and Ageas has suggested the list seems to 
have been drawn up based on item descriptions on the receipts (which she later submitted). 
I understand why it reached that conclusion although its not evidence that is what 
happened.
Miss N later provided receipts as proof of purchase for the other items on the list, but Ageas 
wasnt satisfied the receipts were evidence that she has purchased the items. I understand 
why Mis N is frustrated, especially as receipts are often considered to be evidence of 
purchase. However, as Ageas has additional concerns around this claim, I dont think its 
position is unreasonable.
Some of the receipts Miss N provided include a staff discount, which Ageas also queried. 
Miss N has explained that she is often given discounts in certain shops for being a loyal 
customer and has produced an email from the store manager. While Im satisfied Miss Ns 
explanation is feasible and that discounts are common in the retail industry, I agree with 
Ageas that the email Miss N has submitted falls short because it isnt on headed paper or 
from a business account. 
Miss N was also asked to submit copies of her bank statements to show cash withdrawals 
which would correlate with the purchases. She has been unable to do this and has explained 
thats because that wasnt how she would manage her cash. While I understand why Ageas 
wanted to see the cash withdrawals, I think Miss Ns explanation for being unable to produce 
this evidence is reasonable as people dont always withdraw cash immediately before 
making a cash purchase. However, I maintain my view that Ageas request for further 
substantiation was reasonable and even though Miss N is unable to show corresponding 
cash purchases, the onus remains on her to show proof of ownership to enable Ageas to 
properly investigate the claim.
Miss Ns representative has argued that when she bought the policy, she wasnt told that 
specific evidence in addition to receipts would be required to make a successful claim. They 
also asked whether other customers were told that for any such potential claim receipts 
wouldnt be enough to validate a claim and stated the burden of proof would lie with the 
insurer following an allegation of fraud. While I accept Miss N might have been taken by 
surprise by Ageas requests for substantiation, it wasnt required to specify the nature of the 
evidence it would request before Miss N bought the policy or in the policy wording. The fact 
the insurer might ask for information or documentation is included in the policy wording 
which Miss N had access to and, provided the requests are reasonable in all the 
circumstances, those request do not need to be specified in advance.I understand Miss N will be disappointed but having carefully considered all the available 
evidence alongside the circumstances of the claim, Im satisfied Ageas handling of the claim 
was fair.
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss N to accept 
or reject my decision before 22 July 2022.
 
Carolyn Bonnell
Ombudsman