DRN-3655669
The complaint
Mr A and Mrs A have complained that Lloyds Bank General Insurance Limited (Lloyds) 
declined a claim under their home insurance policy.
What happened
Mr A and Mrs A found water damage to a ceiling in their home. They contacted Lloyds to 
make a claim. Lloyds advised Mr A and Mrs A to arrange for a plumber to deal with the leak 
and to then provide details of the repair. Mr A and Mrs A provided some documents. Lloyds 
then arranged for its own surveyor to view the damage. Following this, it declined the claim 
because it said the damage was the result of the failure of the sealants or grout, which 
wasnt covered by the policy.
When Mr A and Mrs A complained, Lloyds maintained its decision to decline the claim. So, 
Mr A and Mrs A complained to this service. Our investigator didnt uphold the complaint. She 
said it was reasonable for Lloyds to rely on its surveyors findings and to decline the claim on 
the basis that it wasnt covered under the terms and conditions of the policy.
As Mr A and Mrs A didnt agree, the complaint was referred to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I dont uphold this complaint. I will explain why.
Mr A and Mrs A made a claim for an escape of water. Lloyds asked Mr A and Mrs A to 
provide evidence from the plumber. However, it wasnt satisfied with the details provided, as 
it didnt include a cause of damage so, ultimately, it sent its own surveyor to assess the 
damage. The surveyor found evidence of damaged sealant and grout around the bath and 
taps that had allowed water to seep down over many months. In the escape of water part of 
the policy, there was an exclusion for Damage caused by the failure or lack of sealant and/ 
or grout. Having looked at the surveyors findings and the wording of the policy, Im satisfied 
that it was reasonable for Lloyds to decline the claim.
Mr A and Mrs A have said that the surveyor didnt visit until a couple of months after they 
had opened the claim. Looking at the records, when Lloyds first discussed the claim, it told 
Mr A and Mrs A their plumber would need to provide a cause of damage report. Over a 
period of time, Mr A and Mrs A provided details including quotes for works to be carried out, 
but this didnt include the cause of damage. Mr A and Mrs A have said they werent asked to 
provide anything about the cause of damage. However, looking at Lloyds records, these 
showed it was requested on a number of occasions. I havent seen anything that causes me 
to think Lloyds records are inaccurate. It is also common for insurers to ask a policyholder to 
provide evidence of the cause of damage before it will consider a claim further, so I dont 
think Lloyds did anything unusual. When Lloyds wasnt satisfied with the information 
provided, I think it was reasonable that it then sent a surveyor to assess whether the claim 
was covered. I havent seen anything that persuades me that the timing of the surveyors 
visit affected the findings.
Mr A and Mrs A have also said they were told the hole in the ceiling made by the plumber 
while looking for a leak would be covered as accidental damage. I havent seen evidence to 
show Lloyds discussed accidental damage. Even if Lloyds said this, if it later turned out that 
it wasnt accidental damage, I wouldnt expect Lloyds to pay for damage that wasnt covered 
by the policy. Accidental Damage is described in the policy as something that is not 
deliberate. A plumber making a hole in a ceiling to find a leak is deliberate, so Im satisfied it 
wasnt covered under this part of the policy.
However, I note Lloyds records show that it spoke to Mr A and Mrs A about whether locating 
the leak might be covered under Trace and Access. I havent seen anything that showed 
Lloyds agreed to cover the plumbers work to do this. However, again, even if it did, I 
wouldnt expect Lloyds to pay for work that wasnt then covered by the policy. The policy 
said that Trace and Access was only covered if the damage was the result of an escape of 
water. As Lloyds identified that the damage wasnt the result of an escape of water, this 
meant any trace and access work also wasnt covered. Ive seen an email the company that 
carried out the survey sent to Mr A and Mrs A advising that the trace and access wasnt 
covered for this reason. Im satisfied that was reasonable.
So, thinking about all of the above, I dont uphold this complaint or require Lloyds to do 
anything further.
My final decision
For the reasons I have given, it is my final decision that this complaint is not upheld.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs A and Mr A to 
accept or reject my decision before 19 September 2022.
 
Louise O'Sullivan
Ombudsman