DRN-3636560
The complaint
Mr G complains HSBC UK Bank Plc placed blocks on his credit and debit cards while he 
was on holiday outside of the UK.   
What happened
Mr G holds credit card and current accounts with HSBC and says hes been a customer for 
around 40 years.
In May 2022, Mr G called HSBC to tell them he was going on a holiday trip outside of the 
UK. He told HSBC it was important that his credit card continued to work without problem 
while he was away as he was relying upon this for payments. He was concerned they would 
place a block on his card given he didnt use it very often.
During his holiday trip, Mr G contracted Coronavirus. As a result, he was required to relocate 
to a nominated hotel to self-isolate. The requirements meant he was unable to leave his 
hotel room. And as the hotel had no provision to provide food, Mr G was instructed to order 
food online for delivery to his room.
Upon attempting to place orders, his credit card transactions were repeatedly declined. So, 
he attempted to complete transactions using his HSBC debit card. These were also 
repeatedly declined.
Mr G says his mobile telephone wouldnt work during his stay at the hotel. His mobile service 
provider later confirmed there was a signal issue in the area. On one occasion, Mr G did use 
the hotel telephone to contact another business. As a result, he incurred substantial 
telephone call costs. So, he was reluctant to use the hotel telephone again and didnt call 
HSBC. Mr G says he had to negotiate an agreement with the hotel to settle his 
accommodation costs at a later date due to his HSBC cards not working.
In early June 2022, Mr G called HSBC to establish why his cards wouldnt work. HSBC said 
the transactions had been identified by their fraud detection system as suspicious. As a 
result, HSBC had placed blocks on Mr Gs cards and sent a SMS text message to his mobile 
telephone asking him to contact them to confirm the transactions.
Mr G asked HSBC to remove the blocks from his cards and raised a complaint. He was 
unhappy with HSBCs actions. Particularly as hed previously contacted them to tell them 
what he was doing.  He wanted HSBC to pay the costs of his hotel self-isolation stay. 
HSBC didnt agree theyd done anything wrong. They said theyd followed their process 
having identified potentially suspicious transactions. HSBC said their actions were designed 
to protect both themselves and Mr Gs accounts. But they did acknowledge the distress and 
inconvenience this had caused. They offered and paid Mr G £150 as a gesture of goodwill.
Unhappy with HSBCs response, Mr G referred his complaint to this service. Having 
considered the circumstances and information available, our investigator didnt agree that 
HSBC had done anything wrong and their actions were supported by their account terms 
and conditions. 
Mr G didnt agree with our investigators findings. He thought HSBC should be held 
responsible given he had told them in advance about his planned trip and the importance of 
having his card(s) available for use.
As an agreement couldnt be reached, Mr Gs complaint has been passed to me to consider 
and issue a final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I want to acknowledge that Mr Gs experience here would undoubtedly have been very 
frustrating and upsetting. Mr G has made it clear that this was a special holiday in which hed 
planned various activities and experiences. Unfortunately, he contracted Coronavirus early 
on in his trip. And the country requirements meant he had to self-isolate in designated 
accommodation and incur the associated costs.
At the outset, I think its important to recognise that HSBC shouldnt be held responsible for 
the situation Mr G found himself in. He didnt contract Coronavirus as a result of anything 
HSBC did. So, I cant reasonably hold them responsible for that. And equally therefore, I 
cant hold HSBC responsible for Mr Gs resulting accommodation costs. That would neither 
be fair nor reasonable. Particularly as Mr G confirms he held travel insurance cover for the 
trip.
In addition, Mr G says he wasnt able to use his mobile telephone while self-isolating. He 
says his mobile service provider confirmed they were aware of signal problems in the area 
he was staying. So again, I cant reasonably hold HSBC responsible for that either.
The main issue here relates to HSBCs decision to block Mr Gs credit and debit cards. So, 
Ive considered whether HSBC did something wrong when they did that. Particularly as Mr G 
had told HSBC about his planned trip.
Ive listened to a recording of Mr Gs call to HSBC in May 2022. HSBC said Mr G no longer 
needed to tell them about his planned trip. They said their systems would monitor and 
identify if attempts were made to use his cards for transactions that are not within his usual 
spending patterns. They told Mr G if he had any problems, he could call the toll free 
telephone number on the back of his card(s). 
Ive considered the terms and conditions associated with Mr Gs HSBC credit card. Section 
5.1 says There are times when we might refuse to authorise a transactions, cancel or 
suspend use of the account. Examples where this might apply include:
c. We suspect fraudulent or unauthorised use of the account.
d. We believe we have to so we can keep the account or card secure.
e. We suspect criminal use of the card or account. Or some other type of abuse. This 
could be by you, any additional cardholder or a third party.
Likewise, the terms and conditions associated with Mr Gs HSBC current account say, 
Keeping your account secure  Well do all we reasonably can to keep your account 
securewe may block your account to protect you and us from unauthorised use.
Like many financial businesses, HSBCs systems are able to identify potentially suspicious 
transactions. Where identified, cards and/or accounts may be blocked. This appears to be 
what happened here.
It isnt the role of this service to ask a business to alter their policies and procedures or 
impose improvements on the level of service offered to their customers. These aspects fall 
firmly within the remit of the regulator  in this case, the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA). 
But it is our role to examine and decide whether a business has been fair and reasonable in 
the manner in which those policies and procedures are applied in the individual 
circumstances of Mr Gs experience with them. When considering his complaint, Ive also 
considered any relevant rules and regulations where they apply. HSBC confirm the blocked transactions were flagged as suspicious. And they sent SMS text 
messages to the mobile telephone number held against Mr Gs account, asking him to 
confirm their authenticity. Theyve also said they didnt receive responses from him. While I 
understand this was due to Mr Gs mobile telephone not receiving a signal, Ive already 
concluded, this wasnt something I can reasonably hold HSBC responsible for. So, accepting 
this, I think HSBC did everything they could to try and verify the authenticity of Mr Gs 
transactions. And I also think its relevant to say that HSBC were, at no point, made aware of 
Mr Gs situation.
Although I also accept Mr G had previously contacted HSBC about his planned trip. I dont 
think this could guarantee all his attempted payments would be immediately authorised. 
HSBC have a responsibility to protect themselves and their customers against falling victim 
to fraudulent transaction attempts. And their processes do provide the opportunity for Mr G 
to verify these. 
Mr G has explained he chose not to call HSBC due to the hotel call costs hed already 
incurred. HSBC told him there was a toll-free number available. And even if the hotel were to 
still make a charge, calling HSBC wouldve at least enabled the blocks to be lifted from his 
cards. I cant reasonably hold HSBC responsible for the hotel call costs or Mr Gs decision 
not to call them.
Mr Gs experience was clearly very unfortunate and resulted from the impact of various 
simultaneous circumstances. HSBC have paid him £150 as a gesture of goodwill to reflect 
any inconvenience and distress caused. And this feels fair to me here. I realise Mr G will be 
disappointed, but I cant reasonably hold HSBC responsible for everything that happened. 
And I also cant find anything to suggest they made a mistake or treated Mr G unreasonably.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold Mr Gs complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 December 2022.
 
Dave Morgan
Ombudsman