DRN-2873253
The complaint
Mr S complains that a car he obtained through a hire purchase agreement with MotoNovo 
Finance Limited was misrepresented to him. He wants MotoNovo to accept his rejection of 
the car.
What happened
Mr S obtained a second-hand car in December 2019, financed through a hire purchase 
agreement with MotoNovo.
He says that from May 2020 he started experiencing problems with the car and that hes had 
to pay around £3,000 in repair costs. In December 2020, a third-party garage told him the 
engine was not the original one listed on the cars V5 document. He says he wouldnt have 
got the car if hed known the car had been fitted with a different engine.
MotoNovo didnt uphold his complaint. It said it couldnt conclude the car had a fault or 
wasnt of satisfactory quality when it was supplied.
Mr S obtained an independent report. This confirmed the engine had been replaced at some 
point, but that the new engine was compatible with the car.
Our investigator didnt recommend that the complaint should be upheld. He couldnt 
conclude that the supplying garage had misrepresented the car, or that it wasnt of 
satisfactory quality when it was supplied.
Mr S didnt agree saying, in summary, that:
The investigator should have found out when the engine was fitted.
The car was mis-sold. It was advertised as having a full-service history and the original 
engine. He wouldnt have gone ahead with the hire purchase agreement if hed known 
the car wasnt fitted with the original engine.
The investigator obtained the advert from MotoNovo, but this didnt change his conclusion, 
so the complaint has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In considering what is fair and reasonable, I need to have regard to the relevant law and 
regulations, regulators rules, guidance and standards, codes of practice and (where 
appropriate) what I consider to have been good industry practice at the time.
Misrepresentation of the car
The relevant law says, amongst other things, that the car should not have been 
misrepresented to Mr S. If it was, and if I thought Mr S would not have proceeded with the 
deal if hed been aware of the true facts, then I would think MotoNovo was responsible and 
Id ask it to take some further action.
Its clear from the independent report that the car is no longer fitted with its original engine. 
Ive not seen evidence to show when the current engine was put in the car, although clearly 
this was before it was supplied to Mr S.
The advert did not say that the car had been fitted with a new engine. Neither did it specify 
that the car had its original engine  although I accept this is the likely assumption. But Ive 
not seen evidence to show that the supplying garage fitted the new engine or that it was 
aware that the engine was not the one originally supplied with the car. As its unlikely that the 
supplying garage knew the car wasnt fitted with its original engine and, as Ive not seen 
evidence to show that Mr S asked about this during the sales process, I cant conclude that 
the car was misrepresented by the supplying garage.
The car was advertised as having a full-service history and Ive not seen anything to show 
this wasnt the case. I accept that some of that history would have reflected the car with the 
original engine, and some reflects the car with the new engine that was fitted. But Im not 
persuaded this makes the advertised full-service history misleading or inaccurate.
Overall, I dont find that the car was misrepresented to Mr S.
Quality of the car
The relevant law also says that under a contract to supply goods, there is an implied term 
that the quality of goods is satisfactory. 
Mr S has made it clear that his complaint is about misrepresentation, not the quality of the 
car. But as hes told us that hes had to spend around £3,000 on repairs, I think its fair that 
I consider whether the car was of satisfactory quality when it was supplied.
In deciding whether a car is of satisfactory quality, some of the factors to consider are its age 
when it was supplied, how much mileage the car covered since it was supplied and how long 
after supply the fault materialised.
The car was around ten years old when it was supplied in December 2019 and its mileage 
was around 110,000 miles.
Mr S has provided invoices for the repairs hes paid for at a third-party garage. But I think, 
taking into account the age and mileage of the car, these are all wear and tear items. Ive not 
seen anything to suggest the faults were present when the car was supplied.
Ive considered in particular the fact that a different engine has been fitted in the car and 
whether this has affected the cars quality. But the independent report concludes that the 
engine is the correct type for this car. In the circumstances I dont find the car wasnt fit for 
purpose or of satisfactory quality when it was supplied because of the engine  or for any 
other reason.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, my final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or reject my decision before 9 August 2021.
 
Elizabeth Dawes
Ombudsman