DRN-4286869
The complaint
A company, which Ill refer to as O, complains that Santander UK Plc wouldnt consider an 
application for an overdraft facility without the company providing a directors personal 
guarantee.
What happened
In April 2020, O successfully applied for an overdraft facility with Santander, as part of the 
Coronavirus Business Interruption Loan Scheme (CBILS). This was a government-backed 
scheme designed to help small and medium-sized businesses get finance more quickly if 
they were adversely affected by the coronavirus outbreak.
Early in 2023, Santander wrote to O to say the facility was coming to an end. There was a 
discussion about continuing the overdraft, but the bank said it would only consider an 
application if O offered a directors personal guarantee. The company wasnt willing to offer 
that. 
O repaid the overdraft in March 2023 and the facility was withdrawn in April 2023.
O complained to Santander. The bank said that the CBILS overdraft facility was available for 
three years and had come to an end, and that any new overdraft would be subject to its 
normal business requirements, under which it needed a personal guarantee. O referred its 
complaint to us.
Our investigator didnt think Santander had acted unfairly or unreasonably in making it a 
condition that O provide a personal guarantee. She said there was no obligation on the bank 
to extend the CBILS overdraft beyond three years. She thought that for any further overdraft 
facility, Santander was entitled to require a personal guarantee, under its normal account 
terms and conditions. 
One of Os directors, on behalf of the company, said that O had been denied the opportunity 
to appeal a lending decision because Santander hadnt permitted it to apply for the overdraft. 
He also said that the bank had provided incorrect information about the CBILS scheme and 
its own lending practice in its correspondence following the complaint.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im sorry to disappoint Os directors, but I too conclude that Santander hasnt acted unfairly 
or unreasonably.
The overdraft facility was in place for the full three years as agreed under the CBILS 
arrangement. Im not aware of any requirement on banks to extend CBILS overdrafts beyond 
that duration, so I think it was reasonable for Santander to treat Os request for a continued 
overdraft facility as subject to its normal business banking terms and conditions.
The bank offered to consider an application from O for a further overdraft facility, but it made 
clear that it would require a directors personal guarantee. Ive looked at its general terms 
and conditions for business banking, and I can see that they state that the bank may require 
a personal guarantee to cover the facility. In the circumstances, I think the bank was entitled 
to use its commercial discretion to make this a condition for an overdraft. 
Os director is unhappy that the bank wouldnt even consider the application without 
agreement to the guarantee, but the bank clearly stated that the guarantee was a 
requirement before proceeding, and I dont think that was unfair or unreasonable.
O has complained that Santander told O that it couldnt appeal the result of the overdraft 
application, as the application hadnt been processed. Ive said above that I dont think the 
bank acted unfairly when it declined to process the application. But I cant comment further 
on Os concerns about an appeal, because such an appeal would be part of the banks 
complaint handling procedures, which arent within the scope of the Financial Ombudsman 
Service. Complaint handling in itself isnt an activity that we have the power to investigate. 
We can consider complaints about actions and omissions in the substantive provision of 
financial services, which Ive done here, regarding the provision of the overdraft facility.
In its communications with O about the overdraft, Santander has described some aspects of 
the CBILS scheme and its own lending policy in terms which Os director says are incorrect. 
Specifically, hes concerned that the bank didnt say that guarantees might not be required 
from much larger companies, and it gave the impression that the entire CBILS scheme ran 
for only three years, when in fact some aspects of it ran for longer. However, I cant see that 
Santander said anything about the CBILS arrangements or the banks lending practices that 
misled O about the companys own situation or its options. I dont think Santander gave any 
wrong information to O that caused the company any loss. 
I appreciate that Os director has voiced concerns about the wider implications of 
Santanders lending policies for other companies. But the Financial Ombudsman Service 
isnt a regulator  our role is to resolve individual disputes between financial providers and 
their customers. What Ive considered in this decision is Santanders treatment of O in 
respect of the companys overdraft.
For the reasons given above, I dont find that Santander acted unfairly or unreasonably when 
it declined to process an application from O for an overdraft facility without the company 
offering a personal guarantee.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask O to accept or 
reject my decision before 27 December 2023.
 
Colin Brown
Ombudsman