DRN-3635824
The complaint
Mr M is unhappy that Nationwide Building Society did not adequately protect his account 
from fraud, and that it then took an extended period for him to regain full use of his online 
banking.
What happened
On 13 November 2020 Mr M visited his local Nationwide branch as he had received a letter 
saying that someone had attempted to set up a fraudulent account in his name. He was told 
that everything had been dealt with and that he was not to worry.
Three days later, an account was set up in Mr Ms name with an address in London  where 
Mr M did not live. It appears that, on setting up online banking, the individual who had 
opened this account was able to change their address to Mr Ms. This resulted in Mr M and 
the fraudsters account profiles merging, which gave the fraudster access to Mr Ms 
accounts. Approximately £64,000 was then transferred out of Mr Ms accounts.
On 28 November Mr M tried to use his card in a shop, and when it didnt work he went back 
to his branch to find out what was wrong and discovered what had happened. Nationwide 
was aware straight away that Mr M was not at fault here, and so Mr Ms money was returned 
to him on 30 November. But Mr M then was unable to properly access his online banking for 
several weeks.
Mr M raised a complaint with Nationwide. Nationwide looked at what had happened and 
agreed that it had let Mr M down. Nationwide noted that the ID used to open the fraudulent 
account was counterfeit, and so shouldnt have been accepted. It also acknowledged that 
Mr M was unable to use his online banking for an extended period of time and that this 
caused him inconvenience. So Nationwide offered to pay him £200. But Mr M didnt feel this 
was enough, so he referred his complaint to us. 
One of our investigators looked at what had happened, she felt that Nationwides offer didnt 
go far enough to recognise the impact of what had happened on Mr M, so she 
recommended that Nationwide increase its offer to £300. Nationwide agreed, but Mr M still 
felt that this was not enough, so he asked for his case to be referred to an ombudsman.
I issued my provisional decision on this case on 13 July 2022. Both Mr M and Nationwide 
have confirmed they agree with the findings set out in that provisional decision, so I am now 
issuing a final decision to confirm how Nationwide should settle this complaint.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In my provisional decision I explained the following:
Its not in dispute here that Mr M was the victim of fraud. So I dont need to make a finding 
on that, the only issue I need to consider here is the appropriate amount of compensation. 
And having though carefully about all that has happened, I am intending to find that 
Nationwide should increase the amount is pays Mr M to £600.
I say this because I think there are two issues here which merit compensation for Mr M. 
Firstly, I think it is clear from what Ive seen that Nationwide played a part in allowing Mr Ms 
account to be compromised. Nationwides internal notes show that on 3 November it 
recorded a service alert stating that Mr Ms account was at risk of account takeover, this note 
said that staff should be vigilant when sharing information of making changes to the account 
and that any profile merging should be referred to financial crime. I can only presume it was 
this note that prompted the letter that led to Mr M going to branch on 13 November.
At that time Nationwide told Mr M that he had no cause for concern, but only three days later 
it allowed someone to open another account in his name  apparently with a counterfeit ID  
and to then merge their account with Mr Ms. It seems to me that Nationwide could have 
prevented this fraud from occurring if it had been more vigilant given that it was on notice 
that Mr M was at risk of just such a fraud taking place. 
And given that the fraud resulted in all of Mr Ms money being taken, even though he got this 
money back relatively quickly, I think it is appropriate to ask Nationwide to compensate Mr M 
for the worry and stress caused by what happened.
Turning to the issues Mr M then had following the fraud, it seems Mr M had no access to his 
online banking for around four weeks. This meant he had to visit the branch, call Nationwide 
on several occasions, and that he was unable to properly monitor his account for that time. 
Given that Mr M is self employed, and that he had just been the victim of a serious and 
extensive fraud, I think that being unable to properly monitor what was happening with his 
account will have caused him additional stress and inconvenience at what was already a 
difficult time.
With all of this in mind, I think that £600 compensation would more accurately reflect the 
impact of what has happened here on Mr M.
Nationwide has confirmed it is happy to pay Mr M £600, and Mr M has said he will accept 
that £600 in settlement of his complaint. So my decision remains the same as set out in my 
provisional decision.
Nationwide has said it can pay the settlement to Mr M via cheque or bank transfer, so Mr M 
should let us know how he would prefer to receive the settlement.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained I am upholding Mr Ms complaint. Nationwide Building Society 
should put things right in the way Ive set out above. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 5 September 2022.
 
Sophie Mitchell
Ombudsman