DRN-2085793
The complaint
Mr A is unhappy with how he was treated when making a transaction in a branch of Leeds 
Building Society (LBS). 
What happened
Mr A went to a branch of the LBS to withdraw funds from a fixed rate bond which was 
maturing. The staff member helping Mr A with his transaction had not served him before so 
asked for some identification documents. Mr A provided his passport which the staff member 
reviewed. Mr A was unhappy with this request for identification and that his passport details 
had been entered into the LBS system by the staff member.
LBS looked into Mr As complaint. They explained the staff member followed their procedure 
when asking Mr A for identification, and by keying the details of his passport in their system. 
This was because the staff member didnt know Mr A and hadnt served him before. LBS 
explained that the procedure of asking for identification was in place to mitigate the risk of 
fraud and to protect customers personal information and funds. They went on to say that his 
information had been dealt with in line with their Customer Privacy Policy, and that it was not 
shared with any other organisation.
Mr A brought his complain to our service asking that his details be deleted from the LBS 
system and seeking assurance that his information had not been passed to third parties. 
Whilst acknowledging Mr As feeling in the matter our investigator thought LBS had a valid 
reason for collecting and keeping Mr As information. He also reassured Mr A that branch 
staff were unable to view his passport details and that LBS confirmed his details hadnt been 
shared with any third parties.
Mr A remained unhappy saying he feels he wasnt treated fairly. He also says that he hasnt 
been asked for identification documents when making similar transactions at other 
organisations so feels the actions of LBS were unnecessary. Because of this the complaint 
has come to me for a decision.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
LBS have policies and procedures in place to identify customers when they want to make a 
withdrawal. These are in place to protect from fraudulent transactions and loss of funds. Its 
not my place to tell LBS how to set those policies and procedures. Rather its my role to look 
at what happened and see if I think LBS treated Mr A fairly and reasonably.
When Mr A went to the branch to make his withdrawal the staff member who helped with the 
transaction had not met or seen him before. In this situation I would think its reasonable, 
and indeed prudent, that the staff member asks for identification. This is reflected in the 
Customer Identification Process of which Mr A has been provided a snapshot with the 
relevant section. So I think LBS acted fairly, reasonably and in line with their procedures, 
when asking Mr A for identification documents.
Mr A is unhappy that his passport information was keyed into the LBS system. Whilst I can 
understand Mr As strength of feeling, this action isnt unusual. LBS says it stores this 
information for future reference in case of complaints or fraud. This is reflected in the LBS 
Customer Privacy Policy of which Mr A has been provided a copy. LBS says that Mr A 
wouldve been given a copy of this when he opened the account, and it is available on their 
website. The policy also explains why and how LBS keep data which confirms why they 
wont action Mr As request to delete his information. 
Mr A says that at other organisations he hasnt been asked for identification when making 
withdrawals. This might be the case, however this complaint is about LBS and their actions. 
Other organisations might have different policies and procedures, which I cant comment on, 
what Im looking at is how LBS treated Mr A.
I can see Mr As strength of feeling in the matter and understand his reasons for feeling that 
way. But identification checks are in place in all organisations to stop fraud and protect 
funds. So whilst there may be some inconvenience to customers its a small inconvenience 
compared to what might happened if transactions arent genuine. 
Mr A always knew that the transaction was genuine, after all its his account and he was 
getting a cheque in his name, but the staff member at LBS didnt know this as they had 
never seen Mr A before. The staff member followed the LBS procedure for identification to 
make sure that Mr A was the account holder and rightfully allowed to withdraw the funds. 
LBS have assured Mr A, and our service, that his details have not been passed to any third 
parties. Ive seen how the details are stored by LBS on their system and am confident of 
their assurances.
Ive looked at what happened, including the policies and procedures of LBS, and everything 
that Mr A has said. Having done so, Im satisfied that Mr A was treated fairly and reasonably 
when visiting the branch and by being asked to provide identification which was recorded by 
LBS. Im also happy that LBS are storing the information collected at the time from Mr A in 
line with their policy, and not disclosing it to third parties.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained above, by decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision before 1 October 2020. 
Warren Wilson
Ombudsman