DRN-3459907
The complaint
Miss F complains TSB Bank Plc (TSB) failed to provide her with the advice and support she 
needed to enable to have her name removed from a joint mortgage account. 
What happened
 Miss F says she took out a mortgage with her ex-partner in 2006 and since their separation 
the following year, she has been attempting to have her name removed from the joint 
mortgage account. Miss F says she has employed lawyers to try an achieve this but her ex-
partner has been unwilling to agree to this. Miss F says she has requested help from TSB 
over the years but has always been told it needed her ex-partner to initiate this process. 
More recently in 2021, Miss F says she was contacted by TSB regarding arrears on the joint 
mortgage account, and when discussing the matter with them, she was informed there was a 
process known as Transfer of Mortgage Property (TOMP). Miss F says she wasnt told about 
this process before and believes if she had been, its likely she could have had her name 
removed from the mortgage account many years ago. 
Miss F feels TSB havent treated her as a valued customer and has suffered years of anxiety 
over the matter. Miss F says she has been unable to obtain finance with her new partner, as 
she is still named on the joint mortgage account with her ex-partner. Miss F wants TSB to 
apologise to her and pay her compensation for the stress and worry this has caused her.
TSB says they have no record of Miss F having requested a TOMP until the matter was 
discussed in July 2021. TSB says in order for a TOMP to be completed it must have both 
partys agreement and  a financial affordability assessment would need to be carried out on 
the remaining party to the mortgage before this could be approved. 
TSB says it feels it has treated both parties equally and has done nothing wrong.
Miss F wasnt happy with TSBs response and referred the matter to this service.
The investigator looked at all the available information but didnt uphold the complaint. The 
investigator felt that TSB would need Miss Fs ex-partners formal agreement before 
releasing her from the joint mortgage. The investigator says TSB werent obliged to have 
informed Miss F of the TOMP process, unless she requested it or that it should provide 
advice to her, that was for her legal advisors to do, whom she had already engaged with. 
The investigator felt her lawyer would have been aware what was required to remove her 
name from the joint mortgage account, even if it hadnt known of TSBs TOMP process. 
The investigator says TSB arent unwilling to remove Miss Fs name from the mortgage 
account, it just cant do so without the other partys agreement and it had advised her what is 
needed for that to happen.
Miss F didnt agree with the investigators view and asked for the matter to be referred to an 
ombudsman for a final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I wont be upholding this complaint and I will explain how I have come to my 
decision.
I can understand that Miss F is frustrated an upset by the fact, after so many years of trying, 
she has been unable to get her ex-partner to agree to remove her name from the joint 
mortgage account. When looking at this complaint I will consider if TSB are responsible for 
that and if it should have informed Miss F sooner of the TOMP process.  
Miss Fs complaint centres around the fact despite having attempted for many years to have 
her name removed from a joint mortgage account with her ex-partner, TSB have seemingly 
not acted equitably. In addition, Miss F feels TSB failed to previously inform her of the TOMP 
process, which she believes could have resulted in this long-standing issue, being resolved 
much sooner.   
While I can understand the frustration Miss F feels about this, I have to consider if TSB have 
acted unreasonably here. Its worth saying TSB have checked its files and have no record of 
any telephone calls or letters from Miss F apart from the conversations it held with her in July 
2021. Its worth saying if some of those discussions Miss F refers to, go back to around 2007 
or thereabouts, then it would be unlikely for TSB to still retain such telephone calls after this 
length of time in any event. 
I have been provided with a copy of a declaration of intent signed by Miss F from September 
2015, in which she confirms she has been trying to remove her name from the joint 
mortgage account, and suggests that TSB find out her ex-partner plans on how he intends to 
eventually repay the mortgage. I cant say this in itself is a formal request for TSB to guide 
her through the TOMP process or advise her of any actions she might take - that would be 
for her lawyers to set in motion. I can see that was something Miss F had attempted before 
and unfortunately from what she says, her ex-partner was unwilling to cooperate. 
Miss F feels TSB have in some way potentially favoured her ex-partner in this matter, as it 
insisted he must give approval and havent considered her position as joint mortgagee, but 
Im not fully  convinced by that argument. Here, what TSB actually require is agreement by 
both parties, before agreeing to any fundamental change to the joint mortgage account, in 
the same way they couldnt remove her ex-partners name, without Miss Fs approval. 
Its reasonable to say here that TSB arent unwilling to remove Miss F from the joint 
mortgage account, but unfortunately under a joint and several liability mortgage agreement, 
it must have both partys authority before it can consider the request. From what I can see 
thats something that Miss Fs ex-partner has previously been unwilling to agree to, despite 
her lawyers intervention. So, I cant say that even if the TOMP process had been made 
known to Miss F earlier, it would have meant her ex-partner would have agreed to it  after 
all he hadnt done so before.  
Its also worth mentioning that any request to remove one party from a joint mortgage 
account would be subject to a financial affordability assessment at the time on the remaining 
party, and so I cant say with any certainty, even if the TOMP process had been completed, 
it would have been approved by TSB.  
It follows while Miss F will be disappointed with my decision, I wont be asking anymore of 
TSB here. My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss F to accept or 
reject my decision before 26 July 2022.
 
Barry White
Ombudsman