DRN-3386323
The complaint
Mr N is unhappy with charges applied along with the service received from 
Motonovo Finance Limited when he voluntarily terminated a hire purchase agreement. 
Mr N has been represented on this complaint. But, to keep things simple, I will only refer to 
Mr N in this decision.
What happened
In September 2016 Mr N took a hire purchase agreement provided by Motonovo to fund the 
acquisition of a car. The agreement also had an associated personal loan alongside it. Mr N 
took the borrowing over 61 months.
In October 2019 Motonovo received a letter with Mr Ns name and address on. This said 
Mr N wanted to terminate the agreement, and said he was going abroad the next day. The 
letter gave an address to pick the car up from. 
The day after this letter was received, Motonovo called Mr N to discuss the termination of the 
agreement. There is some debate over what happened here, but Motonovos system notes 
record that Mr N said he didnt write the letter asking for termination.
Motonovo were then asked to collect the car from a garage by an authorised party to the 
account. There was a delay until Motonovo were told the garage was going to start charging 
storage fees.
Around a month after Motonovo received the letter requesting termination, the car was 
collected. The termination wasnt processed until later in November 2019, as Motonovo said 
it wanted to speak directly to Mr N to clarify the situation before taking action.
Once Motonovo had spoken to Mr N, the agreement was terminated and Mr N was sent an 
invoice for £1,120.60 which included a 10% discount. This consisted of £776.47 for damages 
to the car and missing items and £421.78 of halfway charges to bring the account up to 
date when it was terminated.
Mr N complained to Motonovo about the service provided in relation to the termination of the 
agreement and the charges applied. Motonovo issued its final response in December 2019. 
This said Mr N had told it in October that the letter to request termination was not sent by 
him, so it couldnt accept this instruction. It explained the agreement was terminated once it 
had spoken to Mr N in November. It said, despite Mr N saying he was told by a dealer he 
could hand the car back without charge, that this wasnt the case.
Motonovo said it had now completed the termination process and it wasnt upholding the 
complaint.
Mr N continued to question the charges and said hed never been provided with a 
breakdown of the costs. In February 2020 he paid £25 towards the charges and then 
brought his complaint to our service.
As part of our investigation, we asked Motonovo to send us various information about the 
complaint. This included evidence to show the damage to the car Mr N had been charged 
for, and a detailed breakdown of the account status when the agreement was terminated to 
show why it charged Mr N the halfway charge.
Motonovo didnt send us this information, so our investigator explained she would give her 
opinion based on what evidence we did have and what Mr N told us. She said, without 
further evidence, she didnt think Motonovo had shown it was reasonable for it to charge for 
either the damage to the car or the halfway charges. So, she said Motonovo should waive 
all the charges.
Motonovo responded and said it would accept the opinion. Mr N replied and said he thought 
he should get some additional compensation, as Motonovo had phoned him on holiday 
several times and woken him due to the time difference. And he said he did write and sign 
the termination letter.
Our investigator said this didnt change her opinion, so the case was passed to me to 
decide.
I emailed Motonovo and Mr N and explained having done an initial review of the complaint, I 
thought what our investigator said to put things right was mostly fair. But, I said in addition 
that I initially thought Motonovo should also reimburse Mr N the £25 he paid towards the 
charges and it should remove any negative information about the charges from his credit file, 
if any was recorded.
Motonovo said it thought this was fair. Mr N said Motonovo had called him at 3 a.m. on 
holiday and he didnt understand what he was saying when he explained he didnt send the 
letter. He said the car was left in mint condition and the time it took to collect it caused him 
stress. He asked me to reconsider additional compensation.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I think this complaint should be upheld. Ill explain why. 
Mr N complains about charges incurred under a hire purchase agreement. Entering into 
regulated consumer credit contracts such as this is a regulated activity, so Im satisfied I can 
consider Mr Ns complaint against Motonovo.
What I need to consider in this case is whether or not it is fair for Motonovo to charge Mr N 
for damages to the car and for the missing items, or for the halfway fees. Ill also consider if 
any additional compensation should be paid for the service received when Mr N terminated 
the agreement.
Motonovo charged Mr N for several areas of damage to the car and for missing items. Mr N 
says the car was immaculate when it was dropped off. Motonovo hasnt provided evidence 
to contradict Mr Ns version of events such as a collection report or any photos. Thinking 
about everything here, I havent seen enough to make me think its fair and reasonable for 
Motonovo to charge Mr N for the damage or missing items. It follows I think it should waive 
these charges.
Motonovo also didnt provide evidence such as a detailed breakdown of the halfway 
charges or an explanation of Mr Ns account status when the agreement was terminated. Because of this, I havent seen enough to make think its fair and reasonable for it to charge 
Mr N for this. It follows I think Motonovo should also waive these charges.
Having concluded it isnt reasonable for Motonovo to charge Mr N for the above, I also think 
its fair that he should be reimbursed the £25 he paid towards these charges. And, if any 
negative information was recorded on his credit file in relation to this, I think this should be 
removed.
Ill now consider if any additional compensation is due. Mr N, in summary, believes 
Motonovo caused him distress and inconvenience by not accepting the termination letter, 
calling him when he was abroad and by delaying the collection of the car. So, Ill consider 
what happened here.
I think a key thing to think about here is what happened with the termination letter Motonovo 
received. Mr N now says he did send this, so Motonovo shouldnt have delayed collecting 
the car. Ive thought very carefully about this. But, I dont think I need to make a finding here 
about whether Mr N sent this letter or not.
Instead, what I need to consider is whether it was reasonable for Motonovo to delay the 
collection of the car until it had spoken to Mr N further after the phone call in October 2019. 
Having thought about this, I think Motonovo acted reasonably here.
I say this because, having listened to the call, Im satisfied Mr N very clearly states on more 
than one occasion that he didnt send the letter and someone else put it in his name. He also 
didnt initially know the make nor model of the car, and he said he didnt know where the car 
was. Given this, I dont think Motonovo acted unreasonably by not actioning the termination 
at this point as I dont think it couldve been confident Mr N was aware of the situation or had 
requested that the agreement was terminated.
I do appreciate Mr Ns point that Motonovo called him in the early hours of the morning on 
holiday. I think it was reasonable, given the above, that it tried to call him to discuss things 
further. And, the time Mr N received the call was due to the time difference  not because 
Motonovo rang him at an inappropriate time. So, I dont think Motonovo was harassing him 
as Mr N says. And, while Mr N says Motonovo was inundating him with calls, I cant see this 
was the case from its contact notes or other evidence.
I have thought about the delay in the car being collected from the garage and the agreement 
being terminated. But, I think this was impacted by Mr N. Ive considered everything Mr N 
told us about what happened here. But, I havent seen enough to make me think the service 
received by Motonovo meant Mr N was caused distress and inconvenience to the point 
where I think it would be reasonable for it to pay him compensation.My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint. I instruct Motonovo Finance Limited to put 
things right by doing the following:
Waive the outstanding charges as detailed above
Reimburse Mr N £25 from 7 February 2020*
Remove any adverse information from Mr Ns credit file in relation to the charges
*This amount should have 8% simple yearly interest added from the time of payment to the 
time of reimbursement. If Motonovo considers that its required by HM Revenue & Customs 
to withhold income tax from the interest, it should tell Mr N how much its taken off. It should 
also give Mr N a tax deduction certificate if he asks for one, so he can reclaim the tax from 
HM Revenue and Customs if appropriate.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr N to accept or 
reject my decision before 26 April 2022.
 
John Bower
Ombudsman