DRN-3704906
Complaint
Mr A is unhappy that London Mutual Credit Union Limited (LMCU) recorded a fraud 
prevention marker against him. 
Background
In December 2016, Mr As account received a credit of £3,200.00. A proportion of the funds 
were withdrawn at cash machines and the remainder was retained by Mr A. LMCU 
subsequently received a notification from the third-party bank, responsible for sending the 
£3,200.00 payment to Mr As account, stating that the payee of the funds had reported being 
a victim of fraud. LMCU decided to block Mr As account pending a review. As a result of the 
review, it decided to close the account and also record a fraud prevention marker against   
Mr A.
After subsequently discovering the fraud marker, Mr A complained. LMCU looked at Mr As 
complaint and didnt uphold it. As Mr A remained dissatisfied he referred the matter to our 
service.
One of our adjudicators looked into Mr As concerns. She didnt think that LMCU had done 
anything wrong or treated Mr A unfairly and so didnt recommend the complaint be upheld. 
Mr A disagreed and so the complaint was passed to an ombudsman for a final decision.  
My findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The marker that LMCU has filed is intended to record that theres been a misuse of facility  
relating to using the account to receive fraudulent funds. In order to file such a marker, it isnt 
required to prove beyond reasonable doubt that Mr A is guilty of fraud or a financial crime, 
but it must show that there are grounds for more than mere suspicion or concern. The 
relevant guidance says: 
There must be reasonable grounds to believe that an identified fraud or financial 
crime has been committed or attempted; [and]
The evidence must be clear, relevant and rigorous such that the member could 
confidently report the conduct of the subject to the police.
What this means in practice is that LMCU must first be able to show that fraudulent funds 
entered Mr As account, whether they were retained or merely passed through. Secondly, 
LMCU also needs to have strong evidence to show that Mr A was deliberately dishonest in 
receiving the fraudulent payment and knew it was, or might be, an illegitimate payment. This 
can include Mr A allowing someone else to use his account in order to receive an illegitimate 
payment. But a marker shouldnt be registered against someone who was unwitting; there 
should be enough evidence to show complicity. 
To meet the standard of proof required to register a fraud marker, the bank must carry out 
checks of sufficient depth and retain records of these checks. This should include giving the 
account holder the opportunity to explain the activity on their account in order to understand 
their level of knowledge and intention. 
In order to determine Mr As complaint, I need to decide whether I think LMCU had enough 
evidence to show fraudulent funds entered Mr As account and that his actions suggest he 
was complicit in this. And having considered everything, I find that LMCU did have enough to 
record a fraud prevention marker here. Id like to explain why in a little more detail. 
There doesnt appear to be any dispute that the funds in question, which entered Mr As 
account in December 2016, did so as a result of fraudulent activity. So the only matter which 
remains in dispute here is whether Mr A was complicit in allowing his account to receive 
these illegitimate payments. 
Mr A has said that he didnt know the funds were fraudulent as he received the payment for 
a friend. He said his friend told him that he could help him out with money if he agreed to 
receive the payment and withdraw a proportion of the funds in cash. Mr A said he didnt ask 
any questions and agreed to accept the payment as he needed the money, was told he 
could keep around half of the funds and he trusted his friend. He also told our adjudicator 
that he didnt have any messages or anything else to support this arrangement.  
Ive thought about what Mr A has said. But I think that Mr A, at the very least, ought to have 
realised that there was a significant risk his account would be used for illegitimate purposes. 
This is especially as Mr M hasnt provided any explanation for why he would have thought 
that his friend was entitled to such a large sum and would then let him keep almost half the 
funds just for allowing the payment to be credited to his account. 
Indeed I think that Mr A ought to have questioned why his friend didnt simply receive the 
payment into his own account and was instead prepared to forego half the funds to avoid 
this. So Im satisfied that Mr A provided his details in circumstances where he ought to have 
realised there was a significant risk his account would be used for illegitimate purposes. 
Overall and having considered everything, Im satisfied that the available evidence is 
sufficient to conclude that Mr A was not an unwitting participant in fraudulent funds being 
received into his account and that he benefitted from this. So I dont think that LMCU acted 
unfairly towards Mr A when recording a fraud marker against him. And Im therefore not 
upholding Mr As complaint.
I appreciate this will be very disappointing for Mr A. But I hope Mr A will understand the 
reasons for my decision and that hell at least feel his concerns have been listened to. 
Furthermore, Mr A might find that hes able to open an account with another institution as 
long as he applies for a Basic Bank Account, rather than a full Current Account or any such 
equivalent. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, Im not upholding Mr As complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision before 2 November 2022.
 
Jeshen Narayanan
Ombudsman