DRN-4304360
The complaint
Mrs S is unhappy that Marshmallow Insurance Limited paid only part of her repair costs 
following a claim made on her motor insurance policy. She wants it to pay the difference.
What happened
Mrs Ss car was stolen and recovered damaged. Marshmallow wasnt able to locate an 
approved repairer to undertake the repairs. So it said the works could be completed at a 
garage of Mrs Ss choice. But Marshmallow only paid part of the repair costs Mrs S incurred. 
She was unhappy with this and with its level of service. Marshmallow agreed its claim 
handling had been poor and it paid Mrs S £300 compensation for this. 
Our Investigator recommended that the complaint should be upheld. He thought 
Marshmallow hadnt been able to provide evidence that its approved repairer could have 
completed the bodywork and electrical repairs for the amount it had paid Mrs S. So he 
thought Marshmallow should pay the full costs of the repairs, less the policy excess, adding 
interest to the further settlement. He thought its compensation offer for its poor service was 
fair and reasonable. 
Mrs S agreed to this. But Marshmallow didnt provide a further response, so the complaint 
has come to me for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mrs S said she was out of pocket by £1,751.99 following the repairs made by her garage 
and Marshmallows partial settlement. Ive looked at the timeline of her claim she has 
provided and as confirmed by Marshmallow. I can see that Mrs S experienced long delays 
and misinformation, and I can understand that this must have been frustrating for her. 
From what I can see, Mrs Ss car needed extensive bodywork and electrical repairs following 
its recovery, and Marshmallow confirmed it was economical to make repairs. But 
Marshmallow couldnt locate a bodyshop to undertake the body repairs and it thought a 
garage with electrical expertise would be needed to undertake the electrical repairs. 
Marshmallow took Mrs Ss car to its approved repairers, but it couldnt provide a date for 
when the repairs would be made. In the meantime, Mrs S was without her car or a 
replacement. Mrs S wanted to use her own choice of garage to make the repairs. And there 
was a substantial delay in Marshmallows engineers reviewing the estimate she provided. By 
the time this was done, the repairs had been made. 
Marshmallow said its approved repairer could have repaired the car for about two thirds of 
the amount Mrs S paid. Weve asked it to provide evidence to justify this. But it hasnt done 
so despite being allowed reasonable time to do so. So Im not satisfied that Marshmallow 
has justified its decision to pay Mrs S only this amount. 
Marshmallow is required to deal with claims promptly and fairly. Marshmallow wasnt able to 
provide a repairer that could undertake the repairs in a timely fashion. I think it was 
unreasonable for it to expect Mrs S to wait indefinitely for it to make the repairs. And I think 
Mrs S reasonably mitigated her losses by obtaining an estimate for the repairs from her own 
garage and then having them made. 
Im satisfied that Marshmallow should cover the full costs of the repairs and so pay Mrs S the 
difference between its initial settlement and her outlay, less the policy excess. Mrs S has 
been without her money for some time. So I think Marshmallow should reasonably add 
interest to this amount. 
Marshmallow has paid Mrs S £300 compensation for its service failings. Mrs S has accepted 
this, and I think this amount is in keeping with our published guidance for where there have 
been repeated errors over some months. So Im satisfied that this was fair and reasonable.
 
Putting things right
I require Marshmallow Insurance Limited to pay Mrs S £1,751.99 further in settlement of her 
claim. Interest should be added to this amount at the rate of 8% simple per annum from the 
date of the initial settlement to the date of payment. 
If Marshmallow considers that its required by HM Revenue & Customs to deduct income tax 
from that interest, it should tell Mrs S how much its taken off. It should also give Mrs S a tax 
deduction certificate if she asks for one, so she can reclaim the tax from HM Revenue & 
Customs if appropriate.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, my final decision is that I uphold this complaint. I require 
Marshmallow Insurance Limited to carry out the redress set out above. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs S to accept or 
reject my decision before 30 October 2023.
 
Phillip Berechree
Ombudsman