DRN-3360813
The complaint
Ms R complains about the charges Mitsubishi HC Capital UK Plc trading as Hitachi Capital 
Vehicle Solutions asked her to pay, when she ended a hire agreement for car.
What happened
In December 2018, Ms R signed a hire agreement with Hitachi. Under this type of 
agreement, Ms R made monthly payments to Hitachi and in return, she had use of a car.
After around two and a half years, Ms R decided to end the hire agreement with Hitachi and 
she made arrangements to return the car to them. As part of those arrangements, Hitachi 
sent an agent to inspect the car at Ms Rs home. Hitachi did this to assess the condition of 
the car, to help decide what to do with it after Ms Rs agreement had ended.
Ms R says she was told by the agent that although there was some slight damage to the 
cars tyres, alloy wheels, alloy caps and one area of the bodywork, she wouldnt be charged. 
She says the agent said the damage was either fair wear and tear, or a manufacturing fault. 
The agent then arranged for the car to be taken away from Ms R.
A few days after the inspection, Hitachi sent Ms R a copy of the agents report, which 
included itemised charges for the damage. Ms R says that some of the damage charges 
werent explained to her by the agent. She says the report included an additional two 
scratches to the cars bodywork and complained about the total cost to Hitachi. Ms R said 
she shouldnt have to pay for any of the charges.
After some discussion between Ms R and Hitachi, the damage charges were reduced. 
Hitachi removed all the charges for the tyres, alloy wheels, alloy caps and one of the three 
scratches on the bodywork. In their final response to Ms Rs complaint, Hitachi said the 
remaining two scratches on the bodywork, exceeded what could be considered fair wear and 
tear.
Ms R didnt accept Hitachis response and brought her complaint to us. One of our 
investigators looked into Ms Rs case and found that Hitachi had treated her fairly. She said 
the two scratches Hitachi had charged for, exceeded the fair wear and tear guidelines, 
issued by the British Vehicle Rental and Leasing Association (BVRLA). The investigator 
concluded that it was fair for Hitachi to ask Ms R to pay for the repair charges for those 
scratches.
Ms R didnt agree with the investigator and said she wasnt made aware of the two scratches 
at the time of the agents inspection. The investigator didnt change her findings, so Ms R 
asked for her case to be passed to an ombudsman for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Before I explain more about my decision, Id like Ms R to know that I acknowledge her 
reasons for ending the hire agreement with Hitachi. It must have been a difficult time for 
Ms R and I hope her circumstances have improved.
In considering this complaint Ive had regard to the relevant law and regulations, any 
regulators rules, guidance and standards, codes of practice, and what I consider was good 
industry practice at the time. 
Ms R was supplied with a car under a hire agreement. This is a regulated consumer credit 
agreement which means were able to investigate complaints about it. 
Ive seen a copy of the hire agreement Ms R signed. Section 3.1 (b) says:
You agree:
to keep the vehicle in good condition and repair. You will be responsible to us for any 
damage caused to or deterioration of the Vehicle otherwise than through fair wear 
and tear as indicated in the guidelines issued from time to time by the British Vehicle 
Rental and Leasing Association (BVRLA);
So, Im satisfied that Ms R wouldve been reasonably aware of her obligations under the 
agreement.
Ive also seen a copy of the inspection report carried out by Hitachis agent. In the report it 
shows images of each scratch on the bodywork, where Hitachi have asked Ms R to pay for 
the repair. 
Below the first image, the agent recorded the damage to the Sill Panel R. I think the 
scratch is through the paintwork and reveals bare metal. The image also shows the agent 
holding a standard measuring tool up to the scratch. Having considered the image carefully, 
I think the scratch exceeds 25mm.
The second image shows a scratch on the C Post R. Similar to the first image, I think the 
scratch is shown to reveal bare metal. The same standard measuring tool is shown and I 
think the second scratch is longer than 25mm.
On page 13 of the BVRLA guidance it says:
Surface scratches of 25mm or less where the primer or bare metal is not showing 
are acceptable provided they can be polished out.
Having considered all the evidence, I think the two scratches shown in the images fall 
outside of the fair wear and tear standard in the BVRLA guidance. I think this is the guidance 
used by the industry and what Hitachi told Ms R they would use, in the terms and conditions 
of her agreement.
But, Ms R says she wasnt made aware of the damage at the time. So, Ive considered the 
images in the report and where the photographs were likely to have been taken.
The agents inspection report shows a main image of Ms Rs car, parked on a driveway 
outside a house. Ms R says the agent came to her home and carried out the inspection. Ive 
thought about all the evidence here and on balance, I think the photographs show Ms Rs 
home and the car parked on her driveway.
In several of the other images taken, including those showing the two scratches Ms R disputes, I think the same driveway is shown. So, on balance, Im persuaded that all the 
images showing on the agents inspection report, were taken outside Ms Rs home, and of 
the same car.
I acknowledge that the agent may not have discussed all the damage with Ms R. But, I think 
its clear the report needed to include pricing. And that may have been added after the car 
was taken away and the images considered further. I dont think that in itself means it would 
be unfair for Hitachi to ask Ms R to pay for the repairs to the two scratches.
I accept that Hitachi had originally asked Ms R to repay nearly six times what theyre asking 
her to pay now. Hitachi have reduced the damage charges significantly and this has caused 
Ms R concern. While Ive not considered the fairness of charging for the various other items 
removed from the original invoice, I think this shows that Hitachi have looked to try and 
resolve things for Ms R.
In all the circumstances, I think Hitachi have demonstrated where the two scratches shown 
on the inspection report, are outside of the BVRLA guidance for fair wear and tear. So, I 
think its fair for Hitachi to ask Ms R to pay for the repairs, now that her agreement has 
ended and the car has been returned.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold Ms Rs complaint about Mitsubishi HC Capital UK Plc 
trading as Hitachi Capital Vehicle Solutions.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms R to accept or 
reject my decision before 27 April 2022.
 
Sam Wedderburn
Ombudsman