DRN-1752763
 
The complaint
This complaint is about a credit card payment protection insurance (PPI) policy taken out 
in 2001. Mr R says Tesco Personal Finance PLC (trading as Tesco Bank) mis-sold him the 
PPI.
What happened
Mr R took out a Tesco credit card in 2001 and at the same PPI was added to his account. 
Tesco says that Mr R applied for the card by post. Mr R says he has little or no recollection 
of how the PPI was sold to him.
Our adjudicator didnt uphold Mr Rs complaint. Mr R disagreed, so his complaint has been 
passed to me to consider. Mr R said, in summary, he had adequate sick pay and savings so 
didnt need PPI. He said he paid off his balance each month, so Tesco shouldve warned 
him he didnt need the cover. He also said he wasnt aware he had PPI, otherwise he 
wouldve made a claim when he was made redundant. 
Further, Mr R says that we should look at this from an honesty and fairness perspective and 
not from just a legal one; that he signed the terms and conditions. He said if he had 
genuinely known what the insurance was for he wouldnt have taken it out as he didnt need 
it. Finally, he said he may have thought the insurance was for a different purpose  such as 
identity protection.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website 
and Ive taken this into account in deciding Mr Rs case. 
Ive decided the policy wasnt mis-sold. Ill explain why.
Ive seen Mr Rs credit card application from the time of sale. In the section marked 
Cardholder Payment Protection hes ticked the box to say he wants PPI. I think the 
application form made it clear that this was insurance to cover his card repayments, rather 
than protecting his card if it was lost or stolen. There was a separate section on the form 
offering that type of protection.  I think the paperwork also made it clear that the PPI was 
optional and Mr R didnt have to take it. This was a postal application, so Tesco wasnt 
involved in providing Mr R with any advice or input when he completed the application. So, I 
cant fairly hold it responsible for Mr R possibly not appreciating what he was signing up to. 
As I've said, I think the information he was given was clear. Also, the cost of PPI would've 
appeared separately on Mr Rs monthly statements, so I think it likely that if Mr R had 
mistakenly selected the cover, he wouldve picked that up earlier. The policy wasnt 
cancelled until 2013, I understand.Overall, I think it more likely that at the time Mr R selected repayment insurance, knowing he 
didnt have to take it to get the credit card. So, I cant fairly uphold Mr Rs complaint for this 
reason.
Tesco didnt recommended the PPI to Mr R so it didnt have to check that the PPI was right 
for him. But, it still had to give Mr R clear, fair and not misleading information about the PPI 
so that he could make an informed choice that the PPI was right for him and he wanted to 
buy it. Based on what Ive seen of his circumstances at the time, I cant see that it was 
inappropriate for his needs. 
I say this because he was eligible to take out the PPI and it appeared affordable. He wasnt 
affected by any of the exclusions to or limits on the PPI cover such as having unusual 
working arrangements or suffering from a medical condition of which he was already aware.
From what weve been told, Mr R would got some sick pay through his work if he was unable 
to work due to accident or sickness. But the policy wouldve paid out on top of Mr Rs work 
benefits, for up to 12 months per successful claim. Mr R said he had some savings. But, I 
cant see that this meant that the policy was inappropriate for him. Having PPI wouldve 
allowed him to retain these to use for other household purposes if he was out of work. Mr R 
also said his wife couldve helped with his repayments. Whilst I accept she wouldve wanted 
to, help of this kind cant always be guaranteed when the time comes, so I havent placed 
much reliance on this. Mr R also mentioned some other insurances that he had. But, I cant 
see that these provided Mr R with duplicate cover. So, overall,  I think Mr R could have found 
this cover useful if anything went gone wrong.
I think its possible that Tesco couldve given Mr R clearer information about the costs of the 
policy, but I think he wouldve understood he was paying a separate amount for PPI and it 
appeared affordable. So, I dont think this wouldve put him off taking out PPI or he has lost 
out because of this.
Which means Tesco doesnt have to pay back all of the cost of the PPI policy to Mr R. But 
Tesco has paid back some of the cost of the PPI to Mr R because:
     Tesco got a high level of commission and profit share (more than 50% of the PPI 
premium) - so it should have told Mr R about that. Because Tesco didnt tell Mr R, that was 
unfair.
     To put that right, Tesco has paid back the amount of commission and profit share that 
was above 50% of the PPI premium - and I think that is fair in this case.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
My final decision
The PPI policy wasnt mis-sold  so Tesco Personal Finance PLC does not have to pay back 
all of the cost of the PPI to Mr R.
But Tesco Personal Finance PLC does have to pay back to Mr R any commission and profit 
share it got that was more than 50% of the PPI premium. I understand it has already done 
this, so I dont award any further compensation.
 Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision before 17 June 2020.
Kim Parsons
Ombudsman