DRN-3110368
The complaint
Mr E complains about the way Advantage Insurance Company Limited handled a claim he 
made on his motor insurance policy. 
What happened
In June 2021, Mr Es car was damaged in an accident and he made a claim under his 
Advantage policy. Advantage considered the car as a category B write off and it offered 
£1,750 as the market value before the loss. 
Later, Mr E found that the car had been sold at auction for £775. He complained that 
Advantage had misled him into taking possession of the car. He said hed been lied to about 
why Advantage needed to take possession of the car. 
Advantage accepted it had given some wrong information to Mr E, and it offered a total of 
£105 compensation for this. But under the terms of the policy it felt it had the right to retain 
possession of the car. Mr E didnt accept that, unhappy with Advantages response, he 
brought the complaint to our service.
Our investigator didnt think Advantage needed to any more to resolve the complaint. She 
said whilst Advantage has accepted it gave wrong information to Mr E, it was ultimately 
allowed, under the terms of his policy, to retain possession of the car. 
Mr E didnt accept that. He said if hed known the car was going to be sold on, he wouldnt 
have accepted the offer of £1,750 and Advantage wouldnt have been able to take 
possession of the vehicle. Our investigator reviewed the matter but was still satisfied 
Advantage didnt need to do anything differently.
Mr E has asked for a final decision, so the matter has come to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr Es policy says that if the car is a total loss (which is the case here) the insurer is entitled 
to take possession of the car once it has settled the claim. So on the face of it, Im satisfied 
that once Mr E was paid the settlement value for the car, Advantage was entitled to take 
possession of it.
Advantage accepts it wasnt clear about why it couldnt give the car back to Mr E. Mr E 
thinks it deliberately misled him so it could keep the vehicle and profit from it. But Im 
satisfied that Advantage made a mistake, it didnt need to mislead Mr E to retain possession 
because his insurance contract with Advantage allows it to do so. So I dont agree 
Advantage has acted fraudulently.
Mr E says had he known he could retain the vehicles salvage, he wouldnt have accepted 
the settlement offer from Advantage. He said even if that meant the claim had to be 
withdrawn with Advantage, he could have liaised directly with the third-party insurer. 
I appreciate Mr E may have taken different action if Advantage had fully explained what 
happens with category B vehicles, but having looked at everything, I cant see Advantage 
has acted unfairly.
Mr Es vehicle was written off as a category B, meaning it cant be repaired, but usable parts 
can be recycled. It also means the shell of the vehicle needs to be disposed of appropriately, 
and a license is needed to be able to handle cars in this category. So Advantage says it 
wouldnt have been appropriate to allow Mr E to retain the salvage without him having the 
appropriate license. Mr E says, had he been able to retain possession of the vehicle, hed 
have stripped the car for parts and sold them. So he feels hes been denied that opportunity 
as he wasnt able to retain possession of the car. He disputes a license is needed, but from 
the information Ive seen, Im satisfied that it is. And in any case, Im not persuaded that Mr E 
would have been able to safely dispose of the car chassis as is required for a category B 
write off.
Having considered everything, in the circumstances of this case I dont think Advantage has 
acted unfairly. It has the right to retain possession of a vehicle once a settlement is agreed, 
and in the circumstances of this case Im satisfied it was appropriate for it to do so. Just 
because Advantage sold the car on, doesnt mean Mr E is entitled to this money, Advantage 
has paid him the market value of his vehicle, what it does with the vehicle afterwards is up to 
it to decide. 
Mr E did accept the settlement offer, but he has said that he feels its low, and he wouldnt 
have accepted it if hed known what Advantage would do with the car. So for completeness 
Ive looked at the valuation he was provided to see if it was fair. Mr Es policy says if the car 
is a total loss, it will pay the market value of the car immediately before the loss.
The motor trade valuations this service use gave a range of £1,595 to £1,785. These guides 
are based on extensive nationwide research of the likely selling prices of vehicles and this 
service considers them more persuasive than individual adverts. Having considered the 
guides, Im satisfied that the offer made was fair and reasonable. 
Having considered everything, Im not going to ask Advantage to do anything differently. 
My final decision
My final decision is that Im not going to ask Advantage Insurance Company Limited to do 
anything differently. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr E to accept or 
reject my decision before 23 December 2021.
 
Michelle Henderson
Ombudsman