DRN-3952375
The complaint
Ms F says Allianz Insurance Plc unfairly refused to cover her vets costs following a claim 
she made on her pet insurance policy. She also believes Allianz either mis-sold the policy or 
set it up incorrectly from the start.
What happened
Ms F bought the policy from Allianz over the phone in 2013 and it was renewed after every 
12 months. 
In August 2021, Ms F contacted Allianz to claim for a heart condition her dog had started 
receiving treatment for in December 2020. Allianz wrote to Ms F after accepting the claim to 
say the time limit for treatment of the condition would end in December 2021. That was in 
line with the terms of the policy regarding a 12-month time limit that had been in place since 
2013.
When Ms F tried to make a further claim for the same heart condition in April 2022, Allianz 
declined it on the basis that treatment had taken place after the 12-month time limit had 
ended in December 2021.
Ms F complained to Allianz that it had unfairly refused to pay the claim and to say it had set 
up the policy incorrectly as she wouldnt have taken out a policy with a 12-month time limit 
for treatment. Instead, she believed shed bought whats often called a lifetime policy which 
includes no such time limit.
When Allianz replied to say it didnt think it had treated Ms F unfairly, she brought her 
complaint to this service. One of our investigators looked into the complaint but wasnt able 
to recommend that it should be upheld. They felt Ms F likely understood and was accepting 
of the 12-month time limit that applied to her cover, and that Allianz had applied the term 
reasonably on this occasion.
Ms F didnt agree with the investigators findings. She maintained that Allianz hadnt made 
the time limit clear to her when she took the policy out or subsequently. The complaint was 
passed to me to review afresh.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided not to uphold the complaint. Ill explain why.
Ms F bought the policy over the phone. Allianz says it didnt recommend the policy to her. 
Which means it didnt need to take steps to ensure the policy was suitable for her.
It follows that the main issues for me to decide in this case are whether Allianz failed to 
provide Ms F with enough information to make an informed decision about taking the policy. 
And, if so, whether those failings made a difference to Ms Fs decision to take out the policy.
Unsurprisingly given the length of time thats passed since the policy was sold in 2013, there 
are gaps in the information thats available. For example, Allianz says it no longer holds a 
recording of the sales call. On that basis, Ive considered the information thats available and 
what this indicates to me on balance. 
To begin with, Ive reviewed a copy of the paperwork Allianz sent Ms F from the time of the 
sale in 2013. Although thats not the same as knowing what was said during the sales call, it 
does indicate what information Ms F was provided with. That paperwork included a 
certificate of insurance branded 12 months Essential (as opposed to lifetime or similar). The 
cover details showed that the plan was the Essential policy and went on to explain the:
 policy helps with the cost of veterinary treatment should the unexpected happen, 
allowing you to claim for treatment of each illness and injury for up to 12 months or 
until you have reached your maximum benefit, whichever is first. 
The key facts document summarised the policy and included references to the policy 
covering each injury and illness for a period of 12 months only. The policy booklet also set 
out the 12-month time limit. 
As well as considering the information from around the time of the sale in 2013, Ive also 
thought about what Ms F was told after the sale and while the policy was running. I think that 
helps provide some insight into what her understanding of the policy was and/or ought 
reasonably to have been. In this regard, Allianz has been able to provide some, more recent, 
call recordings notably from July and September 2020  both of which pre-dated the claim 
she made successfully and the claim that was later declined.
In the first of those calls, I note Allianz confirmed to Ms F that her dog was covered for up to 
12 months per condition, after which claims for the same condition would be excluded, 
subject to the monetary limit. Ms F confirmed she understood and that she didnt need 
Allianz to re-send her a copy of her policy documents. In the second call, Allianz again 
explained the 12-month time limit to Ms F, this time in response to a claim she wanted to 
make which was excluded because of the same time limit. She again confirmed she 
understood, and she didnt suggest at that time that the policy had been mis-sold or set up 
incorrectly.   
I acknowledge what Ms Fs said about her personal circumstances, including that shes 
unable to read or write. I can see how that would have impacted on her ability to understand 
things like the certificates of insurance and the policy booklets she was sent. But Im not 
satisfied that Allianz was made aware of those difficulties until after the claims came about. 
So, I dont believe it could reasonably have done anything differently before that. And in any 
case, Im persuaded that Allianz made clear the 12-month time limit more than once over the 
phone before the first claim arose.    
Given the nature of Ms Fs claims and the sequence of events, Im satisfied that it was fair 
for Allianz to rely on the policy terms that it did to decline the second claim.
Taking everything into account, and while I appreciate that Ms Fs in a difficult financial 
situation because of the vets costs incurred, I dont consider that Allianz is responsible for 
those costs. That said, I gather Allianz has made a separate offer to Ms F concerning the 
lack of adjustments it feels it made on eventually learning of her reading and writing 
difficulties. If she has any queries about the offer or hasnt accepted it already and wishes to do so, she should contact Allianz direct.
My final decision
For the reasons given, Ive decided not to uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms F to accept or 
reject my decision before 12 April 2023.
 
Nimish Patel
Ombudsman