DRN-4428096
The complaint
Mr H complains that Santander UK Plc (Santander) havent paid him the cashback due on 
one of his direct debit bills. 
What happened
Mr H held a Santander account where one of the benefits was cashback paid on certain 
household bills paid by direct debit.
Mr H paid a number of bills by direct debit and received cashback on some but didnt receive 
cashback on his phone bill amounting to approximately £69 worth.
Mr H complained to Santander about this. Santander said the phone supplier wasnt one of 
the eligible businesses on its list that it paid cashback on.
Mr H was unhappy with this and brought his complaint to this service. Mr H says that when 
he opened his account Santander didnt provide a list of eligible businesses. 
One of our investigators looked into Mr Hs concerns and didnt think that Santander had 
treated him unfairly. They thought that it was likely Mr H wouldve been provided with a copy 
of the list of eligible businesses in its terms and conditions when he opened his account and 
that the list made it clear what businesses it offered cashback on. As one of Mr Hs suppliers 
wasnt on the list they couldnt say that Santander had done anything wrong in not paying 
cashback for that business. 
Mr H disagreed and has asked for an ombudsmans decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having considered everything provided, Ive decided not to uphold Mr Hs complaint. 
My role is to look at the problems Mr H has experienced and see if Santander has done 
anything wrong or treated him unfairly. If it has, I would seek  if possible - to put Mr H in the 
position he wouldve been in if this hadnt happened - in this case direct Santander to pay 
him the £69 cashback he says is due to him for paying his phone bill by direct debit. 
Mr H is unhappy Santander have failed to give him cashback on one of his direct debits. He 
was under the impression he would receive cashback on all his household bills paid by direct 
debit and was never provided with a list of businesses that were covered by the scheme. 
But Ive seen a copy of the list of businesses that fall under Santanders cashback scheme 
and Mr Hs phone supplier isnt on it. Santanders webpage also gives the customer the 
option to search for their supplier to check that it is covered and also explains that if you 
cant find your supplier then you would need to decide if you still wanted to proceed as you 
may not receive the cashback on these direct debits.
Santander have told us that if Mr H opened his account in branch this information wouldve 
been provided to him at the time and if he opened the account online he wouldve had to 
acknowledge hed read the terms and conditions (containing the list) before completing.
Based on what Ive seen I cant say for sure whether Mr H received the list or read the terms 
and conditions. But it is clear that the phone supplier Mr H used isnt on the list, so I dont 
think Santander has done anything wrong in not paying cashback on this direct debit.
And even if I could say for sure that Mr H never received the list and wasnt aware that this 
particular supplier wasnt eligible for cashback I dont think it wouldve made a difference. I 
say this because Mr H has benefitted from receiving cashback from other direct debit 
payments towards other household bills and has been paying the supplier in question for 
over five years and never received cashback for it. If the cashback on this particular 
business was instrumental in opening or keeping his account, I think hed have questioned 
the lack of cashback sooner. So Im not persuaded if hed understood that this business 
wasnt covered he wouldve done anything different. 
So overall and having considered everything I dont think Santander has done anything 
wrong or treated Mr H unfairly and so I do not uphold his complaint.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I do not uphold Mr Hs complaint against Santander UK Plc.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 5 January 2024.
 
Caroline Davies
Ombudsman