DRN-2920451
The complaint
Mr W is unhappy that Society of Lloyds declined a claim he made on his travel insurance 
policy. 
What happened
In January 2020, Mr W booked and paid for a sailing trip abroad. His sailing trip was due to 
take place between 24 April and 2 May 2020. 
On 12 March 2020, Mr W took out a tall ships single trip  area 1 - UK & Europe travel 
insurance policy, underwritten by Lloyds (the policy) to cover his total trip which was 
detailed on the schedule of insurance as between 23 April and 3 May 2020 (inclusive).
The sailing trip was cancelled by the sailing provider around 20 March 2020 due to 
restrictions in both countries where the boat was due to dock as a result of Covid-19 
pandemic. This was shortly after the Foreign and Commonwealth Office (FCO) advised 
against all but essential international travel on 17 March 2020. That guidance was in place at 
the time the sailing trip was cancelled and remained in place when Mr W was due to travel 
abroad towards the end of April 2020.
The sailing provider said it wouldnt be offering a refund of the £1,000 Mr W had paid for the 
sailing trip in accordance with its terms and conditions. However, it did say that, where 
possible, it would offer alternative future voyages if booked within 12 months from the date of 
cancellation (around 20 March 2020). 
So, Mr W made a claim on the policy for the cost of the sailing trip (£1,000).
Lloyds declined Mr Ws claim because:
the reason which led to his trip being cancelled wasnt covered under the terms and 
conditions of the policy. It said the cancellation section of the policy listed specific 
reasons for which Lloyds would provide cover, and the circumstances surrounding 
Mr Ws claim didnt fall within those reasons. 
The loss being claimed wasnt an irrecoverable loss given that the sailing provider 
said Mr W could rebook his trip within 12 months of the date of its correspondence, 
cancelling the sailing trip, in March 2020.
Mr W didnt think that was fair, so complained to our Service. 
Our investigator upheld Mr Ws complaint. Although, the trip was cancelled for a reason not 
listed in the cancellation section of the policy terms, there was also an exclusion in the policy 
limiting cover if hed travelled against the advice of the FCO. So, our investigator didnt think 
it was fair and reasonable for Lloyds to decline the claim for the reason it did. He concluded 
that it would be fair and reasonable for Lloyds to treat the claim as covered under the 
cancellation section of the policy. And he recommended Lloyds assess the claim under the 
remaining terms and conditions of the policy.
Lloyds didnt agree. It said the specific insured perils for which a claim may be considered 
are set out in the policy terms. As the circumstance giving rise to the claim made by Mr W 
fell outside of those insured perils, it said it was unable to consider the claim. 
It also highlighted general exclusion 19 in the policy terms and conditions which it said would 
potentially apply here; that a claim wouldnt be covered as result of: 
the tour operator, airline or any other provider becoming insolvent or being 
unable/unwilling to fulfil their obligations.
It said the sailing provider couldnt continue with the trip due to the worldwide restrictions due 
to the pandemic.
Lloyds also reiterated that Mr W hadnt established that his losses were irrecoverable. 
In June 2020, our investigator asked Mr W to enquire with the sailing provider whether their 
original offer to rebook a sailing trip had been extended, and if so, on what terms.
The sailing provider responded:
We did offer the chance to rebook a voyage within a year of the date you were 
hoping to sail. However, since this email was sent, we have unfortunately not been 
able to operate for the general public due to COVID and I acknowledge we do not 
have any like-for-like voyages for you to rebook, for which you keen to sail on. We do 
hope to start sailing again this summer but due to limited spaces I am afraid we do 
not currently have anything to offer you.
Our investigator forwarded the sailing providers response to Lloyds, who replied by email 
on 7 July 2021. It maintained that the trip wasnt covered under the policy under the 
cancellation section of the policy.
This complaint has now been passed to me to consider everything afresh and decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
 Im satisfied that our investigator identified, and set out, the relevant industry rules and 
guidance which apply to the specific circumstances of this case. The investigator also 
highlighted, and referred to, the key documents which are relevant to this complaint. 
I uphold this complaint for broadly the same reasons set out by our investigator in his view. 
The policy documentation 
The Insurance Product Information Document (IPID) provided to us by Lloyds doesnt refer 
to any exclusions for travel against FCO advice.
 The policy terms and conditions set out the cancellation terms. On page 8 it says:
We will pay the following expenses incurred as a result of any of the Specified 
occurrences below:
1.1 Up to the amount shown in the Schedule of Benefits for any unused travel and 
accommodation expenses which have been pre-paid and cannot be recovered, 
and any other pre-paid charges that are contracted to be paid if a pre-arranged 
Trip is cancelledSpecified occurrences:
a) Your death, or sustaining an Injury or serious illness.
b) The death, Injury or serious illness of Your Relative, Partner, fianc(e), business 
colleague ,any person with whom You had arranged to travel, reside or conduct 
business with.
c) You or any person with whom You had arranged to travel, reside or conduct 
business being:
(i) quarantined;
(ii) called for witness or jury service;
(iii) made redundant;
(iv) called for emergency duty as a member of the armed forces, government, 
police, fire, rescue or medical services or a public utility company; or
(v) required to be present at Your Home or place of business in Your Home 
Country following a burglary or major damage caused by storm, flood or fire.
d) The cancellation or delayed departure, for 24-hours or more, of a Publicly 
Licensed Transport vehicle in which You had previously booked to travel resulting 
from any of the following events: strike, industrial action, fire, flood, earthquake, 
landslide, avalanche, volcanic eruption, adverse weather conditions or an 
accident or mechanical breakdown, provided that such event had not occurred, 
commenced or been announced before the booking was made in respect of the 
affected departure.
e) Damage caused by a storm, flood or fire which results in the accommodation in 
which You had previously booked to reside during the Trip being uninhabitable, 
including any Sailing Vessel (Private) and Sailing Vessel (Commercial).
f) Where the Sailing Vessel (Private) and Sailing Vessel (Commercial) that You are 
sailing in is stolen, incurs actual or constructive total loss, or requires repairs that 
are likely to render the Sailing Vessel (Private) and Sailing Vessel (Commercial) 
unusable or uninhabitable.
The general exclusions are set out at pages 17 and 18 of the policy terms and conditions. It 
says at clause 21 (on page 18) that the following isnt covered under the policy:
Travelling to a country where the Foreign and Commonwealth Office have advised 
against all but essential travel.
Ill refer to this as the FCO exclusion. 
Was it unreasonable for Lloyds to decline the claim? 
I think its fair and reasonable for Lloyds to treat the claim as covered under the cancellation 
section of the policy in this particular case because: 
Mr Ws sailing trip was cancelled because of the global impact of the Covid-19 
pandemic. Thats not something that is covered under the terms and conditions of the 
policy as its not a specific or listed insured event. However, taking into account the 
relevant law and industry guidelines, I dont think that leads to a fair and reasonable 
outcome in the circumstances of this case for the reasons Ill go on to explain. 
If Mr W had travelled abroad he wouldnt have followed FCO advice. And because of 
the FCO exclusion he wouldnt have been covered by the policy terms and 
conditions. But, under the terms and conditions of the policy, changes in FCO 
guidance also arent covered by the policy. I dont think that was made sufficiently clear to Mr W in this case. 
Mr W wouldve needed to read the full policy terms and conditions in order to 
understand that this set of circumstances wasnt covered. And, I dont think that this 
information was brought to his attention in a prominent and transparent way. 
A consumer would need to go further into the detail of the policy wording to establish 
whether they were able to claim if they had to cancel their trip because of changes to 
FCO guidance after theyd bought their policy. And even when a consumer reaches 
pages 8 of the policys terms and conditions - which sets out the available cover if 
their trip is cancelled  a claim arising from a change in FCO advice isnt listed as a 
specific exclusion at page 9. Instead, this section is silent on whether this is 
something which is covered under the cancellation section of the policy. Further, I 
think the section on the policy explaining what will be covered if the consumer is 
unable to travel, on page 8, is in plain English. But the FCO exclusion isnt presented 
in the same place. Its later in the policy document at page 18. So, the consumer 
would need to cross refer the policy terms to comprehend how they all related to one 
another, and to understand the effect of the FCO exclusion. 
This has created a significant imbalance in the rights and interests of Mr W and 
Lloyds, shifting the rights and obligations under the policy significantly in Lloyds 
favour. I think its unlikely that Mr W wouldve purchased the policy if hed realised 
that there was no cover under the policy if the FCO guidance changed after hed 
bought the policy. 
Ive also taken into account what Lloyds has said about general exclusion 19 potentially 
applying to the circumstances of this complaint. 
I think this exclusion is less relevant now that Lloyds seems to accept that Mr W is unable to 
recover his losses from the sailing provider.  
But in any event, Im satisfied that the loss is irrecoverable based on the information 
provided. The most recent email from the sailing provider confirms that they arent able to 
offer Mr W a similar trip now, or for the foreseeable future. Thats consistent with the 
information on its website. Mr W hasnt been provided with a voucher or credit note so hes 
reliant on the sailing provider possibly being able to offer him a similar trip at some 
undetermined date. I also note that the sailing provider was a charitable body and theres no 
industry scheme available for Mr W to pursue his losses. Its now nearly 18 months after Mr 
Ws holiday was cancelled, and on the facts of this particular case, I think its fair and 
reasonable to consider the losses as irrecoverable. 
Further, theres nothing to suggest that the sailing provider wasnt willing to fulfil their 
contractual obligations theyd entered with Mr W. And although Lloyds has said that the 
pandemic meant that the sailing provider was unable to do so, I dont agree that it would be 
fair and reasonable to apply this clause to circumstances of this particular case. The cost of 
the sailing trip was non-refundable and the reason why the trip was cancelled was for a 
reason outside of the sailing providers control. It did offer the possibility of Mr W being able 
to book another sailing trip within 12 months of the original sailing trip being cancelled but 
Im persuaded for the reasons set out above, that his losses are now irrecoverable. 
So, in such circumstances, I dont think it would be fair and reasonable for Lloyds to rely on 
general exclusion 19 to decline the claim. 
Putting things right Im directing Lloyds to treat the claim as covered under the cancellation section of the policy 
on the basis that it is now an unrecoverable loss and disregarding general exclusion 19. 
Lloyds should assess the claim under the remaining terms and conditions of the policy 
including (but not limited to) the financial limits of the policy, and the applicable excess. 
My final decision
Im upholding Mr Ws complaint against Society of Lloyds and direct it to put things right in 
the way Ive outlined above. 
  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 9 September 2021.
 
David Curtis-Johnson
Ombudsman