DRN-4385207
The complaint
Mr W is unhappy that Fairmead Insurance Limited declined his claim for damage caused by 
an escape of water.
What happened
In summary, Mr W had holiday home buildings and contents insurance underwritten by 
Fairmead. In December, a pipe burst and caused significant damage to the house. Mr W 
claimed under the policy and Fairmead instructed a loss adjuster. 
Fairmead declined the claim relying on the policy unoccupancy condition which required the 
home to be centrally heated continuously if unoccupied for more than 72 hours, or drain the 
water. Fairmead said Mr W hadnt met the condition for heating his home because he had 
storage heaters, so he shouldve drained the water.
Mr W complained to Fairmead. He said the heating was always on in line with the policy, so 
he thought it should accept his claim. Fairmead issued its final response to Mr W, 
maintaining its decision.
I issued a provisional decision in September 2023 explaining that I was intending to uphold 
Mr Ws complaint. Heres what I said:
provisional findings
The main issue of complaint lies with the policy unoccupancy condition, which states: 
It is a condition during the period 1st November to 31st March (inclusive) that 
whenever the Home is Unoccupied for more than 72 consecutive hours You must 
ensure that:
1) the water supply is turned off at the mains and the water system drained
OR
2) there is a fully working central heating system which is set to operate 
continuously for 24 hours each day at a temperature of not less than 10 degrees 
Celsius/50 degrees Fahrenheit.
If this condition is not met any claims relating to the following Causes or Extra 
benefits will be void and not paid:
Escape of water or oil from any fixed water or heating installation or 
domestic appliance
Water and heating installations
Tracing and accessing leaks
We reserve the right to request sight of utility bills for verification
The condition was prominently displayed at the beginning of the policy booklet, and Mr W 
was aware of it. The dispute lies with the definition of a fully working central heating 
system. 
Central heating
Fairmead said Mr W didnt have central heating, so he shouldve turned off the water supply 
and drained the water system.
Mr W said he had storage heaters, operated from a central energy supply, which he believes 
is central heating.
Ive thought carefully about this issue and, overall, Im minded to agree with Mr W. 
Storage heaters are supplied by a single energy source, usually on a time-of-use electricity 
tariff, with the capability of being set to maintain at least a minimum room temperature. I 
accept Fairmeads point that the heaters can be operated individually, but Mr W fairly points 
out that the same is true of radiators attached to a gas central heating system.
Ive looked at reputable online sources of information about central heating systems: some 
include storage heaters within the definition of central heating, others dont.
But the key point of reference for me to consider is the policy. Crucially, the policy doesnt 
define what is meant by a fully working central heating system.
Given the obvious importance of this condition, and the advancements in whole-home 
heating systems, I think its reasonable to say Fairmead shouldve included a definition. In 
the absence of a definition, I think its reasonable that Mr W classed his storage heaters as 
central heating.
Temperature
The next part of the condition is that Mr W needed to have his heating set to operate 
continuously for 24 hours each day at a temperature of not less than 10 degrees Celsius/50 
degrees Fahrenheit.
Mr W said he did this and, at Fairmeads request in line with the policy condition, he supplied 
evidence of his smart meter readings and electricity charges. Fairmeads final response 
letter doesnt comment on the conclusions it reached having seen the evidence. 
I asked Fairmead to explain how Mr W could show he had the heating set to 10 degrees 
Celsius all day every day of the defined period. In response, Fairmead said the energy 
usage and charges would provide confirmation. And in Mr Ws case, Fairmead said on the 
balance of probability he wouldve paid more than he did to heat his home than his smart 
meter readings and bills suggest.
While I understand why Fairmead expects to rely on that evidence, I cant agree that its a 
fair determination of how Mr W heated his home. Thats because there are too many 
variables which could affect the electricity usage and charges, such as the wattage of each 
heater, its efficiency, how well the home was insulated, whether the heating was boosted, 
type of energy tariff, and so on. However, what the electricity readings do show is that there 
were peaks and troughs in electricity usage during the night and day respectively. That 
supports Mr Ws claim that he had his heating set according to the time-of-use tariff which, in 
turn, supports his claim that he had his heating on continuously in line with the policy.In summary, I find Mr Ws evidence more persuasive, so Im minded to conclude that 
Fairmead unfairly declined his claim by relying on the unoccupancy condition. 
Putting things right
Fairmead declined Mr Ws claim on the basis that he didnt meet the unoccupancy condition. 
This suggests to me that Fairmead didnt consider the claim further once it believed there 
was no cover.
So, to put matters right, Im minded to require Fairmead to reconsider Mr Ws claim in line 
with the remaining terms and conditions of the policy, without relying on the unoccupancy 
condition.
In addition to this, I think its reasonable to ask Fairmead to pay Mr W £350 compensation. 
The compensation is in recognition of the distress and inconvenience Mr W experienced, 
over and above that which could reasonably be expected with a claim of this nature, 
because of Fairmeads reliance on a policy condition which it hadnt defined or reasonably 
demonstrated applied in the circumstances.
I asked both parties to send me any further comments and information they might want me 
to consider before I reached a final decision.
Fairmead didnt provide any further comment.
Mr W accepted my provisional decision but wanted to clarify some points. Ill address those 
points below.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As Mr W accepted my provisional decision, and Fairmead didnt make any further 
submissions or provide further evidence for me to consider, I see no reason to change my 
provisional findings.
So, my final decision is the same as my provisional decision and for the same reasons.
Ill now comment on the points Mr W raised in his response.
Mr W explained he employed builders to repair his property and he summarised the work 
done. Mr W also offered to send detailed costings and invoices. Following advice from his 
broker, Mr W asked that Fairmead should not be able to decide which builders to use and 
that it should, instead, pay the costs of the builders he has already used.
My decision is that Fairmead should reconsider the claim because I didnt agree that it had 
fairly declined it under the unoccupancy condition. As I said in my provisional findings, its 
possible Fairmead didnt look at the rest of the policy, so it wouldve been unfair for me to 
simply ask it to pay the claim. When Fairmead reconsiders the claim, its decision whether to 
accept or decline should be in line with the remaining policy terms and conditions. 
Understandably, Mr W had the repairs done so, if it accepts the claim, Fairmead wouldnt be 
in a position to choose a builder. Instead, it would likely cash settle the claim for any 
reasonable repair costs. Mr W already confirmed he has detailed costings and invoices, 
which hed need to provide directly to Fairmead should it request them. However, I cant assume what Fairmeads decision will be so it would be inappropriate for me to make 
requirements of it in respect of how it may settle the claim. Mr W may wish to review his 
policy terms and conditions for further guidance.
That said, if Mr W is unhappy with any of Fairmeads further decisions about his claim, he 
will be entitled to follow the complaints process again to seek a resolution.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained above, and in my provisional decision, I uphold Mr Ws 
complaint. Fairmead Insurance Limited must:
reconsider Mr Ws claim without relying on the unoccupancy condition, and
pay £350 compensation for the avoidable distress and inconvenience Mr W 
experienced because of its unfair reliance on an undefined policy condition.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 3 November 2023.
 
Debra Vaughan
Ombudsman