DRN-3585292
The complaint
Mrs B complains that Barclays Bank UK PLC failed to protect her account from unauthorised
use and refused to refund several transactions she didnt recognise.
What happened
Mrs B received a call that she later believed was an attempt to scam her. Following this call
there were numerous transactions taken from her account using her debit card. Mrs B asked
Barclays to refund these disputed transactions and received several temporary refunds. On
each occasion, Barclays cancelled her debit card and issued a new one.
Barclays thought that some of the disputed transactions were the result of linked payments,
where the new debit card details were automatically updated to payment devices  which
explained how someone could know the new card details after each previous card was
cancelled and then re-issued. Barclays agreed to fully refund Mrs B for several of these
claims.
Mrs B explained that she hadnt given anyone else authority to make these payments,
although Barclays records contain notes that indicated Mrs Bs children had access to the
card and Personal Identification Number (PIN).
When Barclays looked into some of the later disputed transactions, they didnt think the
issue of linked devices was the reason for some of these disputed transactions. Barclays
declined to refund these claims and removed the temporary credits from Mrs Bs account.
Barclays issued Mrs B with a 62-day notice to close her account, which was later closed
after Mrs B switched it to another bank.
Mrs B raised a complaint with Barclays about the refunds and how the security on her
account had been handled. Barclays confirmed to Mrs B that they werent going to refund
the remaining disputed transactions.
Mrs B brought her complaint to the Financial Ombudsman Service for an independent review
where it was looked into by one of our investigators. Both parties were asked for information.
Mrs B explained what had happened and how she thought Barclays hadnt protected her
account. Barclays didnt think that Mrs B had complained about the disputed transactions but
provided some information. Our investigator thought the issue of the linked devices was
behind the disputed transactions and held Barclays responsible.
Mrs Bs complaint was upheld, and Barclays were asked to refund the disputed transactions
and make a payment of compensation. Mrs B didnt agree with the amount of compensation
that was recommended. Barclays provided further evidence they believed showed the
disputed transactions werent as a result of the linking issue they earlier referred to.
The complaint was passed to me and I issued a provisional decision where I said:
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The relevant law surrounding authorisations are the Payment Service Regulations 2017. The
basic position is that Barclays can hold Mrs B liable for the disputed payments if the
evidence suggests that its more likely than not that she made them or authorised them.
Barclays can only refuse to refund unauthorised payments if it can prove Mrs B authorised
the transactions, but Barclays cannot say that the use of the card details for internet-based
transactions conclusively proves that the payments were authorised.
Unless Barclays can show that consent has been given, it has no authority to make the
payment or to debit Mrs Bs account and any such transaction must be regarded as
unauthorised. To start with, Ive seen the banks technical evidence for the disputed
transactions. It shows that the transactions were authenticated using the payment tools
issued to Mrs B.
Because the transactions were properly authenticated, Im satisfied that Barclays had the
appropriate instructions with which to carry out the transactions. But, Ill need to consider if
sufficient evidence has been provided to show that Mrs B consented to the transactions.
Barclays provided evidence that the card details issued to Mrs B were used on each
occasion to make these transactions. What that means here is that three different cards
were issued to Mrs B that each contained different numbers used to make these
transactions. It was thought that the linking of the new card details could have been the
reason for the continued disputed transactions, but the evidence provided by Barclays
shows that the transactions werent made using stored card details on a mobile device.
The payments were made using the details only available from the card, including on some
occasions, the three-digit security number only visible on the actual card. Mrs Bs registered
mobile phone was also used to receive one-time passcodes (OTPs) for some of the disputed
transactions. This is a system used to add another layer of security to a transaction by
sending a specific code to the account users registered device to enable the payment to be
completed.
Barclays evidence indicates that whoever made these transactions had access to three
different cards issued to Mrs B and her mobile phone. I havent seen any likely explanation
how this could have been made by an unknown third party. Thats because Mrs B still had
her card and in order to carry out these disputed transactions, they would need access to
each of the new cards and on occasion  her mobile phone.
Further examination of the account shows that the disputed transactions were made when
the account had funds in it and stopped before the account went into any substantial
overdraft. Some of the disputed transactions were only made after the receipt of earlier
refunds from Barclays from other claims by Mrs B  effectively recycling the refund with
more disputed transactions.
So, it seems whoever made these transactions did so with detailed knowledge of the
account and its credits and debits. It seems unlikely to me that it was done without
knowledge or permission of Mrs B and thats because these disputed transactions needed
details from three different debit cards, access to Mrs Bs phone for the OTPs and detailed
knowledge of her account.
Taking everything into account, Im currently intending not to uphold this complaint because I
think its more likely than not that Mrs B was responsible for the transactions.I invited Mrs B and Barclays to give me any more evidence and information they wanted me 
to consider before issuing my final decision. Mrs B was sent two copies of the decision and 
follow up phone calls were made to her. Mrs B was asked if she had anything to add  but 
didnt respond. Barclays accepted my provisional decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, and as neither party had anything further to add, I see no reason to reach a
different conclusion. So, this final decision confirms the findings set out in my provisional
decision.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs B to accept or 
reject my decision before 12 August 2022.
 
David Perry
Ombudsman