DRN-2442724
The complaint
Mr A says Plus500UK Ltd (Plus500) voided a successful long Crypto Volatility Index 
Contract for Differences (CFD) trade  the trade  he opened and closed on 26 February 
2020; that Plus500 also recovered £70,290.63 out of his £70,828.96 profit from the trade; 
that Plus500 says it took these actions because of a manifest error in the trades pricing; and 
that he disputes Plus500s claim of a manifest pricing error. He wants a refund of the money 
deducted from his account. 
What happened
Plus500 wrote to Mr A on 3 March 2020 about voiding the trade and about recovering the 
amount stated above. It said it had taken these steps because it had identified a manifest 
error in a third-party price feed, for the trade, between the hours of 23:00 and 02:21 over the 
course of 26 and 27 February 2020. 
Plus500s position is that it recovered the money deducted because it represented part of  
Mr As illegitimate profit from a trade closed at a manifestly erroneous price; and that 
clauses 15.13 and 15.14.3 of the terms agreed for Mr As account gave it the discretion to 
void trades based on manifest errors (and therefore also cancel/recover any profit derived 
from such trades). It also highlights that it deducted slightly less than the full illegitimate 
profit.
Clause 15.13 says:
Without derogating from Section 10.4, if, prior to the acceptance of your offer to open
or close a Transaction, we become aware that any of the factors set out in Section 15.14
have not been met, [Plus500] reserve the right to reject your offer outright. If we have,
nevertheless, already opened or closed a Transaction prior to becoming aware that a
factor set out in Section 15.14 has not been met, [Plus500] may, acting reasonably, either 
treat such a Transaction as void from the outset or close it at our then prevailing price.
However, we may allow you to open or, as the case may be, close the Transaction in
which case you will be bound by the opening or closure of such Transaction,
notwithstanding that the factors in Section 15.14 were not satisfied.
Clause 15.14.3 says:
 the quote must not contain a Manifest Error 
Plus500 has shared with this service a copy of the notice it received from the relevant third-
party that provided the price feed. The notice  dated 27 February 2020 and from a firm 
called BITA GmbH  says:
We would like to inform that, between the 26th of February at 23:00 UTC and the 27th of 
February at 02:21 UTC, the BITA Crypto Adjusted Realized Volatility Index (BCRV85) was
disseminated by BITA with incorrect values due to a calculation error.
All erroneous data will be removed from public areas, including BITAs website, and restated
values will be provided. Additional information on BITAs Index Correction and Recalculation
Policy can be found on www bitadata com/qovernance.
Plus500 also shared with us chart data showing that the underlying rates for the trade never, 
on 26 February 2020, reached the spiked level at which the trade was closed.
One of our investigators looked into the matter and concluded that the complaint should not 
be upheld. He was satisfied with evidence of the manifest error and with evidence of 
Plus500s discretion to void the trade because it had been closed at a manifestly erroneous 
price. He also considered that Mr A was likely to have been sufficiently familiar with the 
particular CFD product in the trade to have known that the closing price was not in line with 
the underlying market conditions at the time.
Mr A disagreed with this outcome. He said he felt  that strong variations in trade were 
intentional and present in multiple instruments with full Plus500 support therefore they 
should honour the outcome of this trade. The matter was referred to an ombudsman.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I have reached the same conclusion as the investigator for the same 
reason he expressed. I note Mr As argument about multiple instruments, however my 
attention is devoted only to the CFD based trade that features in his complaint  and, I 
consider, reasonably so. 
In straightforward terms, Mr As key dispute is about Plus500s assertion that there was a 
manifest error in the price feed that set the closing price for his trade. He doubts such an 
error ever existed. On balance, I am satisfied with evidence from the BITA GmbH 
correspondence of 27 February 2020 and its explanation of the manifest pricing error on the 
previous day in the BITA Crypto Adjusted Realized Volatility Index (BCRV85)  which was 
directly relevant to Mr As trade. I have not seen evidence to suggest this was not the price 
feed source relevant to the trade.
The time period referred to in the correspondence is also directly relevant to Mr As trade. 
The manifest error happened between 23:00 on 26 February and 02:21 on 27 February.    
Mr As trade was opened at 22:59:37 on 26 February and, more importantly, it was closed at 
23:01:10 on the same date. His trade was essentially closed around the start of the manifest 
error reported by BITA GmbH.
On balance, I am also satisfied with the chart data evidence showing that the price at which 
the trade was closed, at the time it was closed, was not reflected in the relevant underlying 
price levels (for the same time). 
I am mindful that the trade was based on CFDs, which are derivatives and are not expected 
to bear identical prices to the underlying; and more so given that trading was based on two-
way pricing with a spread in between. Nevertheless, it remains the case that derivative 
pricing and spreads between their two-way prices are still reflective of the relevant 
underlying price levels  so whilst not identical, the spread (and two-way prices) would still 
be in the region of the underlying price levels. The trade was closed at the price of 506.75. 
However, the chart data appears to show a price high at the time/on the date of 97.30 and a 
price high for the month of February 2020 that did not exceed 150  both significantly far 
away from the level of 506.75. Mr A can, if he wishes, verify this chart information at  
https://www.bitadata.com/pages/plus500/BCRV85The terms of service highlighted by Plus500  and quoted above  do indeed provide that it 
had/has discretion to void trades based on manifest errors. By voiding such trades, it was 
implicit that any profits or losses in those trades would be cancelled  and in Mr As case, an 
amount just short of the total profits from his trade was cancelled so he appears to have 
retained around £500 from the profits.
Given the available evidence of the manifest pricing error, given the significant size of the 
profit that resulted from closure of the trade on the erroneous price and given that Plus500 
allowed Mr A to retain around £500 from the profits (the remainder of which was cancelled) I 
do not consider that, overall, Plus500 exercised its discretion unreasonably. Therefore, I do 
not find that it did anything wrong by cancelling the bulk of the profits from the trade.
Having said the above, it is noteworthy  only as an observation for Plus500 to consider, and 
not as a finding in Mr As complaint  that the concluding part of clause 15.13 seems to 
create scope for unreasonable application of discretion. That part says  However, 
[Plus500] may allow you to open or, as the case may be, close the Transaction in which 
case you will be bound by the opening or closure of such Transaction, notwithstanding that 
the factors in Section 15.14 were not satisfied. If, as I have interpreted it, this part means 
Plus500 has discretion to waive a manifest error in a trade and if that means such a trade 
could then be binding on the customer, a concern could arise where a trade based on a 
manifest pricing error goes against a customer but is nevertheless retained and binding upon 
the customer. It could be argued that exercising discretion to apply an erroneous price to the 
detriment of a customer goes against the regulators various principles and rules about 
treating customers fairly and upholding their best interests. 
For the sake of clarity, I stress that Plus500 did no such thing in Mr As case  where, to the 
contrary, it ensured that an erroneous price was not applied to a trade.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I do not uphold Mr As complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision before 19 April 2021.
 
Roy Kuku
Ombudsman