DRN-2907547
The complaint
Mr J is unhappy with how Sanderson Drake Limited (SD) dealt with his claim for mis-sold 
payday loans.
What happened
On 3 March 2020, Mr J instructed SD to make a claim for mis-sold payday loans. In June 
2020 SD cancelled the agreement and invoiced Mr J £600 for their cancellation fees. Mr J 
didnt agree with the invoice, and he didnt pay it.
SD took Mr J to court for the unpaid fees and obtained a County Court Judgement (CCJ) 
against him. SD then used High Court Enforcement Agents to enforce the debt. Mr J had to 
pay £2,444.70 to settle the debt because of all the added costs. Mr J then complained to SD 
because they hadnt kept him updated about his claim, that hed had to deal with the claim 
himself, and because a CCJ had been issued against him.
Mr J wasnt happy with SDs response and he brought his complaint to the Claims 
Management Ombudsman (a Financial Ombudsman service) for investigation. SD didnt 
provide any information or evidence, despite this being requested on multiple occasions, so 
our investigator initially issued her view solely based on the information Mr J had provided.
Our investigator initially said that SD didnt deal with Mr Js invoice dispute, and instead they 
took enforcement action through the courts. Which she thought was unreasonable. She said 
that, if SD had dealt with Mr Js invoice dispute and given him the option to refer this to us if 
he remained unhappy; then its likely no CCJ wouldve been issued, and Mr J wouldnt have 
had to pay an additional £1,844.70 in court and enforcement fees.  So she said SD should 
refund these additional fees, remove the CCJ from Mr Js credit file, and pay him an 
additional £250 for the trouble and upset hed been caused.
Mr J agreed with the investigators view, but SD didnt. They said theyd cancelled the 
agreement with Mr J after the claim was successful because hes breached the contract by 
displaying abusive behaviour towards their staff. And they provided a copy of their file as 
evidence of what they did. The investigator reviewed this, and it changed her view. She said 
SD had updated Mr J when they had updates to provide, and that they responded to his 
questions and correspondence throughout the claim. Which she thought was reasonable.
The investigator also said that the terms Mr J agreed to allowed SD to cancel for reasons 
theyd given. They also allow for fees to be charged for late payments and any court and 
enforcement action. And SD made this clear in their correspondence to Mr J. Mr J was also 
given notice of the court action, the court sent the papers to him, and he was given the 
opportunity to provide a defence to the claim  which he didnt do. As a result, the court said 
that all of the fees were payable, and the investigator explained that we cant go against this.
Because of the above, the investigator said that she no longer thought that SD needed to 
refund any fees to Mr J, as theyd acted fairly when charging them, and she didnt think they 
needed to pay him any additional compensation. Mr J didnt agree with the investigator, so 
this matter has been passed to me to make a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive reached the same overall conclusions as the investigator, and for 
broadly the same reasons. I can understand this is likely to come as a disappointment to Mr 
J, but I hope my findings go some way in explaining why Ive reached this decision. Ive 
focused my comments on what I think is relevant. If I havent commented on any specific 
point, its because I dont believe its affected what I think is the right outcome.
Ive seen the terms and conditions Mr J agreed to when he instructed SD. The specific terms 
I consider key to this complaint are:
6.2 Where We deem your Claim Successful, We will charge a fee of 36% inclusive of VAT 
calculated on the total Redress offered.
6.4 Where Our Fee remains unpaid, Additional Fees will be charged including [list of fees 
provided, including arrears fees, court fees, and enforcement fees]
8.1 We reserve the right to charge you a reasonable fee per Claim where your claim is 
cancelled outside of your Cooling Off Period
8.2 Any and all Claims may be cancelled with a Cancellation Fee payable as a result of 
Breach of Contract;  (c) following any of the following towards Us our employees; (d) 
Abuse (e) Malicious Communications inc; Liable or Slander (f) Threatening behaviour
The evidence shows SD prepared and submitted the claim for Mr J, as instructed. They also 
dealt with a payday lender to try and determine the amount of redress that Mr J was entitled 
to following a successful claim. So, under term 6.2, SD were entitled to charge their full fee 
at this point. While Mr J mayve been in contact with his payday lenders during the claim, I 
cant agree with Mr J that SD didnt work on the claim, and that he had to do this all himself.
Ive seen that SD provided updates when they had some progress to update, or when Mr J 
asked for one. Mr Js emails asking for updates were always responded to, however this 
didnt always take place on the same day. I appreciate Mr J was frustrated with how his 
claim was progressing, but I dont consider that Mr J asking for an update then chasing for 
this a few hours later means that SD werent providing updates.
The evidence shows Mr J swore at SD staff in an email dated 15 June 2020. In response, 
the following day, SD asked him to refrain from such language as this is not acceptable and 
a breach of contract with us. Mr J then called SD liars in an email dated 16 June 2020 and 
in reply SD told him they were not there to be abused. They also said that, due to his 
abusive language and threats to make libellous statements, they could cancel his claim, and 
charge him a cancellation fee, due to breach of contract. 
SD initially sent Mr J a cancellation invoice for £600 on 16 June 2020, but this was revoked, 
and SD continued to act for him in pursuing the claim. But, in series of emails on 29 June 
2020, Mr J swore at SD staff on two occasions, as well as calling them liars again. And he 
swore at them again in an email dated 1 July 2020.SD called Mr J on 1 July 2020 to discuss his abusive emails, but they say they terminated 
this call because Mr J again became abusive. SD followed this call with an email, telling Mr J 
that this behaviour wouldnt be tolerated, and asking for confirmation that it wouldnt happen 
again, otherwise they would immediately terminate the agreement and charge a cancellation 
fee. In response, Mr J revoked SDs authority for them to act for him and said, the £600 
cancellation figure stands and take me to court for it as you will not get a penny. So SD 
cancelled the claim and stopped working for Mr J.
Im satisfied SD acted reasonably under terms 8.1 and 8.2 by cancelling the claim, after 
giving Mr J fair warning as to what they were going to do, and charging cancellation fees 
instead of their percentage success fee.
Mr J didnt pay the cancellation invoice and SD added non-payment fees to the outstanding 
amount in line with term 6.4. On 27 July 2020, SD told Mr J they would be talking court 
action to recover their fee if it wasnt paid within two working days. This email also explained 
the fees they were able to charge. SD started court proceedings on 29 June 2020 and the 
court sent Mr J a copy of all of the paperwork, with a deadline to submit any defence. Mr J 
didnt respond to the courts so CCJ issued on 21 August 2020.
Mr J says he didnt receive the court paperwork. But, as the courts issue this, not SD, this is 
a complaint about the courts. I cant hold SD responsible for the actions of any third party.
On 9 September 2020, after the CCJ had been issued, SD contacted Mr J again, explaining 
that they were considering enforcement action, and what fees would be applied to the 
outstanding balance as a result. And they gave Mr J the opportunity to pay the amount he 
owed before any enforcement action was taken, so any additional fees could be avoided. No 
payment was made, and enforcement action took place. As a result, Mr J paid the 
enforcement officers a total of £2,444.70 on 25 November 2020.
Given the above, Im satisfied that SD have acted reasonably and within the terms Mr J 
agreed to when he instructed them. So I wont be asking them to take any further action.
My final decision
For the reasons explained above I dont uphold Mr Js complaint about Sanderson Drake 
Limited.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr J to accept or 
reject my decision before 19 August 2021.
 
Andrew Burford
Ombudsman