DRN-3881889
The complaint
Mr C complains that Royal & Sun Alliance Insurance Limited trading as More Th>n (RSA) 
unfairly declined his claim for damage to his roof following a storm. He wants RSA to pay for 
the repairs to his roof, and to pay him compensation for his inconvenience.
What happened
Mr C held buildings insurance with RSA.
Following storms in January and February 2022, Mr C noticed that a section of ridge tile was 
loose and had slipped on his roof. He contacted a roofer, who looked briefly at the roof and 
advised Mr C that some tiles had also been displaced. Mr C believed that this was due to the 
storm conditions.
He submitted a claim to RSA.
RSA acknowledged that there had been extremely high winds in the area of Mr Cs property 
at the time of the damage and instructed its surveyor, who attended Mr Cs property in mid-
March 2022.
RSAs surveyor prepared a report to RSA. The surveyor noted signs of ageing and wear and 
tear to the roof. Based on that report, RSA declined Mr Cs claim and said that it had not 
seen evidence of damage caused by a storm.
Mr C complained to RSA.
RSA responded in April 2022, maintaining its decision to decline the claim. It said that Mr C 
had not demonstrated that the damage was solely caused by the storm conditions. Mr C was 
not happy with that response and contacted us.
Our investigator looked into this matter and applied the questions we ask in cases of storm
damage. These are whether there is evidence that there was a storm, whether the damage
was of a type usually caused by storm conditions, and whether the storm was the main 
cause of the damage.
He considered that RSA was not unreasonable to conclude that the storm was not the main 
cause of the damage and it had merely highlighted existing issues with the roof. He therefore 
did not recommend that Mr Cs complaint be upheld.
Mr C did not accept that view and asked for an ombudsman decision.
I issued a provisional decision in October 2022 in respect of this complaint. In that 
provisional decision I indicated that I had not seen sufficient explanation from RSA to 
support its conclusion that the storm was not the main cause of the particular damage at that 
time.
I considered that, in the absence of that evidence, RSA should have accepted the claim and
made an offer towards repair of the particular damage. As the roof had since been replaced,
I made a provisional award of £500 to Mr C to encompass his disappointment and what I
thought would have been a reasonable contribution towards repair at the time.
That provisional decision was shared with the parties.
RSA then provided the full surveyors report and Mr C made some further submissions. 
I issued a second provisional decision in November 2022. In that second provisional 
decision I changed my view and was no longer in respect of the second and third questions, 
based on the full surveyors report. I therefore considered that RSA was not acting 
unreasonably when it declined the claim. 
That provisional decision has been shared with the parties and they have been invited to 
comment. 
RSA has not made any further comment. 
Mr C has made submissions expressing his dismay that my opinion has changed and 
indicating that he thinks that I have relied on RSAs evidence at the expense of his 
professional opinion on the damage. He also feels that I have disregarded the customer 
service he received from RSA and he believes that I ought to make an award of 
compensation to reflect the poor customer service he encountered. He explains that he 
reserves his right to pursue a claim through the courts. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I understand Mr Cs upset and his surprise in seeing my view change from a partial uphold of 
his complaint to a decision not upholding his complaint. I also appreciate that he is upset that 
RSA did not send the full surveyors report, which changed my view, until a late stage in the 
process. 
He feels that I have not given due weight to his professional view on the cause of the 
damage and thinks that I have given too much weight to the surveyors view. He feels that I 
have suggested that his view is not valuable. 
My role is not to determine the precise cause of the damage to his roof, and I am not a 
surveyor. We look at whether the business has reached a reasonable decision, and the 
questions we use in storm cases assist with this. 
I have not made a decision on the precise cause of the damage, but I have considered 
whether the business has made an evidence-based decision which is fair and reasonable. I 
have reviewed his evidence within this. 
In this case, without the full report I did not consider that RSA had demonstrated that the 
decision was evidence-based and reasonable, but when the full report and surveyors 
comments were provided these, in conjunction with the supporting photographs, 
demonstrated a reasoned decision which was supported by evidence. 
This is not a dismissal of Mr Cs view, or his evidence, but a conclusion that on balance I 
think that the decision by RSA was reasonable based on all the available evidence. 
Mr C has commented that he received a poor customer service and that if evidence was not forthcoming to our service then he was at a disadvantage in pursuing his claim and that this 
should be compensated. 
I understand his feelings on this, but the process of complaint handling is not a regulated 
activity in itself. Consequently, where I consider that the decision on the claim was not 
unreasonable, I am unable to make a separate award for the way the complaint was 
handled. 
I appreciate that this outcome will be disappointing to Mr C, but I assure him that his 
evidence has been fully considered and given appropriate weight. 
I do, however, remain of the view set out in my second provisional decision and do not 
uphold his complaint.  
My final decision
For the reasons given above, and in my provisional decision issued in November 2022, I do 
not uphold Mr Cs complaint and do not ask Royal and Sun Alliance Insurance Limited 
trading as More Th>n to do anything further. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 6 February 2023.
 
Laura Garvin-Smith
Ombudsman