DRN-3919332
The complaint
Mr B says that Aviva Life & Pensions UK Limited (Aviva) didnt correctly change his address 
when he informed it of the errors within the information it held. He says that as a result he 
didnt receive the subsequent correspondence about his pension plan (PP) which would 
have made him aware of the implications of not taking his benefits at or before the normal 
retirement date (NRD). 
He says he assumed his money would have remained invested in the same fund after his 
NRD, but if hed been aware that it wasnt  then he would have taken his benefits or at least 
spoken with Aviva to make any necessary changes at the NRD. He also says he didnt 
receive any annual statements or valuations for the plan after 2012 until his complaint in 
2021. 
What happened
In February 1985 Mr Bs employer began monthly contributions into a PP for him. The plan 
offered a guaranteed cash sum of £47,581 at retirement - along with the addition of bonuses. 
The NRD for the plan was age 60. In 1992 and 1997 contribution increases (and employee 
contributions) were made to the plan, until in October 1999 the full fund value was 
transferred into a cash plus replacement plan. The new plan retained the NRD of 
23 February 2016  when Mr B was age 60.
In April 2006 Aviva issued Mr B with a retirement illustration for purchasing an annuity, but 
Mr B didnt draw his benefits at that time. However the illustration letter did also note the 
various retirement options that Mr B had at that time. Under the heading not taking 
retirement benefits at this time it said that if we do not receive the completed benefit 
payment instruction within four weeks of your selected retirement date then we will assume 
that you want to retire at a later date. 
 
On approaching the NRD, Aviva sent several letters to Mr B on 20 September,
22 December and 29 December 2015  drawing his attention to the approaching
NRD.
On 23 February 2016, Mr B turned 60, but as he had no intention of taking his pension
benefits until state pension age (65 at the time) in February 2021, he did nothing. In 
August 2017 Mr B says he was admitted to hospital and, as a result of suffering a stroke, 
remained in care until May 2018. 
On 4 June 2018, Mr B, or an adviser representing him, requested an illustration to draw his 
retirement benefits at that time. A separate illustration of benefits to be drawn the following 
year was also requested.
On 9 August 2021, Mr B again called Aviva asking to take his benefits. On this occasion he 
was told the plan had been terminated at NRD. Confirmed amount held in claims 
suspense.
So Mr B complained to Aviva that he hadnt been made aware that his policy had been 
terminated and was in suspense. He said that he hadnt received the letters from 2015  
so he couldnt have been aware of the consequences of not drawing his benefits at NRD. 
Aviva said that, while it accepted it had recorded Mr Bs address incorrectly up to July 2015, 
all its letters after that date had been sent to Mr Bs correct address. So it had made him 
aware of the implications of deferring his pension. 
In response Mr B said:
During the telephone call he made first raising his complaint, Aviva told him that 
although the 2015 letters had been generated on its systems they didnt appear to 
have been sent. 
The address the letters were supposed to have been sent to was incorrect. He 
changed his address in the call with the operative and it was only after that he 
received copies of those particular letters. 
He wanted to know why Aviva hadnt sent a letter to advise him that his funds would 
be moved from the With-Profit (WP) fund at NRD or provided details of the fund they 
would be moved to. He said he hadnt received any further statements showing the 
accrued interest and fund balance. 
Aviva said that there was no evidence to show that the letters that had been generated in 
2015 hadnt been sent to Mr B. It said it hadnt incorrectly terminated the policy but had 
operated it in line with its terms and conditions (T&Cs). It also confirmed that it wouldnt 
normally send annual statements after a policy had ended, but instead sent ad-hoc letters 
reminding Mr B that his plan was due to mature in February 2016. 
Mr B remained unhappy with Avivas response, so he brought his complaint to us where one 
of our investigators looked into the matter. He said he wasnt satisfied that Aviva had made 
Mr B aware that his PP would be terminated. He made the following points in supporting 
Mr Bs complaint:
He was satisfied that on balance Aviva did send the letters in 2015 to the correct 
address.
But Mr Bs complaint was that he wasnt made aware of what would happen if he 
didnt take action on his pension on or before the NRD. And it wasnt reasonable for 
Aviva to rely on the T&Cs it said Mr B ought to have been aware of from over 25 
years before. But in any case, he didnt think the T&Cs did make it clear that the plan 
would be terminated at NRD. He thought Mr B ought to have been warned again in 
2015 about the consequences of not taking any actions. 
He thought there were inconsistencies with Avivas evidence of a call log in 2018 
which it said made Mr B aware the plan had been terminated.
He didnt believe any of the letters that Aviva sent in 2015 made it clear to Mr B what 
the consequences would be if he took no action over his plan at NRD. 
He wasnt persuaded that Mr B had been correctly informed of the consequences of 
not taking any action before his NRD and said Aviva should put Mr B as close to the 
position hed now be in had he been able to defer the NRD to age 66 and remained 
in the same fund.  
Aviva didnt agree, it made the following points in response:It wrote to Mr B in September 2015 asking him to call and let it know if he wasnt 
ready to take his pension benefits. As he didnt contact Aviva, it was unable to advise 
him of the implications of deferring the benefits. It also issued a follow up letter to 
Mr B in December 2015.
Although it understood Mr B had moved on several occasions, it thought it was 
Mr Bs responsibility to inform it of his up to date address details  to ensure it was 
able to contact him about important information.
In June 2018 Mr B contacted Aviva to ask for his retirement options. These were 
provided but Mr B made no further contact thereafter. So it didnt accept that Mr B 
wasnt made aware of his retirement options.
Apart from the information it provided it to Mr B, it also thought he was free to contact 
it at any time to discuss his options and request further information. 
It thought it had administered the plan in line with its T&Cs and wasnt given any 
indication from Mr B about his choices from his retirement options. 
But as no resolution could be found the complaint was referred to an ombudsman  so it was 
passed to me to review. 
As of 20 May 2022, the value of Mr Bs plan was £78,260.70. Aviva has confirmed that when 
Mr B reached his NRD the funds were disinvested from the WP fund and held in claims 
suspense which was a cash type fund and accrued interest at the Bank of England base 
rate plus 1%.
My provisional decision
In my provisional decision I said that I didnt think the complaint should be upheld  which 
was a change of direction from the investigator. I made the following points to support my 
findings and to give both parties the chance to respond. 
I looked at the booklet which set out how Mr Bs plan worked. It thought it was clear 
in that it made Mr B aware that his NRD was age 60 and that date couldnt be 
changed although Mr B could have contacted Aviva to defer his benefits past NRD.  
Another section of the booklet made it clear that the benefits would likely need to be 
adjusted if they werent taken at NRD  which would have alerted Mr B to the fact 
that he might not receive the same level of benefits hed been told hed get at NRD.
I thought Mr B was made aware of the way bonuses would be applied to his PP, but I 
accepted Aviva wasnt explicit in explaining that his WP fund would be switched to 
cash after the NRD. However, taking into account the booklet was written many 
years before, I thought Aviva did enough to make it clear that bonuses would only be 
applied up to NRD and that it couldnt be changed. 
I considered if Aviva should have done more to explain the situation post NRD and 
whether it ought to have been clearer about the negative implications of not drawing 
benefits at the NRD. But I thought it was reasonable for Aviva to take the actions it 
did and for it to require Mr B to confirm if he wanted to remain in the WP fund post 
NRD. 
But I also didnt think it was possible for Aviva to set out exactly what would happen 
to Mr Bs fund post NRD because of the changes that were likely to occur to Avivas 
range of funds and the interest rate that was applied over time. I thought it was safer 
for Aviva simply to make it clear that bonuses would only be applied up to NRD, and 
that Mr B should contact it to discuss his options at that time. I thought the 
consequences of not drawing benefits at NRD would have been discussed at that 
time. I then looked at what happened in 2015 to see if Aviva made Mr B aware of the 
consequences of not drawing benefits at NRD. 
I noted that Aviva held incorrect records of Mr Bs address until July 2015 but two 
letters it sent in September and December 2015 did, in my view, provide Mr B with 
sufficient information to have contacted Aviva and discussed the situation. But Mr B 
said he didnt receive any of letters, and then only the one from December 2015, until 
after hed made his complaint.
I thought, on balance, that it was difficult to conclude Mr B had received the letters. 
But I was also satisfied Aviva had probably sent the letters  so I couldnt reasonably 
say it was at fault for not sending them. 
But I thought Mr B knew he wasnt going to draw his benefits at NRD and ought to 
have contacted Aviva to discuss the matter sometime before  especially in light of 
the point of sale information he was provided with. And if Mr B says Aviva didnt 
make him aware of what would happen to his fund after his NRD that would also 
suggest he wasnt told that the fund would remain the same. 
I thought that on balance there was more evidence that Mr B was at least told to 
contact Aviva prior to his NRD if he didnt expect to draw benefits, than there was to 
suggest he was told he didnt need to do anything.
Responses to the provisional decision
Aviva accepted the provisional decision and had nothing further to add. But Mr B didnt 
agree and made the following points in response:
The original NRD of the PP was set to age 70  but he said Aviva altered this to age 
60 in 2006 without informing him. He asked why Aviva hadnt provided evidence of 
these actions. 
Aviva had failed to meet his pension expectations as his original illustration showed 
potential tax free cash of £80,000 with a residual pension of £20,000 per year. His 
retirement provision hadnt reached anywhere near the original projections. 
He confirmed that he hadnt received any booklets from Aviva about his PP. He 
asked when it had been sent and to what address. 
He was puzzled by my lack of reference to his plan originally being with Norwich 
Union before it was taken over by Aviva. And he was unaware that his fund had been 
switched in the 1990s and wanted to know if that course of action attracted 
commission and what the details of any commission payment were.
I had shown prejudice in favour of Aviva by believing it would have done something 
which in fact it didnt actually do. (Changing his address when requested).
He questioned why we hadnt asked for copies of the original letters Aviva sent to the 
wrong address. The letters he hadnt originally received were only sent to him after 
he complained  even though the original date they were supposed to have been 
sent was used.
If he had been made aware of the consequences to his PP of not drawing benefits at 
the NRD then he would have taken immediate action. 
He questioned if commission was still being paid following the earlier fund switch and 
whether terminal bonuses were added to the PP before it was switched to a different 
fund.   
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
And having carefully considered Mr Bs further submissions I see no reason to depart from 
my original findings.However, I was sorry to learn of Mr Bs worsening health following my provisional decision 
and, while I can only imagine his frustration at this change of direction, I hope this decision  
and the reasons behind it  will at least give him some closure on the matter. 
Mr Bs responses to my provisional decision
In his response Mr B made a number of points about the switching of his fund in the 1990s, 
the commission this generated and where that had been paid. He also referenced the lack of 
booklets hed received from Aviva. 
I note that originally the plan was set up so that Mr Bs employer at the time could contribute 
to a pension for him. Its not possible to confirm where the original booklet might have been 
sent when the plan was first set up in 1985, although I have no reason to doubt that it would 
have been made available to Mr B or his employer at the time. 
But I have also seen, from an illustration that was provided in 1997 when Mr Bs employer 
increased its contributions to the plan, that the increase was arranged by an adviser who 
received initial and renewal commission. I think its unlikely that the adviser was only 
involved in one part of the advice Mr B received over the years  so I think its more than 
likely that the adviser would have been involved in some if not all of the relevant 
transactions.  
In my view any questions posed around the commission that was paid during the term of 
Mr Bs plan, or queries about plan or fund switches should be directed to that adviser in the 
first place. Likewise, any suggestion that the investment performance of the pension was 
below what Mr B expected can only really be considered within the context of the overall 
suitability of any advice given  which would also fall on the adviser here. Thats because 
investment performance alone wouldnt normally be something that we could uphold due to 
the very nature of how investments can fall and rise over time.
Mr B also made refence to the NRD of the plan as he believes it was set to age 70 in the first 
place and has subsequently been altered during the term. So I provided Mr B with a number 
of examples where the NRD was set out as age 60 - particularly the original application from 
1985 which showed pension age 60, and a number of illustrations from 1992, 1995, 1997 
and 2006 which all noted the NRD to be age 60 or 23 February 2016. Theres no evidence to 
support the claim that the NRD has ever been anything except 60, so I asked Mr B if he had 
some evidence. Mr B wasnt able to provide any evidence although he did suggest that due 
to his failing health he was unable to pursue his claim any further and would be unlikely to 
raise the matter of advice and commission with the adviser involved here.
I have sympathy for Mr Bs position here as hes told us that he thinks the provisional 
decision has raised more questions than it answered  and Ive seen those questions that 
Mr B raised. But ultimately I think Mr Bs subsequent points  in the main - relate to issues 
that have most likely arisen from advice hes been given at various points along the way. So 
I cant reasonably say that these are issues that should be put to Aviva. But even if I were 
wrong in that assumption the issues havent been raised as part of Mr Bs original complaint 
so would need to be considered afresh by Aviva in the first instance.
However, Mr B has raised further points about not being made aware that his pension fund 
would be switched at NRD if he didnt access his benefits at that time, and about the letters 
he said he didnt receive from Aviva as they were sent to his wrong address. So Ill respond 
to those points and confirm the other findings I reached in my provisional decision below.
Did Aviva deal correctly with Mr Bs plan at his NRD?
Ive looked carefully again at the cash plus replacement policy booklet which set out how Mr Bs plan worked. It explained that benefits payable at the NRD will include any regular 
bonus earned to date.
Following on from that section 5 noted that your retirement benefits are due to be paid on 
your NRD shown on the policy schedule. You cannot change your NRD, but you can take 
your benefits earlier or later between the ages of 50 and 75. You must tell us in advance if 
you want to do this.
So I think this clearly set out the expectation that benefits would be paid at NRD  which was 
age 60 in Mr Bs policy schedule and couldnt be changed. These benefits would include the 
regular bonus earned up to that point. Mr B could have asked to defer his benefits but 
needed to make Aviva aware of that requirement.
More detail was given in point 2 of the same section which stated that at your normal 
retirement date we will use the guaranteed fund shown on the policy schedule to provide you 
with retirement benefits. If you take your benefits at a retirement date earlier or later than 
your normal retirement date we may reduce or increase the guaranteed fund shown on the 
policy schedule. If your policy schedule shows that this policy will earn bonuses, we will add 
the value of these bonuses to your guaranteed fund value at your retirement date if you 
retire: at your normal retirement date, or at a retirement date earlier than your normal 
retirement date.
I think this went even further in confirming that all the expectations of bonuses being added, 
guaranteed funds being applied, and adjustments being made for benefits taken earlier or 
later than NRD, were based on Mr Bs NRD. And while I can sympathise with Mr Bs position 
that this wasnt explicit in stating that his fund would be switched from the WP fund to a cash 
fund at NRD if he didnt draw his benefits, I think it made it clear that the fund wouldnt carry 
on being invested in the same way with the same guarantees attached.  
Mr B is right to say that the terms Aviva used about his plan being terminated and held in a 
suspense account certainly werent set out in the booklet  so I can understand his 
frustration and concern that he wasnt made aware of these consequences. But while Aviva 
could have been somewhat clearer, I think, on balance, that it did enough to make Mr B 
aware that bonuses would only be added at (or before) NRD and the NRD couldnt be 
changed. I think it also made Mr B aware that his situation would change at NRD and that it 
would contact you before your NRD to tell you about the options available at that time.  
Although Im satisfied Aviva did just enough to make Mr B aware that the constitution of his 
pension would change at NRD based on the policy booklet, Ive gone on to consider whether 
there was scope for Aviva to have done more to set out the implications of not drawing his 
benefits on his NRD. Ive taken into account though, that in my experience the switching out 
of a WP fund to cash at retirement is a fairly standard course of action for providers. There 
are a number of reasons for that, one of which could have left Mr B invested for a further 
period of up to five years with the possibility of penalties being applied for early encashment. 
So I dont think Avivas actions were unfair and it seems reasonable to ask Mr B to request 
to stay in the WP fund past his NRD to avoid such a situation. 
But Ive also considered how Aviva could have set out exactly what would have happened to 
the funds at NRD in its earlier communications. I say that because funds change over time 
as do interest rates and to be able to say definitively in 1992 that Mr Bs WP fund would be 
switched to a cash fund operating at Bank of England base rate plus a specific additional 
rate of interest would simply have been impossible for it to commit to in the future. Aviva 
wouldnt have been able to guarantee what its additional interest rate would have been in the 
future nor that it would automatically have switched a WP fund into a cash fund at NRD.I think it was far safer  and in Mr Bs best interest  for Aviva simply to confirm that bonuses 
would only be applied up to NRD and that if Mr B didnt want to draw his pension benefits at 
NRD he should contact Aviva to let it know his intentions. I think it would then have 
explained all the consequences of deferment and fund switches based on the up to date 
position at that time.
Did Aviva make Mr B aware of the consequences of not drawing his benefits at or before his 
NRD?
But Mr D has told us that he didnt receive any booklets or literature about his pension at the 
point of sale. And he says that he didnt receive the letters Aviva sent him in 2015 until after 
his complaint which wasnt surprising given the errors it made in changing his address on 
its systems. So he maintains he simply wasnt made aware of the changes that would 
automatically happen to his fund at the NRD. 
I wasnt able to confirm whether Mr B did receive the booklet about his plan, but I think its 
likely the booklet was available to him. As I said previously this might have been the 
responsibility of an adviser, but I cant reasonably say that Aviva didnt provide it. However, 
the situation from 2010 to 2015 was that Aviva recorded Mr Bs address incorrectly on its 
systems  so I cant say he would have received anything during that time. But in July 2015 
Ive seen that Aviva held the correct address on its file and after that it wrote to Mr B in 
September and December 2015. 
The letter from 20 September 2015 said, you dont have to start taking benefits from this 
date. There are a number of options available to you and its very important you understand 
what they are before making any decisions.... Want to leave your money where it is for the 
present? if youre not ready to take your benefits yet, please call and let us know. We can 
explain what delaying your benefits means to you.
The next letter dated 22 December 2015 said, As your policy was only designed to run until 
a maximum age of 75, if we dont hear from you before your 75th birthday the following are 
the consequences. It was then confirmed that the consequences would be a 25% tax 
charge and the compulsory purchase of an annuity with Aviva.
On 29 December 2015 Aviva wrote to Mr B again with the same options and again 
recommended that he sought guidance around his options and should call it if he wanted 
further information. 
But although Im satisfied that the letters made it clear that Mr B ought to contact Aviva to 
find out what delaying your benefits means to you, theres no conclusive evidence to 
confirm the letters were sent or received. I think its likely they were sent but Aviva hasnt 
been able to confirm that, and Mr B has suggested Aviva told him the letters had been 
generated but not sent. Theres no evidence to support that claim either but I dont dispute 
what Mr B says as I think its unlikely he would have said that without Aviva having given him 
some indication. All of which means I cant reasonably conclude that Mr B was made aware 
of the consequences of not drawing his benefits at his NRD. I say that also having taken into 
account Avivas poor administration of his address between 2010 and 2015.
So I have to decide, on balance, if I think Aviva did enough overall to make Mr B aware of 
the implications of not drawing his pension benefits at his NRD and whether Mr B ought to 
have contacted Aviva to confirm his position  which I think would have led to him 
discovering the switch of funds that was going to happen.
I think Mr B knew he wasnt going to draw his benefits at NRD prior to any communication 
from Aviva. So I think he ought to have known that he should make Aviva aware of that fact based on the point of sale booklet he was provided with. And even if Mr B was unaware of 
that information  which is understandable considering it would have been issued some 25 
years or so before his NRD, I still believe Mr B should have contacted Aviva regarding his 
decision to defer taking his benefits rather than assuming things would continue in the same 
way after his NRD.
If Mr B says he didnt receive a communication to make him aware of what would happen to 
his fund post-NRD, that would mean equally Aviva didnt tell him that things would stay as 
they were.
In summary, I think the evidence Ive been presented with supports the idea that, between 
the inception of the policy and 2016, Aviva provided Mr B with sufficient information to make 
him aware that his funds would no longer attract bonuses and remain in WP fund past his 
NRD. And that he should have advised Aviva if he didnt want to draw his benefits at that 
time. I believe such contact would have led to Mr B becoming aware of the consequences of 
deferring his benefits and allowed him to base his decision on that information.  
My final decision
For the reasons that Ive given I dont uphold Mr Bs complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 13 April 2023.
 
Keith Lawrence
Ombudsman