DRN-3354239
The complaint
Mr B has complained about delays in accessing his share dealing account with ITI Capital 
Limited, and the customer service he experienced when attempting to resolve the issue.
What happened
In 2020 Mr Bs share account, which he held with another firm that had gone into 
administration, was transferred over to ITI. At the end of July, shortly after receiving 
confirmation that his account had been migrated over, Mr B was unable to log in to the 
account as he hadnt received the log in details. Once he was able to log in, the balance 
showing on his account was wrong. Following contact with ITI, on 15 August Mr B emailed 
ITI asking them to close his account and transfer the balance to his bank account, once the 
value of the account was correct.
 
Mr B had to contact ITI several times by phone and email and eventually the withdrawal was 
processed on 24 September, when Mr B received around £600 following the sale of his 
shares. Mr B complained about the delay, requesting compensation for the time hed had to 
spend resolving the issue. ITI didnt respond and so Mr B asked our service for help. We got 
in touch with ITI, following which ITI sent Mr B an email with instructions on how to withdraw 
his money  which he was confused by given he already had his money. Over the months 
that followed ITI continued to send Mr B generic emails about his account and each time Mr 
B replied asking them to stop. 
As ITI didnt reply to his complaint, Mr B asked us to look into it. An investigator at our 
service found that because of the delays, ITI caused Mr B both financial loss and distress 
and inconvenience. After some discussion with the parties, she said that she felt Mr Bs 
shares ought to have been sold by 20 August 2020, and so ITI should calculate how much 
more Mr B would have received if they had been sold then. She said they should pay him 
that amount, plus 8% interest from 20 August to the date of settlement. She felt £250 was a 
fair amount of compensation for ITI to pay to make up for the trouble Mr B went to.
Mr B said he would also like compensation for the loss he experienced in being unable to 
reinvest the £600 earlier. He also felt further compensation was warranted due to the delays 
ITI have caused throughout the complaint. The investigator didnt think she had enough 
evidence to show his intent to invest in August 2020, without the benefit of hindsight. She felt 
the £250 she had previously set out was fair so didnt award any further compensation. 
ITI didnt agree they had caused the financial loss, and said they felt £125 would be a fair 
offer of compensation. They then failed to respond any further to the investigators contact, 
so the case has been passed to me for a decision.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive reached the same conclusions as the investigator, for largely the same 
reasons. 
Delay in selling his shares
The initial issue that Mr B experienced was the inability to log on to his account online, and 
then he was unable to follow the online process for selling his investments and withdrawing 
his money. Its not disputed that those problems were caused by ITI. Had everything gone as 
it should have in July and August 2020, I think Mr B ought to have been able to use the 
online process to sell his shares, withdraw his money and close his account. The first time 
Mr B requested withdrawal by email was on 15 August, and I understand he says he tried to 
complete the process online earlier that day, though ITI have no record of this. 
I dont doubt Mr Bs recollections of completing this process online on 15 August. However, 
Im mindful of the fact technology cant always be guaranteed to work. The terms of the 
account state that there may be times when parts or all of the website doesnt work, and that 
they cant guarantee its availability at all times. Similar clauses are found across the industry. 
I think the term is a reasonable one and in general I dont think its fair to expect a service to 
be available, uninterrupted, at all times. So, Ive considered whether ITI ought to have done 
more, after Mr B let them know what he wanted to do by email.     
The terms dont allow for instructions for the sale of shares to be given by email. So, when 
Mr B emailed on 15 August asking to close his account, Id have expected ITI to have replied 
to let him know what his options were. Had they done so, I think its fair to say hed have 
taken any necessary steps very quickly, based on the speed of his actions over the course 
of his dealings with ITI. In particular, Im persuaded that his actions at that time were 
consistent with someone that wanted to sell their shares and move their money somewhere 
else as quickly as they could. 
Even allowing ITI a few working days to reply to him, I think the latest Mr B would have given 
instructions to sell his shares would have been 20 August 2020. Im satisfied that it was ITIs 
errors that prevented him from doing that, therefore it would be fair and reasonable for them 
to compensate him for any losses resulting from being unable to give instructions on that 
date. 
So, I agree with the investigator that ITI ought to calculate how much Mr B would have 
received for his shares, had they been sold on 20 August 2020. If the share price was higher 
at that time than it was when his shares were sold in September 2020, then ITI should pay 
him the difference. ITI should also pay simple interest at the rate of 8% per year on the 
difference, from 20 August 2020 to the date of settlement. 
Mr B has explained that if hed have had the money sooner, he would have invested in a 
particular cryptocurrency, which had done very well over the intervening period. Though I 
appreciate his frustration at not being able to do what he wanted with his money in August 
and September, I dont think hes provided any contemporaneous evidence of where he was 
intending to invest. Without this, I cant be sure that hindsight hasnt had an impact on what 
hes saying hed have done. As such, I dont think I could fairly say on balance, that he would 
have invested in a specific asset. I think the interest Ive awarded fairly compensates for the 
fact that Mr B was not able to do what he wished with his money. 
Compensation for the inconvenience caused
Mr Bs problems with ITI began in July 2020 and I can see that he was having to contact ITI 
every month or two between then and April 2021. I can see that ITI continued to contact him 
as late as December 2021, despite numerous requests for them to stop contact. That is on top of the many times he had to call and email them in August and September in order for 
his withdrawal request to be processed. 
I can appreciate Mr Bs frustration at the continued contact from ITI after September 2020 
despite requesting his account be shut. Mr B has said he feels extra compensation for ITIs 
delay in progressing his complaint with or service is warranted, and Ive considered this. If 
Mr Bs shares had still not been sold, and his problems with ITI were continuing despite our 
involvement, then I think Id agree that further compensation were warranted. However, that 
is not the case and Mr B had his money by the end of September. Although the continued 
contact was undoubtedly annoying, the main issue of withdrawing his money was mostly 
resolved after two months. 
ITI has argued that given the value of Mr Bs account, and because they processed his 
withdrawal within two weeks of receiving instructions by phone, they think £125 is a fair 
amount of compensation. However, I dont agree thats fair  they ought to have done more 
earlier to help Mr B and not waited until he phoned them to resolve it. ITI shouldnt have sent 
Mr B any further emails after the account was closed, except in relation to the complaint. 
Instead he received several suggesting his account was still open. So, having considered 
everything, I think £250 is fair and reasonable here. 
My final decision
I uphold the complaint. My decision is that ITI Capital Limited should pay:
The difference in the amount Mr B would have received had his shares been sold on 
20 August 2020, compared to the amount he did receive on the sale of his shares.
Simple interest of 8% per year on that difference, from 20 August 2020 to the date of 
settlement.
£250 for the distress and inconvenience caused. 
ITI Capital Limited should provide details of its calculation to Mr B in a clear, simple format.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 1 September 2022.
 
Katie Haywood
Ombudsman