DRN-3905843
The complaint
Miss S complains about Admiral Insurance (Gibraltar) Limiteds handling of a claim she 
made under her home insurance policy.
What happened
Miss S has a home insurance policy underwritten by Admiral. She first took it out in February 
2020. It provides cover for contents, home emergency and some legal costs. Miss Ss house 
is rented, so theres no cover for buildings.
She made a claim in October 2020 after her home was broken into. She said around 
£40,000-worth of valuables had been stolen, including jewellery and expensive watches.
In assessing the claim, Admiral found out that Miss S had suffered an earlier break-in at a 
different address, at a time when shed had no insurance. They also discovered that 
Miss Ss partner had made a previous claim for lost luggage (possibly including an 
expensive watch). And they were told Miss S had lost an engagement ring in a separate 
incident.
Admiral are still assessing the claim. But theyve told Miss S that any settlement will be on a 
proportional basis because when she took out the policy, she hadnt told them about the 
previous losses, despite being asked to do so. 
They say she paid around 71% of the premium she should have paid had she told them 
about the previous incidents. So, any settlement would be for 71% of the total value of the 
accepted claim items.
Miss S wasnt happy with this and made two complaints to Admiral (in late 2021 and again in 
May 2022). She also complained about the delay in the claim being resolved. And she said 
the loss adjuster appointed by Admiral had been offensive and had asked her unnecessary 
and upsetting questions. 
At the time, there was also an issue about charges Admiral made after Miss S had cancelled 
her policy. I understand that issue has now been fully resolved.
Admiral responded to Miss Ss complaints, saying there had been one instance of minor 
delay in the handling of the claim  for which they apologised. But they said they were 
entitled to ask questions of Miss S and her partner. And their investigations into the claim 
were legitimately on-going.
Miss S wasnt happy with this and brought her complaint to us. Our investigator looked into it 
and thought Admiral were entitled to make any settlement proportional because Miss S had 
made a careless misrepresentation of the facts when she applied for the policy.
However, she thought Admiral should make a decision on the claim and asked them to do so 
within four weeks if they accepted her view on the case (which was issued in December 
2022).
Admiral disagreed and asked for more time to conclude their investigations. Our investigator 
maintained her position and again suggested Admiral make a decision on the claim within 
weeks. And she asked Admiral whether they accepted that or wanted the case to go to an 
ombudsman for a final decision.
In the absence of any response from Admiral, the case had been passed to me for a final 
decision, which will be binding on Admiral should Miss S accept it. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
When Miss S bought the policy on-line, she was asked:
In the last five years have you or anyone living at the property made a claim under a 
household policy, or suffered any loss, damage or liability whether insured or 
not
She indicated that she hadnt. Which was inaccurate, given the incidents listed in the section 
above. Miss S said she misread the question and thought she was being asked to declare 
any previous claims. She said she suffers from poor eyesight.
Admiral have accepted that was careless, rather than deliberate. Under the Consumer 
Insurance (Disclosure and Representations) Act (CIDRA), where there is such a careless 
misrepresentation by the customer, they are entitled to cancel the policy  if they wouldnt 
have offered it had they known the truth  or apply different terms to the policy and any 
claim(s)  if they would have offered cover but on a different basis.
Admiral would have offered cover to Miss S had they known about the losses in question but 
(perfectly understandably) that would have cost more because the risk would have been 
calculated to be higher. 
That being the case, Admiral are entitled to settle any claim proportionally. Miss S paid 71% 
of the premium she should have paid. Admiral are entitled to pay only 71% of any accepted 
claim.
Im absolutely satisfied that Miss S made a misrepresentation when she bought the policy. If 
she couldnt read the question, as she says, she could have asked for assistance and/or 
rung Admiral to buy the policy or get help in completing the on-line form. I dont think theres 
any reasonable argument to suggest that its not careless to answer a question on an 
insurance application form when you are aware that you cant read it.
It's clear that it took Admiral some time to get to the bottom of Miss S and her partners 
previous losses and/or claims. And to assess how that would affect the premium calculation 
and the settlement (if any) of this particular claim. 
Further delays were caused, again through no fault of Admirals, in waiting for the Police to 
provide their report into the break-in at Miss Ss house. Admiral have also asked for 
information from Miss S and her partner on a number of occasions and that hasnt always 
been immediately forthcoming  if indeed its been provided at all.
I should also say that this is not a straightforward claim. Admiral have concerns about the 
information theyve been given. And Im satisfied they had reasonable grounds to conduct 
the investigations they have and to ask Miss S and her partner the questions they say theyve found offensive an upsetting.
So, I dont think Admiral were responsible for any significant avoidable delays up to the point 
Miss S first complained to them (in late 2021). And I dont think Admirals investigations have 
been unreasonable or unjustified. I understand that Miss S and her partner have found the 
experience uncomfortable and/or upsetting, but Admiral are entitled to ask them to 
substantiate and evidence their claim.
However, I do think Admiral have had all the information they need to make a decision on 
this claim, in line with the policy terms and conditions, since before the time Miss Ss 
complaint was brought to us, in July 2022. Broadly, theyve arguably had that information 
since at the latest the end of 2021 or early 2022.
In response to our investigators view, Admiral said they were awaiting further information 
before they made a decision about the claim. And that it wouldnt be reasonable to ask them 
to make a decision before they had that information.
In large part, the information Admiral appear to be waiting for could only be provided my 
Miss S and/or her partner. And I dont think its reasonable for Admiral to hold the claim 
decision now in the expectation of getting anything more from them. 
As I say, its for Miss S to substantiate her claim and allow Admiral to validate it. Admiral 
have asked for information from Miss S on a number of occasions  and theyve interviewed 
Miss S and her partner. I dont think its unreasonable to say that Admiral have now got all 
the information theyre going to get from Miss S and her partner. 
If Admiral take the view that the claim has not been properly substantiated  in whole or in 
part  they should decline the claim (or the parts of it that havent been substantiated) and 
explain to Miss S why theyve taken that decision.
If Admiral are still awaiting any information from third parties, fully 27 months now after the 
claim was made, I dont think that can be justified. And Id suggest that any such information 
is most likely only peripheral to the main issues relating to the claim. 
Putting things right
Im satisfied on balance that Admiral have all the information they need and/or are likely to 
be able to obtain in order to make a decision about Miss Ss claim. And Im satisfied they 
had that information before Miss S made her latest complaint to them (in May 2022), which 
she then brought to us.
That being the case, Admiral should make a decision on the claim  and explain it fully to 
Miss S  within four weeks of Miss Ss acceptance of this, my final decision on the case. 
That assumes of course that Miss S does in fact accept this final decision. If she doesnt 
accept it, the outcome will not become binding on Admiral.
It also assumes that no further relevant and significant information  which might justifiably 
require Admiral to carry out further investigation  has come to light since mid-December 
when our investigator issued her view on the case to both parties. 
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I uphold Miss Ss complaint.
Unless new information  which reasonably justifies further investigation on their part - has come to light since our investigator issued her view on this case in December 2022, Admiral 
Insurance (Gibraltar) Limited must make a decision on Miss Ss claim  and explain it to her 
in full  within four weeks of her acceptance of this decision.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss S to accept 
or reject my decision before 23 February 2023.
 
Neil Marshall
Ombudsman