DRN-2508254
The complaint
Mr J complains that Oakam Ltd lent to him irresponsibly.
What happened
Using the information provided by Oakam, I have set out this loan table to demonstrate 
some of the information it gathered before approving the loans. 
Loan Date 
TakenLoan 
Amount
roundedAmount 
given to 
Mr JLoan 
Term 
MonthsMonthly 
Instalment 
Amount 
EquivalentIncome 
givenNet 
Disposable 
Income 
(NDI)Calculated 
Affordability 
after 
haircut 
applied
117/07/2014 £200 £200.00 4 £87 £1,283 £364 £182
Gap in lending
228/8//2015 £500 £500.00 3 £230 £1,298 £475 £238
2a 04/12/2015 £756 £660.00 6 £239 £1,298 £497 £248
2b 31/05/2016 £610 £510.00 9 £121 £1,298 £503 £252
328/03/2017 £1,200 £1,200.00 18 £132 £1,415 £271 £135
408/06/2017 £1,500 £1,500.00 18 £162 £1,415 £341 £170
4a 03/05/2018 £2,120 £1,200.00 24 £188 £1,452 £474 £204
Loan 1 was repaid on 15 November 2014. Loan 2, after a 14 month gap in lending, was due
to end 11 December 2015. Some of it was refinanced into Loan 2a. Loan 2b was paid off
and closed 17 March 2017. The last loan was due to be repaid by 8 May 2020.
Mr J complained to Oakam in 2019. He had problems repaying the last loan and he paid 
through a debt counselling charity between March and October 2019. Recently Mr J has told 
me that the last loan has been sold to a third party and he is in a debt management plan and 
is still paying the loan off. 
Mr J declared to Oakam that he was permanently employed full time and earned £1,100
each month. Now Mr J has told us he was not employed at the time.
Oakam explained its application processes and has provided us with copy documentation of 
the applications by Mr J, plus the interview notes and its credit search results. It explained 
that to validate the income and expenditure information provided, it obtained bank 
statements for 15 July 2014 (Loan 1), 28 August 2015 (Loan 2), 2 December 2015 
(Loan 2a), 24 March 2017 (Loan 3), 6 June 2017 (Loan 4) and 1 May 2018 (Loan 4a).
Ive received copies of all those statements from Oakam. So, I did not need to receive copies 
from Mr J as well. 
One of our adjudicators looked at the complaint and thought that Oakam should put things 
right from Loan 3 onwards. The reason was due to the repeat lending element. Oakam 
agreed. Mr J did not agree and has asked for the case to be looked at again.
Mr J had the assistance of a friend to make these additional points. Mr J has highlighted his 
health issues and has sent us some medical evidence. Mr J says that he was never asked 
by Oakam about these personal issues when he applied for the loans and says that he was 
not in a fit mental state to consider all the implications of the said loans and lacked mental 
capacity to agree to the conditions of said loans.
Mr J gave us permission to send that medical evidence to Oakam. It was a brief GP letter
dated 2012. Having sent that evidence to Oakam with Mr Js permission, and as Mr J has
asked me to address the health issues point, then I have had to refer to them in this
provisional decision.
Mr J also raises the issues of affordability and questions if Oakam considered that properly.
Oakam has responded to Mr Js points on his health and has confirmed compliance with the
Financial Conduct Authoritys (FCAs) Guidelines in the Consumer Credit Sourcebook
(CONC) 2.10. This relates to Mental Health Guidance. Oakam concludes in its submissions
to this service that:
However, as a responsible lender we do adhere to the Financial Conduct Authoritys
(FCA) Guidelines on Mental Capacity as laid out in CONC 2.10, Mental Capacity
Guidance. Thus, we do not discriminate upon the grounds of mental health and make
efforts to adjust our processes to suit those that may require special assistance. We
have reviewed the applications and have not found any flags that would have led us
to have any concerns over Mr Js mental health. We confirm that, if we had, we
would have conducted further checks to investigate if these concerns would have
affected his ability to make an informed decision or to manage his account.
The complaint remained unresolved and was passed to me for a decision. Mr J had asked 
that we review all the loans. I reviewed Loans 1, 2, 2a and 2b as Oakam had already agreed 
that it needed to put things right for Loans 3, 4 and 4a. 
I issued a provisional decision on 14 December 2020 and the provisional findings are set out 
in the next section of this final decision. 
The reply date for any additional points either party wished me to see or to consider was 
13 January 2021. I ensured that Mr J understood the provisional decision and the next steps 
in the complaint process by talking to him on the telephone on 18 January 2021. 
Mr J asked me to re-look at some aspects which I have done and so now I feel able to issue 
my final decision.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
We have set out our general approach to complaints about short-term lending - including all 
the relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice - on our website.
Oakam needed to take reasonable steps to ensure that it did not lend irresponsibly. In 
practice this means that it should have carried out proportionate checks to make sure Mr J could repay the loans in a sustainable manner. These checks could include several different 
things, such as how much was being lent, the repayment amounts and the consumers 
income and expenditure. In the early stages of a lending relationship, I think less thorough 
checks might be reasonable and proportionate. 
But certain factors might point to the fact that Oakam should fairly and reasonably have done
more to establish that any lending was sustainable for the consumer. These factors include:
where a customers income is particularly low; where the repayments are particularly high;
and/or where the frequency of the loans and the length of time over which a customer has
been given loans need to be looked at: repeated refinancing could signal that the borrowing
had become, or was becoming, unsustainable.
There may even come a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable.
Oakam was required to establish whether Mr J could sustainably repay his loans  not just
whether the loan payments were affordable on a strict pounds and pence calculation.
The loan payments being affordable on this basis might be an indication a consumer could
sustainably make their repayments. But it doesnt automatically follow this is the case. This
is because the Consumer Credit Sourcebook (CONC) defines sustainable as being the
ability to repay without undue difficulties. The customer should be able to make repayments
on time, while meeting other reasonable commitments, and without having to borrow to meet
the repayments.
And it follows that a lender should realise, or it ought fairly and reasonably to realise, that a
borrower will not be able to make their repayments sustainably if they need to borrow further
in order to do that.
I have carefully reconsidered all the arguments, evidence and information provided in this
context and what this all means for Mr Js complaint.
What the parties have said since my provisional decision was issued
Oakam has agreed with my provisional decision in order to bring the complaint to a close. So 
that means its happy to put things right for Mr J for Loans 3, 4 and 4A. 
 
Mr J telephoned to speak to one of our adjudicators because he had a few questions about 
what the provisional decision said exactly and what it meant for his debt management plan 
(DMP) situation. Mr J was concerned to know that we had looked at all the loans he 
complained about originally. 
And recently Mr J has emailed us to say this: 
Hello, yes just that I had on benefits for the periods of each loan and had an overdraft that I 
was into during the period of the loan, this in addition the medical evidence I have send and 
to please consider all the loans in dispute as form what I can see not all of them were 
mentioned in the last correspondence that was sent out, thank you.
So, I spoke to Mr J recently and we went through the provisional decision.
I have reviewed the file again to check that we have not missed any loans Oakam approved 
for him. Looking at Mr Js original complaint form he listed all the loans he wanted to 
complain about and the dates he gave were these:
 15/07/14 
28/06/15 
02/12/15 
29/05/16  
24/03/17  
06/06/17 
01/05/18  
Having double-checked all the documents sent to us from Oakam, then I am satisfied that 
there were 7 approved. Mr J has listed 7. One date sent to us by Mr J may be incorrect as 
an Oakam loan repayment schedule refers to one taken 28 August 2015, £500 for 3 months. 
There does not appear to be a loan agreement or repayment schedule dated June 2015. 
I am satisfied that all the loans approved for Mr J have been reviewed by Oakam and by this 
service. And those are the only 7 loans Oakam has told me about. 
When I spoke to Mr J recently I raised this and he seemed satisfied that 7 loans was right, 
and he was content to accept that I had looked at them all. 
Mr J accepted what I had said in my provisional decision in relation to the Continuous 
Payment Authority.  
The concern surrounding what a decision meant for his DMP was answered by one of our 
adjudicators by email on 22 December 2020. And I spoke to him about that recently.
My findings for this final decision
Mr J has asked me to review the point he has raised about mental capacity. He thinks that 
Oakams possession of the bank statements ought to have been enough to suggest to it that 
a deeper investigation into his mental health was warranted. And by that he is referring to 
the bank statement references to his benefit payments. I asked if Mr J had anything else to 
send me about this element of his complaint  but he said he did not. So, no additional 
evidence has been received from Mr J and he says he was not going to send any.
My review of the mental capacity element of Mr Js complaint has led me to consider the 
statutes relating to mental capacity and the Code of Practice linked with that legislation. In 
relation to a complaint against a lender for irresponsible lending, then the Financial Conduct 
Authority (FCA) CONC Guidelines chapter 2.10 on Mental Capacity Guidance is the relevant 
set of provisions. I had reviewed those for the provisional decision and I have looked at them 
again within the context of this complaint and Mr Js comments to me on 18 January 2021.  
Having re-looked at all the evidence then I have no reason to depart from the provisional 
findings I made and so I repeat them here. 
And a further finding Ill make is that reviewing the details I have about the loan applications 
Mr J made from 2014, he recalled that there were telephone interviews and I have brief 
notes of those. They appear in the records I have for most loans and certainly the first one 
and several others. Those notes reveal that Mr J did speak to the Oakam representatives, 
that Oakam was aware of the DWP payments to him and sums and figures and amounts 
were clearly discussed each time. 
I think that these interviews afforded both parties the opportunities for Mr J to raise his 
diagnosed condition and his DWP payments, and for Oakam to have asked him more about 
that. But these were not noted as having been raised and I dont think thats a negative point. 
Oakams representatives have said that it received no indicators or flags that Mr J was a 
person without the mental capacity to enter into a loan agreement. And having reviewed the sorts of flags and behavioural indicators the FCA has listed in CONC 2.10.8 then I think the 
interviews undertaken likely gave Oakam an additional insight and still it had not detected 
any behavioural flags. And those interview notes show that the DWP payments were 
discussed. 
I explained again to Mr J on the telephone that the starting point for a lender is A firm should 
assume a customer has mental capacity at the time the decision has to be made, unless the 
firm knows, or is told by a person it reasonably believes should know, or reasonably 
suspects, that the customer lacks capacity.
So, taking all the evidence I have into account I do not think that Oakams actions were 
incorrect or wrong in relation to this element of Mr Js complaint.   
Oakam has agreed to put things right for Mr J for the last three loans which are Loans 3, 4 
and 4a on the Loan Table and I endorse that. The redress section at the end of this final 
decision reflects that. 
 
My provisional findings from December 2020
The undisputed loans
Oakam has conceded on Loans 3, 4 and 4a. So, I do not need to review undisputed loans.
Mr J has asked for a complete review of the other loans - Loans 1, 2, 2a and 2b.
The lending sequences
The first thing to address is the gap in lending between Loan 1 and Loan 2. It was significant enough 
that I consider Loan 2, 2a and 2b to be part of that second loan chain. This means that the way 
I would expect Oakam to approach the first few loans of a new lending chain differs a little.
Continuous Payment Authority
Mr J has one element of his complaint relating to the Continuous Payment Authority (CPA). He says 
that he was never informed of a CPA or how it worked or given notice of his legal right to cancel. 
Oakam disagrees as it says its confident that Mr J was made aware of his primary payment method 
was CPA on all his loans because he received his contracts and agreed to the all the terms of his 
loans with Oakam.
I have seen and reviewed the application interview notes between Mr J and an Oakam representative. 
These notes show Oakam spoke to Mr J about the CPA and that it was agreed it would be set up to 
be two weekly repayments to match his benefits coming in.
So, I do not plan to uphold his complaint about that part.
Mental capacity
I have reviewed the FCA CONC Guidelines chapter 2.10  Mental Capacity Guidance. Mr J says that 
he was not asked about his very specific health issues when he applied, so he says that his personal 
circumstances were not considered. Mr J says he was not in a fit mental state to be able to consider 
all the implications of the loans.
And reviewing the CONC Guidelines referred to by Oakam, I do not consider that there was a breach. 
A firm when granting a consumer credit agreement should consider the customer's individual 
circumstances.
CONC 2.10.4 Guidance states thatA firm should assume a customer has mental capacity at the time the decision has to be made, 
unless the firm knows, or is told by a person it reasonably believes should know, or reasonably 
suspects, that the customer lacks capacity.
And the FCA Guide lists some behavioural indicators which, if the lender observes any, may lead to 
the firm having reasonable grounds to suspect that a customer may have some form of mental 
capacity limitation. These are in CONC 2.10.8 and are a guide list.
Oakam has said that it has reviewed the applications and have not found any flags that would have 
led us to have any concerns over Mr Js mental health. Mr J has not provided us or Oakam with any 
incidents or factual matters which he thinks would have led Oakam to thinking, or given reasonable 
grounds for it to suspect, that he had mental health issues.
And even if Oakam did have any grounds, CONC 2.10.7 guidance states this does not necessarily 
mean that the customer does not have the mental capacity to make an informed borrowing decision.
The bank statements which Oakam had from Mr J, copies of which have been sent to me, do show 
that he had two sources of income from the Department of Work and Pensions (DWP). One was 
Employment and Support Allowance (ESA). This is for if a person has a disability or health condition 
that affects how much he or she can work. Mr J received just under £370 every two weeks. Mr J also 
received from the DWP just under £445 a month which is itemised as DLA which seems to have 
been a Disability Living Allowance (later in time replaced with a PIP  Personal Independence 
Payment).
I have thought carefully about whether these annotations on his bank statements would have been 
enough to alert Oakam to Mr Js mental capacity. But none of these abbreviations are likely to have 
been enough to have led Oakam to believe that the disability Mr J may have been coping with related 
to mental health issues. And so, although I appreciate that Mr J thinks Oakam should have known, 
I do not think that it was likely that it knew or ought to have known.
Overall, without further evidence, I am not concluding that Oakam was wrong not to have interviewed 
Mr J in depth about his personal mental health circumstances.
Irresponsible lending
Loan 1 was applied for by Mr J and as a new customer I would have expected Oakam to be able to 
rely on the information Mr J gave it when assessing his affordability. Oakam said it carried out credit 
searches and summarised them. And I have seen the bank statement information Oakam had asked 
for from Mr J in July 2014. This is a comprehensive method to check Mr Js financial situation. Having 
reviewed that bank statement then I can see that his regular outgoings and a couple of loans and loan 
repayments would not have exceeded his income. He was in his overdraft and had some unarranged 
borrowing fees. But for the first loan with Oakam, and for a relatively modest sum of £200 I do not 
think that Oakam was likely to have concluded that Mr J could not afford the repayments of £87 a 
month (equivalent).
So, I do not plan to uphold Mr Js unaffordability complaint for Loan 1.
Loan 2 was the start of the second loan chain and so I think it reasonable for Oakam to have
approached his application as if he was a new customer. The approved loan was for £500 with 
instalment repayments of £230 a month (equivalent) for three months. The affordability calculations 
which I have outlined on the loan table at the start of the decision suggest that after applying the 
deduction which Oakam terms as a haircut then the amount of income left for Mr J to use as 
disposable income would have been £238. My understanding is that this figure was the figure it used 
to assess whether Mr J could afford the repayments of £230 a month. Without the haircut I would 
have said it was too tight, but with that additional margin built in it seems to have been appropriate.
Mr J supplied Oakam with bank statements for that period leading up to the Loan 2 application and 
I have reviewed them. Mr Js income had hardly altered and his regular outgoings did not appear to 
exceed his income. Mr Js bank account was several thousand in credit for a couple of months leading 
up to the summer of 2015 (the Loan 2 application was 1 September 2015) and so Oakam is not likely to have considered that Mr J was in financial trouble. No payments to any other loan providers show 
on those statements.
I do not plan to uphold Mr Js complaint about Loan 2.
The third loan in this chain is Loan 2a. Mr J borrowed an additional £660 from Oakam and it appears 
that about £96 was rolled over from the Loan 2 previous balance. The repayment date changed. The 
repayment amount each month was a similar sum to the Loan 2 repayments but over a longer term. 
Mr J supplied Oakam with bank statements for that period leading up to the Loan 2a application and 
I have reviewed them. Mr Js income had hardly altered and his regular outgoings did not appear to 
exceed his income. No payments to any other loan providers show on those statements. I do not plan 
to uphold Mr Js complaint about Loan 2a.
For Loan 2b, Mr J had been approved for an additional amount of £510 in May 2016 and just under 
£100 was rolled over from Loan 2a. and the repayment date was changed to a later date. The 
repayment amount decreased significantly to around £56 bi-weekly so the equivalent was around 
£121 a month. It was due to be repaid over a longer period. This was the third loan in this chain and 
the repayments were for a smaller sum than for Loans 2 and 2a.
I am not planning to uphold Mr Js complaint for Loan 2b.
outcome
Oakam has conceded in relation to Loans 3, 4 and 4A and have offered to put things right in line with 
our adjudicators opinion letter. I endorse that and set out here what it is that Oakam needs to do and 
has agreed to do.
Putting things right
Oakam shouldnt have given Mr J loans 3, 4 and 4A. In deciding what redress Oakam should 
fairly pay in this case Ive thought about what might have happened had it stopped lending to 
Mr J from loan 3, as Im satisfied it ought to have.
Clearly there are a great many possible, and all hypothetical, answers to that question. For 
example, having been declined this lending Mr J may have simply left matters there, not 
attempting to obtain the funds from elsewhere  particularly as a relationship existed 
between them and Oakam which they may not have had with others.
If this wasnt a viable option, they may have looked to borrow the funds from a friend or 
relative  assuming that was even possible. Or, they may have decided to approach a third- 
party lender with the same application, or indeed a different application (i.e. for more or less 
borrowing).
But even if they had done that, the information that would have been available to such a 
lender and how they would (or ought to have) treated an application which may or may not 
have been the same is impossible to now accurately reconstruct. From what Ive seen in this 
case, I dont think I can fairly conclude there was a real and substantial chance that a new 
lender would have been able to lend to Mr J in a compliant way at this time.
Having thought about all these possibilities, Im not persuaded it would be fair or reasonable 
to conclude that Mr J would more likely than not have taken up any one of these options. So, 
it wouldnt be fair to now reduce Oakams liability in this case for what Im satisfied it has 
done wrong and should put right.What Oakam has to do
If Oakam has sold the outstanding debt it should buy these back if its able to do so and then 
take the following steps. If Oakam is not able to buy the debt back then Oakam should liaise 
with the new debt owner to achieve the results outlined below.
A) Oakam should add together the total of the repayments made by Mr J towards interest, 
fees and charges on all upheld loans without an outstanding balance, not including 
anything Oakam has already refunded.
B) Oakam should calculate 8% simple interest* on the individual payments made by Mr J 
which were considered as part of A, calculated from the date Mr J originally made the 
payments, to the date the complaint is settled.
C) Oakam should remove all interest, fees and charges from the balance on any upheld 
outstanding loans, and treat any repayments made by Mr J as though they had been 
repayments of the principal on all outstanding loans. 
If this results in Mr J having made overpayments then Oakam should refund these 
overpayments with 8% simple interest* calculated on the overpayments, from the date 
the overpayments would have arisen, to the date the complaint is settled. Oakam should 
then refund the amounts calculated in A and B and move to step E.
D) If there is still an outstanding balance then the amounts calculated in A and B should 
be used to repay any balance remaining on outstanding loans. If this results in a surplus 
then the surplus should be paid to Mr J. However, if there is still an outstanding balance 
then Oakam should try to agree an affordable repayment plan with Mr J.
E) The overall pattern of Mr Js borrowing for loans 3, 4 and 4A means any information 
recorded about them is adverse, so Oakam should remove these loans entirely from 
Mr Js credit file. 
If Oakam has sold any of the loans Oakam should ask the debt purchaser to do the 
same. Oakam does not have to remove any outstanding loans from Mr Js credit file until 
these have been repaid, but Oakam should still remove any adverse information 
recorded about these loans.
*HM Revenue & Customs requires Oakam to deduct tax from this interest. Oakam should 
give Mr J a certificate showing how much tax has been deducted, if he asks for one. Any set-
off needs to be done after the tax has been deducted.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold Mr Js complaint in part and I direct that Oakam Ltd does as 
I have set out above. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr J to accept or 
reject my decision before 18 February 2021.
 
Rachael Williams
Ombudsman