DRN-2958101
The complaint
Mr and Mrs M complain that U K Insurance Limited (UKI) hasnt fully settled a curtailment 
claim they made on their travel insurance policy.  
What happened
Mr and Mrs M have travel insurance as a benefit of a packaged bank account.
Mr and Mrs M flew abroad on 12 March 2020, to a country Ill call S. They were due to return 
home on 22 March 2020. They were staying in a self-catering apartment, with access to a 
swimming pool. 
However, as a result of the Covid-19 pandemic, on 14 March 2020, S government put the 
country into a strict lockdown. And on 15 March 2020, the Foreign & Commonwealth Office 
(FCO) advised against all but essential travel to S.  
Mr and Mrs M say that the local police arrived at their accommodation on 15 March 2020 
and ordered them out of the pool, which was closed. They were required to stay in the 
apartment, aside from strict exemptions. Mr and Mrs M were subsequently able to arrange 
an earlier flight back to the UK on 17 March 2020  five days earlier than theyd planned. 
They made a claim on their travel insurance policy for the costs associated with cutting short 
their trip.
UKI partly settled Mr and Mrs Ms claim. It covered their curtailment costs from the date 
theyd returned to the UK early  17 March 2020. However, it refused to cover the time that 
Mr and Mrs M had been confined to their apartment. It said the policy didnt cover loss of 
enjoyment.
Mr and Mrs M were unhappy with UKIs decision and they asked us to look into their 
complaint.
Our investigator thought Mr and Mrs Ms complaint should be upheld. She accepted that 
strictly, Mr and Mrs Ms period of confinement wasnt covered by the curtailment section of 
the policy. But she didnt think Mr and Mrs Ms claim was for loss of enjoyment  in the 
circumstances, she felt the purpose of the trip had been frustrated on 15 March 2020, due to 
a change in FCO advice. So she considered it would be fair and reasonable for UKI to pay 
Mr and Mrs Ms curtailment claim from 15 March 2020, together with interest.
UKI disagreed. Ive summarised its detailed responses to our investigator. It said the policy 
terms only cover unused accommodation costs  but in this case, theres no dispute that Mr 
and Mrs M did make use of the accommodation. It didnt consider there were any tangible, 
financial losses it could point to which Mr and Mrs M had incurred as a result of being 
confined to their apartment. It referred to guidance published by this service which sets out 
examples of when insurers may consider paying curtailment claims outside of the strict 
policy terms. It pointed to the fact this this type of scenario isnt something weve included in 
our guidance. It felt the outcome effectively established a principle of cover for loss of 
enjoyment, which went against its own underwriting intent and our technical guidance.
The complaints been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I dont think UKI has settled Mr and Mrs Ms claim fairly. Ill explain why. 
At the outset, its important I make clear that each complaint we consider is looked at based 
on its own specific facts and what we consider to be fair and reasonable in the individual 
circumstances. Decisions made on individual cases are not intended to form a precedent.
The relevant regulators rules say that insurers must handle claims promptly and fairly. And 
they mustnt turn down claims unreasonably. So Ive considered, amongst other things, the 
terms and conditions of Mr and Mrs Ms policy and the circumstances of their claim to decide 
whether UKI handled it fairly.  
Ive first considered the terms and conditions of Mr and Mrs Ms policy, as these form the 
basis of their contract with UKI. The Cutting Short Your Trip section of the policy says:
We will cover you for your:
 unused accommodation costs and travel costs (including car hire, excursions and 
activities):
 reasonable additional accommodation costs to allow you to return home early: and
reasonable additional travel costs to allow you to return home early if you cannot use your 
return ticket that you have paid or legally have to pay if you unavoidably need to abandon 
your trip while you are away for one of the following reasons:.
 The Foreign and Commonwealth Office advising against "All Travel" or "All but essential 
travel" to your destination, providing the advice came into force after your departure on your 
trip.
In this case, theres no dispute that due to the FCO advising against all but essential travel to 
S on 15 March 2020, Mr and Mrs M arranged an early return flight and cut short their trip on 
17 March 2020. Once theyd curtailed their holiday and returned to the UK, their 
accommodation and other pre-booked expenses were no longer able to be used. On this 
basis, UKI accepted the claim from 17 March 2020 onwards. This means that strictly, UKI 
settled Mr and Mrs Ms curtailment line in accordance with the terms of their contract.
However, Mr and Mrs M also feel that their period of confinement in the apartment should 
also be covered by the curtailment section of the policy. I accept UKIs argument that Mr and 
Mrs M were able to make use of their accommodation between 15 March and the day they 
flew home. So on a strict interpretation of UKIs policy terms, I agree that Mr and Mrs Ms 
curtailment claim for these two days isnt covered. 
But I can depart from a strict interpretation of the policy terms if I feel their application 
produces an unfair result. I think thats the case here. I think Mr and Mrs M were able to 
make use of the first three days of their holiday. Thats because while S government put the 
country into lockdown on 14 March 2020, their testimony suggests that they were able to at 
least make use of the pool facilities until the following day. But from 15 March 2020 onwards, 
Mr and Mrs M say that the police ordered them to be confined to their apartment, with the only exception being able to leave to buy food for home-cooking. Ive seen a photo of the 
pool which shows that this had been taped-up and was out of use. Im also satisfied that the 
lockdown in S was strict. Im satisfied then that Mr and Mrs M remained in apartment 
isolation up until the point they were able to fly home. 
In my view, at the point Mr and Mrs M became confined to their apartment on 15 March 
2020, their holiday was effectively curtailed. I dont think this represents a simple loss of 
enjoyment  I think Mr and Mrs Ms holiday had effectively been ended. This was after the 
date the FCO had advised against all but essential travel to S and Covid-19 had been 
declared a pandemic. Given these particular circumstances, I think it would be fair and 
reasonable for UKI to consider that Mr and Mrs Ms holiday was effectively cut short on 15 
March 2020. 
Even though its clear Mr and Mrs M didnt actually return home early until 17 March 2020, 
Im satisfied their holiday was effectively cut short when they became confined to their 
apartment between 15 and 17 March 2020. In the round, Im persuaded that the fair outcome 
is for UKI to step away from a strict interpretation of the policy terms and treat Mr and Mrs 
Ms trip as having been effectively curtailed on 15 March 2020. And so Im now directing it to 
settle the remainder of Mr and Mrs Ms curtailment claim in line with the policy terms and 
conditions.  
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above, my final decision is that I uphold this complaint. 
I direct U K Insurance Limited to settle Mr and Mrs Ms curtailment claim from 15 March 
2020 up until the end of their pre-booked trip, less any costs its already paid and in line with 
the remaining terms and conditions of the policy. It must add interest at an annual rate of 8% 
simple to the settlement from the date of claim until the date of payment.  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs M and Mr M to 
accept or reject my decision before 29 September 2021.
 
Lisa Barham
Ombudsman