DRN-3446973
The complaint
Mr J complains that Octopus Investments Limited (Octopus) provided misleading 
information about an Enterprise Investment Scheme and failed to invest funds into energy 
companies benefitting from government rebates.
What happened
Mr J was advised to invest £25,000 into Octopus EIS Trance 18 in early 2015 by a third-
party adviser. Funds were invested on 20 March 2015. Mr J raised concerns about the 
timeline of investment and delays receiving tax certificates, which have been addressed in 
another decision. Mr J also raised concern that Octopus failed to invest in companies with 
energy rebates. He said the majority of investee companies had 1 year rolling contracts 
rather than 15-year contracts he had expected. Mr J maintains that this amounted to a 
change in strategy by Octopus, which he was given no choice in and was not informed 
about. Mr J believes that he was misled. Mr J sustained significant capital losses for which 
he seeks compensation. 
Octopus say many of the complaint points raised by Mr J were answered in an earlier final 
decision. The investment strategy remained the same and did not change, namely selection 
of one or more companies, in one or more sectors, with the aim of achieving EIS qualifying 
status and targeting capital preservation. Funds were deployed within the two-year 
timeframe for investment to be EIS qualifying. The EIS was a discretionary investment 
portfolio and Octopus did not require permission from investors as to each investment. 
Octopus were looking to invest in renewable energy companies, likely to include reserve 
power and/or anaerobic digestion installations but retained the flexibility to invest in other 
opportunities. Funds were invested in these areas, following a multi-stage due diligence 
process. Changes in regulations governing revenue streams for reserve power took place 
post investment. Site construction was paused during a consultation period and subsequent 
delays and further revenue stream changes in 2017, 2018 and 2019 were matters outside 
Octopus control. Ultimately, information was provided about risks and no guarantees were 
given about performance.
Our investigator considered the complaint and decided not to uphold it. He considered that 
Octopus had been clear that the funds invested by Mr J were to be managed by them on a 
discretionary basis. Whilst the literature from the time did discuss investing in renewable 
energy, where companies may benefit from Government subsidies, Octopus explained that it 
could invest in different companies, approaches or sectors, provided investment was into 
capital preserving, EIS qualifying companies. Overall, our investigator thought the 
investments were made in line with this mandate. Octopus had highlighted possible subsidy 
changes and it was for Mr Js adviser to consider the risks around investing into an EIS in 
this industry sector.
Mr J disagreed with the outcome. Mr J again questioned the timeline of investment, which 
had already been addressed in an earlier decision. I note Mr J also raised an issue about a 
goodwill payment made to investors in different tranches. Our investigator explained that any 
new complaint point needed to be raised with Octopus and in any event an such payment 
would be a matter within Octopus discretion.
As the parties do not agree, the matter has come to me for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I think its helpful to explain at the outset that I cannot reconsider the matters addressed in 
the earlier final decision from this service. I also note that concern around lack of a goodwill 
payment was a new matter for Mr J to raise with Octopus, albeit this would have been a 
matter within their discretion. This decision therefore only focuses on the complaint that 
Octopus failed to invest in companies with energy rebates and provided misleading 
information around this. As Mr Js financial adviser recommended investment into this EIS, 
this decision does not consider whether the recommendation was suitable for Mr Js attitude 
to risk, objectives and capacity for loss at the time. Any such complaint about suitability of 
the recommendation lies against the provider of that advice.
Ive considered the information provided at the time, namely the Information Memorandum 
(IM) and Details of underlying investments brochure. The objective of the EIS was to target 
capital preservation, whilst also providing multiple tax benefits. Octopus had sole 
discretionary management (explained in the IM in the Claiming your tax relief section and 
flow chart), which meant it was for them to make legitimate commercial decisions about 
which companies to invest in by reference to the investment strategy and the EIS 
qualification status of the underlying companies. No guarantees were given as to which 
investee companies individual investors would invest into. As to portfolio concentration, 
Octopus explained that investment would be in one or a small number of companies in one 
sector. There was no requirement on Octopus to revert back to investors about the 
investments.
The IM identified expertise in energy investment generally, referring specifically to anaerobic 
digestion and reserve power. The Details of Underlying investments brochure also set out 
anaerobic digestion and reserve power as areas of potential investment. Its common ground 
that investment was made into companies within these two fields of energy provision.
As to returns, it is fair to say that Octopus spoke about anticipated revenue streams within 
the IM in the energy sector or a degree of predictability, but that information had to be 
balanced against the risk warnings that revenue could be affected by a change in legislation 
or demand or price drop. Octopus explained that appropriate due diligence was undertaken, 
whereby industry expert advice was sought about the likely return from resources and 
forecasts were considered before information was presented to potential investors. As at 
February 2015, I dont consider that it was misleading to refer to relatively predictable 
revenue streams. As addressed in the earlier decision, Octopus gave adequate risk 
warnings, including that returns could change if legislation changed or generating performance changed. The timeline of events set out by Octopus showed that price and 
legislative changes took place years after information was provided to Mr J and after the 
point of investment. It isnt fair and reasonable for me to make an assessment with the 
benefit of hindsight.
As our investigator explained, it was for Octopus to make commercial decisions based on 
the information available at the time and there was no requirement for Octopus to give Mr J 
any input into the decision-making process, which included when funds were deployed. 
Octopus also explained to Mr J that they continued to analyse information and at the time, 
they anticipated that the objective of capital preservation could still be met. It is also relevant 
that maintaining the investment, meant the requirement for the EIS qualification and related 
tax reliefs remained available. 
It is unfortunate that a series of risks materialised but ultimately, Mr J conceded he 
understood the inherent high-risk with an EIS investment, so knew or ought to have known 
that he was at risk of losing all his capital investment.
On balance, Im persuaded that Octopus did invest in companies in line with the mandate, 
namely, EIS qualifying companies providing tax reliefs where capital preservation was 
targeted. In this case all the companies were in the energy sector. It is common ground that 
performance was poor, but Im not persuaded that the overall strategy changed, the core 
factors were still being targeted. 
In light of the above, I am not persuaded that Octopus have done anything wrong.
My final decision
Im sorry to disappoint Mr J but for the reasons given, I wont be upholding this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr J to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 March 2023.
 
Sarah Tozzi
Ombudsman