DRN-2245690
The complaint
Mr T on behalf of J Ltd complains that Barclays Bank Plc (trading as Barclays Commercial) 
didnt appropriately handle a claim of disputed transactions. 
Mrs T is Mr Ts representative but Ill treat all the submissions as having come from J Ltd for 
ease of reading.
What happened
The circumstances of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I will not repeat them 
all again here in detail. But I will provide an overview of events below. 
J Ltd disputed transactions made in July 2019 to a hire car company (B Ltd) for the 
amounts £1,054.19 and £606.53. 
Barclays processed chargeback claims for J Ltd and as a result applied temporary 
credits to J Ltds account. 
B Ltd did not defend the chargeback claims and so the chargeback claims were 
successful in October 2019.
J Ltd complained that the transactions should have been deemed fraudulent and refunded 
appropriately using a more appropriate reference on its bank statement to recognise this. It 
also complained that the chargeback process caused it out of pocket expenses.
Barclays responded to J Ltds complaint and explained the transactions were appropriately 
disputed in accordance with its processes. It apologised for not actioning emails quicker and 
credited J Ltds account with £50 for any inconvenience caused. 
One of our investigators looked into J Ltds complaint. He didnt think Barclays should do 
anymore as he was satisfied it followed its processes correctly and the compensation paid 
was sufficient to recognise the inconvenience caused.
 
J Ltd didnt agree because it didnt think the response sufficiently addressed its complaint 
nor did it recognise the distress and inconvenience caused. It asked for an ombudsman to 
review the complaint, so the complaint has been passed to me for determination.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I dont uphold J Ltds complaint and Ill explain why. 
When J Ltd first contacted Barclays about its disputed transactions claim, it explained it had 
an agreement with B Ltd but it had charged a card that was used for the purpose of pre-
authorisation only and it paid for the hire car using a different card. It explained it tried to 
resolve this with B Ltd directly but it was unable to. Barclays was satisfied that J Ltds correct 
card and PIN details were used to authorise the transactions so it offered to process 
chargeback claims on its behalf to recover the funds. 
J Ltd had an agreement with B Ltd and J Ltd alleged that it had already paid the amounts 
due in accordance with the agreement using another payment method. This was a 
cardholder and merchant dispute rather than an unknown party debiting money from J Ltds 
account. Given the nature of J Ltds dispute with B Ltd, I agree that chargeback claims were 
the most appropriate option for Barclays to assist J Ltd with in order to recover its funds. This 
is because the chargeback scheme is used for cardholder and merchant disputes. 
I have noted Barclays applied temporary credits to J Ltds account and the reference on J 
Ltds statement was listed as PSD TEMP DISPUTE CREDIT. J Ltd was unhappy with this 
wording as it suggested the credits were temporary and could be reversed at any time. I do 
acknowledge J Ltds concerns with the uncertainty of the wording on its statement but 
Barclays has the commercial discretion to decide how it credits its customers accounts 
following a dispute claim - particularly when those credits can be returned to the merchants 
bank should a chargeback claim fail. I dont think Barclays should change the wording on J 
Ltds statement and Im satisfied it has confirmed to J Ltd and to this service that the credits 
are now permanent. 
I think J Ltd could have received better customer service when it didnt respond to J Ltds 
emails and Barclays has acknowledged this with a £50 compensation payment which has 
been credited to J Ltds account. I dont think Barclays should increase its compensation 
award and I think this was a fair amount to recognise J Ltds inconvenience in having to 
email Barclays more than it needed to.
 
I recognise J Ltd paid a representative 950 Euros to handle this claim on its behalf. I dont 
think Barclays should pay these costs because it did not ask J Ltd to pay for a representative 
to handle this matter, this was a choice made by J Ltd and it should pay for those costs.
I also recognise that J Ltd said this matter caused it a lot of distress and it was a painful 
process. But its important to remember that J Ltd is acting in the capacity of a limited 
company which cannot itself be caused distress or pain. Thats not to say its employees 
cant personally be caused distress but I cannot consider the employees personal distress in 
handling a claim for a limited company. In any event, given the timeframe a merchant has to 
defend a chargeback claim (45 days from the date the claim was processed), I dont think 
Barclays significantly delayed matters. It could have been quicker, but Ive noted it 
immediately applied temporary credits following J Ltds claim about disputed transactions 
whilst it reviewed and processed J Ltds chargeback claims against B Ltd. Therefore, it was 
not out of pocket during the chargeback process. So I make no award in relation to J Ltds 
claim for distress.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I am not persuaded that Barclays Bank Plc (trading as 
Barclays Commercial) acted unfairly or unreasonably with regard to J Ltds disputed 
transactions claim. Because of this, I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask J to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 January 2022.
 
Dolores Njemanze
Ombudsman