DRN-2718793
The complaint
Mr B complained his motor policy wasnt renewed by UK Insurance Limited (UKI), which 
left him uninsured at the time his vehicle was stolen. A representative has spoken on behalf 
of Mr B at times during this complaint, but for simplicity I will only reference Mr B.
What happened
Mr B had his car stolen and unfortunately the police were unable to recover his stolen 
vehicle. Mr B said he made a claim to UKI for the theft of his car but discovered that he was 
no longer insured. His previous policy had lapsed a few days earlier and as he hadnt 
renewed his policy, UKI wouldnt consider his claim.
Mr B complained that his policy wasnt automatically renewed, as he thought it had been in 
the past. He said he received a letter about the renewal around one month before its expiry. 
But, he said he never received any reminders that the policy was due to expire. He did say 
he remembered receiving one call about the renewal, but as he was at work he couldnt take 
it. Mr B didnt think UKI had dealt with his issues empathetically, especially given his own 
personal circumstances.
UKI said it wasnt made aware of Mr Bs personal circumstances but did compensate him 
£40 as one of its call recordings was corrupted so it couldnt examine all its evidence. 
However, UKI thought it had acted fairly in the renewal process. It said Mr Bs policy wasnt 
on auto-renewal. It said it had sent him a renewal letter, followed by two reminder letters. 
UKI also called Mr B about the renewal and it said Mr B had said he would ring them back. 
As Mr B hadnt renewed, UKI felt that it couldnt consider his claim.
Our investigator didnt uphold the complaint. He thought UKI had acted reasonably during 
the renewal process and had taken appropriate steps to inform Mr B his policy was due for 
renewal and was soon to expire. He had considered Mr Bs personal circumstances, but as 
UKI werent made aware of these, he didnt think it had done anything wrong. So, he thought 
it was fair that UKI didnt consider his claim.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I have looked at this complaint and considered whether UKI has taken a reasonable 
approach in keeping Mr B informed about the imminent expiry of his current policy and the 
need to renew.
Mr B told our service he didnt make UKI aware of his own personal circumstances. I have 
sympathy for Mr Bs circumstances, but as UKI werent aware of his circumstances, I 
wouldnt expect it to have taken any different steps in managing Mr Bs renewal to its other 
customers.
Having reviewed the evidence, I think UKI has acted reasonably and has taken appropriate 
steps to keep Mr B informed. So, whilst this will be a difficult outcome for Mr B, I wont be 
able to uphold his complaint and Ill explain further why.
UKI has provided evidence that the policy was not set-up on an automatic renew basis. UKI 
has shown it sent Mr B a renewal letter one month before his policy was due to expire. The 
letter indicates that Mr B needs to call UKI to renew his policy or it will expire. UKI has 
pointed to two other occasions where an automatic renewal was never mentioned or 
discussed, one where Mr Bs partner accepted a quote and another where Mr B manually 
accepted a renewal. I have listened into the call made from UKI to Mr B for this years 
renewal. The call handler states clearly the policy is not on auto-renewal.  Therefore, Im 
satisfied that Mr Bs policy wasnt on auto-renewal and there is evidence to support that Mr B 
would have known this.
Mr B thought UKI should have made more effort to remind him of his renewal. UKI has 
shared evidence that it sent Mr B three separate written communications about his renewal. 
The annual invitation to renew. Then a further two reminders. Mr B said he didnt receive the 
reminders, but UKIs records do show these were sent. Its possible Mr B didnt see these 
reminder letters. They could have been lost in the post, or Mr B could have mislaid them 
himself. However, as UKI has demonstrated it did send the letters, I dont think it has done 
anything wrong.
UKI said it called Mr B to discuss the quote. I have listened to that call. Mr B confirmed hed 
received the quote, but he said he hadnt had time to review it yet. Mr B said he would call 
UKI back after hed had time to review it. Mr B said that he thought UKI should have used 
text message to remind him. UKI has said it doesnt use texts to remind customers of 
renewals. Given UKI has not treated Mr B differently to any other customer, and there is 
evidence that it made four separate contacts with Mr B about the renewal (three by letter and 
one by phone), I think UKI has acted reasonably and has taken sensible steps to keep Mr B 
informed about the need to renew his policy.
Mr B said that he didnt think UKI had dealt with his claim empathetically. It has offered some 
compensation already, as it couldnt access one phone call. However, having examined this 
complaint, I cant see any evidence that UKI has treated Mr B unfairly or unreasonably.
In summary, I think UKI has taken reasonable steps to keep Mr B informed about his 
renewal. I think UKI has acted fairly in not considering his claim. So, I dont uphold this 
complaint, as I dont think UKI has done anything wrong. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. I dont require UK Insurance Limited to 
do anything more.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 17 June 2021.
 
Pete Averill
Ombudsman