DRN-3538185
The complaint
Mrs R complains about Legal and Generals (L&G) decision to decline a critical illness claim.  
She wants the claim paid, together with compensation. 
Mrs R is being represented by her husband, Mr A. But for ease, Ill refer to Mrs R throughout 
this decision. 
What happened
The detailed background to this complaint is well known to both parties. So, Ill only provide 
a brief overview of some of the key events here.
In April 2017 Mrs R became a member of her employers group critical illness policy. In 
December 2018 she was sadly diagnosed with leukaemia  and she made a successful 
critical illness claim. Mrs R received a pay out of £50,000. She also increased her level of 
cover to £250,000. 
Mrs Rs leukaemia returned in 2021. She made a second claim because as part of her 
treatment she was to undergo a bone marrow transplant from a donor. She claimed under 
the following policy term:
Major organ transplant - from another donor
The undergoing as a recipient of a transplant from another donor of bone marrow or 
of a complete heart, kidney, liver or a lobe of the liver, lung, or pancreas, or inclusion 
on an official UK, the Channel Islands or the Isle of Man waiting list for such a 
procedure.
For the above definition, transplant of any other organs, parts of organs, tissues or
cells, are not covered.
L&G said the claim wasnt valid on the basis it had arisen as a direct result of the condition 
(leukaemia) for which a payment had already been made. It referred to the following policy 
term:
You can claim for more than one insured condition. However, we will only pay one 
valid claim if more than one claim arises from a single incident.
Mrs R appealed L&Gs decision but it maintained its position. She referred the matter to the 
Financial Ombudsman. In short, Mrs R disputed L&Gs argument that her leukaemia was a 
single incident that had given rise to both claims. She said her leukaemia diagnosis and the 
bone marrow transplant were separate insured conditions and so should be accepted as 
separate claims. Mrs R questioned how her leukaemia could be both a single incident and 
an insured condition.  And pointed out that nowhere in the policy terms and conditions is 
the meaning of a single incident defined. Mrs R also accused L&Gs claim assessors of 
fraud and said they should be reported to the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA).
Our Investigator considered the complaint but didnt uphold it. She thought L&G had 
correctly applied the single incident exclusion as the two claims were linked to Mrs Rs 
leukaemia. Our Investigator also obtained confirmation from L&G that, as the procedure 
Mrs R was to undergo involved the implantation of stem cells to promote the growth of new 
bone marrow, the major organ transplant definition in respect of a bone marrow transplant 
wouldnt be met. 
Mrs R didnt agree and has asked for an Ombudsmans decision. In terms of the single 
incident exclusion, Mrs R said L&G was actively trying to deceive them and find a way to 
decline the claim. She said the terms and conditions of her policy included a number on 
exclusions for pre-existing and related conditions, yet none of these had been applied to her 
claim. Instead, Mrs R said L&G had relied, without basis, on the single incident exclusion. 
Mrs R said her leukaemia and bone marrow transplants were both listed insured conditions 
under the policy terms, and questioned what L&G was relying on to say the leukaemia was 
also the single incident that gave rise to these two conditions. Mrs R suggested the 
intention of this exclusion was to stop more than one claim being made in relation to a 
single incident such as an accident that resulted in more than one insured condition. Mrs R 
maintained L&G were wrong to categorise her leukaemia as both an insured condition and 
a single incident when relying on this exclusion.  
In terms of her bone marrow transplant being an insured condition, Mrs R provided evidence 
to support her view that a bone marrow transplant and a stem cell transplant are the same 
thing. And so, should be covered under the policy. Mrs R said this was another attempt by 
L&G to avoid paying the claim and deceive her.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im really sorry to hear of Mrs Rs ill health. Its clear that the family has been through an 
incredibly traumatic time. And I can see that pursuing this claim has been particularly difficult 
and upsetting for them all. 
Having carefully considered everything weve been provided, Im not upholding this 
complaint, for largely the same reasons as our Investigator. I know this wont be the answer 
Mrs R or her family hoped for. Id like to reassure Mrs R that I havent taken this decision 
lightly. I realise that the outcome of this complaint could have potentially life-changing 
consequences for her and her family. But I cannot consider a complaint on compassionate 
grounds. I must consider whether L&G has acted fairly and reasonably in light of all the 
circumstances and evidence. While I dont want to add to Mrs Rs distress, I cant say L&G 
acted unfairly or unreasonably. Ill explain why.
Ive read and considered the whole file. But Ill concentrate my comments on what I think is 
relevant. If I dont mention any specific point, its not because Ive failed to take it on board 
and think about it, but because I dont think I need to comment on it to reach what I think is a 
fair and reasonable outcome.
Mrs R has alleged fraud on the part of L&G and said a referral should be made to the FCA. 
The Financial Ombudsman is an informal dispute resolution service. My role is to consider if 
the business has acted fairly and reasonably in all the circumstances, and in this case, Im 
satisfied it has. The Financial Ombudsman cant get involved in allegations of fraud on the 
part of a business, nor can we comment on concerns about how a business is regulated. 
Those would be matters for the police and the FCA respectively. Ive considered first L&Gs position that Mrs Rs claim made in 2021 isnt valid. L&G has 
relied on the exclusion above  essentially that Mrs Rs claim for her bone marrow transplant 
is linked to her leukaemia claim. L&G therefore considered leukaemia to be the single 
incident for the purposes of the above exclusion. 
I can see from the medical evidence that Mrs R was treated for leukaemia in 2019 with a 
bone marrow transplant. And that a further transplant was recommended as part of her 
treatment plan following her relapse in 2021. So, theres no doubt that the bone marrow 
transplant claimed for in 2021 arises from the leukaemia claimed for in 2019. 
Mrs Rs main argument is around the term single incident and how L&G has said the single 
incident here is her leukaemia.  She questions how her leukaemia can be both an insured 
condition and a single incident.  
Theres no definition in the policy terms and conditions for a single incident. But I dont 
agree with Mrs R that a single incident cant be an insured condition. Nor do I agree that a 
single incident is in relation to an accident. Very few, if any, critical illness claims arise from 
an accident. Generally speaking, theyre organic events. 
The exclusion is to protect L&G from multiple claims being made in relation to the same 
condition  being referred to here as a single incident. This puts the customer on a level 
playing field with most underwritten policies where once a claim is paid out, the policy ends, 
and the customer wouldnt be insured for the same condition again. 
So, I dont consider it unreasonable for L&G to say Mrs Rs leukaemia - which is being 
treated by a bone marrow transplant - is the single incident for the purposes of this 
exclusion. The leukaemia and the bone marrow transplant are linked. 
Mrs R has also said theres a number of related and pre-existing conditions exclusions in the 
policy  but rather than applying those  she says L&G has desperately tried to use the 
single incident exclusion to reject her claim. 
It might help if I explain that group critical illness policies operate differently to individual 
policies. Theyre not underwritten and remain in place after a claim has been made. This 
enables a member to claim for more than one critical illness. But to protect itself, the insurer 
will apply exclusions for all members on all claims, as outlined in the policy terms and 
conditions. 
Because the group policy isnt underwritten, no specific related or pre-existing condition 
exclusion was added to Mrs Rs cover after she claimed for leukaemia in 2019. But these 
exclusions still applied to her as a member of the group policy  specifically when she 
increased her level of cover and made a second claim. And given that leukaemia is listed in 
the policy terms and conditions as a related condition to major organ transplant, its likely 
Mrs Rs 2021 claim wouldve failed if L&G had applied a related or pre-existing condition 
exclusion to her 2021 claim.
L&G instead declined the claim on the single incident exclusion, which is a general 
exclusion applicable to all claims. Whereas the related and pre-existing condition exclusions 
could be open to interpretation depending on the specifics of the claim and the cover 
(increase in sum assured, date cover started etc), the single incident exclusion is, in my 
opinion, very clear that only one claim will be paid in relation to one incident. And so, I dont 
think it was unreasonable of L&G to apply this exclusion to Mrs Rs claim.
Taking everything into account, I cant say L&G has treated Mrs R unfairly by declining her 
2021 claim. 
I note Mrs R has disputed our Investigators opinion on whether the bone marrow transplant 
claim, if it had been fully considered, would in fact have met the major organ transplant 
definition. As I accept L&Gs position as reasonable that the claim was caught by the specific incident exclusion and was therefore not valid, Ive not considered the merits of the 
claim itself as part of this decision. 
I appreciate this isnt the outcome Mrs R were hoping for. But I dont think L&G has treated 
her unfairly and so wont be asking it to take any action. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I do not uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs R to accept or 
reject my decision before 11 August 2022.
 
Anna Jackson
Ombudsman