DRN-3311706
The complaint
Mrs B is unhappy with Great Lakes Insurance SE because it made a proportionate 
settlement on her claim. 
What happened
Mrs B had a travel medical insurance policy with Great Lakes. She went on a cruise in 
February 2020 and became unwell with COVID-19. Mrs B needed medical treatment and so 
was taken to a mainland hospital in America. Mrs B claimed on her travel policy for her 
treatment costs, only to be told that it wouldnt cover the whole cost she incurred. Mrs B only 
received a proportionate settlement of 45% of the overall claim. She would like her costs 
covered in full. 
Great Lakes said the reason it did this was because itd discovered that Mrs B hadnt 
disclosed her full medical history, in particular, that she suffered with a medical condition 
called aspergillosis, nor that shed visited her GP for a chest infection on two occasions prior 
to taking the trip. Great Lakes said that had it known this information at the time she took the 
policy, it wouldve increased the premium because she posed a greater risk to insure. It said 
the difference was around 55% increase which is why it only offered to cover 45% of her 
overall costs. 
Our investigator disagreed with Great Lakes and said that itd unfairly treated Mrs B by 
reducing the amount of settlement paid on her claim. He said that Mrs B had told Great 
Lakes about the aspergillosis during the initial sales call and that this was simply missed by 
the adviser. He explained that it therefore didnt feel fair to retrospectively apply the criteria 
and reduce the settlement for that reason. However, he agreed that Mrs B hadnt told it 
about the two visits to the doctor for her chest infections. He said Great Lakes should 
consider that element of the non-disclosure only and not the aspergillosis condition. 
Our investigator recommended that if the chest infections make no difference to Mrs Bs risk 
profile, or the price of her insurance, then it should settle her claim in full. 
Great Lakes didnt agree. It accepted its adviser missed the disclosure of Mrs Bs 
aspergillosis but said the way she explained it was unclear. It said that Mrs B discussed her 
asthma and that the aspergillosis was mentioned during that discussion, but she didnt make 
it clear this was a separate medical condition that would need to be underwritten. It also 
highlighted the adviser wasnt medically trained and therefore wouldnt have known this. 
And so, its for me to make a final decision.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided to uphold it because I think Great Lakes treated her unfairly by 
offering a proportionate settlement based on the non-disclosure of her aspergillosis. I say 
that because Im not persuaded that Mrs B has unfairly misrepresented her medical history. 
I accept that Great Lakes wasnt told about Mrs Bs two visits to the GP during the previous 
policy year and that this should have been shared with it. But Im not persuaded by its 
arguments about Mrs B failing to disclose her medical condition aspergillosis. Therefore, on 
that basis, I think Great Lakes should reassess the cost of her policy based on the two GP 
visits only. Should this affect the overall cost, then Great Lakes would be entitled to settle 
her claim on that proportionate basis alone. I say that because Mrs B told it about her 
condition in the original call and had it listened and correctly identified Mrs Bs aspergillosis, 
then it could have underwritten this condition. Im not persuaded that its Mrs B thats made 
an error here and thats why Im upholding this complaint. Ill explain why. 
Mrs B took the policy out in 2017 and so Ive listened to that initial call, as well as 
subsequent calls that have taken place over the recent years. Im satisfied that Mrs B 
disclosed her aspergillosis at the time she took the policy. And, therefore, I disagree with 
Great Lakes assertion that she misrepresented her medical history on that basis. Great 
Lakes consequently said that although Mrs B shared this information on the call, she didnt 
make it clear enough for its adviser to recognise that this shouldve been treated as a 
separate condition to her asthma and therefore be subject to further medical underwriting.
Im not persuaded thats fair enough reason in the circumstances because having carefully 
considered Mrs Bs medical history, and contemporaneous medical notes, the aspergillosis 
was mentioned in connection with her asthma and so Im satisfied she shared this 
information in the same way itd always been discussed with her by the medical 
professionals involved with her care. I think it was a missed opportunity for Great Lakes to 
underwrite the condition, but I dont think it fair to lower the settlement amount of her claim. 
I also noted Great Lakes comments about its adviser not being medically trained and so was 
unable to recognise this was a separate condition that needed underwriting. Im unclear 
about the link its trying to make but I dont think thats reason enough to justify the mistake it 
made, or attempt to portion any blame on Mrs B. I think Great Lakes ought reasonably to 
have realised when Mrs B said she took tablets for aspergillosis and that she was allergic to 
aspergillus, it shouldve realised this warranted further questioning. But that didnt happen, 
and I dont think it fair to retrospectively say that Mrs B misrepresented her medical history, 
simply because Great Lakes missed the opportunity to probe further and ultimately 
underwrite against that medical condition.  Its because of this I say Great Lakes shouldnt 
offer a proportionate settlement of Mrs Bs claim for those reasons as I dont think it fair to do 
so. 
I am persuaded, however, that Mrs B failed to disclose her two visits to the doctor for chest 
infections when her policy was renewed. Mrs Bs testimony is that shed previously told 
Great Lakes about this type of visit and that the question she was asked was about whether 
there had been any changes to her health. But I still think she should have told it about those 
visits. And so, I agreed with our investigators recommendation on this point and Great 
Lakes should retrospectively screen her for that. Our investigator said that should change 
things, then Great Lakes would be entitled to calculate the new premium and settle her claim 
on that proportionate basis  which I think it fair in the circumstances.  
Great Lakes has had ample opportunity to reassess Mrs Bs claim and still hasnt provided a 
retrospective screening. Its said that it doesnt think this is a fair outcome because its 
adviser didnt realise this aspergillosis should have been noted, investigated and 
underwritten. But for the reasons Ive explained, Im not persuaded by its arguments here. 
Mrs B explained that shed checked the relevant information Great Lakes sent her and noted 
itd recorded her disclosure of asthma and that given her aspergillosis was discussed as part 
of that condition, and given no further follow up questions were asked about it, she relied on that documentation being accurate. I think her testimony here is persuasive because her 
condition is closely linked to her asthma as her medical records suggest. Its for these 
reasons Great Lakes must reassess her claim, inline with our investigators 
recommendation. It must reassess it considering the two visits to the GP only. If an 
additional premium was due, then it may offer a proportionate settlement based on the 
premium paid against the premium that was due. 
My final decision
Im upholding this complaint for the reasons Ive explained. Great Lakes Insurance SE must 
now reassess Mrs Bs claim, based on the missed disclosure of two chest infections only. 
Should there be a difference between the premium Mrs B paid and the premium she should 
have paid, then Great Lakes Insurance SE may settle her claim on a proportionate basis 
according to that difference. Should there be no difference in premium costs, then Great 
Lakes Insurance SE must settle the claim in full. It should also pay 8% simple interest on any 
amount owed to Mrs B from the date the claim was made until the date its settled. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs B to accept or 
reject my decision before 26 June 2022.
 
Scott Slade
Ombudsman