DRN-4426099
The complaint
Mrs R has complained that Santander UK Plc (Santander) misplaced a bankers draft that
had been issued to Mrs R from the estate of a deceased relative who lived overseas.
What happened
Mrs R paid in a bankers draft for a large sum of Canadian Dollars to Santander on 10
August 2022. Santander deducted a £10 handling fee from Mrs Rs account on 18 August
2022, but the proceeds of the bankers draft never reached her account. It later transpired 
that Santander had mis-placed the bankers draft.
Once it was established that the draft had been lost, Santander contacted the overseas bank
(third-party bank) that had issued the bankers draft, to explain that it had been lost and
requested that a copy of the bankers draft be issued. However, the third-party bank rejected
Santanders request and explained (to Mrs R) that it would not issue a copy of the existing 
bankers draft. Instead, it agreed to issue a new bankers draft - providing Santander issued 
an indemnity letter in case the original draft was located and cashed.
In its final response letter, Santander acknowledged its errors and agreed to pay Mrs R £500
compensation for the distress and inconvenience caused.
One of our investigators assessed the complaint and they upheld the complaint. They
acknowledged that Santander had already offered to pay Mrs R £500, which they thought 
was fair. But they also instructed Santander to do more to assist Mrs R in finding a solution 
to resolving the matter. They also said that Santander should consider reimbursing Mrs R for 
any other costs she may incur in arranging for alternative methods for the payment to be 
made.
As the funds had still not been paid into Mrs Rs account, the matter was referred for an
ombudsmans decision.
After the matter was referred for an ombudsmans decision, the missing bankers draft was 
located. I understand that it was cancelled, and the payment was made to Mrs R 
electronically by the third-party bank.
I then issued a provisional decision explaining why I thought the complaint should be upheld. 
I have included an extract of my provisional decision below, and it forms a part of this 
decision.
What Ive provisionally decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. 
Having reviewed everything, Im currently minded to uphold this complaint. I will 
explain why.
Its not in dispute that the bankers draft couldnt be paid to Mrs R due to Santander
misplacing the bankers draft. I understand it had sent the draft to the wrong address 
when it was processing the payment. Its also good to hear that the payment was 
eventually made to Mrs R, albeit around a year after Mrs R had first presented the 
bankers draft to Santander for payment. Therefore, all thats left for me to consider is 
what Santander needs to do, to put matters right.
Firstly, I think that the award of £500 compensation is fair. I say this considering how 
long the matter went on for and also for the inconvenience that Mrs R experienced in 
contacting Santander and the estate of her relative multiple times over several 
months, in an effort to get matters rectified. I would like to point out that I cant make 
any awards for any distress or inconvenience that the estate experienced. So this 
amount solely reflects the impact this matter has had on Mrs R.
I note that since the investigator issued their assessment on the complaint, Mrs R 
says that the compensation for the distress and inconvenience should be increased. 
In summary, Mrs R says that it should be increased because, although she was 
happy with the figure of £500 when the investigator issued their assessment, the 
matter went on for a further 5 months. Mrs R says that she didnt know if the matter 
would ever be resolved.
However, although I recognise that it has taken a fair amount of time to reach this 
stage (and importantly, the delay in getting the payment processed will be reflected in 
other aspects of the redress), I can see that Santander has continued to try and 
resolve this issue for Mrs R. But Santanders attempts to get the payment processed 
(by offering an indemnity and requesting a copy of the draft) was declined by the third 
party bank, which said that a replacement of the draft would need to be obtained by 
the purchaser instead. Therefore it seems that a part of the reason why the draft 
could not be paid (and therefore matters were delayed) was because of the third 
party banks refusal to accept Santanders offer of indemnity  which I cant 
reasonably hold Santander responsible for.
Also, although I appreciate why Mrs R was concerned that she wouldnt receive the
payment, its also the case that our service had not exhausted our investigation into 
the matter (as the case was still awaiting to be reviewed by an ombudsman). And as 
it turns out the bank that issued the draft was able to locate the missing draft with the 
assistance from Santander and was able to get it cancelled and the payment 
processed. So from what I can see, Santander did continue to try and resolve 
matters for Mrs R since the investigators assessment. So in the circumstances, I still 
think that £500 is a reasonable amount of compensation for the distress and 
inconvenience that Santander caused in this matter.
In addition to making an award for the distress and inconvenience caused to Mrs R, I 
also recognise that the exchange rate mayve changed in the time between when the 
bankers draft wouldve been paid and when the funds were actually paid to Mrs R. 
Had the payment been made when it shouldve been, then of course Mrs R wouldnt 
have experienced such a loss.
Therefore, Im currently minded to say that Santander should pay Mrs R any 
difference in the exchange rate between when the draft was likely to have been paid 
and when the payment was actually made.
I understand that the draft was likely to have taken between two  eight weeks for the
payment to be processed. Mrs R has given a date range of this occurring between 8September 2022 and 13 October 2022. However, I understand that Mrs R paid the 
draft on 10 August 2023. So Im currently thinking of using the date of 7 September 
2022 as the date to determine the likely exchange rate she wouldve received  this 
being the halfway point between when the consumer paid the bankers draft in and 
the latest date she couldve received the money.
Therefore, I currently propose that Santander uses the exchange rate of Canadian 
Dollars to British Pounds on 7 September 2022 to reflect what exchange rate would 
likely have been applied to the draft had it been paid as expected. Santander should 
then compare that rate with the exchange rate that Mrs R did receive, and if there is 
any shortfall in the amount paid to Mrs R, Santander should reimburse Mrs R the 
difference. Mrs R has provided evidence to show that the value of the draft was 
$19,893.03 CAD and when the payment was eventually made, she received 
£11,717.36 GBP.
In addition to the above, I also recognise that in the time that Mrs R has been 
deprived of having use of that money. I currently think that Santander should pay Mrs 
R compensatory interest on the amount that was subsequently paid to her from the 
third-party bank, plus any difference in the exchange rate as mentioned above, at a 
rate of 8% simple annual interest, less any tax that is deductible.
Having reviewed everything, although matters have clearly not gone as they 
shouldve, I think that the above would put Mrs R back into a similar position that she 
wouldve been in, had Santander not misplaced the bankers draft.
Putting matters right
So in summary, I currently think that Santander should:
Pay Mrs R £500 compensation for the distress and inconvenience caused to her 
by this matter;
Use the Canadian Dollar to British Pound exchange rate on 7 September 2022 to 
determine the likely exchange rate that wouldve applied had the draft been paid. 
If Mrs R received a worse exchange rate when the funds were actually paid to 
her by the third party bank, Santander should pay Mrs R the difference; and
Pay 8% simple annual interest on the amount that was paid to Mrs R by the third 
party bank and on any difference caused by changes to the exchange rate, less 
any deductible tax. This should be calculated between 7 September 2022 and 
when the third party bank paid Mrs R the money from the lost bankers draft.
Mrs R responded to the provisional decision. Mrs R says she accepted the provisional 
decision, but asked that Santander also refund her the £10 fee she was charged to cash the 
bankers draft. 
The investigator contacted Santander to explain that Mrs R had asked that the £10 
processing fee also be refunded to her and that I thought that this was reasonable in the 
circumstances.
Santander responded and agreed to the findings of the provisional decision and to also 
refund Mrs R the £10 fee as well.What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Based on the response from Mrs R and Santander, I see little reason to reach a different 
outcome to the one I reached in my provisional decision. Although, as outlined above, I also 
thought that Mrs Rs request that the £10 processing fee she was originally charged should 
also be refunded, as she never received this service.
So in summary, its apparent that when Mrs R wanted to pay in an overseas bankers draft 
into her Santander account, the bankers draft went astray whilst Santander was processing 
the payment.
Because of this, Mrs R did not receive the money from the draft until around a year later, 
when the draft was eventually located, cancelled, and the money transferred electronically 
instead. It appears that this delay potentially resulted in Mrs R receiving less money (due to 
changes in the exchange rate) than she wouldve received, had the bankers draft been paid 
in when it shouldve been. 
In the circumstances, I dont think it is fair if Mrs R lost out due to any changes in the 
exchange rate, as the delay in the payment was largely caused by Santanders failure to 
process the bankers draft correctly. 
I also think that the £500 compensation for the distress and inconvenience caused is 
reasonable in the circumstances. I say that because, although this matter did take a fair 
amount of time to be resolved, and clearly caused Mrs R a fair amount of distress and 
inconvenience, I can see that Santander did contact the third-party bank that issued the draft 
a number of times to get the bankers draft paid. But the third-party bank was unwilling to 
issue a copy of the draft and insisted that a new one be issued instead. The third-party bank 
also appears to have not accepted the method Santander used to convey its offer of 
indemnity  which was needed just in case the original bankers draft be cashed in.
Putting things right
So to put matters right, Santander needs to:
Pay Mrs R £500 compensation (if it has not done so already) for the distress and 
inconvenience caused to her by this matter;
Refund Mrs R the £10 fee to process the bankers draft;
Use the Canadian Dollar to British Pound exchange rate on 7 September 2022 to 
determine the likely exchange rate that wouldve applied to the draft, had it been paid in 
to Mrs Rs account. If Mrs R received a worse exchange rate when the funds were 
actually paid to her by the third-party bank, Santander should pay Mrs R the difference; 
and
Pay 8% simple annual interest* on: 1) the amount that was eventually paid to Mrs R by 
the third-party bank and 2) on any difference caused by changes to the exchange rate. 
This should be calculated between 7 September 2022 and when the third-party bank 
paid Mrs R the money from the lost bankers draft. 
* Mrs R should be aware that this portion of the redress is usually subject to a tax deduction. 
If Santander considers that its required by HM Revenue & Customs to deduct income tax 
from the interest, it should tell Mrs R how much its taken off. It should also give Mrs R a tax 
deduction certificate if she asks for one, so she can reclaim the tax from HM Revenue & 
Customs if appropriate.My final decision
Because of the reasons given above and in my provisional decision, I uphold this complaint 
and require Santander UK Plc to do what I have outlined above, to put matters right, in full 
and final settlement of this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs R to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 November 2023.
 
Thomas White
Ombudsman