DRN-2749613
The complaint
Mr and Mrs N are complaining about The Royal London Mutual Insurance Society Limited 
trading as Scottish Provident, cancelling the unemployment benefit from their term 
assurance policy.
What happened
In 2005 Mr and Mrs N took out a Self-Assurance Mortgage policy held with Scottish 
Provident. This was a level term assurance policy which was due to end in 2030. The policy 
had three types of cover including unemployment benefit (the benefit). The benefit was 
underwritten by a separate business (the underwriter or insurance provider) and provided 
cover in the event of redundancy or dismissal from employment.
In November 2019, the underwriter stopped offering the benefit to new customers. And in 
March 2020 it was told by its regulator to stop offering the benefit to current policyholders. 
Scottish Provident then wrote to policyholders giving them 90 days notice of the withdrawal. 
Scottish Provident noted that as administrator of the policy, it had no choice but to comply 
with the underwriters instructions. 
The letter advised Mr and Mrs N that the benefit would end in July 2020 and not November 
2030 as originally set out in the policy. Scottish Provident said in recognition of the benefit 
being cancelled at a particularly difficult time for its customers due to the impact of the 
Covid-19 crisis, if a claim was made up to the end of 2020 it would meet the cost of this.
Mr and Mrs N complained to Scottish Provident about the withdrawal of the benefit. Scottish 
Provident rejected their complaint reiterating that it had no choice but to cancel the 
unemployment benefit. And it said the terms of the policy had been correctly followed.
Our investigator didnt uphold in the complaint. In brief, he considered Scottish Provident had 
acted within the terms of the policy by giving Mr and Mrs N the required notice. 
Mr and Mrs N disagreed. They said that Scottish Provident should find alternative cover for 
them. So they asked for the matter to be passed to an ombudsman for a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The decision to cancel the benefit wasnt one taken by Scottish Provident  it wasnt 
something it could change. Scottish Provident administered Mr and Mrs Ns policy but the 
unemployment benefit was underwritten by another business who decided to withdraw it. 
And I can see that Scottish Provident told Mr and Mrs N what would happen if this situation 
happened. In the policy schedule it says:
 
The [unemployment] benefit is underwritten by the insurance provider. If the insurance 
provider ceases to offer this benefit and/ or is changed by us, we can withdraw or change 
the policy provision and the policy benefit schedule for this benefit in such manner as we 
deem appropriate in the circumstances. 
This schedule goes on to say Scottish Provident needed to serve 90 days notice before the 
benefit could be cancelled. All in all, Im satisfied the benefit was cancelled in line with these 
terms. And whilst I understand it was frustrating for Mr and Mrs N to find out the benefit was 
being cancelled, I think Scottish Provident has acted fairly and reasonably when it did so.
Mr and Mrs N point out the benefit wasnt due to end until 2030. Scottish Provident has 
recognised there are only certain conditions under which long-term policies can be 
cancelled. I can see the cancellation was done under the guidance and supervision of the 
underwriters regulator. Further the policy terms did allow the benefit to be withdrawn as long 
as 90 days notice was given to policyholders, which Scottish Provident did do. So in these 
circumstances, I cant fairly say Scottish Provident has done anything wrong.
I know Mr and Mrs N think Scottish Provident should find them alternative cover. But I dont 
consider this is something its obliged to do. And Scottish Provident has said, it doesnt have 
the necessary regulatory permission to offer this type of insurance cover directly to 
customers. So under all the circumstances, I cant fairly ask it to find alternative cover for Mr 
and Mrs N.
I do, however, fully sympathise with Mr and Mrs Ns situation particularly given the timing of 
the cancellation. Its been done during the Covid-19 crisis which is a time of uncertainty for 
many people. But ultimately, this was a decision by the underwriter under the instruction and 
supervision of its regulator. And whilst the benefit officially ended in July 2020, Scottish 
Provident did offer to cover the cost of any claims up until the end of 2020 at no extra cost to 
policyholders. Overall, I think Scottish Provident has acted fairly and reasonably in Mr and 
Mrs Ns case.
For all these reasons, whilst I understand how strongly Mr and Mrs N feel about this 
situation, I wont be upholding their complaint.
My final decision
I dont uphold the complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr and Mrs N to 
accept or reject my decision before 4 June 2021.
 
Yolande Mcleod
Ombudsman