DRN-3645636
The complaint
Mr G complains about a health care option policy he took out through Lloyds Bank PLC. He 
believes he has been treated unfairly because of undisclosed commission payments 
between the bank and the insurer. 
What happened
In April 2002 Mr G took out the health care option policy through the bank. The policy was 
administered and underwritten by the banks insurance business and, in summary, provided 
Mr G with a lump sum payment in the event of an accident, or covered certain medical costs 
that he may incur. The policy was cancelled in March 2007. 
Mr G complained to the bank that he believes there was an undisclosed commission 
payment between the bank and the insurance provider. To settle his complaint Mr G would 
like any commission payments refunded to him, along with additional interest. 
The bank did not uphold Mr Gs complaint and explained that, amongst other things, the 
branch advisor who sold the policy would not have received commission or payment from 
the insurer or bank for selling this product. Mr G remained unhappy and referred his 
complaint to our service, where it was considered by one of our investigators. The 
investigator explained that because of the amount of time that had elapsed since the policy 
starting and ending the bank had indicated that it had limited information about the policy 
and there was no information referring to any commission payments being made. 
The investigator explained that having considered the limited information that was now 
available she did not consider there were sufficient grounds to find the bank had treated Mr 
G unfairly. And for this reason, she did not consider the complaint should be upheld. 
Mr G did not accept the investigators conclusions, so the complaint has been referred to me 
for consideration. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr G complains about a policy he took out through the bank in 2002. In particular that the 
banks failure to disclose commission paid and received between the bank and insurer was 
unreasonable. As the investigator has previously set out, the difficulty in this case is that the 
sale of the policy took place approximately 20 years ago and the policy ended around 15 
years ago. 
Because of this there is very limited information available and the bank has explained that 
due to the amount of time that has elapsed since the sale of the policy, it no longer holds any 
paperwork relating to the sale of Mr Gs policy. And it therefore has no specific details of any 
commission payments. 
The bank has also explained that the policy was likely sold by a branch staff member and 
the policy was administered and underwritten by a company within the banks broader group. 
And that at the time Mr Gs policy was sold, there was no commission paid between the 
branch and insurer for arranging this type of policy.  
In order to uphold Mr Gs complaint there are a number of things to consider. Whether 
commission was paid, if it was what was the amount paid and was that disclosed at the time, 
are all relevant considerations here. The bank has explained that it doesnt believe 
commission was paid for the type of policy Mr G had and because the sale was 
approximately 20 years ago, it doesnt have any specific commission information relating to 
Mr G. Mr G has not provided any documentary evidence indicating whether commission was 
or wasnt paid. 
Considering Mr Gs policy started around 20 years ago and ended approximately 15 years 
ago it is perhaps not unsurprising that the bank has very limited information about the policy. 
There are requirements for banks and other businesses to only hold customer data for a 
certain period of time and as long as it is relevant. I think it would be unfair to find the bank 
acted unreasonably here in not keeping more details of Mr Gs policy considering how long 
ago it ended. 
Given the lack of any evidence to the contrary I have no reason to doubt the banks evidence 
that the policy was likely sold by a branch staff member and the policy was administered and 
underwritten by a company within the banks broader group, and at the time no commission 
was paid between the branch and insurer for arranging this type of policy. In the absence of 
any specific details about any potential commission paid in relation to Mr Gs policy, I am 
unable to find that Mr G has been treated unfairly or unreasonably by the bank. 
My final decision
I appreciate this will come as further disappointment to Mr G but for the reasons set out 
above, I do not uphold his complaint against Lloyds Bank PLC. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision before 27 September 2022.
 
Mark Hollands
Ombudsman