DRN-3735434
The complaint
Mr B complains that Nationwide Building Society wont refund the money he lost when he fell 
victim to a scam.
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties. So I wont repeat them all here. 
The facts arent in dispute, so Ill focus on giving the reasons for my decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In line with the Payment Services Regulations in force at the time, Nationwide is 
expected to execute authorised payment instructions without undue delay. Its not in 
dispute that Mr B was scammed. But nor is it in dispute that he authorised the 
payment. So the starting position is that hes liable for it.
There are some situations where we believe that banks  taking into account relevant 
rules, codes and best practice  ought to have identified a fraud risk, so should have 
looked at the wider circumstances surrounding the transaction before making the 
payment.
Ive considered whether Nationwide ought to have realised Mr B was at risk from 
fraud  such as if the payment was uncharacteristically large or otherwise suspicious, 
given how he generally used his account. If Nationwide failed to intervene 
appropriately when it should have done, and that failure led to a fraudulent loss, it 
might be fair to hold it liable.
The disputed transaction was for £800. People often make larger payments using 
their credit card  indeed, Mr B had made a larger payment that this in the previous 
six months. So I dont think the value ought to have concerned Nationwide. 
The money was sent via a money remittance service. While I accept these can be 
involved in scams, theyre also legitimately used by lots of people to send money 
abroad. So I dont think the destination of the payment was, by itself, so suspicious 
that Nationwide ought to have intervened. 
Taking these circumstances into account, I consider it reasonable that Nationwide 
didnt detect a fraud risk  so simply processed the payment in line with Mr Bs 
instructions.
Ive considered Mr Bs point that Nationwide ought to have alerted him to the cash 
transfer fee, and that if it had, he wouldve thought again about making the payment. 
I dont think Nationwide could reasonably be expected to delay a payment to simply 
alert Mr B to the fee, which is explained in its terms and conditions. After all, its also 
under an obligation to make the payment he asked it to without undue delay. 
Regardless, I think it wouldve been reasonably clear to Mr B from using the money 
remittance service that this was a cash transfer  so Im not persuaded that being 
alerted to the fee wouldve made him think this was a scam or changed his mind 
about making the payment.  
As well as considering whether Nationwide ought to have prevented Mr Bs loss, Ive 
considered whether it ought to have done more to recover it. Ive noted that a 
chargeback claim was raised and defended  thats because the disputed payment 
was sent via a money remittance service and they provided the service it was 
supposed to when it exchanged and transferred the money to the recipient. For this 
same reason, I dont think a claim under Section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974 
wouldve been valid either. 
I appreciate this will be disappointing for Mr B, whos been the victim of an elaborate 
and frustrating scam. But in these circumstances, I cant ask Nationwide to refund 
him simply because he was scammed  Ive got to think it did something wrong so 
should be blamed. And Im not persuaded Nationwide is at fault for failing to stop, or 
recover, his loss.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, my final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 27 April 2023.
 
Emma Szkolar
Ombudsman