DRN-3872601
The complaint
Mr Ks complaint is about a mortgage that he has, and which was owned by JPMorgan 
Chase Bank, National Association between February 2008 and December 2016. He believes 
the content of a letter it sent him on 5 October 2016, about an error that was made with the 
interest rate applied to the mortgage, means:
the mortgage agreement had been breached;
the balance was wrong, which led to arrears and legal action. 
JPMorgans action to rectify the error in 2016 didnt recognise the additional costs, and 
trouble and upset, he had been caused because of the error; and
the balance JPMorgan gave a court in 2010 had been wrong and this would have 
affected the payments the courts set.
What happened
Mr K took out a mortgage with Lender P in 2006 and increased the borrowing in 2007.  The 
mortgage was subsequently transferred to JPMorgan in 2008. 
In December 2008 Mr K experienced some financial difficulties and arrears built up on the 
account. JPMorgan decided to take legal action because of the arrears on the account. A 
suspended possession order was issued by the court on 22 July 2010. It allowed Mr K to 
remain in the property if he paid £50 on top of the contractual monthly payment going 
forward. 
In 2016 Lender P informed JPMorgan that a mistake had been made with the interest rate 
product that had been attached to the mortgage. An incorrect term had been recorded on 
Lender Ps systems and so the product ended slightly before it should have, which meant 
more interest had been charged than should have been.
On 5 October 2016 JPMorgan sent Mr K a letter telling him about the interest rate mistake 
by Lender P. It confirmed that only one mortgage payment had been affected, but that 
resulted in more of the payment being used to pay interest and less than should have been 
being paid off the balance of the mortgage. JPMorgan confirmed that it was adjusting the 
mortgage balance to rectify the error, and this would reduce the then current balance by 
£94.53. In addition, JPMorgan paid Mr K compensatory interest of £47.92.
Lender P wrote to Mr K on 13 September 2018 to tell him that when it had administered his 
mortgage, it had not applied changes to Bank of England base rate when it should have. It 
calculated Mr K had been overcharged £73.26 interest and paid him that amount, plus 
interest, less tax; a total of £127.67.
Mr K complained to JPMorgan that due to the error Lender P told him about in 2018, the 
figures provided to the court by JP Morgan in 2010 had been incorrect. JPMorgan sent Mr K 
a final response letter to the complaint on 28 November 2018, which didnt uphold the 
complaint. Mr K referred the complaint to this service. An ombudsman colleague issued a 
final decision on the matter on 26 March 2019.
In 2022 Mr K contacted us with his complaint relating to the interest rate issue detailed in 
JPMorgans letter of 5 October 2016. We made JPMorgan aware of the complaint and it 
issued a final response letter to Mr K on 4 August 2022. 
JP Morgan confirmed that the alteration needed to remedy the interest rate product error had 
been applied to his mortgage in October 2016. It provided a copy of a statement that 
evidenced the alteration. It then referenced the complaint made in 2018. It said that it had 
taken appropriate action to correct the error made by Lender P and so didnt uphold the 
complaint.
Mr K wanted to pursue the complaint and so one of our investigators considered it. He didnt 
uphold it. He explained that JPMorgan wasnt responsible for the mistake with the interest 
rate product  that was Lender P. However, it had remedied the mistake when it had 
become aware of it. In relation to the legal action that had been taken in 2010, the 
investigator was satisfied that the difference in the balance that the error had caused 
wouldnt have made any difference to the decision JPMorgan had taken. He highlighted that 
the mortgage account had been in nearly £6,500 arrears and the overcharged interest from 
both of the interest issues identified in 2016 and 2018 had only totalled around £160. 
Mr K didnt accept the investigators conclusions. He said that his complaint about the effect 
of the error on his account in late 2008 had not been dealt with. He also maintained that had 
the complaint been taken seriously and the error corrected immediately, he would not have 
incurred legal costs.
Our investigator considered Mr Ks further comments, but he wasnt persuaded to change 
his opinion that the arrears on the account were such that the legal action would have gone 
ahead and the associated costs would have been added to Mr Ks mortgage debt. Mr K still 
didnt agree with the investigator. He clarified that he thought the arrears that occurred in 
October, November and December 2008 wouldnt have occurred if there hadnt been an 
error on the part of JPMorgan. He also alleged bias on our behalf and said he wanted to 
appeal the investigators conclusions. 
As such, it was decided that the complaint should be referred to an ombudsman. However, 
the investigator did comment that the arrears on the account had started in December 2008 
and that this had happened because Mr K had paid significantly less than the amount of the 
contractual monthly payment (CMP). He didnt consider there was any evidence that the 
arrears had occurred because of the error with the interest rate product.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I would firstly confirm to Mr K that the errors relating to the interest that he was told about in 
the letters in 2016 and 2018 were not made by JPMorgan. They were made by Lender P, 
which is a completely separate business from JPMorgan. So if, as Mr K believes, the interest 
rate error represented a breach of the mortgage terms and conditions, JPMorgan would not 
be responsible for that breach.
It doesnt appear that Lender P identified the errors until 2016 and 2018 respectively, so 
JPMorgan would have had no reason to question the balance of the mortgage when it took it 
over. However, those as yet unidentified errors would have meant the mortgage balance 
was slightly higher than it should have been, but only by a relatively small amount. Mr K has indicated that he thinks this higher balance led to the arrears that resulted in 
JPMorgan taking legal action against him and the eventual suspended possession order 
being granted in 2010. This situation also led to negative information being recorded on his 
credit file and charges being added to the mortgage balance.
I have considered this matter carefully, but I am not persuaded that the evidence indicates 
that the slightly higher mortgage balance led to Mr K being unable to afford to pay the full 
CMP from the end of 2008. I say this as the extra amount on the mortgage balance 
JPMorgan calculated in 2016 - less than £95 - would have increased the contractual 
payment by a matter of pence. However, Mr K paid over £2,100 less than the CMP in 
December 2008, and around £1,100, £800 and £650 respectively in the following three 
months. As such, I cant accept that the error caused the arrears or find that the arrears 
shouldnt have been reported on Mr Ks credit file.
JPMorgan subsequently took legal action because of the arrears on the mortgage. While 
Mr K believes that if the interest errors hadnt occurred the legal action wouldnt have 
happened either, I cant agree. The legal action took place because of the arrears on the 
account, which was the amount of the payments Mr K missed or underpaid. Even if the full 
amount of both the interest errors was deducted from that sum, there would still have been a 
significant arrears balance of over £6,000 
JPMorgan has said that such a small difference in the arrears balance wouldnt have made a 
difference to its decision to litigate, and in my experience of such situations, it seems likely 
that is the case. As such, I cant find that the legal costs incurred in that action should be 
refunded to Mr K.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint. Under the rules of the Financial 
Ombudsman Service, I am required to ask Mr K to accept or reject my decision before 
27 February 2023.
 
Derry Baxter
Ombudsman