DRN-3793042
The complaint
Miss B complains that Legal and General Assurance Society Limited (L&G) has taken an 
unreasonable time to process her critical illness claim which caused her stress and upset. 
She also complains that when L&G did finally pay her claim, it reduced the sum assured 
proportionately to account for misrepresentation on her policy application.  
What happened
Miss B took out her policy for mortgage protection in January 2017, after applying for it 
through a third party financial adviser. It offered her decreasing term life assurance and 
critical illness benefit over 40 years, with an initial sum assured of £208,050.
In 2021, Miss B contacted L&G to make a claim for critical illness benefit, after she had sadly 
been diagnosed with a type of breast cancer in July 2020. On 10 March 2021, she returned 
completed claim paperwork to L&G. 
In April 2021, L&G sought medical reports from Miss Bs GP along with her treating 
specialist. These were returned in April 2021 and June 2021. However, after receiving the 
latter report, L&G required additional information and it wrote to Miss Bs GP again on 28 
June 2021. The GP then replied in late July 2021.  
In August 2021, L&G contacted Miss B to ask her for more information about her application. 
Specifically, she had answered no to a question about attending a health professional in 
the last five years regarding lumps or growths. But, the GP information suggested she had 
attended a breast clinic in 2014 after having had concerns about a breast lump. Though the 
lump had transpired to be lymphadenopathy, L&G felt Miss B ought to have disclosed it. 
Miss B explained that in the same five-year question group, she had answered the previous 
point about attendance with a health professional regarding having a mole removed  so she 
had likely placed focus on that. Otherwise, she did not believe she had acted incorrectly, 
noting she had told L&G other medical disclosures, including her family history as required.  
In September 2021, Miss B complained about the time L&G had taken to issue an outcome 
on her claim and the poor customer service she had received.   
On 8 October 2021, L&G called Miss B to confirm it had accepted the claim, but it would be 
paid at a reduced amount. If it had known of Miss Bs accurate medical history, it would have 
offered life cover at standard rates but applied a rating of +50 to the critical illness cover.   
L&G then paid a proportionate sum assured of £146,184 to Miss B on 14 October 2021. To 
this sum it also added £69.83 interest and a premium refund of £458.70. Miss B then made a 
further complaint about the claim payment.
On 6 December 2021, L&G upheld Miss Bs customer service complaint. It said that up to 
the end of July 2021 it had actively progressed the claim. However, it had thereafter taken 
longer than it usually would to provide the claim outcome. It explained its turnaround times 
had increased due to demand, but it also accepted that it hadnt given Miss B correct 
information about expected timescales. Nor had its call handlers returned her calls as 
promised on a number of occasions. For these errors, L&G said it would pay her £300. 
Though she accepted the compensation, Miss B remained unhappy with the outcome of her 
complaint. She brought the complaint to this service, making a number of comments on her 
complaint form in relation to the complaint. I have read everything she has set out, though I 
wont repeat it in full here. 
In summary, Miss B said:
things had initially been dealt with promptly from March 2021 when she instigated her 
claim;
however, by August 2021 she felt she was being avoided  as progress on the claim 
had stopped and this caused her anxiety to heighten;
to obtain updates, she had to chase L&G rather than it contacting her;
each time she did so, she was told that a differing department was dealing with the 
claim  and each of those had a 17-day turnaround time;
she believes that when a claim is approaching the six-month point, it should be 
prioritised;
to then call her in October 2021 with the news that the full claim wasnt being paid 
was devastating and she questioned why she couldnt have been told this sooner;
she was off work on reduced pay so the stress of the delay added to her financial 
and mental insecurity at that time;
she feels that L&G used the COVID-19 pandemic as a generic excuse for delays;
despite this, L&Gs website says its most recent annual performance has exceeded 
pre-COVID-19 levels;
this is at stark odds with the service she has received. 
On 17 February 2022, L&G rejected the further complaint. It reiterated that Miss Bs GP 
records set out that she had attended the breast clinic in 2014 for concerns over a breast 
lump. Though this had transpired to be caused by lymphadenopathy, the question Miss B 
was asked concerned lumps. So, she should have answered differently on her application. 
L&G said that this meant a misrepresentation had occurred. It explained how it was entitled 
to determine Miss Bs actions as a careless misrepresentation and accordingly apply its 
retrospective underwriting decision, which would have placed a rating on her policy. It had 
therefore paid Miss Bs claim on a proportionate basis using the premium she had paid, 
which was lower than it shouldve been. L&G said it was satisfied the decision was correct.    
One of our investigators then considered the complaint, but she did not think it should 
succeed. She believed Miss B ought to have answered the question regarding lumps 
differently. Had she done so, then her critical illness cover would have cost more. So, L&G 
had fairly reduced Miss Bs sum assured in accordance with relevant insurance law. Finally, 
our investigator felt L&G had rightly paid £300 to Miss B for poor customer service, so it 
didnt need to do anything more.    
Miss B said she disagreed. She made a number of further comments, noting:
L&Gs poor service and inaction had impacted her mental health detrimentally;
when she attended the breast clinic in 2014, there was no mention of a lump;
instead, reference was made to a lymph node and it was expressly recorded that no 
further action was necessary;
a letter was issued by the clinic at the time (29 April 2014) confirming the same;she supplied a letter from her GP dated 24 August 2022 which said her attendance at 
the breast clinic in 2014 was unrelated to her subsequent cancer diagnosis;
on visiting the GP in June 2021, it was recorded that Miss B had been suffering with 
her mental health because of receiving a cancer diagnosis at such a young age;
the GP believed that dealing with L&G had added to Miss Bs significant anxiety. 
A different investigator then reviewed the complaint. He said he also believed the complaint 
shouldnt succeed. He said L&G had acted fairly by applying a rating to Miss Bs policy 
retrospectively, as she had made a misrepresentation when seeking the cover.  
Miss B said she still disagreed and wanted to have her complaint referred to an ombudsman. 
She said that her complaint formed two parts  those being the reduced claim and the 
customer service  yet the second investigator had only considered the claim value. She 
also said, in summary:
no consideration had been given to the unreasonable amount of time L&G took to 
process her claim;
she does not accept that the finding of a lymph node would have increased L&Gs 
insurance risk, meaning the cover cost more;
there was no breast lump, no abnormality and therefore no increased risk to L&G;
every attending medical professional has confirmed she had no pre-existing 
conditions or risk associated with her cancer diagnosis;
for L&G to suggest otherwise is grossly offensive;
she has increased risk of recurrence now, but did not have any such risk at the time 
of applying for her policy;
if she had been diagnosed with another type of cancer then she questions whether 
L&G would now be looking at her medical history and applying a risk rating at all;
guidance issued on the Financial Ombudsman Service website on misrepresentation 
in insurance cases requires investigators to consider if an insurer has been fair in 
the way it handled the misrepresentation;
she believes this has not been done in her complaint;
L&G withheld information from her, leading her to chase it several times;
she could have been told on these occasions that L&G was looking into 
misrepresentation but it didnt do so;
the compensation paid of £300 for L&Gs unacceptable service was disgraceful;
nonetheless, payment of that £300 means L&G accepts it was accountable for failing 
to deal with the misrepresentation fairly, so this should be properly assessed now.  
The investigator explained to Miss B that he also believed that the payment of £300 to reflect 
the delays and poor service was fair. He said he would not require it to do anything further 
as the amount proposed was in line with compensation ordinarily proposed by this service.  
In respect of the rating applied to Miss Bs policy, the investigator said Miss B had been 
asked if she had seen any medical professional about a growth or lump  which she had. 
So, L&G should have been told about the breast clinic appointment in 2014 because it was 
relevant to a question asked of Miss B  not because of any later diagnosis. L&G would 
have then applied underwriting guidance on lymph node findings. The investigator said he 
had seen that guidance, and it was fairly determined that the rating of +50 applied to critical 
illness benefit. So, L&G had rightly paid a proportionate sum assured to settle the claim.  
Miss B reconfirmed that she wanted the complaint to be passed to an ombudsman. She 
made additional comments and reiterated some of her previous objections. She said:the GP letter of August 2022 concerning her mental health and anxiety should be 
considered;
she feels it is unfair for the investigator to conclude L&G had acted reasonably in not 
telling her right away that it was investigating a suspected misrepresentation;
there was a multitude of occasions where she could have been told but wasnt;
she feels that underwriting for increased risk of lymph nodes is medically incorrect;
guidance from the Association of British Insurers (ABI) suggests a claim should be 
paid in full where an applicant has acted honestly and reasonably around the 
circumstances of failing to disclose a material fact to an insurer;
it was clearly reasonable for her to forget about the attendance at the breast clinic - 
she was told in clear terms that no breast lump was present at that time.  
L&G didnt have any further comments to make. The complaint has now been passed to me. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Id like to thank the parties for their patience whilst this matter awaited an ombudsmans 
decision. I can see that this matter has caused Miss B a great deal of distress; I recognise 
Miss Bs strength of feeling and I appreciate how she has provided detailed submissions to 
support her complaint, which Ive read and considered carefully. 
The purpose of my decision isnt to address every single point raised between Miss B, L&G 
and our investigators. My role is to consider the evidence and reach what I think is an 
independent, fair and reasonable decision based on the facts of the complaint. Having done 
so, though I know this will be a disappointment for Miss B, I do not believe the complaint 
should succeed. 
When applying for insurance, if an applicant doesnt tell his or her insurer relevant 
information in response to a clear question its known as misrepresentation. 
If the circumstances around a claim prompt an insurer to believe a misrepresentation may 
have occurred within an application, its entitled to consider what ought to have happened at 
that time. That is what L&G has done. It sent a targeted report request to Miss Bs GP 
concerning her diagnosis. When it received the report back in June 2021, it noted that in 
response to a question asking if Miss B had ever suffered from any linked condition, the GP 
referred to two entries in Miss Bs medical records from 2014. There were when she had 
seen the GP and when she was discharged from the breast clinic the following month.  
I understand that in the letter of August 2022, Miss Bs GP has corrected the view on the link 
from Miss Bs 2020 diagnosis and the matters of 2014 to confirm they are not related at all. 
But, on receipt of the report, L&G was prompted to review the records from that time 
because the GP had highlighted possible relevant information that it hadnt been aware of. 
So I dont believe L&G acted unfairly on receipt of the information or by sending a targeted 
report to the GP. The report was constrained to asking for evidence relevant to Miss Bs 
cancer diagnosis. It didnt ask for her entire medical records and this was the correct 
approach. I say this noting that the guidance on misrepresentation issued by the ABI says 
that insurers should only ask for sufficient information needed to assess the claim. 
I know Miss B has said that if she had gone on to be diagnosed with a different type of 
cancer then L&G would not have been prompted to consider any misrepresentation. But I dont believe thats relevant here  Miss B sadly suffered with breast cancer and L&G was 
entitled to ask about her medical history of linked conditions, if any such conditions existed.  
So, it falls to me to look at what Miss B was asked in 2017, and to determine if I think she 
made a misrepresentation or not. Miss B was asked:
Apart from anything youve already told us about in this application, during the last 5 
years have you seen a doctor, nurse or other health professional for:
a growth, lump, polyp or tumour of any kind?
Miss B answered no to this question. I recognise that the question went on to list many 
other bullet points of types of symptoms an applicant may have seen a GP for  and on the 
very next bullet point (mole or freckle) Miss B made a disclosure about mole removal.  
However, I believe that supports that Miss B understood the question put to her. And in my 
view, the question is clear. Miss Bs medical records from 24 March 2014 says:
Mastodynia - pain in breast right side - generally fibrocystic but small nodule right 
breast < 0.5 cm, both breasts no lumps felt, both axillae NAD, right more cystic than 
left - refer clinic for reassurance - will keep diary of pain and period cycle.
The clinic letter from Dr R, a specialist Breast Surgeon also recounts the same background, 
noting this lady for the past four to five weeks has been aware of a lump to the lateral 
aspect of her right breast.. no palpable breast lumps were felt in either side. She in fact 
has a small lymph node in the lower right axilla which corresponds to the area of her 
concerns. 
I recognise that it was more than two years previously, but Miss B had seen her doctor for a 
lump  of unknown origin  and in my view, she should reasonably have recalled that when 
completing the application. Miss B completed an online review of her answers on 24 January 
2017 and she had the opportunity to reflect on them, if any answer required amendment.  
That Miss B didnt have a breast lump of benign or malignant origin isnt in dispute. I can see 
she was reassured by Dr R and discharged accordingly. But I need to look at what Miss B 
was asked objectively. She was required to answer a clear and unambiguous question about 
seeing a medical professional regarding any lump, growth, polyp or tumour. 
In March 2014, she reported to the GP with a lump  and so she should have answered 
yes.  Notwithstanding the conclusions of Dr R at the appointment of 28 April 2014, Miss B 
experienced a lump for which she quite reasonably felt it was appropriate to seek medical 
assistance from appropriate health professionals. L&G needed to know about that.    
I therefore believe there was a misrepresentation. It was a qualifying misrepresentation 
because it would have made a difference as to the terms L&G could have offered, had the 
question been answered positively at the time (and a number of subset questions 
completed). Once thats been established, relevant law on disclosure in consumer insurance 
contracts says that it should be classed as deliberate/reckless or otherwise as careless. 
I appreciate the mitigating points Miss B has put forward about her lymphadenopathy 
diagnosis meaning she simply didnt recall the issue and I accept that she did not intend to 
deceive L&G. But, for the reasons Ive set out, she needed to show more care in answering 
the question put to her - rather than substituting her own view for what was relevant to 
disclose. L&G made this clear on the application when it set out that when answering the 
following questions, if youre unsure whether to tell us about a medical condition please tell us anyway. It did this as it will decide what information it requires to make a decision on 
accepting cover and on what terms.  
I accept that Miss Bs actions were likely an oversight and not her acting deliberately or 
recklessly. I therefore agree with L&G that the right categorisation for this is careless.
In the event of careless misrepresentation, an insurer should consider a proportionate 
remedy. This means the outcome will depend on what the underwriting decision would have 
been had the misrepresentation not occurred at the time. If insurance could have been 
offered under different terms or for a different cost, an insurer can amend the contract to 
reflect this, paying a proportionate remedy if there is evidence of a valid critical illness claim. 
If it could not have offered cover at all, the insurer can void the policy (for the policyholder 
who has misrepresented) and return the premiums he or she paid from the outset.
So, L&G hasnt had the opportunity to underwrite the policy as it would have if it had known 
the full facts of Miss Bs medical circumstances. It is therefore fair and in accordance with 
the relevant law, guidance, and the policy terms for L&G to amend the policy proportionately 
now. That means I cant ask it to pay Miss Bs claim in full, because L&G would not have 
been in a position to provide her critical illness benefit on standard terms in 2014.
I know Miss B doubts the veracity of L&Gs retrospective underwriting and seeks to question 
why ratings apply for enlarged lymph nodes. However, I have seen the underwriting guide 
that L&G uses for lymphadenopathy and the associated ratings that are applied based on 
applying a list of defined characteristics to the circumstances disclosed by the applicant (or 
from their medical information)  in this case, the findings by the Breast Surgeon. 
In Miss Bs case, L&G would have applied the lowest risk rating possible (of +50) to the 
critical illness cover based on several variables. L&Gs underwriting manuals are 
commercially sensitive, and I cant set them out in full here; but I am satisfied that the 
evidence I have seen supports the rating retrospectively applied by its underwriters. 
The code issued by the ABI on misrepresentation and managing claims says that an insurer 
must apply a proportionate remedy in cases of misrepresentation. It explains that, where the 
insurer would have offered the same cover but charged the customer a higher premium, the 
insurer will pay the claim in proportion to the premium that was actually charged. 
L&G has demonstrated that a person with Miss Bs lymphadenopathy presentation would 
have a +50 rating on the cost of the critical illness portion of the policy premium because of 
the extra risk of providing insurance. That measure is a choice for L&G to make. It is not the 
role of this service to decide whether a business must accept insurance risk; an insurer will 
determine if it can offer cover at an agreed cost for defined circumstances, taking into 
account the specific details upon receipt of an application. L&G has done so retrospectively.
If L&G had known in 2017 of the GP and breast clinic appointments leading to her enlarged 
axillary lymph node diagnosis, Miss B would have paid (if she wished to) an increased 
premium. However, it was not aware and so it follows that in reducing the claim payment 
proportionately to account for the cover that Miss Bs premium actually purchased, L&G has 
complied with the relevant law and guidance following a misrepresentation. It is not required 
to pay the full claim payment - the premiums paid by Miss B provided a lower amount of 
critical illness cover when the +50 rating is applied, so a partial claim was paid.
Turning to the other aspect of Miss Bs complaint, I am also of the view that L&G should not 
be required to do anything further. From August 2021 onwards, L&G unreasonably 
prolonged Miss Bs claim and provided a substandard customer service when she called it 
periodically for updates. At that time, it was reviewing possible misrepresentation based on the GP report, which is why Miss B was called in August 2021 and asked further questions.  
Nonetheless, the need for a review regarding misrepresentation was not made clear to Miss 
B; she only discovered the impact of relevant insurance law on her claim value after she was 
called by L&G on 8 October 2021. I agree that compensation was due for those errors.   
What this service does is consider if a business has treated a customer unfairly because of 
actions or inactions. And if it has done so, we then go on to consider what ought to be done 
to put the mistake(s) right. In this case, that was to pay Miss B the correct claim value, and 
to compensate her for the poor customer service.  
I note that L&G returned additional premiums to Miss B as well as backdating her claim 
payment to 8 July 2021  meaning she was paid a further interest payment to account for 
her funds being withheld from that date. That ensured Miss B suffered no financial loss. 
As well as putting right any financial losses in a complaint (though there are none in this 
circumstance), we also consider the emotional or practical impact of any errors on a 
complainant. In doing so, we do not fine or punish businesses; we are not a regulator, that 
duty falls to the Financial Conduct Authority.  
It may be helpful for Miss B to review to the guidance available on our website around the 
amounts and types of awards made in instances of upset, trouble, inconvenience and 
distress caused by businesses in the complaints we see at this service.  
I have taken into account the impact of the delay, the miscommunication around non-
disclosure in her application and the fact that it took a further seven weeks from the call of 19 
August 2021 to notify Miss B of her claim payment. I believe the payment of £300 was 
reasonable in the circumstances where several instances of unexplained delays and having 
to chase L&G caused considerable upset and anguish for Miss B. 
The further delay to the claim process had a notable short-term impact on Miss B, at a time 
when she was off sick and where L&G hadnt told her the reason why it was looking further 
at the retrospective underwriting. The award of £300 is an amount I believe appropriate for 
combined errors of this nature. I note L&G has already issued this payment to Miss B and I 
therefore do not believe any further compensation is due.  
My final decision
Despite my sympathy for Miss Bs circumstances, my view is that L&G hasnt acted unfairly 
or unreasonably in paying her proportionate claim payment; this is because a qualifying 
misrepresentation occurred when she completed her application for term assurance. 
Nor do I believe that L&G should pay any further compensation regarding the administrative 
errors for which it accepted liability, as these have been fairly compensated already. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss B to accept 
or reject my decision before 1 March 2023.
 
Jo Storey
Ombudsman