DRN-4119343
The complaint
Mrs P complains that PayPal (Europe) Sarl et Cie SCA (PayPal) has treated her unfairly in 
declining her claim under its Buyer Protection policy. 
What happened
Mrs P bought a wooden gazebo from a garden furniture retailer. I shall refer to the third party 
as O. She used her PayPal account to pay for the goods. After taking delivery, the gazebo 
parts were placed in the sun for a few weeks before Mrs Ps husband applied an oil-based 
stain on the wood and erected it. 
Within a few weeks, cracks appeared on one of the four supports, which Mrs P didnt think 
was right. The gazebo came with a warranty so she tried to contact O to see if she could get 
a replacement. 
Mrs P says O wouldnt engage. So, she contacted PayPal to see if she had any recourse 
under its Buyer Protection Policy. 
PayPal raised a claim for goods significantly not as described. But O didnt think it had done 
anything wrong and sent PayPal evidence to support its position. PayPal considered that 
evidence and didnt uphold the claim either and closed it off. It conveyed that in staining the 
wood, the condition of the item had been altered so it didnt think it could do anything to help. 
Mrs P didnt agree with PayPals stance and referred her complaint to us. One of our 
investigators looked into what had happened, but he didnt uphold the complaint. In 
summary, he found the following:
- O had informed C as part of its important information that the goods shouldnt be 
treated for the first six months. But Mrs P had told PayPal she had treated the goods. 
In doing so she had altered the original state of the item. So, he understood why O 
would have informed PayPal it wouldnt accept a return to trigger a refund or other 
remedy. 
- O said cracks and splits were characteristics of this type of wood. So, he didnt 
consider the items was not as had been described.
In conclusion, the investigator didnt think PayPal needed to do anything to put things right. 
Mrs P didnt agree. She explained that they had always applied an oil-based stain to garden 
furniture to prolong the life of the wood. She questioned the wood splitting as soon as it did 
given that it had purportedly been treated and preserved. And she queried the point of the 
warranty. 
The complaint has been passed to me to review. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im not upholding the complaint. I realise Mrs P will be disappointed by my 
decision, so Id like to set out my reasons:
- PayPal offers buyers protection on purchases under its Buyers Protection program.  
There are two main grounds for doing so. One applies to where goods arent 
received and the other is where the goods are significantly not as described. Here 
PayPal correctly raised the claim under the second of these reasons. 
- Ive gone onto consider were the goods not as theyd been described? In answering 
this question Ive looked at the evidence objectively to see if PayPal came to a fair 
outcome. This includes considering information that O provides on its website. Under 
characteristics of the timber O stipulates that cracks and splits are to be expected in 
the type of timber due to changing temperatures and humidity. I havent seen 
anything else provided by the seller to contradict this. In the circumstances, I cant 
reasonably conclude the timber was significantly different to the description given. 
- PayPals Buyer Protection Policy says that its not enough that the product doesnt 
meet a customers expectation to meet a claim for significantly not as described. Or 
where certain characteristics were correctly described. I understand theres a further 
factor here in that the wood was treated with the oil-stain before its recommended. 
Whilst I appreciate this is something Mrs P has always arranged to have done, it is 
the case that the goods have been altered from their original state, which O 
specifically advises against.
- Mrs P has referenced the warranty she obtained when she bought the gazebo. I 
understand her reasons for raising this. But I must explain that my review is limited to 
whether PayPal handled her claim fairly under its Buyer Protection Policy. Integral to 
this is whether the goods were not significantly as described. And given this and my 
findings I dont consider the value of the warranty has a bearing here.  
Weighing all of these factors up, I dont find PayPal acted unfairly when it assessed Mrs Ps 
claim and didnt uphold it. This doesnt mean Mrs P might not have other avenues of 
recourse against O but in terms of the complaint shes asked us to consider against PayPal, 
Im afraid theres nothing more we can do to help.  
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs P to accept or 
reject my decision before 4 October 2023.
 
Sarita Taylor
Ombudsman