DRN-3083337
The complaint
Mr J has complained that Markerstudy Insurance Company Limited (Markerstudy) 
undervalued his motorcycle following a theft and subsequent total loss claim. 
What happened
Following the theft, of his motorcycle Mr J submitted a claim on his motorcycle insurance 
policy. After a review, Markerstudy deemed Mr Js motorcycle a total loss and offered him 
£2,884 to settle his claim as it said this represented the market value of his motorcycle.
But Mr J doesnt think this offer is fair and wants Markerstudy to pay what he thinks his 
motorcycle is worth. Mr J says to get a like for like replacement it would cost him a lot more. 
He says the cost to replace this motorcycle is approximately £3,500 and he says hes not 
interested in some arbitrary book value that Markerstudy has decided to use.
An investigator from our service looked at this complaint. The investigator was satisfied the 
valuation placed on the motorcycle by Markerstudy was fair so he didnt recommend that 
Markerstudy should offer any more.
But Mr J doesnt agree, and hes asked for an ombudsman to review the complaint.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im not upholding this complaint. Ill explain why.
Mr J is unhappy with the valuation Markerstudy has placed on his motorcycle. He says that 
he bought this motorcycle in October 2020 for £3,390 with only 2,000 miles on the clock. He 
says the motorcycle was stored in a locked garage and wasnt used during the winter 
months. Mr J has provided a valuation of a similar motorcycle, albeit with lower mileage for 
£3,595. 
Our approach is to consider whether Markerstudy has settled Mr Js claim in line with the 
terms and conditions of his policy, fairly and reasonably. So, Ive considered the terms of the 
policy and the offer made in order to determine whether Markerstudy has acted fairly. I can 
see that in the event the motorcycle cant be repaired, Markerstudy wont pay more than the 
market value of the motorcycle at the time of the loss.
Market Value is defined as The cost of replacing your motorcycle with one of the same 
make, model, specification, mileage and age, and which is in the same condition your 
motorcycle was in immediately before the loss or damage you are claiming for.
Our usual approach to complaints about motorcycle valuations is to look at motor trade 
guides for valuing second-hand motorcycles. We find these guides persuasive because their 
valuations are based on nationwide research and likely selling prices. The guides refer to 
advertised and auction prices to work out what the likely selling price for the same vehicle 
would be. This takes into account all the specifications of the motorcycle as well as any 
extras and the mileage. If any guides price is significantly higher or lower than the others, 
we may think its reasonable to ignore it. 
Consumers sometimes say the amount theyve been paid is unfair because theyve seen 
similar motorcycles advertised at higher prices. And while that is an understandable concern, 
we dont normally place as much weight on adverts to decide whether a valuation is fair, 
because these are asking prices and not selling prices. But adverts can be indicative of 
whats really going on in the market and they can be helpful if the complaint involves a 
classic or rare model or if they strongly indicate that the guides could be wrong. 
Ive checked the motor trade guides for the value of Mr Js motorcycle at the time of the 
incident. I note Markerstudy has used a mileage of 3,000 miles to achieve its valuations. 
Markerstudy says there was no photo of the motorcycle mileage, and this is the mileage 
reported by the engineer. The only mileage provided by Mr J is 2,000. So, Ive run valuations 
using both mileages. These valuations were:
Glasss £2,969 (same for both 2k and 3k miles),
Cazana £2,732 (for 3k miles) and £2,919 (for 2k miles),
CAP £2,650 (3k miles) and £2,675 (2k miles). 
Markerstudy offered £2,884. 
Looking at the valuation from Markerstudy I can see its in the range of valuations provided 
by the trade guides. Sometimes, if two valuations are similar and the third is an outlier, we 
might think its reasonable to ignore any outlying valuation. Or alternatively, we might 
sometimes take the average of all three valuations. 
Theres no clear outlier here, so I think it makes sense to rely on all the guides in this case to 
make sure the valuation is fair. I think its clear that theres minimal difference whatever 
mileage is taken.  And looking at the value Markerstudy have placed on the motorcycle of 
£2,884, Im satisfied its in range and in line with the data provided by the motor trade 
guides. 
I know Mr J doesnt agree with this approach. Hes provided his own supporting 
advertisement and he says he wont accept an arbitrary book value. But these values are not 
arbitrary. As I said above these valuations are based on nationwide research and likely 
selling prices. The guides use algorithms alongside advertised and auction price data to 
work out what the likely selling price for the same motorcycle would be. The guides take into 
account all the specifications of the motorcycle as well as any extras and the mileage. And 
based on everything Ive seen here the valuations being generated by all three guides are 
almost identical. So, I think the values provided by the guides are far from arbitrary. And 
whilst Ive considered Mr Js supporting evidence, I think the values provided by the motor 
trade guides are the most persuasive evidence of the value of this motorcycle. 
Further to this, Id like to stress its not up to this service to place an exact valuation on Mr Js 
motorcycle. Its our role to make sure Markerstudy is giving Mr J the fair market price as set 
out in the policy terms and conditions using a fair and recognised approach. And based on 
the information provided about Mr Js motorcycle and using the trade guides alongside the 
evidence Mr J has submitted, and the approach we use, Im satisfied that the market value 
that Markerstudy has placed on Mr Js motorcycle is fair and reasonable. So, Im not 
upholding this complaint. I also note that there was some confusion about whether Mr J wanted to retain his 
motorcycle. Markerstudy has advised that this wasnt part of the actual complaint that it 
responded to, and Mr J says this is now irrelevant. So, I wont be making a finding in this 
final decision about this aspect of Mr Js complaint.  
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I don't uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr J to accept or 
reject my decision before 17 November 2021.
 
Derek Dunne
Ombudsman