DRN-4281920
The complaint
Miss L says NewDay Ltd, trading as John Lewis Credit Card, unfairly reduced the amount of 
time it gave her to make payments to her credit card account.
What happened
In August 2022 John Lewis wrote to Miss L to tell her it was changing lending partners the 
following October, meaning her original credit agreement and account would close. John 
Lewiss new lending partner, NewDay, wrote to introduce itself to her and set out details 
should she wish to start a new account. 
Miss L agreed to a new account and discovered that, under the new agreement, she needed 
to make the contractual minumum payment within 15 days of receiving her statement. She 
complained that, by the time the statements reached her by post, she had substantially less 
than 15 days in which to pay in-branch, as she preferred to.
NewDay didnt uphold Miss Ls complaint, saying it had set up a new and separate credit 
card account to the one she previously held in accordance with her application. That meant it 
was entitled to change the terms of the account including the payment due date. NewDay 
told Miss L she could amend the payment due date online if she wanted to.
Unhappy with NewDays response, Miss L brought a complaint to this service. She said 
changing the due date as advised wouldnt give her any longer to make the payment. And 
that, in any case, she didnt like to bank online. Our investigator looked into the complaint 
and didnt recommend that it should be upheld. They said NewDay had provided Miss L with 
adequate time to make payments and that it was open for her to set up a direct debit so that 
they could be made automatically. 
As Miss L didnt agree with the investigators findings, the complaint was passed to me to 
review afresh.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I dont uphold this complaint. Ill explain why.
Its not in dispute that the terms of the credit card account have changed since the previous 
lender was providing the credit in relation to Miss Ls account. Miss L feels that the changes 
are less favourable and cause her inconvenience. Im sorry that thats the case.
Nevertheless, I need to determine whether NewDays treated Miss L unfairly. Taking into 
account that Miss L was informed in advance of the changes being made, I dont think it has. 
Despite being made aware of the changes, Miss L chose to proceed with the new account. 
Ive seen a copy of the credit card agreement she signed. I think if she was unhappy, it was 
open for her to decline the new account. She didnt do that and instead decided to go ahead 
with it.
In terms of how the account operates, clearly, its Miss Ls preference to receive statements 
by post. That service is available to her and shes entitled to that preference. But it seems 
thats leading to difficulties in terms of her receiving statements in good time. That Miss Ls 
preference is to receive statements by post rather than, say, email is her choice but I cant 
reasonably hold NewDay for the consequences. Which, in this case, appear to stem from 
third-party postal issues and delays that arent the fault of NewDay.
Overall, I think the suggestions NewDays made, such as setting up a direct debit on the 
account and/or opting to receive statements by email, are reasonable and proportionate 
solutions to the issues Miss Ls raised. As Miss Ls accepted, this service cant dictate to 
NewDay what its operating processes should be. But I do consider that, broadly speaking, 
its treated Miss L fairly in all the circumstances taking account of those processes.
My final decision
For the reasons given, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss L to accept or 
reject my decision before 21 December 2023.
 
Nimish Patel
Ombudsman