DRN-1789577
The complaint
Mrs C complains that Royal Bank of Scotland Plc (RBS) has failed to credit a mortgage tax 
rebate to her account that she was expecting from HMRC.
What happened
Mrs C says that in April 2019 she was told by a member of staff at her local branch that her 
account would be credited with a £20,000 mortgage tax rebate from HMRC.
But she says that despite having chased the payment several times she had not received it. 
Mrs C also says that when she spoke to HMRC about the rebate, it advised her to speak to 
her bank.
RBS looked into Mrs Cs complaint. It said it had no record of any staff member telling Mrs C 
that she would receive a mortgage tax rebate. It explained that if Mrs C was due a rebate 
from HMRC this was something HMRC would arrange, not RBS.
Mrs C wasnt satisfied with RBSs response and asked this service to consider her 
complaint.
Our investigator said he didnt think Mrs Cs complaint could be upheld as he hadnt seen 
anything to show that RBS had done anything wrong. He said if Mrs C was due a tax rebate 
she would need to contact HMRC as any rebate due would be paid by HMRC.
Mrs C wasnt satisfied with our investigators view. She explained that she had been dealing 
with very difficult personal circumstances and said she wanted this service to take action 
against RBS. Mrs C also referred to insurance policies she had held with RBS and said she 
wanted this service to investigate these policies as well.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I am sympathetic to Mrs Cs situation and I am very sorry to hear about the difficulties she 
has faced.
But in order to uphold Mrs Cs complaint I would need to be satisfied that RBS had acted 
incorrectly or done something wrong. Having carefully considered this complaint I dont think 
it has done anything wrong. Ill explain why.
Mrs C says a member of staff in her local branch told her she would receive a £20,000 
mortgage tax rebate. Unfortunately, no-one at the branch is able to recall this conversation. 
But even if I accept that Mrs C was told by RBS that she would receive a rebate from HMRC 
the rebate would need to be agreed and paid by HMRC, not RBS. 
Mrs C hasnt provided us with anything to show that she is due a tax rebate from HMRC. 
And its not clear to me why HMRC has told Mrs C that she is due a £20,000 tax rebate in 
relation to mortgage tax. I would encourage Mrs C to contact HMRC about the rebate she 
believes is due. If a rebate is due HMRC will be able to arrange for this to be paid to Mrs C.
I note that Mrs C has also said she wants this service to look into insurance policies she has 
held with RBS, but Mrs C hasnt provided any details about her concerns. If Mrs C wants to 
complain about insurance policies she has held with RBS, she should let RBS know about 
her concerns so that it can investigate them for her. If it cant resolve her complaint or Mrs C 
isnt happy with its response, she can then bring her complaint to this service.
My final decision
My decision is that, for the reasons I have set out, I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs C to accept or 
reject my decision before 24 December 2020.
 
Suzannah Stuart
Ombudsman