DRN-3794499
The complaint
Ms L says Liverpool Victoria Financial Services Limited (LV) failed to provide her with proper 
information about how it had calculated the value of her Moneybuilder policy when it 
matured. And shes concerned the pay-out offered isnt right and is far below what shed 
been expecting.
What happened
Ms L took out her policy with another provider on 1 April 1986. She paid regular gross 
monthly premiums of £26.25. This provided for a guaranteed cash sum of £13,167 when she 
reached 60. The illustration also suggested that with added bonuses there was the potential 
based on certain assumptions that she could receive around £204,000 at maturity.
Ms Ls policy was taken over by LV. It informed policyholders that after taking over the 
policies of the previous provider there had been a downturn. While guarantees would be 
honoured despite the fall in value of the underlying assets, to protect the solvency of the 
fund and not expose it to unacceptable risk, LV moved assets from equities to fixed interest 
investments. It also decided not to declare any further annual bonuses.
LV wrote to all policyholders in January and July 2004. It explained a separate Terminal 
Bonus Enhancement (TBE) wouldnt be payable as it would be included in any terminal 
bonus and also why they wouldnt pay annual bonuses.
LV sent statements to Ms L in the intervening years. It also responded to an enquiry from her 
about the value of her policy in a letter dated 12 March 2007. This gave maturity projections 
of £27,353 and £37,137 based on assumed rates of growth of 3.5% and 5.5% respectively. 
The letter confirmed figures were only examples and werent guaranteed.
On 3 March 2022, LV wrote to Ms L as her policy was due to mature on 31 March 2022. It 
set out two options for taking the benefits. She could either receive a tax-free lump sum of 
about £40,000 or take an annuity of around £3,250 a year. She received the letter on 24 
March 2022. 
Due to the lower than expected benefits being offered by her policy, Ms L emailed LV on 25 
March 2022 asking for information about how the maturity value was calculated, specifically 
when and which bonuses were added. As she didnt receive a reply, she emailed again on 
29 March 2022 and 5 April 2022. 
Ms L didnt receive a response to her enquiries. So, she wrote a letter to LV setting out her 
complaint and the information she wanted. This was sent by recorded delivery from Australia 
on 20 April 2022. LV issued its final response to her complaint on 3 May 2022. It apologised 
for the lack of response to her emails and provided a breakdown of her maturing policy. It 
also explained about having to remove the bonuses so as not to expose the fund to 
unacceptable risk.
Ms L wasnt satisfied with this response, so she referred her case to this Service. An 
Investigator looked at the available information and in respect of the benefits offered by the 
policy and LVs eventual explanation of these concluded it hadnt done anything wrong. But 
he did think it shouldve responded to her multiple enquiries sooner than it had and so he 
recommended an award for distress and inconvenience of £100.
LV accepted the Investigators view. But Ms L wasnt satisfied. She said LVs 
communications from 2004 onwards had led her to believe the pay-out from her policy would 
be far higher than materialised. For example, she thought it hadnt made the position with 
the terminal bonus and the related enhancement clear. And amongst other matters, she 
reiterated what she said was a failure to provide her with a proper explanation of how her 
benefits had been calculated when asked for such.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Where theres conflicting information about the events complained about and gaps in what 
we know, my role is to weigh the evidence we do have and to decide, on the balance of 
probabilities, whats most likely to have happened.
Ive not provided a detailed response to all the points raised in this case. Thats deliberate; 
ours is an informal service for resolving disputes between financial businesses and their 
customers. While Ive taken into account all submissions, Ive concentrated my findings on 
what I think is relevant and at the heart of this complaint.
Im upholding Ms Ls complaint, but not to the extent shed like. Ill explain why.
The first thing Ive considered is the extensive regulation around transactions like those 
performed by LV for Ms L. The FCA Handbook contains eleven Principles for businesses, 
which it says are fundamental obligations firms must adhere to (PRIN 1.1.2 G in the FCA 
Handbook). These include:
- Principle 2, which requires a firm to conduct its business with due skill, care and 
diligence.
- Principle 6, which requires a firm to pay due regard to the interests of its customers.
- Principle 7, which requires a firm to pay due regard to the information needs of its 
clients, and communicate information to them in a way which is clear, fair and not 
misleading.
So, the Principles are relevant and form part of the regulatory framework that existed at the 
relevant time. They must always be complied with by regulated firms. As such, I need to 
have regard to them in deciding Ms Ls complaint.
Elements of Ms Ls complaint relate to the performance of her policy. Given the illustration 
she was provided at the outset in 1986, which suggested a potential for benefits to be worth 
around £204,000 at maturity, I can understand why she is disappointed with the final value 
delivered in 2022 of about £40,000.
However, her policy also clearly stated that she was only guaranteed a cash sum at maturity 
of just over £13,000. And as Ms L has acknowledged:
I understand that my policy states that bonuses are not guaranteed, and subsequently, due 
to market conditions, LV decided to no longer declare annual bonuses.We wouldnt usually hold providers responsible for investment performance, where these are 
driven by market conditions. LV hasnt treated Ms L differently to its other customers with the 
same product, so I can't say it acted unfairly. 
In making her case, Ms L went on to say:
policyholders were informed by LV that future investment returns would be distributed in 
the form of terminal bonuses. When LV wrote to their policyholders in January 2004 and July 
2004 they said the Terminal Bonus Enhancement (TBE) would be included in the terminal 
bonus. Thus, as per the wording of my original policy, and the actions of LV, I expected my 
terminal bonus to be much higher than has eventuated as it should have contained a TBE.
The letter Ms L was sent by LV in 2004 said:
"As a result of this change, we will no longer pay a separate Terminal Bonus Enhancement. 
Any enhancement payable as part of the distribution of [your policies assets] will now be 
included as part of any terminal bonus that is paid."
So, I think it was clear any further enhancement payable to Ms L would be included as part 
of the terminal bonus. LV has subsequently explained that 50% of the terminal bonus she 
received of £17,500 was for the TBE.
Ms L also said:
I wrote to LV on 26 July 2019 enquiring about the status of my policy as I was aware it 
would be maturing in the coming years. After several emailsI was informed on the 19 
August 2019 that the surrender value was currently 33,215.77 pounds sterlingThis value 
led me to believe that the value of my policy at maturity would be considerably higher than 
that offered as the policy still had years to go and the terminal bonus plus the TBE were still 
to be added.
In responding LV said:
The surrender value given in August 2019 did include the final bonus which included the 
TBE and there is nothing in the letter to suggest that a Final Bonus and TBE would be 
added. All our surrender values include final bonus as they wouldnt be a true surrender 
value if they didnt. I would also add that the policy increased in value by just over 20% 
between August 2019 and maturity date in March 2022 (this represents annual growth 
between these dates of about 8% per annum which is a very good return).
I think theres an argument that the LV communications Ive seen about the surrender value 
for Ms Ls policy couldve been more explicit that these included an element for any terminal 
bonus. But Im also mindful such bonuses weren't guaranteed.
Overall, I think LV has now done enough to explain to Ms L how her benefits have been 
calculated and the circumstances that meant her original expectations for the policy didnt 
materialise. And Ive not seen anything which makes me think it hasnt calculated her 
maturity value incorrectly. I think shes been offered the payment to which she was entitled.
The Investigator concluded that LV shouldve responded to Ms Ls enquiries from March and 
April 2022 more quickly. And that it caused her trouble and upset in not doing so. I see no 
reason to depart from the award of £100 that he recommended for the distress and 
inconvenience it caused her and so I require Liverpool Victoria Financial Services Limited to 
make this payment to her.My final decision
For the reasons Ive already set out, Im upholding Ms Ls complaint but not to the extent 
shed like. I now require Liverpool Victoria Financial Services Limited to put matters right in 
the way Ive directed. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms L to accept or 
reject my decision before 29 May 2023. 
Kevin Williamson
Ombudsman