DRN-2630412
The complaint
Mr and Mrs H have complained about how Liverpool Victoria Insurance Company Limited 
(LV) settled a claim they made on their travel insurance policy after their holiday was 
cancelled.
 
What happened
Mr and Mrs H held a travel insurance policy with LV. They were due to travel to Russia, but 
unfortunately the trip got cancelled.
In order to travel to Russia, Mr and Mrs H needed visas which needed to be collected from 
London. Mr H claimed for the cost of the visa and for the travel expenses involved in getting 
him to and from London. LV agreed to pay for the cost of his visa, but said he wasnt 
covered for the travel to and from London to obtain it. It said his policy covered him for 
unused expenses and considered the travel expenses used.
Mr H didnt think this was fair and complained to us. He thought the travel to and from 
London was all in connection with getting the visa. Hes said he travelled to London for the 
sole purpose of getting his visa and returned home straight after. He thinks these costs 
should be considered together with the visa, which was unused as he was unable to travel.
One of our investigators looked into Mr and Mrs Hs complaint and didnt recommend it be 
upheld. She understood Mr Hs point, but ultimately thought that LV had acted in line with his 
policy when not paying for his travel to and from London to obtain his visa.
Mr H disagreed and asked for an ombudsmans decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im not upholding Mr and Mrs Hs complaint. I understand this wont be the 
answer they were hoping for. Ill explain my reasoning.
Mr and Mrs Hs policy with says if their trip is cancelled before they travel  depending on the 
reason for the cancellation  LV will pay for personal accommodation, transport charges 
and other trip expenses which youve paid or agreed to pay, but have not used.
LV agreed to reimburse Mr H for the cost hed paid for his visa. It considered this to be a trip 
expense which hed paid for, but not used. But it didnt consider the travel to and from 
London to obtain the visa to be a trip expense that was unused. It said he travelled to and 
from London, and used the tickets to do so, so it wasnt an unused expense.
Im satisfied thats reasonable. I appreciate Mr Hs perspective that the costs to get to and 
from London were all solely in connection with his visa, and I also understand hes said in 
order to get the visa he was required to travel to London. I understand why he thinks this 
should be considered together as part of the visa, which was an an unused expense. But 
ultimately, he did use the train tickets.
Therefore, Im satisfied that LV was acting in line with Mr and Mrs Hs policy when declining 
to pay for the cost of Mr Hs train tickets. And I think that outcome is a fair and reasonable 
outcome in the circumstances of this complaint.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H and Mrs H to 
accept or reject my decision before 11 June 2021.
 
Joe Thornley
Ombudsman