DRN-3428028
The complaint
Mr J complains MBNA Limited are holding him liable for transactions made on his credit card
account which he says he didnt make.
What happened
I summarised the facts surrounding Mr Js complaint in my provisional decision. I now repeat 
those same facts for the purposes of issuing this final decision.
Mr J says he and members of his close family have been targeted by fraudsters for a 
while. He runs a property management business and owns a significant number of 
properties. He also says fraudulent companies have been set up in his and his sons 
names; incidents which have been reported to the police.
Mr J disputes making multiple transactions on his credit card. A set of cardholder not 
present payments were made to different merchants, including a restaurant which 
looks to have stopped trading at the time. Mr J told MBNA he didnt make the 
payments and MBNA decided not to hold him liable. They sent him a replacement 
credit card in the post.
Mr J says he was away when the replacement card arrived and one of his sons 
picked up the card and noticed the envelope was slightly damaged and the seal was 
compromised in part. He placed the card in Mr Js study and the card was secured.
Another set of payments was then made using the replacement cards details and 
again, some of the payments were made to the same restaurant. Mr J reported the 
payments to MBNA, but this time they held him liable. They found it was unlikely 
someone could have made the payments using his replacement card without his 
knowledge given the card was securely stored away from other persons.
Mr J reported the payments to the police soon after they happened, and it appears 
the Crown Office and Procurator Fiscal Service (COPFS) is involved and there is an 
active investigation. Other members of Mr Js family have also reported similar 
crimes to the police.
Our investigator decided not to uphold the complaint and Mr J asked for a final decision. I 
considered the complaint and decided to reach a different outcome to that reached by our 
investigator. I provisionally upheld the complaint. My findings were:
Under the Payment Services regulations 2017, a payment services firm, which 
MBNA is, cannot hold their customer liable for payments they didnt consent to. So, 
what I must decide is whether its more or less likely that Mr J consented to the 
payments he disputes making.
Im not persuaded Mr J consented to the disputed transactions made using the 
details on his replacement card. I believe he was not at his home when the card 
arrived  it appears he and his wife were visiting a relative in another part of the 
United Kingdom at that time and he has provided evidence to support this 
conclusion.
One of Mr Js sons, who helps him run his property business, recalls the envelope 
the replacement card arrived in appeared to be slightly damaged and not fully sealed. 
I have thought about this point, and its possible for an envelope to be carefully 
opened and then resealed, and the magnetic strip on a card can also be read using a 
device. So, as none of the payments were Chip and PIN, its plausible the fraud could 
have been carried out this way irrespective of how the card was subsequently stored.
Although Mr J cant explain how his card details were taken, this isnt unusual if 
someone had intercepted the envelope and the card after it was posted. Many 
victims of fraud do not know and cannot explain how a fraud occurred.
Mr J doesnt suspect someone he is close to defrauded him, which is 
understandable, given no-one wants to conclude their trust has been breached in this 
way. But I find its unlikely someone who didnt have some form of access to Mr Js 
property could have stolen the details of the card. I understand Mr J says there is 
sophisticated fraud being perpetrated against him, and this may very well be true, but 
this doesnt mean the fraud was such that the postal service was also compromised. 
I just have not seen persuasive evidence to show the card was likely intercepted 
before it arrived at his address
The person(s) who accessed the details on the replacement card is likely to be the 
same person(s) who carried out the previous disputed payments. I say this because 
its doubtful that two persons who didnt know each would have made payments to 
the same restaurant. Instead, I think its more likely that whoever made the payments 
using the replacement card details would have likely been on the lookout for the 
replacement card to arrive and they would have had the opportunity to intercept it.  
Mr J has indicated his household is active and has regular visitors, so its possible 
there are persons who had the awareness and access to carry out such an 
enterprise.
Mr J says he and his sons have had companies set up in their names without their 
knowledge. To support this, he sent in a copy of a letter which shows one of his sons 
who lives abroad wrote to Companies House about a company set up in their name 
which they said was fraudulent. It appears Companies House then dissolved the 
company shortly after looking into the matter. So, I think there is reason to doubt that 
Mr J or his sons ran other companies that operated in the food industry.
Mr J reported the payments to the police and the allegedly fraudulent companies to 
the police. And based on what I have seen, the police are taking Mr J seriously and 
they are actively investigating. On balance, I find it unlikely Mr J would have reported 
what happened on his credit card as fraud to the police if he had consented to the 
payments. It would be a very risky enterprise to report a fraud he was complicit in, 
not least because he would be jeopardizing his liberty for a sum of money which is 
not considerable given his healthy financial situation, which I havent had cause to 
doubt.Mr J feels MBNA ought not to have processed the disputed payments given the 
previous set of disputed payments he reported, particularly as some of the payments 
were made to the same merchant.
MBNA does have responsibilities to monitor accounts and to try to protect customers
from fraud. And, MBNAs system didnt pick up on the payments to the restaurant
made using the replacement cards details. But I find them sending the replacement
card was a reasonable security measure, and its not evident they should have done
anything further after this point.
I dont find the value of the disputed payments was wholly incomparable with the
sums Mr J sometimes spends on his account, and Ive also borne in mind the card
scheme provider hadnt banned the merchant and the merchant acquirer was
accepting payments. So, on balance, I dont find MBNAs system should have
specifically picked up on the payment requests because of their value, frequency or
because a previous concern had been raised about the payee.
Putting things right
I find that MBNA Limited cannot hold Mr J liable for the payments he disputes making on his
credit card account. So, I provisionally require them to:
Restore Mr Js account to the position it would have been in had the disputed 
transactions not debited the account, removing any interest or charges that were 
applied in relation to the transactions.
MBNA needs to account for any repayments Mr J made towards the disputed 
payments. So, if when reworking the account, the account would have gone into a 
positive balance, they need to refund that amount to Mr J, and add 8% simple 
interest per annum on to it until it is paid to Mr J.
Remove any adverse markers reported to any credit reference agency or other 
agency as a result of the disputed transactions.
Mr J has asked MBNA to refund his legal costs and to pay him compensation for the distress
and inconvenience he has experienced. But I am not going to direct MBNA to do this.
We are a free and informal service and do not have the same procedures or formality of a
court of law. And, we are inquisitorial in approach, so we decide what information we need
from either party to reach a decision we feel is fair. So, although Mr J decided to engage a
professional representative to deal with his complaint, I am not awarding compensation to
reimburse the costs he incurred.
Its not unusual for there to be some level of inconvenience experienced by a complainant.
And, in general, I wouldnt usually place a higher value on one persons time being taken up
in bringing a complaint over another person bringing a complaint. I appreciate that Mr J
leads a busy life, but I dont find this is sufficient reason to conclude he had to engage a
professional representative to bring his complaint to us.
Mr J was unhappy with MBNAs response to his complaint, but I dont find he should be
compensated because of how this made him feel, irrespective of his community standing. Iunderstand why MBNA were concerned about how his replacement card details were
obtained without there being an immediately apparent explanation. I too have had to
consider this aspect of Mr Js complaint carefully when reaching a different outcome to that
of our investigator and MBNA. So, I find it would be unreasonable in these circumstances to
award compensation because MBNA didnt uphold his complaint and because I now am.
Although MBNA have a liability to refund payments a customer didnt make under the PSRs,
they are not responsible for Mr J being a victim of crime or being more widely targeted. That
responsibility lies firmly with the person(s) behind the payments. I understand he has gone
through a very challenging time and he has my sympathy, but I am not going to direct MBNA 
to compensate him for this.
Since my provisional decision, MBNA responded and accepted my findings. Mr J failed to 
respond, and the deadline to respond has passed. As a result, I have now proceeded to 
make a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr J has not provided any further information or points for me to consider. As a result, after 
re-considering all the information and evidence I have, I have decided to uphold this 
complaint for the same reasons I gave in my provisional decision. Those findings are 
repeated above and form part of my final decision.
Putting things right
I have decided that MBNA Limited cannot hold Mr J liable for the payments he disputes 
making on his credit card account. So, I require them to:
Restore Mr Js account to the position it would have been in if the disputed 
transactions hadnt debited the account, removing any interest or charges that were 
applied in relation to the transactions.
MBNA needs to account for any repayments Mr J made towards the disputed 
payments. So, if when reworking the account, the account would have gone into a 
positive balance, they need to refund that amount to Mr J, and add 8% simple 
interest per annum on to it until it is paid to Mr J.
Remove any adverse markers reported to any credit reference agency or other 
agency as a result of the disputed transactions.
My final decision
I have decided to uphold Mr Js complaint and, subject to Mr J accepting the decision within 
the deadline I have given, I direct MBNA Limited to put things right in accordance with the 
directions I have given above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr J to accept or 
reject my decision before 10 May 2022.
 Liam King
Ombudsman