DRN-3705641
The complaint
Ms C complained about esure Insurance Limiteds handling of her claim under her motor 
insurance policy.
What happened
Ms Cs car was parked when it was hit by a stolen car. esure decided that it was 
uneconomical to repair and paid Ms C its market value. But they increased her premium on 
renewal because her claim was still open. They said that was because they hadnt recovered 
their costs from the driver responsible for the accident (the third-party). They wouldnt be 
able to close her claim until they did that. Ms C felt that they took too long to resolve her 
claim and failed to communicate with her about what they were doing.  
The investigator thought that Ms Cs complaint should be upheld in part. She thought it 
wasnt unreasonable for esure to increase Ms Cs premium because of the claim. But she 
thought that esures service had been poor. As that had caused Ms C distress and 
inconvenience, esure should pay her compensation of £250. 
Ms C agreed with this, but esure didnt reply. So Ive been asked to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ms Cs premium increased because the claim was still open. As the investigator explained, 
its standard motor insurance practice for a claim to remain open while the insurer attempts 
to recover their costs from a third party. If the insurer then settles the claim as not being the 
consumers fault, they may agree to recalculate the premium on that basis from the start, 
and refund part of the premium. esure told Ms C that they were willing to do that. 
In the meantime Ms Cs premium went up and her no claims discount (NCD) was affected. 
Ms C said that she felt trapped as she couldnt obtain cheaper alternative insurance while 
the claim was open. 
It appeared that the third-party car had been stolen and had cloned registration plates. 
During our investigation, esure decided to abandon any attempt at recovering their costs. 
This was because they couldnt find out who the third party was, so they had no one to 
recover from. I think that esure could have done more earlier to find out about that, and to 
explain to Ms C what that could mean for her claim and her premium. By then it was over a 
year since the accident, and theyd still kept Ms C in the dark.
As esure couldnt recover their claim costs from any third party, the claim remains a fault 
claim against Ms C, even though she wasnt at fault. This again is standard insurance 
practice and we dont think it is unreasonable as the insurer has incurred unrecoverable 
costs. It does mean that Ms C lost the chance to readjust her premium with esure, but she 
obtained insurance from another provider. 
I think that esure took too long to try to recover their costs from the third party before 
deciding that they couldnt do so. And they didnt keep Ms C informed about it, despite her 
clear requests.  Even when the investigator asked esure what they were doing to resolve it, 
they still didnt reply. Ms C told us that she felt trapped. And its clear that esures delay 
caused Ms C continuing uncertainty and worry. I think that esure acted unreasonably and so 
caused her more distress and inconvenience than necessary.  
Putting things right
I think that esure should pay Ms C compensation of £250 to reflect the impact on Ms C of 
their poor service. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above, the complaint is upheld. 
I require esure Insurance Limited to pay Ms C £250 compensation* for her distress and 
inconvenience.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms C to accept or 
reject my decision before 16 November 2022.
* esure must pay the compensation within 28 days of the date on which we tell them Ms C  
accepts my final decision. If they pay later than this they must also pay interest on the 
compensation from the date of my final decision to the date of payment at 8% a year simple.
 
Rosslyn Scott
Ombudsman
