DRN-3205195
The complaint
Miss A complains that Santander UK Plc declined her request to make a change to her 
mortgage.
What happened
Miss A took out a capital repayment mortgage with Santander in early 2016. The mortgage 
had a fixed rate of interest until April 2021, meaning that if it was repaid prior to that date an 
early repayment charge (ERC) would be applicable.
In September 2020 Miss A contacted Santander and asked to change her mortgage from 
repayment to interest only. She said shed retired sooner than expected and her income had 
decreased. So, she was struggling to afford the monthly repayments. Miss A says her 
intention was to re-mortgage to another lender and take a retirement mortgage. But she 
wanted to avoid paying an ERC so wanted to switch her Santander mortgage to an interest 
only basis, and reduce her repayments, and then re-mortgage once her fixed interest rate 
deal had ended.
Santander declined Miss As application. It said, based on the information shed provided it 
didnt think the mortgage would be affordable after the change was made. It did say it could 
potentially offer temporary concessions around repayments. But Miss A did not want to 
pursue these as they would impact her credit file.
Miss A redeemed her mortgage with Santander in December 2020 and incurred an ERC.
Miss A complained to Santander as she felt its decision was unfair and illogical. She said, if 
she couldnt afford interest only payments, it was unreasonable of Santander to leave her 
mortgage on a repayment basis  with significantly higher monthly repayments.
Santander didnt think it had done anything wrong as it had followed its lending criteria. So, 
Miss A asked our service to consider her complaint. 
One of our Investigators considered the complaint, but she didnt think Santander had made 
an error. She said it had acted correctly when carrying out a full assessment of Miss As 
request, as the change Miss A was looking to make to the mortgage was permanent. And 
she felt this had been declined fairly. She also noted Santander had offered to discuss 
temporary concessions to the mortgage, but Miss A had declined. So overall, she felt 
Santander had acted fairly and didnt think it needed to refund the ERC or take any other 
action.
Miss A did not agree as she still didnt feel Santander had acted fairly. So, she asked for her 
complaint to be reviewed by an ombudsman. As a result, it has been passed to me to 
decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Miss A was applying to permanently amend her mortgage to an interest only basis. Ive 
taken on board what she has said about her intention being to then repay her Santander 
mortgage, after her fixed rate expired, significantly before the end of the mortgage term. But 
the application made was for a permanent change to the basis of the mortgage for the full 
remaining mortgage term. Santander has assessed this as a new application. And in the 
circumstances, I dont think it was wrong to do so.
Santander is entitled to set its own lending criteria  which is based on its interpretation of 
relevant regulations and its own judgement. And this lending criteria isnt something I can 
interfere with or require Santander to change. What I can look at is whether it has applied 
these criteria fairly to Miss As application.
Santander has said, based on the information Miss A provided about her income and 
expenditure, it didnt consider the mortgage repayments she wouldve been required to make 
after the change to be affordable. So, it declined the application. Having reviewed the figures 
provided these do indicate that the new repayments would not have been affordable. So, I 
dont think Santander has acted unfairly when coming to this decision.
Following the Mortgage Market Review (MMR) by the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) 
a series of major changes were introduced, effective since 2014, in the way residential 
mortgages are regulated. These included stricter lending assessments being required 
around affordability. The FCA recognised though that existing borrowers who wanted to 
make changes to their mortgages might have difficulties with these more stringent 
assessments. So, it introduced certain rules, that provided lenders the option, but not the 
obligation, to set aside these stricter affordability assessments in certain circumstances. With 
this in mind, Ive thought about whether Miss As application was one where Santander, 
under the rules Ive mentioned, couldve set aside its assessment of affordability. But Im 
satisfied it wasnt. 
So, as Santander appears to have correctly applied its lending criteria, in line with how it 
would assess any other application, I think it has treated Miss A fairly. And as I think it 
reached a reasonable decision based on the information provided to it, I dont think it has 
made an error in declining Miss As application on the grounds of affordability. 
Miss A has said that by not allowing the change to the mortgage Santander left her with a 
mortgage where the repayments were actually higher than they wouldve been following the 
change she requested. So, she didnt think Santander was being reasonable. 
I agree the repayments under her existing mortgage, which was agreed in 2016 when 
Miss As circumstances were different, were higher than what she applied to change to, due 
to the existing mortgage being on a repayment basis. But for the reasons Ive explained, I 
dont think Santander was wrong to decline her application  which involved a permanent 
amendment to her mortgage, effectively creating a new agreement  as this didnt meet 
Santanders criteria.
I wouldve expected Santander, based on what Miss A had told it, to look at what it could do 
to assist her. And it appears Santander was willing to try to do so. It said it could look at what 
concessions it could potentially make in respect of the original agreement to help Miss A, as 
the change to her income meant the repayments were potentially unaffordable. And it 
offered to put her in touch with the relevant department to discuss this. But Miss A declined 
to do so as she didnt want to impact her credit file. 
Im satisfied then that Santander has done what Id have expected  as it was willing to look at a way to assist. I understand Miss A not wanting to impact her credit file. But I dont think 
itd be fair for me to say that Santander had to offer a temporary amendment to the existing 
mortgage without reporting this arrangement to credit reference agencies. And as Ive 
already explained, I dont think it acted unfairly by declining the application for a permanent 
change. So overall, Im satisfied that Santander has not treated Miss A unfairly.
Miss A is unhappy that she has incurred an ERC as she redeemed her mortgage early, 
because Santander declined her application. The ERC was applied in line with the 
conditions of the mortgage Miss A entered into in 2016. And because I dont think Santander 
has made an error in how it handled matters, I cant reasonably say that this fee should be 
refunded.
My final decision
For the reasons explained above, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss A to accept 
or reject my decision before 25 February 2022.
 
Ben Stoker
Ombudsman