DRN-2768628
The complaint
Mr and Mrs B are unhappy with how Family Equity Plan Limited handled the transfer of their 
Individual Savings Accounts (ISAs).
What happened
Mr and Mrs B both held ISAs with the Post Office which were managed by Family Equity 
Plan Limited. 
In July 2020 Family Equity received transfer requests for both Mr and Mrs B which they 
actioned. After this was done Mr and Mrs B complained saying that all of their ISA accounts 
had been transferred when they only wanted to transfer the accounts which had recently 
matured. This meant Mr and Mrs B had both incurred penalty charges on some of their 
accounts. 
Family Equity looked into what happened. They said that the transfer request they received 
from the new ISA manager asked to transfer the full balance of all of their accounts, and this 
also confirmed that Mr and Mrs B were ok to incur any penalty charges. 
Mr and Mrs B remained unhappy about the transparency of what happened and brought 
their complaint to our service where one of our investigators looked into things. They thought 
the terms and conditions were clear about how the ISAs worked and didnt think that Family 
Equity acted unfairly when transferring all of the ISA accounts. Mr and Mrs B disagreed so 
the complaint has come to me for a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The ISA products offered by Family Equity work within an ISA wrapper. This means there is 
one ISA wrapper number which then has individual sub accounts allowing for different types 
of products within the wrapper. Mr and Mrs B both had three individual sub accounts, with 
different products, within their wrappers. When one of the sub account products matured 
they only wanted to transfer that one individual sub account. But what happened was that 
the ISA wrapper was transferred in its entirety with all the sub accounts, including those 
products with a fixed term which hadnt yet matured. Mr and Mrs B say they dont feel the 
way the ISA worked was made clear.
Ive looked at the Key Information Pack for the ISA which, on page 2, says:
The Online ISA is a cash ISA that allows you to split your savings between a selection of 
variable and fixed rate products. You will only have one Online ISA with us, but can open 
multiple products in your account.
It also gives an example of how the ISA might work with several different products, or sub 
accounts. 
When talking about transfers the key features document says You will not be able to transfer 
out individual products in your account and it also confirms that partial transfers are not 
permitted. 
The key features document also says If you decide to transfer your online ISA while you 
have a Fixed Rate Product in a fixed term, a Breakage Charge will be applied. 
Mr and Mrs B feel that Family Equity havent behaved ethically and that how the product 
works has been hidden in the small print. However having looked at all of the product 
literature, as well as considering how the ISA is shown when viewed online, Im satisfied the 
features of the product, and how it works, are made clear.
Ive looked at the transfer requests received from the new ISA manager. Both transfer 
requests were sent electronically and both quoted the ISA wrapper numbers. The requests 
also confirm that Mr and Mrs B have chosen not to wait for the full notice period. So Im 
satisfied that Family Equity processed the transfers as they were asked. 
Ive also considered the messages sent to Mr and Mrs B about the maturing products they 
wanted to transfer. Whilst including the ISA wrapper number at the top of the messages, 
they make specific reference to the sub account product numbers relating to the accounts 
that were maturing. So I think Family Equity made clear which particular product the 
messages were referring to. 
Mr and Mrs B raise concerns about how the ISA works and the options they had when the 
sub account products matured. I can see why they are unhappy with the options they had at 
the time. However I think Family Equity made sufficiently clear in the literature how the 
product works. So it was up to Mr and Mrs B to decide whether it met their needs.
Having carefully considered everything that happened Im satisfied Family Equity made clear 
how the ISAs worked, and that they processed the transfer requests in accordance with the 
instructions they were given. Thats not say that Mr and Mrs B havent been affected by what 
happened; its clear they have. But that seems to have come about from a misunderstanding 
about how the product works rather than any errors by Family Equity. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained above, my decision is that I do not uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B and Mrs B to 
accept or reject my decision before 6 July 2021. 
Warren Wilson
Ombudsman