DRN-3604440
The complaint
Ms W is unhappy Clydesdale Bank Plc, trading as Virgin Money, let her open a second 
credit card and request a balance transfer from her existing credit card when this wasnt in 
fact possible. 
What happened
In January 2021 Ms W applied for a new card as she wanted to transfer her balance from 
her existing card before the promotional interest rate ended. She requested the balance 
transfer as part of the application and received email confirmation the following day. She 
says she called Virgin Money in October 2021 to ask when the promotional rate on her 
second card was ending. She says it was only then that she discovered no transfer had 
happened. She says Virgin Money told her that balances could not be transferred from one 
Virgin Money card to another so her balance had remained on her existing card. It said this 
restriction on balance transfers was made clear in a pop-up window during the application 
process and elsewhere and in the Q+A section on its website.
Ms W says she should never have been sent the email confirmation and Virgin Money ought 
to have contacted her to let her know she could not transfer the balance. She says she saw 
no pop-up window alerting her to the restriction during the application process and that if 
there was a pop-up window this isnt a clear way to alert applicants, and that it discriminates 
against neurodivergent applicants. Ms W says she would never have gone ahead and 
applied had she been alerted to the restriction and had no reason to look in the Q+A section 
of Virgin Moneys website.
She wants Virgin Money to refund all interest accrued on her initial card since the 
promotional offer ended and to be able to transfer the capital to another card issuer. She 
would also like compensation for the worry and inconvenience.
Our investigator issued two assessments. She said it was made clear at the point of 
application that balances could not be transferred from any other cards issued by Virgin 
Money.  And this is also set out in the terms and conditions of Virgin Moneys credit card 
accounts. She said the bank recognised the confirmation email it sent was misleading and 
for this it had paid Ms W £50 compensation which she felt was fair. 
Finally, she explained that Ms W would need to arrange a balance transfer with a new 
provider, this was not something Virgin Money could initiate.  Ms W responded saying, in 
summary, Virgin Money should have better processes to prevent account holders going 
through an experience such as hers. The investigator then revised her view to recognise the 
confusion and worry Virgin Moneys poor communication had caused Ms W. She 
recommended it pay Ms W a further £150 compensation, and the bank agreed. 
Unhappy with this assessment, Ms W asked for an ombudsmans review. She said £150 
does not recognise the financial impact this has had on her  she has paid over £800 in 
interest as a result of Virgin Moneys failings. It must refund all interest charged since 20 
January 2021 when she tried to transfer her balance to the new card. And she asks for an 
apology to acknowledge the harm this has caused her.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I am upholding Ms Ws complaint in part. I would first say this is a finely 
balanced case as there are things Virgin Money could have done better, but equally I have 
to take into account that it was some nine months before Ms W realised the balance transfer 
had not successfully completed. Despite, for example, receiving statements in the meantime 
for her existing account that showed the balance hadnt transferred and despite Virgin 
Money continuing to charge her interest every month.
I am satisfied that Virgin Money set out that balances cannot be transferred between its 
products. It did this in the terms of Ms Ws initial account, and there was an information box 
that appeared in the balance transfer section during the application process for the second 
card. It is also explained in the Q+As on its website although I find this is less helpful as its 
not an integral part of the card application process.
Ms W is not sure if the information box is the pop up she saw as she hasnt been able to 
locate a certain screenshot she took. But if it was, she still has concerns about how that box 
presented the restrictions. She says it should have been on the main page, and in bold using 
bullet points  not hidden, and in brackets using a smaller font. I do take on board Ms Ws 
comments that there are ways the information could have been better presented and made 
more accessible for all accountholders. But I cant fairly find Virgin Money neglected to tell its 
applicants about the BT restrictions. 
Ms W also explained how she found it unhelpful that she was able to enter the card number 
for her existing product as part of the process and feels the application system should not 
allow this. The bank explained this is because the balance transfer process does not start 
until the application is accepted and transferred to its live system. That is its process. I 
anticipate this will frustrate Ms W, but our role is to decide if, in the individual circumstances 
of each case, the bank made a mistake and if so how it should put right any detrimental 
impact  rather than to review the banks processes or systems.
With regards the confirmation email Ms W received that shed successfully transferred her 
balance, Virgin Money explained that this would have listed all successful balance transfers 
after explaining the transfer had been successful and that Ms Ws email didnt list any 
successful transfers  just said that the transfer had been successful -  because there were 
no successful balance transfers meaning that section of the email was blank. But it accepts 
this could be misleading  and I agree. However, it has compensated Ms W for the 
confusion this caused her.
In these circumstances I dont think it would be fair to instruct Virgin Money to refund all 
interest charged from the date of Ms Ws attempted balance transfer. The bank has acted in 
line with the terms of its products. And I have to consider that whilst Virgin Moneys initial 
communications werent perfect, Ms W continued make her monthly repayments on her 
existing card for over nine months before discovering the balance transfer had not gone 
ahead. An account holder has a responsibility to check their statement each month (clause 
8.2 in the terms and conditions). I am aware Ms W paid by direct debit but that does not 
change this obligation not least because she should have also seen the money to pay the 
interest charges leaving her current account. So I think there were things Ms W should have 
done which would have alerted her to the status of the requested balance transfer and could 
have minimised the interest costs on her existing card.
I do see though that the confusing email and lack of proactive contact from the bank after she applied for the balance transfer were part of the cause of the avoidable worry and 
confusion for Ms W when she spoke to the bank in October. In her circumstances I find that 
the recommended additional £150 compensation is fair. Virgin Money has already 
apologised to Ms W for the misleading email. 
Ms W also raised the issue of discrimination. In terms of discrimination, it is for the Courts to
determine if a business has acted unlawfully. Our role is to decide whats fair and reasonable
in all the circumstances of each particular case. In reaching that decision, we will consider
various factors including relevant law and what we see as good industry practice from the
time.
So although its for the Courts to say whether or not Virgin Money has breached the Equality 
Act 2010, Im required to take it into account, if its relevant, amongst other things when 
deciding what is fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I did so as part of my review of this case. But for the reason Ive set out above, from what I 
have seen I dont think that Virgin Moneys actions were, in the round, unfair.
 
Putting things right
Virgin Money must pay Ms W £150 compensation.
My final decision
I am upholding Ms Ws complaint in part. Clydesdale Bank Plc, trading as Virgin Money, 
must put things right as set out above 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms W to accept or 
reject my decision before 18 October 2022.
 
Rebecca Connelley
Ombudsman