DRN-2747709
The complaint
Mr C complains that British Gas Insurance Limited (BG) have treated him unreasonably by
not providing the services he paid for as part of his Homecare policy.
What happened
Mr C had an existing HomeCare Four policy with BG which hed had for several years. It
provided cover for his boiler and central heating - including an annual service - plumbing,
drains, home electrics and kitchen appliances.
In May 2018, BG attended Mr Cs property to carry out their annual boiler service. In May
2019, Mr C arranged for the BG engineer to undertake the next annual service, however BG
cancelled the agreed appointment. BG then offered Mr C alternative dates but as these were
over a month later and Mr C was unable to rebook due to his flexible work schedule.
Then in December 2019, Mr C needed to use the policy as his cooker had broken. He tried
to arrange an appointment for a BG engineer but was unhappy with the appointment he was
offered. So Mr C complained and was given an appointment in the next 48 hours.
On the day of the appointment, Mr C had been given a morning slot for the engineer to
arrive, however in the middle of the agreed slot BG cancelled the appointment.
Mr C was very unhappy as hed taken holiday to be available for the appointment. He also
felt that the call handlers hed spoken to at BG had been unhelpful, so he made a complaint.
Mr C also purchased a new oven from an online retailer as he didnt want to be without one
for the Christmas period, and cancelled his policy with BG. Shortly after this he received a
cheque from them for around £80, which they said was the outstanding credit on the
account.
When BG didnt respond to his complaint, Mr C asked this service to look into it. He said that
he wanted a refund of his premiums as he felt the service, hed received from BG was so
bad that hed been mis-sold the policy and he felt they should contribute to the cost of the
replacement oven.
Our investigator recommended the complaint was upheld in part. He thought that BG had
acted in line with their terms when they didnt chance Mr C after three failed attempts for the
service appointment. He also said that there wasnt a timescale for booking appointments,
and that it was reasonable for BG to prioritise vulnerable consumers and that Mr C couldve
booked an appointment himself and rearranged it without charge if he couldnt attend.
However, he thought BG had treated Mr C unfairly by cancelling appointments at late notice
as Mr C had taken time off work for these. So he thought BG should pay Mr C £100
compensation for the inconvenience.
BG agreed but Mr C didnt. He felt his complaint still hadnt been resolved and didnt think it
was fair that BG had continually increased his premiums whilst reducing the level of service.
So he asked for an ombudsman to look into his complaint.
I issued a provisional decision on 12 March 2021. I said the following: 
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. 
Having done so, Ive decided to uphold it. Ill explain why.
Poor service/ increased premiums
Mr C told us that he felt his policy had been mis-sold because the service that hed received
from BG had been so poor and he hadnt received what hed actually paid for under his
policy. I recognise that Mr C feels frustrated because he wasnt able to benefit from his
policy when he wanted to use it - but I dont think this means that the policy was mis-sold. I
say this because Mr C would have been able to benefit from the policy had BG been able to
attend his property as agreed.
Mr C has made it clear when speaking to us that he felt frustrated with the level of premiums
hes paid for what he felt was a decreasing level of service. However I can see that on
Mr Cs renewal documents it says You have been with us for a number of years. You may
be able to get the insurance cover you want at a better price if you shop around. So, I think
that the renewal documents explained that Mr C might be able to get a better deal by
shopping around if he was unhappy so I cant say BG acted unreasonably here. But what I
will be considering is the impact on Mr C from what he feels was the poor level of service BG
provided over the last year.
Annual service
Ive seen that Mr C booked his annual service appointment in May 2019 and that due to
unforeseen circumstances BG cancelled the appointment on the day. I recognise that this
was frustrating for Mr C as hed taken time off to attend the appointment, and that he told us
it was difficult for him to rebook the appointment because of BGs future availability. I also
acknowledge that Mr C said he found the BG booking system unhelpful.
Ive looked at the terms and conditions of the policy which say that the annual service is a
check each year to ensure your gas boiler, appliance or central heating is safe and working
properly So whilst I acknowledge Mr Cs comments about his last service being in May
2018, I cant say that BG needed to do the annual service exactly twelve months later.
I also recognise Mr C said that he wasnt able to rebook his appointment due to the nature of
his job and BGs availability being around a month in advance - which he felt was
unreasonable. But I dont agree as I dont think four to six weeks is an unreasonable
timeframe for booking a non-emergency regular service.
I acknowledge Mr Cs frustration about BG cancelling his appointment on the same day, but I
dont think its unreasonable that at times of high demand British Gas may need to rearrange 
an annual service so they can prioritise the repair of broken-down boilers. And although I 
recognise Mr C said he found booking online challenging, its possible this was because 
there were limited appointments for the times, he wanted and other customers were also 
trying to book at the same time. I say this because Ive seen that some appointments were 
appearing as booked but not confirmed with BG on their system. So I dont think its
unreasonable these were offered to other customers at that time.
As BG offer both online and telephone booking for appointments, I think Mr C could have
rebooked at a time that was more convenient for him. I acknowledge what Mr C has said
about the restrictions of this because of his job, but I dont think its fair to hold BGresponsible for this as it wouldnt be reasonable to expect them to prioritise customers on
this basis. And even if Mr C had been offered an appointment sooner, there was no
guarantee that he would have been able to attend this due to the same restrictions.
Looking at the terms and conditions, it does say that When your annual service is due, well
send you an email, letter, text message or call you to arrange it. Well try to get hold of you
up to three times. If we dont hear back from you, we wont make another attempt, but you
can contact us at any time to arrange your annual service. And Ive seen that BG already
contacted Mr C in January 2020 to acknowledge that they hadnt sent him a reminder in
2019 to rebook his annual service. So they offered him a free service for his boiler at any
time in 2020 even though hed cancelled his policy. So I think BG have done enough with
this part of the complaint to put things right.
Oven repair
Mr C has told us that his oven needed repairing so he tried to book an engineer online, but
the available appointments were too far away. After calling BG to complain, Mr C was given
an appointment within 48 hours. However, on the morning of the visit, BG called to cancel
the appointment as they needed to prioritise vulnerable consumers.
Mr C said he was then told it would be around six weeks to get an engineer to look at his
oven which he didnt think was reasonable. He also said he felt he shouldve been prioritised
for a follow up appointment as his original appointment had been cancelled by BG.
Ive looked at the HomeCare terms and conditions which say, Well carry out any repairs or
visits youre entitled to within a reasonable time, unless something beyond our control makes
that impossible - in which case well let you know as soon as possible and give you another
time when we can visit. I acknowledge Mr Cs frustration that his appointment was cancelled 
at such short notice. But I have to be reasonable to BG here, as there will be times this may 
happen due to circumstances outside of their control - and they do make it clear that this is a 
possibility. So, I cant say BG treated Mr C unfairly by actually cancelling the appointment.
However, I asked BG to confirm what they felt was a reasonable timescale to carry out a
repair - as six weeks doesnt feel fair to be without an appliance as important as a cooker. I
asked them to confirm if they have any contingency processes in place for dealing with busy
periods where they identify they cant meet a reasonable timescale. I also asked whether
they could have suggested Mr C source his own engineer and then offer to reimburse him,
given these circumstances were outside his control - but they didnt respond to any of my
questions.
So, based on what Ive seen, I dont think the six-week timescale offered for a future
appointment was fair given Mr Cs appointment cancellation was outside his control. And if
BG werent able to attend due to experiencing high volumes of vulnerable consumers, I think
its reasonable that they could have offered Mr C an alternative option - which I cant see
they did. Furthermore, as BG havent said how they prioritise engineer visits, Im not able to
confirm that they met their own terms and conditions regarding reasonable timescales. So, I
dont think BG treated Mr C fairly after theyd cancelled his oven repair appointment.
Ive looked at terms and conditions which say If we can't repair an appliance that's less than
three years old or it's not economic to do so, we'll contribute the full cost of replacing it with a
similar model. If it's more than three years old, we'll contribute 30% towards a similar model.
Mr C told us that because hed had cover with BG for around 20 years, he didnt know any
engineers that he could call upon to look at the oven. He also said that although he took out
a replacement cover with another provider on the same day as cancelling the policy with BG,
there was a 14-day cooling off period - so he wasnt able to use this policy either.He also said because the breakdown happened in December, he didnt want to risk waiting
for an engineer visit and the oven being beyond economical repair and not having one for
the Christmas period. So Ive thought about whether it was reasonable for Mr C to make this
decision, and under the circumstances I think it was.
I say this because as Mr C mentioned, there was no guarantee the oven could have been
repaired or whether it was actually possible to get an appointment within the next couple of
weeks - given the month the breakdown occurred. So I think Mr C did the best he could to
mitigate the costs hed incur but was really limited by the options available.
Mr C has told us that his oven was around nine years old, so I think its possible BG may not
have been able to repair it on this occasion. As BG cancelled the repair appointment and
couldnt attend for around six weeks, Im unable to confirm this. However, I think based on
how long Mr C had his policy with BG, if the appointment had been rebooked within a
reasonable timescale, he wouldnt have cancelled the policy.
This means that at some point, BG would more than likely have been liable to cover a
portion of the cost of a replacement oven. So based on the evidence Ive seen and the
circumstances of the complaint I think it would be fair for BG to pay the 30% contribution
detailed in the terms and conditions towards a new oven - as it was BGs level of service that
meant Mr C was left with limited options.
Putting things right
Mr C told us that throughout the time he had his 2019 policy with BG he didnt receive the
level of service he paid for, which caused him distress and inconvenience. Mr C also said he
had appointments cancelled on the day after taking time off work for the engineers to attend
- meaning he wasnt able to have his boiler serviced or oven repaired.
He also wasnt offered any alternatives by BG to help resolve this issue whilst they were
unable to attend. This meant Mr C felt he had no alternative but to purchase a new oven, so
he was able to feed his family over the winter period at a cost of £1,099. As Mr C had
appliance cover with BG that agrees a contribution of 30% to appliances over 3 years old, I
think BG should pay £329.70 towards the cost of the new oven.
I acknowledge that Mr C feels strongly about this, but I cant reasonably say the policy was
mis-sold so I wont be asking BG to refund Mr Cs premiums - which I realise isnt the
outcome he was hoping for.
However, having reviewed his complaint in full, I cant reasonably say that BG provided the
level of service that Mr C would have expected, and I also havent been able to say they met
their obligations for reasonable timescales. So, given the circumstances of the complaint, I
think BG should pay Mr C a total of £150 for the trouble and upset caused by cancelling his
appointments at short notice and not being able to provide alternative appointments or
options in a reasonable manner.
I invited Mr C and BG to give me any more evidence and information they wanted me to 
consider before issuing my final decision. BG accepted my provisional decision. But Mr C 
didnt respond to say whether he accepted my provisional decision. He also hasnt told me 
he has anything more to add.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, and as BG responded to say they accepted my decision, but Mr C didnt 
respond to say he accepted or rejected my provisional decision, I see no reason to reach a 
different conclusion. So this final decision confirms the findings set out in my provisional 
decision. 
Putting things right
As I've reached the same conclusion as I did in my provisional decision, British Gas 
Insurance Limited must do the following:  
Pay Mr C £329.70 towards the cost of the replacement oven;
Pay Mr C £150 compensation for the distress and inconvenience caused. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint. British Gas Insurance Limited must follow 
the instructions Ive set out above.  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 10 May 2021.
 
Jenny Lomax
Ombudsman