DRN-2925534
The complaint
Mr A complains QIC Europe Ltd unfairly declined a claim made against his motor insurance 
policy. 
Mr A wants the claim to be met. 
What happened
Mr As car was stolen whilst parked outside his partners home in 2019. Mr As keys were 
said to have been stolen after his partners keys were taken through an open downstairs 
window. Mr A said his partners car was also stolen and a claim was paid by a different 
insurer. 
QIC took approximately a year to validate the claim. They then declined it and said Mr A had 
breached a policy condition by failing to have a valid MOT certification in place. They said 
this wasnt in place when he took out the policy, or when the theft occurred. Mr A said hed 
made a genuine mistake and forgot to get an MOT certificate. 
Mr A wasnt happy with the claim decision and brought a complaint to this service. An 
investigator here considered the complaint and recommended it be upheld. She didnt think 
the breach of condition was material to the claim. So, she recommended QIC settles the 
claim from the date of loss and include 8% simple interest. She also recommended they pay 
Mr A £200 compensation for the way the claim was handled. Mr A agreed, but QIC didnt. 
So, the complaint was passed to me to decide. 
Mr As car was found in 2021  after our investigator issued her opinion. Mr A said hed been 
making payments to the finance company for the lease of the car since it was stolen, and the 
end settlement figure for the agreement is now due. 
I issued my provisional decision on 2 July 2021 which set out the following: 
I hadnt been persuaded the breach of condition was material to the loss which gave 
rise to the claim. From the validation report, it was said Mr As partners car was 
stolen, and the person who allegedly stole Mr As car gained access to his partners 
home to take his keys. I didnt think QIC demonstrated Mr A failing to have a valid 
MOT certificate was material to the loss occurring. 
Mr As car was found in 2021 having been stolen in 2019. During this time, Mr A had 
been making payments to the finance company for the lease and the end settlement 
figure is due. 
I didnt think by QIC opting to carry out repairs to Mr As car now its been found 
reaches a fair and reasonable outcome. Given the time thats passed since the loss, 
and Mr A has been making payments to the finance company, QIC should settle the 
claim in line with the remaining policy terms. 
I set out I intended on requiring QIC to settle Mr As claim from the date of loss, in 
line with the remaining terms and conditions. And include 8% simple interest from 
the date of loss to the date of settlement. The policy entitles Mr A up to the market 
value of his car from the date of loss. I also set out I intended on requiring QIC to 
pay Mr A £200 compensation for the service issues. 
Responses to my provisional decision
Mr A responded to say he agreed to the outcome I provisionally set out. 
QIC said they accept they shouldnt have declined the claim due to a breach of the policy 
conditions. They said they had other concerns regarding the claim and the safeguarding of 
the car when it was stolen. QIC also asked where the car was found. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
QIC raised further concerns following my provisional decision about the claim and the 
safeguarding of Mr As car when it was stolen. But the reason the claim was declined here 
was due to a breach of condition. And, for the reasons set out within my provisional decision, 
I remain Ive not been persuaded based on the evidence that this breach of condition was 
material to the loss which gave rise to the claim. And I dont find it would be fair or 
reasonable  given the time thats passed, and this information was available to QIC during 
the validation process which took a year  for QIC to reassess the claim at this point. 
Mr As car was found in 2021. During the period between the date of loss and when it was 
found, Mr A said hes been making payments to the finance company for the lease of the car 
and the final settlement figure is now due. 
I remain that I dont think by QIC opting to repair Mr As car reaches a fair and reasonable 
outcome to the complaint. I say this because of the time thats passed since the claim was 
declined  which I dont think was fair, and Mr A has been making payments for a car hes 
not had use of. So, QIC should settle the claim and include 8% simple interest from the date 
of loss, to the date of settlement. The policy entitles Mr A up to the market value of his car 
from the date of loss. 
I also remain that QIC should pay Mr A £200 compensation for the level of service received 
during the claim. 
Putting things right
I now require QIC Europe Ltd to settle Mr As claim in line with the remaining terms and 
conditions of the policy. Mr A is entitled up to the market value of his car from the date of 
loss. 8% simple interest* should also be included as part of the final settlement, from the 
date of loss, to the date of settlement. 
I also require QIC Europe Ltd to pay Mr A £200 compensation for the distress and 
inconvenience caused. 
My final decision
I uphold it and now require QIC Europe Ltd to put things right for Mr A as set out above 
under the heading Putting things right. *HM Revenue and Customs requires QIC Europe Ltd to take off tax from this interest. QIC 
Europe Ltd must give Mr A a certificate showing how much tax theyve taken off if he asks 
for one. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision before 11 August 2021.
 
Liam Hickey
Ombudsman