DRN-2751366
The complaint
Mr R complains Cabot Financial (Europe) Limited told him that his debt was statute barred 
but this wasnt correct.
What happened
Mr R has a number of accounts with Cabot. But this complaint only concerns one of those 
them, a former credit card account.
 
In November 2018, Mr R contacted Cabot to discuss the account. During this conversation, 
the person Mr R was speaking to at Cabot told him the debt was statue barred  meaning he 
would no longer be asked to repay it. The same person then sent Mr R an email after the call 
to confirm the debt was statue barred.
 
In April 2020, Mr R mentioned in a telephone call that hed been told in November 2018 that 
the debt was statute barred. He raised a complaint and Cabot investigated. 
Cabot responded to Mr Rs complaint. They said Mr Rs debt was not statute barred. Cabots 
member of staff had said this because an administrative error had caused Cabots records to 
show the account was statute barred. But Cabot did apologise and offered Mr R £150 in 
recognition. Cabot later increased this offer to £250. 
Mr R wasnt happy with Cabots response and referred his complaint to our service. He 
wanted Cabot to close the account and treat it as though it was in fact statute barred. He 
also wanted £400 - £500 in compensation. 
An Investigator considered Mr Rs complaint. He said, overall, he thought the offer Cabot 
had made of £250 was fair in the circumstances to resolve Mr Rs complaint. The 
Investigator also explained to Mr R when discussing this on the phone, that only a court can 
decide whether a debt is statute barred, although Mr R didnt agree this was correct.
Mr R didnt accept the investigators findings. He said, in summary, he didnt think it was fair 
for Cabot to rely on this being an administrative error and maintained the account should be 
statute barred because Cabot had told him it was.
 
As Mr R didnt accept what our Investigator said, the case has been passed to me to make a 
final decision.
 What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Only a court can decide whether a debt is enforceable or not (statute barred). Mr R says this 
isnt correct. But whether the debt is enforceable means whether it could be pursued in court 
or not. So, its not for this service to decide whether Mr Rs debt is or isnt enforceable. 
Because of this, Im only considering in this decision whether Cabot have made a mistake 
and if so, what they should do put things right. 
Where a financial business makes an error, or gives a customer incorrect information, wed 
usually expect them to correct that error or information as soon as possible. And put the 
customer back in the position they wouldve been, had the error not occurred. 
In this case, theres no dispute Cabot made an error. They told Mr R his debt was statute 
barred. But they later told Mr R theyd make a mistake in saying this. Cabots member of 
staff had said this because an administrative error had caused Cabots records to show the 
account was statute barred.
As theres no dispute about whether Cabot made a mistake or not. What remains for me to 
consider is what they need to do to put things right, taking into account the steps theyve 
already taken.
Cabot gave Mr R the wrong information in November 2018. The error didnt come to light 
until April 2020. As soon as Mr R mentioned what hed been told by Cabot they gave him the 
correct position of his account. I can understand why this wouldve come as a surprise to 
Mr R. 
Mr R thinks Cabot should be required to honour the information they gave him in November 
2018. He thinks they should treat his account as statue barred because they told him it was. 
But I dont agree theres an obligation for Cabot to do that or that it would be fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. 
I say this because if Cabot had not given Mr R the wrong information, I dont think his 
circumstances would have been significantly changed. He would be in the same position 
hes in now  with this debt still outstanding. So, theres been no financial loss. But Mr R has 
been caused worry and inconvenience by being giving the wrong information and the 
position not being corrected until about 18 months later. 
Cabot have offered Mr R £250 in recognition of this. I find this fairly reflects the fact that Mr R 
was given the wrong information and the position wasnt corrected for a long time. 
My final decision
Cabot has already made an offer to pay £250 to settle the complaint and I find this offer is 
fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of Mr Rs complaint for the reasons Ive 
explained above.
My final decision is that Cabot Financial (Europe) Limited should pay Mr R £250, if they 
havent done so already. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision before 12 October 2021.
 
Eleanor Rippengale
Ombudsman