DRN-1708369
 
The complaint
Mrs L complains about how Inter Partner Assistance SA (IPA) handled a claim she made on 
her home emergency insurance policy.
What happened
Mrs L had a water leak from the loft in her home. She called up IPA to make a claim. IPA 
told Mrs L a plumber would be with her within four hours, although it did offer her alternative 
accommodation.
IPAs plumber got in touch with Mrs L a short while later, but told her he couldnt go out to 
her home because she didnt have a loft ladder. The plumber told IPA hed guided Mrs L 
through how to turn off her water supply. The plumber later told IPA it couldnt go into Mrs 
Ls home because the loft wasnt boarded up.
Ultimately, Mrs L arranged for her own third-party plumber to come out and carry out repairs. 
These were done on 7 July 2019  six days after Mrs L first made the claim. She sent IPA an 
invoice for the plumbers costs, which it reimbursed her for. It also sent her a cheque for £50 
compensation because it acknowledged its plumber shouldnt have refused to go out to Mrs 
Ls home. 
Mrs L wasnt happy with IPAs offer, and she asked us to look into her complaint. She said 
some of the information in IPAs response to her complaint wasnt accurate.  She felt shed 
been paying for insurance shed had no benefit from.
Our investigator upheld Mrs Ls complaint. He thought £50 wasnt enough to recognise the 
distress and inconvenience Mrs L had been caused by IPAs handling of her claim. So he 
recommended IPA should pay Mrs L a further £150  a total of £200 compensation overall.
IPA accepted the investigators assessment, but Mrs L didnt. She didnt think £200 reflected 
the distress and inconvenience shed been put to. She said she didnt want anyone else to 
have to go through what she had. She asked for an ombudsman to review her complaint.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Having done so, I think £200 is a fair 
award for Mrs Ls distress and inconvenience. Ill explain why.
First, Id like to reassure Mrs L that I appreciate how upsetting and frustrating this situation 
mustve been for her. Im aware that she lives alone and is elderly and therefore, it mustve 
been very worrying when the leak began. 
So I dont doubt how distressed Mrs L mustve been when she was initially told that 
someone would be with her within four hours. It seems to me that there was some likelihood 
of significant property damage being sustained while the water continued to leak during this time. Especially when at this point, it doesnt seem as if the water had been stopped.
Mrs L was called around an hour later. It appears that during this call, the plumber told Mrs L 
he couldnt come out because she didnt have a fitted loft ladder. IPAs acknowledged this is 
its own health and safety policy; so it may be that the plumber couldnt have carried out the 
work. But IPA accepts that a plumber shouldve gone out to assess the leak at this point, to 
check a) whether the loft could be safely accessed and b) to make the property safe and 
reassure Mrs L.
I appreciate IPAs notes say the plumber guided Mrs L through how to isolate the water 
supply. But she disputes this. Because I dont have the calls between Mrs L and the 
plumber, I cant know what was said. But I do think that if the plumber had attended even 
simply to ensure the safety of Mrs Ls home and isolate the water; she wouldve been given 
the peace of mind that the leak had stopped.
Its also clear that IPAs plumber didnt agree to come out until Mrs L had already had a 
temporary fix and arranged for the works to be done. This was a few days after the initial 
leak. And I think it was an unreasonable delay on the part of IPA.
Given that water was leaking in Mrs Ls home, her carpets were wet, the fact she lives alone 
and the fact she was effectively left without help from IPA during this emergency, I think its 
appropriate that IPA pays her overall compensation of £200. This is to recognise the distress 
she was caused when its plumber didnt come out to help her and the inconvenience of 
trying to deal with the leak and arrange her own plumber. So Im pleased to see IPA 
accepted the investigators assessment.
I appreciate Mrs L feels that this amount doesnt reflect the distress and inconvenience she 
suffered. But Ive also borne in mind that on top of offering Mrs L compensation, IPA also 
met the cost of her own plumber using a wet vac to clean the carpets. This wasnt strictly 
covered by the policy. And while I dont doubt how upsetting the situation was for Mrs L, I do 
have to consider that the timeframe was relatively short  the repairs had been completed 
within a week. IPA had also offered Mrs L alternative accommodation, which I think was an 
appropriate response - although I can understand why Mrs L might not have wanted to take 
up this option.
So overall, I think total compensation of £200 is reasonable to reflect the distress and 
inconvenience Mrs L suffered. IPA has already sent Mrs L two cheques  one for £50 and 
one for £150. Mrs L says she hasnt cashed them, and the first cheque has expired. It may 
be appropriate for IPA to reissue a cheque for the total amount; or carry out a bank transfer, 
once Mrs L returns the original cheques to IPA.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above, my final decision is that I uphold this complaint.
I direct Inter Partner Assistance SA to pay Mrs L £200 compensation for her distress and 
inconvenience.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs L to accept or 
reject my decision before 30 July 2020.
Lisa Barham
Ombudsman