DRN-3439178
The complaint
Mr A complained because Lloyds Bank plc refused to refund him for a cash withdrawal 
which he said he didnt make. 
What happened
At 19.04 on 13 August 2021, Mr A used a cash machine at a Lloyds branch to withdraw £10. 
Mr A says there was an error on the screen, and his debit card didnt come back out. At 
19:07 the £10 was credited back to his account.
At 19:16, at a nearby supermarket cash machine, a balance enquiry was made using Mr As 
genuine card and correct PIN. An attempted withdrawal of £250 was declined, but £100 was 
withdrawn. 
Mr A rang Lloyds at 19.20. He said his card had been retained at the Lloyds branch, and his 
cash hadnt been dispensed. He didnt mention the supermarket transaction.  Lloyds stopped 
the card.
The next day, 14 August, Mr A rang Lloyds and reported that he hadnt authorised the £100 
withdrawal. He said that his PIN wasnt written down, and no-one had been around when Mr 
A attempted the £10 transaction at the Lloyds cash machine. 
Lloyds refused to refund Mr A for the disputed £100. In its final response, Lloyds told Mr A  
that there was no explanation for how the £100 withdrawal could have been made 
fraudulently. If that had taken place, the fraudster would have had to obtain the card, which 
Mr A had said had been swallowed by the machine, and would also have had correctly to 
guess Mr As PIN. Lloyds did pay Mr A £30 because hed said he was unhappy with the way 
he was spoken to when hed raised the claim.
Mr A wasnt satisfied and complained to this service. He told our investigator that after not 
receiving his cash at the Lloyds branch, hed gone to the supermarket where hed withdrawn 
£15 from his wifes account.
Our investigator didnt uphold Mr As complaint. She noted that the genuine card and correct 
PIN had been used, and there had been no incorrect attempts at the PIN. Mr A had said that 
only he and his wife knew the PIN, and his wife had been ill at home. 
The investigator also noted that Mr A had said hed been at the supermarket where the 
disputed withdrawal had taken place at the time. And there had been no more activity after 
the phone conversation with the bank. There had still been money in the account  but there 
hadnt been any more attempts to withdraw.
So the investigator thought Lloyds had made the correct decision. She also disagreed with 
Mr A whod said Lloyds call handler on 14 August had accused him of fraud. She thought 
the call handler had been clear and professional, listening to the concerns and checking with 
a specialist where appropriate. 
Mr A didnt agree. He said hed lost money because of Lloyds, and hed only been given 
£30. He said it was a let down and hed be leaving Lloyds. He asked for an ombudsmans 
decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
There are regulations which govern disputed transactions. The relevant regulations for 
disputed transactions taking place in August 2021 are the Payment Services Regulations 
2017. In general terms, these say that the bank is liable if the customer didnt authorise the 
payments, and the customer is liable if he did authorise them. 
So Ive looked at whether or not I think its more likely than not, taking into account all the 
available evidence, that Mr A authorised the disputed £100 withdrawal on 13 August himself.
Looking first at the computer evidence, this shows that Mr As genuine card was used to 
make the disputed withdrawal. It also shows that the correct PIN was entered first time, with 
no failed attempts. There were also no further attempts to withdraw money, though there 
was a balance remaining on the account.
The disputed £100 transaction took place at a supermarket where Mr A went after he said 
the Lloyds machine retained his card. So Mr A was at the location at the same time as the 
£100 withdrawal was made. 
If the Lloyds machine had indeed retained Mr As card, and the disputed transaction had 
been carried out by a fraudster, this means that the fraudster would somehow have had to 
obtain the genuine card from the machine, which Mr A said had swallowed the card. And the 
fraudster would then have had to drive to the same location which Mr A had gone to. Thats 
a coincidence, though I recognise its not impossible with a large supermarket. 
But importantly, the disputed transaction was carried out with the correct PIN. Mr A said that 
only he and his wife knew the PIN. He also said that there had been no-one around when 
hed been at the Lloyds machine  so no-one could have seen him enter his PIN (called 
shoulder surfing). There are around 10,000 possible combinations of a four-digit PIN. So 
its very unlikely that an unknown third party could have guessed Mr As PIN correctly first 
time.
Fraudsters also tend to withdraw the maximum, as quickly as possible. There was a balance 
check immediately before the £100 withdrawal. So whoever carried out the transaction 
would have known that there was more than £100 in the account. I think its very unlikely that 
any fraudster would just have withdrawn £100 and left the rest in Mr As account. 
Taking all these factors into account, I consider its more likely than not that it was Mr A, or 
someone known to him with knowledge of his PIN, who authorised the disputed £100 
withdrawal. So I dont require Lloyds to refund Mr A for the disputed transaction.
I also think that the Lloyds adviser who handled Mr As call acted professionally and fairly. 
So I consider the £30 which Lloyds paid Mr A was more than fair in all the circumstances.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision before 4 July 2022.
 
Belinda Knight
Ombudsman