DRN-3693147
The complaint
Mr Bs complaint is about a claim he made on a pet insurance policy he has with U K 
Insurance Limited (UKI). He is unhappy that UKI declined a claim for treatment of his dog 
because it was within the first 14 days of the policy cover.
What happened
Mr B had a policy with UKI for his dog H in 2020. When he was sent the 2021 renewal 
documentation, he thought the premium was too high. After speaking to UKI, he declined the 
renewal and took a new policy with it. The policy started on 5 October 2021.
As is usual, cover was restricted on the policy to exclude any medical conditions that had 
started before the start date of the policy:
There is no cover for:
i. any existing or previous illness, injury or disease or:
ii. any symptoms of illness, injury or disease
that your pet(s) has suffered or anything in any way related to them from the start date of the 
policy or the addition of a pet to a policy.
There is no cover for any claim for or in connection with any illness or disease arising during 
the first 14 days of your pet being covered.
On 12 October 2021 Mr B took his dog to the vet as it had been lame in his left foreleg since 
9 October 2021. This had occurred following a period of vigorous exercise. The treating vet 
noted:
CE: very subtle lameness seen at walk. NAD on examination of limb, no area of pain on 
palpitation and ROM good. 
Advised Metacam and strict rest with gradual build up of exercise. If no improvement re-see.
Mr B reported to the vet that H had been fine after the vets advice was followed. However, 
in November there was a reoccurrence of slight lameness following exercise. Mr B was 
advised that the type of exercise after which the lameness had occurred would place strain 
on Hs joints, so it should be stopped. Analgesia and restricted exercise were recommended 
along with further investigations in the form of x-rays. Mr B subsequently confirmed that the 
treatment was working. 
In January 2022 x-rays were taken of Hs elbows and shoulders to determine if there was an 
underlying cause for the two bouts of lameness. There was only one abnormality found, 
which was a right humeral medial epicondyle fragmentation. However, it was confirmed that 
no clinical symptoms had been noted. The vet concluded that the lameness was a flare up 
of soft tissue injury L fore of unknown origin. Unable to identify point of pain today on pre 
sedate exam. No lameness visible following pres [sic] sedate exam.
Further bouts of lameness were reported in both forelegs and the treatment plan advised by 
the vet was followed, but was not as effective. By the end of March 2022 the vet 
recommended CT imaging to establish a definitive cause of the lameness and establish the 
significance of the right humeral epicondyle fragment. 
A claim was made to UKI a few days later. On 13 April 2022 UKI emailed the vet and asked 
for its opinion on the cause of the treatment H received  whether it was due to an illness as 
it had concluded, or an injury as Mr B believed. The vet responded by saying:
 as can be seen from our notes made at the time of the xrays being taken on 6.1.22, that 
the lameness is related to a soft tissue injury or unknown origin. There was no sign of elbow 
dysplasia or any other congenital abnormalities seen on the xrays that would lead us to say 
that this condition is related to an illness.
UKI concluded that the vets suggestion that advanced imaging would be needed to 
establish a definitive cause of the lameness, didnt support the problem being a soft tissue 
injury. This was because advanced imaging would be used to examine a joint from multiple 
planes in order to see any abnormalities. In addition, it considered that the chronic recurring 
nature of the problem didnt support it being a soft tissue injury. As such, UKI considered that 
there was likely an undiagnosed illness causing the lameness. 
On 5 May 2022 UKI declined the claim as the illness had started within the 14-day exclusion 
period for illness or disease.
Mr B wasnt happy with this outcome and complained. UKI didnt change its decision and so 
the complaint was referred to us. Following doing so, Mr B confirmed that following the claim 
being made, H had improved, such that no further medication or vet visits had been needed. 
As such, the further investigations suggested hadnt been done. 
One of our investigators considered the complaint and recommended that it be upheld. He 
highlighted that the vet had confirmed that there was no evidence of an underlying illness 
causing the condition and that the problem had likely resulted from soft tissue damage. As 
such, he wasnt persuaded that the cause of the condition the claim related to was due to an 
illness present in the first 14 days of the policy and so it was not appropriate for UKI to have 
declined it. He recommended that UKI pay the claim.
UKI didnt accept the investigators conclusions. It reiterated its previous conclusions and 
said that if further investigations were undertaken, it could reconsider the claim.
Our investigator responded to UKI. He explained that the treating vets testimony held more 
weight than UKIs veterinary nurses opinion, as the vet had actually examined H. 
UKI remained unhappy with the investigators conclusions. It said that no definitive cause of 
the lameness had been established and the vets notes were not supportive of there having 
been a soft tissue injury; that was just a suggestion by the vet. UKI also said that 
independent papers had reported that an epicondyle fragment could be the cause of foreleg 
lameness in dogs, and in the circumstances, it felt it was fair for it to query this and approach 
the claim with caution. When the investigator didnt change his mind, UKI asked that the 
complaint be referred to an ombudsman.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As I have said above, it is normal for pet insurance policies not to cover illnesses or disease 
during the first 14 days, although they will normally cover accidents and injuries. So, if the 
evidence showed that the cause of Hs lameness was an illness or disease, then UKI would 
have acted reasonably in excluding the claim. However, I am not persuaded that is the 
situation in this case. 
The starting point in any such cases are the treating vets contemporaneous notes and 
opinions. We will place a significant weight on this evidence as the vet has actually 
examined the animal. In this case, the vet was satisfied that the underlying cause of the 
lameness was most likely a soft tissue injury. I would at this stage comment that, as UKI is 
well aware, it is not always possible to prove definitively what the cause of a condition is. 
While UKI has said that there is no evidence of a soft tissue injury, I am not sure what 
evidence it would be expecting. In this case when the lameness first occurred, Mr Bs dog 
was reported as having been exercising vigorously, presumably off the lead as it was 
described as running, and immediately afterwards it was limping slightly. 
The fact that Mr B hadnt noticed a stumble, a slight imbalance on uneven ground or 
something similar, doesnt mean that a minor injury didnt occur. The subsequent 
occurrences were confirmed to have occurred following further episodes of vigorous 
exercise, such as running after balls or jumping around. If the initial soft tissue injury was not 
completely healed, such activities could very easily result in the injury being irritated. The 
fact that Hs lameness has resolved itself and there have been no further occurrences, would 
indicate that there wasnt an underlying illness or disease causing the condition.
UKI has highlighted that when the x-rays were taken it was identified that there was a right 
humeral medial epicondyle fragmentation, and that this could cause foreleg lameness in 
dogs. I dont doubt that is the case. However, the lameness that had been reported at that 
time was in Hs other leg and the vet confirmed that there were no clinical symptoms of the 
epicondyle fragmentation. As such, I am not persuaded by UKIs argument in this regard.
I am satisfied that, based on the evidence in this case, UKI should not have declined this 
complaint on the basis that the condition claimed for was caused by an illness or disease 
present in the first 14 days of the policy. As such, it should settle the claim in line with the 
remaining policy terms and conditions. 
As I have said above, it is normal for pet insurance policies not to cover illnesses or disease 
during the first 14 days, although they will normally cover accidents and injuries. So, if the 
evidence showed that the cause of Hs lameness was an illness or disease, then UKI would 
have acted reasonably in excluding the claim. However, I am not persuaded that is the 
situation in this case. 
The starting point in any such cases are the treating vets contemporaneous notes and 
opinions. We will place a significant weight on this evidence as the vet has actually 
examined the animal. In this case, the vet was satisfied that the underlying cause of the 
lameness was most likely a soft tissue injury. I would at this stage comment that, as UKI is 
well aware, it is not always possible to prove definitively what the cause of a condition is. 
While UKI has said that there is no evidence of a soft tissue injury, I am not sure what 
evidence it would be expecting. In this case when the lameness first occurred, Mr Bs dog 
was reported as having been exercising vigorously, presumably off the lead as it was 
described as running, and immediately afterwards it was limping slightly. 
The fact that Mr B hadnt noticed a stumble, a slight imbalance on uneven ground or 
something similar, doesnt mean that a minor injury didnt occur. The subsequent occurrences were confirmed to have occurred following further episodes of vigorous 
exercise, such as running after balls or jumping around. If the initial soft tissue injury was not 
completely healed, such activities could very easily result in the injury being irritated. The 
fact that Hs lameness has resolved itself and there have been no further occurrences, would 
indicate that there wasnt an underlying illness or disease causing the condition.
UKI has highlighted that when the x-rays were taken it was identified that there was a right 
humeral medial epicondyle fragmentation, and that this could cause foreleg lameness in 
dogs. I dont doubt that is the case. However, the lameness that had been reported at that 
time was in Hs other leg and the vet confirmed that there were no clinical symptoms of the 
epicondyle fragmentation. As such, I am not persuaded by UKIs argument in this regard.
I am satisfied that, based on the evidence in this case, UKI should not have declined this 
complaint on the basis that the condition claimed for was caused by an illness or disease 
present in the first 14 days of the policy. As such, it should settle the claim in line with the 
remaining policy terms and conditions. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint. In full and final settlement U K Insurance 
Limited should settle Mr Bs claim in line with the remaining terms and conditions of the 
policy.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, I am required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 16 November 2022.
 
Derry Baxter
Ombudsman