DRN-2832496
The complaint
Mr T complains that Barclays Bank UK PLC blocked an international payment and then 
failed to help him when he contacted the bank about it.
What happened
On Thursday 21 May 2020 Mr T tried to make an international payment for a four-figure sum. 
He initially tried to do this using his mobile phone banking application, but the payment 
exceeded the limit for that kind of transaction. He contacted Barclays through its online live 
chat facility, and he was told to use online banking instead, since that had a higher payment 
limit. He did that, but that payment did not appear to go through either.
It is now known that this was because the payment had been flagged as suspicious by 
Barclays anti-fraud systems. Barclays fraud department tried to phone Mr T to verify the 
payment, but he did not answer the call in time. No voicemail was left, and no further attempt 
to contact him was made. The fraud department blocked the payment.
Meanwhile, before the payment had been permanently blocked, Mr T contacted Barclays 
again, first by using the online chat method, and then in a phone call. He was concerned that 
the payment did not appear to have worked, and he wanted advice. Unfortunately, the 
people who dealt with him were unaware of the block the fraud department had placed on 
the payment. They told him that an international payment can take one or two working days 
to be processed, and that Mr T should wait for that period to expire. He was also told that he 
could call the International Payments Team (IPT) on another number, and that they could 
help.
There is a dispute about whether Mr T contacted Barclays again until Tuesday 26 May. Mr T 
says he did, but Barclays has no record of that. There is also a dispute about whether the 
IPT was open during the period from 21 to 26 May. Mr T is adamant that it was closed, and 
Barclays insists that it was open. On the Tuesday, when it was clear that the payment had 
not gone through, Mr T made a complaint. As a result of the payment not being made on 
time, the intended recipient of the money had sold some of Mr Ts shares instead, and the 
value of those shares subsequently increased. So Mr T wishes to be compensated for the 
loss of opportunity. Barclays says that its terms and conditions make it clear that is it not 
liable for that kind of loss.
Our investigator did not uphold this complaint. She thought that Barclays had acted 
reasonably in blocking the payment, and that there was evidence that the fraud department 
had tried to call Mr T about it first. Mr Ts phone records showed that he had successfully 
called the IPT on 21 May, and that he had spoken to someone for five minutes, although 
there was no record of what had been discussed. She concluded that this meant that the IPT 
must have been open; she had seen no evidence to suggest that it had been closed. She 
said that neither Barclays nor Mr T had any evidence that Mr T had tried to contact Barclays 
on any subsequent date until 26 May (when it was too late). 
Mr T did not accept that opinion. He asked for an ombudsmans decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I do not uphold this complaint. I will explain why.
Barclays has explained that it flagged the payment as suspicious because it was a large 
payment to a new payee, and because Mr T had not made a payment by online banking in 
over two years. Evidence provided by both parties shows that the fraud department phoned 
Mr T before blocking the payment, but unfortunately he did not answer the call. I would not 
expect him to know that it was the banks fraud department calling, and so I understand why 
he did not return the missed call, but I think that Barclays did enough by trying to contact 
him, and that it was entitled to block the payment.
Regrettably, the block and the reason for the block do not appear to have been added to 
Mr Ts account notes by the fraud team until after he had contacted Barclays about the 
payment on the live chat facility. Consequently, the staff who dealt with the chat enquiries 
were unable to tell him about the block. Instead, they could only tell him to either wait a few 
days, or to call the IPT.
Mr T has emphasised that Monday 25 May was a bank holiday. That certainly explains why 
he did not contact Barclays on that day. But apart from that, I think the bank holiday is a red 
herring. Friday 22 May was a normal working day. So if the bank holiday was the only issue, 
it would not explain why Mr T did not call Barclays on the Friday (by which time the block 
had been noted on his account, which was done at some time on Thursday). Mr T was told 
during one of the live chats that the IPT was open from Monday to Friday.
Mr T has explained that he had been told to wait 48 to 72 hours to see if the payment had 
been processed. That is true, but the same person who told him that also told him to call the 
IPT, and the next person told him the same thing. Mr T told both of them that the IPT was 
closed. But only two minutes after chatting with the second person, Mr T did call the IPT, and 
that call was connected and it lasted for five minutes. I dont know what the IPT told him, but 
I am satisfied that they were open, and that they were taking calls on Thursday 21st and 
Friday 22nd.
Barclays has provided its contact notes for the period January 2020 to April 2021, and Ive 
seen them. There are no entries showing any contact with Mr T on any of the days between 
21 and 26 May 2020. Mr T has provided his own phone records, which show no contact with 
Barclays other than what I have already described. There is no other evidence from either 
party, other than Mr Ts personal recollection, to suggest that Mr T made any more calls to 
anyone at Barclays  whether at the IPT or any other department  until the following 
Tuesday. I think it is safe to infer, on the balance of probabilities, that he did not, and that his 
memory is mistaken.
I am therefore satisfied that Barclays did nothing wrong, and that it is not liable for Mr Ts 
losses.
My final decision
My decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr T to accept or 
reject my decision before 3 August 2021.
 
Richard Wood
Ombudsman