DRN-2954331
The complaint
Mr S has complained about how Liverpool Victoria Insurance Company Limited (LV) dealt 
with a claim under his home emergency policy.
All references to LV include agents acting on its behalf.
  
What happened
The control panel for Mr Ss shower started to leak. So, Mr S contacted LV to arrange for an 
engineer to fix it. When the engineer visited, he said the shower control panel needed to be 
replaced. Several days later, the engineer provided LV with a quote for the work to be 
carried out. As this cost more than the limit on the policy, LV told Mr S he would need to pay 
for the cost of the work over the policy limit.
Mr S queried the quote because he found a cheaper quote for the shower control panel 
online. LV said that if he wanted the work to be carried out under the policy, he needed to 
accept the quote. Due to the need to get the work done, Mr S accepted the quote. The 
engineer then visited a few days later to fit the shower.
Following this, Mr S complained to LV. He was unhappy about the delays in getting the 
quote and the engineer then visiting. Mr S also wanted the receipts for the work. When LV 
replied, it apologised for the delays in getting the receipts, which still hadnt been provided. It 
said the work carried out had a 12-month guarantee. LV also said Mr S had been paid £50 
compensation for a missed appointment. It offered a further £100 compensation for the 
delays and lack of communication.
Mr S complained to this service. While Mr Ss complaint was with this service, LV looked at 
whether it had overcharged Mr S for the work and concluded it hadnt. Our investigator didnt 
uphold the complaint. She said LV had acted in line with the terms and conditions of the 
policy.
As Mr S did not agree, the complaint has been referred to me.
 
I issued my provisional decision on 26 July 2021. In my provisional decision, I explained the 
reasons why I was planning to uphold the complaint. I said:
Im aware that Mr S has said LV itself had very little involvement with the claim, but as the 
underwriter for the policy that is who the complaint is about and who I will refer to in my 
decision. However, Im aware that LV delegated the home emergency work to another 
company, which Mr S mainly dealt with.
The first issue Ive considered is whether Mr S was overcharged for the work. The total for 
the work was just over £1,000. As the policy had a £500 policy limit, this meant Mr S had to 
pay the balance above that limit. The total for the work was made up of the materials, 
including the shower control panel, an uplift on those costs which LV allowed its contractors 
to charge under a commercial agreement, a call out charge and labour. 
While I was considering this complaint, I asked LV to provide all of the relevant paperwork to 
show the costs and to explain how it had reached the total for the work. LV then re-
calculated the cost and concluded that Mr S had been overcharged by £207.82, which was 
because the total for the materials had been incorrectly calculated. I also asked LV to check 
whether the costs for the call-out and labour were correct. LV has confirmed these were 
correct. 
Im aware that Mr S wanted to know why the calculation for the materials was wrong, so I 
asked LV about this. It said the calculation was based on the information provided by the 
contractors. It asked the contractor for the invoices, but they werent able to provide invoices 
for all the materials used. LV then recalculated the materials on the invoice provided and 
issued a refund.
Having looked at the calculations, including each of the different elements that made up the 
total, Im satisfied that LV over-charged Mr S for the work, but that it has now correctly 
calculated the amount for the work and materials. 
Im aware that LV has now taken steps to refund Mr S the amount he was overcharged. I 
currently intend to say that LV should also pay 8% simple interest on that amount from the 
date on which Mr S made the payment for the work to the date on which the amount he was 
overcharged was refunded to him. This is because he lost use of that money for that period 
of time.
Im aware that Mr S had other concerns about how his home emergency claim was handled. 
This included that it took many months for LV to provide proof that the shower purchase had 
been registered with the manufacturer, as Mr S wanted to ensure that he could benefit from 
a five-year warranty. Mr S has now seen evidence that LV contacted the shower 
manufacturer to ensure the warranty had been registered. This was many months after LV 
said it would deal with the issue. So, Ive thought about what difference this delay made. Ive 
not seen anything to suggest that Mr S needed to claim on the warranty during that time. 
But, in my view, it will have caused Mr S distress and inconvenience to have to follow up in 
order to get the confirmation the warranty had been registered in case something did go 
wrong. So, I will consider this further when I think about compensation.
Mr S has also said that he isnt happy that after he agreed the quote he was unable to 
negotiate it any further and was told it was a fixed quote. When a policyholder accepts a 
quote, they are agreeing to have the work carried out at that price. I wouldnt, for example, 
expect a policyholder to be able to negotiate the cost of the works with the engineer who 
carried out the repair because the policyholder and the engineer dont have a direct 
relationship in terms of the agreed price. 
I also wouldnt expect a business necessarily to always find a product at the cheapest 
possible price or to use a supplier specified by the policyholder. It would depend on the 
individual circumstances of the claim. In this instance, in my view, I havent seen anything 
that persuades me it was unreasonable for the shower to be bought from the particular 
supplier used. However, I would expect a policyholder to be able to query the price if they 
had concerns about it, such as materials being quoted for that werent then used. In such 
circumstances, I would expect the business to look at whether a refund needed to be made 
for any of the work or materials. In my view, Mr Ss concerns about the price and the work 
carried out werent given proper consideration when he raised them.
So, Ive thought about compensation. Mr S clearly experienced considerable distress and 
inconvenience by the way his claim was dealt with. When Mr S queried the cost of these 
works, LV didnt seem to accept there might be an issue with the calculation. A significant 
part of this complaint could have been addressed much sooner had LV checked the details of the calculation. Mr S also seems to have felt pressure to accept the quote, despite his 
concerns about it, because if he hadnt done so, he wouldnt have benefitted from the first 
£500 of the work being paid for under the terms of the policy. So, I can understand that Mr S 
felt he was put in a very difficult position in that he wanted to make use of the policy but 
didnt think he was being treated fairly in terms of how much he was being charged.
Im aware that Mr S has already been offered £150 by LV for a missed appointment and for 
the delays and communication issues for the receipt and warranty. However, I currently 
intend to say LV should pay an additional £250 compensation for the distress and 
inconvenience caused to Mr S because of the quote being incorrectly calculated, his 
concerns about this seeming not to be fully considered, the longer-term delay in getting 
confirmation that the warranty had been registered and the additional pressure this put on Mr 
S based on his description of his personal circumstances.
Mr S also said he didnt think he received all of the compensation previously offered. I asked 
LV about this and it explained that Mr S had already raised this with them and as a result it 
had re-sent the compensation as a cheque. It also provided evidence to show it had done 
this. So, from what Ive seen Mr S now seems to have been sent that compensation, so I 
dont currently intend to require LV to take any further action on this point.
Mr S also said LV should be required to review its agents procedures for charging 
policyholders. Although I can understand Mr Ss concerns, this service can only deal with 
individual complaints and Im unable to require LV to carry out such a review.
I asked both parties to send me any more information or evidence they wanted me to look at 
by 25 August 2021. Both parties responded before that date.
Mr S confirmed he had nothing further to add.
LV accepted the decision.
  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided to maintain my decision to uphold this complaint and for the 
reasons given in my provisional decision.
  
Putting things right
LV should ensure Mr S is refunded the amount he was overcharged and pay interest on that 
amount. LV should also pay Mr S £250 compensation for the distress and inconvenience 
caused to him by how his claim was handled.
 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above and in my provisional decision, my final decision is that the 
complaint is upheld. I require Liverpool Victoria Insurance Company Limited to:Ensure Mr S is refunded the amount he was overcharged as part of his claim.
Pay 8% simple interest on that amount from the date on which Mr S paid that amount to 
the date on which it was refunded to him.
If Liverpool Victoria Insurance Company Limited considers that its required by HM 
Revenue & Customs to deduct income tax from that interest, it should tell Mr S how 
much its taken off. It should also give Mr S a certificate showing this if he asks for one, 
so he can reclaim the tax from HM Revenue & Customs if appropriate.
Pay Mr S an additional £250 compensation for the distress and inconvenience caused to 
him.
  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 30 August 2021.
 
Louise O'Sullivan
Ombudsman