DRN-3941505
The complaint
Mr M complains that the surrender value of the whole of life policy he holds with Liverpool 
Victoria Financial Services Limited (LV) has fallen since the valuation in November 2021.
What happened
Mr M holds a non-reviewable whole of life with-profits policy with LV. The policy was made 
paid-up in 2017 and no further premiums were due after this date. Mr M requested a 
surrender value in November 2021 and when he compared this to a valuation he requested 
in September 2022, the surrender value had fallen significantly. 
Mr M complained and LV didnt uphold the complaint. LV said the surrender value changed 
because it had reviewed the methods behind the calculation for policies like Mr Ms and the 
way it calculates policy values now is fairer for all of its members and takes into account 
premiums paid. 
When Mr M brought the complaint to the Financial Ombudsman Service one of our 
Investigators looked into things. The Investigator thought the changes made by LV are 
permitted by the terms of the policy and theres no regulatory requirement for LV to inform 
Mr M of those changes prior to them being implemented. Mr M asked that an Ombudsman 
decides the complaint.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I appreciate Mr M has very strong feelings that the reduction in the surrender value of the 
policy is unfair, but for very much the same reasons as the Investigator Ive decided LV 
didnt do anything wrong. I will now explain why.
LV is entitled to change the way it calculates bonuses and how they are paid. In this case, 
LV says it changed the way it determined and paid its bonuses in order to allocate profits 
more fairly among policyholders. LV says this reflects more closely the premiums that each 
customer has paid and the insurance cover they have received. The policy is designed to 
grow by the addition of regular bonuses and a discretionary final bonus, neither of which is 
guaranteed - although once added regular bonuses cant be taken away. In Mr Ms case Im 
satisfied LV added regular bonuses until the policy was made paid-up in 2017  and these 
havent been taken away
I empathise with Mr M that the valuation reduced after LV changed the way it calculates 
bonuses on the policy, but the bonuses were never guaranteed. There is a death sum 
assured within the policy and LV can add bonuses to the policy based on investment 
performance - this is still the case. In August 2022 LV made a commercial decision to ensure 
all policyholders receive a fair share of profits based on the amount invested, the length of 
time the policy has been in place and claims history. Ive seen that prior to August 2021, the 
surrender value of the policy would have been the same as the death benefit. After the 
change, the death benefit is now likely to be higher than the surrender value. LV say this 
more fairly reflects the original purpose of the policy, which was to provide a pay-out on 
death. I dont consider this is unfair or unreasonable to LV policyholders.
I empathise with Mr M that the surrender value has fallen as a result of these changes, but I 
dont think LV has done anything wrong as it has taken steps to make the distribution of 
profits fair to all of its policyholders. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive detailed above, Ive decided not to uphold Mr Ms complaint about 
Liverpool Victoria Financial Services Limited.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 26 October 2023.
 
Paul Lawton
Ombudsman