DRN-2534719
The complaint
Miss R complains that a car acquired with finance from Advantage Finance Ltd wasnt of 
satisfactory quality.  
What happened
 In July 2019 Miss R was supplied with a car and entered into a hire purchase agreement 
with Advantage. At the point of supply the car was 3 years old and had covered around 
48,700 miles. 
Miss R experienced issues with the car within the first 30 days and took it to a local garage 
who diagnosed a fault with the timing chain. Miss R contacted Advantage, who said the 
evidence of the fault was sufficient for the dealership to accept a rejection. However, the 
dealership thought Miss R had agreed to a repair and replace the timing chain.
Following this, the car broke down again. Miss R contacted Advantage and asked to reject 
the car on the basis of a failed repair. Advantage arranged an inspection. This found a fault 
with the steering lock, which it said would need to be repaired before the car could be driven. 
The engineer also found a fault code which suggested a fault with the fuel rail sensor.
Based on the finding of the independent inspection, Advantage refused Miss Rs request to 
reject the car. It said she was responsible for the repairs but that these would be covered by 
the warranty. 
Miss R remained unhappy and complained to this service. She wants to reject the car.
Our investigator upheld the complaint. He said Miss R had asked to reject the car within the 
first 30 days and the fault had been confirmed by a garage and accepted as sufficient 
grounds for rejection by Advantage. The investigator said that the supplying dealer had 
carried out repairs without authorisation from Mis R. He said Miss R should be allowed to 
reject the car.
Advantage didnt agree. It said Miss R had agreed a repair of the car and had lost her right 
to reject.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
 Because Advantage supplied the car under a hire purchase agreement, theres an implied 
term that the car is of satisfactory quality. Cars are of satisfactory quality if they are of a 
standard that a reasonable person would expect, taking into account factors such as the age 
and mileage of the car and the price paid.
Under the Consumer Rights Act 2015, where a fault occurs in the first 30 days, the 
consumer has an immediate right to reject the car. After 30 days, but within the first 6 
months, if a fault occurs its presumed to have been present or developing at the point of 
supply and its generally up to the business to put things right. After 6 months, the burden of 
proof is reversed and its up to the consumer to show that the car wasnt of satisfactory 
quality at the point of supply.
Its not in dispute that Miss R experienced a fault with the car within the first 30 days and 
asked to reject the car. nor is it in dispute that advantage told Miss R that the evidence 
supporting the fault was sufficient for the dealership to accept a rejection.
The nub of this dispute is whether, having asked to reject the car, Miss R accepted a repair.
Advantage rely on an exchange of emails between Miss R and the dealership, in which Miss 
R asked the dealership whether it will meet the costs of recovering the car and cover the 
costs of repairs to bring the car up to a satisfactory standard.  The dealership says that 
following this, Miss R sent it a quote to have the repairs carried out by a third-party garage, 
which was approved and paid by the supplying dealer.
Miss R says she asked to reject the car. It isnt entirely clear whether she wanted to accept 
repairs after this. Shes said she didnt receive a response to her request to reject. Ive seen 
an email from Miss R to Advantage dated 5 September 2019 in which she refers to given 
the chance for the car to be mended and having given chance for the dealership to resolve 
the situation. In the same email, Miss R says the car has been returned to her following 
repairs but that the engine light is illuminated and that she still wants to reject the car.
I cant be certain of exactly what happened next. The information isnt complete. But based 
on the available information, Im satisfied that Miss R asked to reject the car. Based on what 
Ive seen, Miss R didnt hear back from the supplying dealer about her request to reject. It 
seems likely that the supplying dealer instead offered to repair the car, which promoted Miss 
R to send the email Ive referred to above.
Whilst I appreciate that a repair was carried out, Im not persuaded that the repair was 
carried put with the authority of Miss R. Prior to the repair, Miss R requested her short term 
right to reject. This shouldve been accepted.
Even if the repairs were authorised by Miss R, the evidence suggests that there was still a 
fault with the car after those repairs had been carried out. The independent inspection found 
that the EML light was illuminated and that there was excessive wear to the steering lock. 
The engineer concluded that the steering lock was in worn condition at the point of supply 
and that the car shouldnt be driven until it was replaced.
Because the dealership had already been given one opportunity to repair faults with the car, 
I dont think its reasonable to expect Miss R to accept further repairs, even though this is a 
different fault to the fault which was repaired. Im of the view that Miss R should be allowed 
to reject the car.
Putting things right
 Taking everything into consideration, Im persuaded that the car wasnt of satisfactory 
quality at the point of supply. Miss R requested her short term right to reject and this should 
have been accepted. Im of the view that the repairs were carried out without Miss Rs 
authorisation. The further fault with the steering lock was found to be a point of supply fault 
by the independent engineer. The business had already had one chance to carry out repairs 
by the time the second fault was identified. To put things right now, Advantage should allow 
Miss R to reject the car. 
My final decisionMy final decision is that I uphold the complaint.  Advantage Finance Ltd must:
End the agreement with nothing further to pay
Arrange for the car to be collected at no cost to Miss R
Refund the deposit and pay 8% simple interest from the date of payment to the date 
of settlement
Refund the monthly payments made by Miss R except that Advantage can retain one 
months payment for every 1000 miles covered by Miss R
Remove any information relating to the agreement from Miss Rs credit file
Pay compensation of £200 to Miss R for trouble and upset
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss R to accept 
or reject my decision before 18 March 2021.
 
Emma Davy
Ombudsman