DRN-3295039
The complaint
Mr A says Admiral Insurance Company Limited didnt inform him of the charges that would 
be made on cancellation before he renewed his motor insurance policy. 
What happened
Mr A bought a policy with Admiral in 2019. He says he called Admiral before the policys 
renewal date in 2020 to stop it being renewed. During the call, Mr A decided to renew the 
policy after all. He says the charges that would be made on cancellation werent mentioned, 
and that he had no idea the renewal documents (showing details of the charges) were 
already on the online portal for him to view. 
The documents included an agreement setting out a £55 cancellation charge and a £100 
charge for the removal of a black box monitoring device. Mr A said the agreement wasnt 
viewable or downloadable when he tried to look at it some months later. And he said as 
Admiral hadnt made him aware of the policys terms and conditions (including the charges) 
before he renewed the policy, he wasnt bound by them. 
One of our investigators reviewed Mr As complaint. She noted that in 2019,  Mr A had to tick 
a box online to say hed read all the terms and conditions before he could proceed with the 
policys purchase. She said Admiral had provided a screenshot to show that in 2020 it sent a 
renewal invitation to Mr A by email. The email advised him to read all the policy documents 
before deciding whether to renew. It mentioned the agreement specifically and said there 
had been some changes to charges since 2019. The investigator concluded that Mr A had 
been given the chance to view all the policy information (including the charges made on 
cancellation) before renewing the policy. 
Mr A said he hadnt received the email, which he said should be obvious from the fact that 
he called Admiral to stop the renewal a month later. He said Admirals advisor should have 
highlighted the charges in that call, as he hadnt seen any documents and didnt intend to 
renew. Mr A said the regulations hed referred to in his submission to us (the Unfair Terms in 
Consumer Contracts Regulations 1999) supported his position, but that we hadnt 
considered them. As there was no agreement, the complaint was passed to me for review. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The 1999 regulations Mr A has referred to have been replaced by the Consumer Rights Act 
2015. I think the major point Mr A relied on in the regulations was that in order to be fair, a 
contracts terms must be brought to a consumers attention before the consumer can be 
bound by them. Thats the approach we take as part of our fair and reasonable approach. So 
the issue is whether the policys terms and conditions  including the charges that would be 
made on cancellation  were brought to Mr As attention before he bought the policy. 
 
In 2019, Mr A would have had to agree that hed seen the policys terms and conditions 
before he was able to buy it online. But in 2020 he entered into a new contract, so it was for 
Admiral to ensure that he had notice of all the terms and conditions before the policy was 
renewed. Its standard practice for insurers to do that by sending renewal invitations to policy 
holders in good time prior to the renewal date.  
Admiral has shown that it sent an email to Mr A one month before the policy was due to 
renew, asking him to read the documents, and specifically mentioning the agreement in 
which the charges were set out. Mr A says he didnt receive the email and he cant recall 
what prompted him to call Admiral just before the renewal date. Our approach in these 
circumstances is that if a business can show an email was sent, the business cant be 
blamed if the consumer didnt receive it. I think Admiral acted reasonably. It issued the 
renewal invitation in good time, so Mr A would have a chance to read all the documents.
Mr A says the fact that he called Admiral to stop the renewal shows that he didnt get a 
renewal email a month earlier. But I dont think thats the case. Many consumers call to 
discuss renewal when prompted by a renewal letter - either immediately or at some point 
before the renewal date. Thats because the renewal invitation usually says the policy will 
renew automatically if they dont call to stop that happening. Im not suggesting that Mr A 
saw the renewal invitation, but in my opinion the fact that he called Admiral just before the 
renewal date isnt evidence that he didnt see it, as hes asserted. 
 
Mr A thinks the advisor he spoke to should have highlighted the content of the renewal 
documents (and specifically, the charges that would be made on cancellation) given that Mr 
A had called to stop the renewal. Having listened to the call, I dont think thats the 
impression Mr A gave. He said he was undecided (and therefore was open to the prospect 
of renewal). He then queried what the cost of paying for the policy monthly would be. He 
said he hadnt looked at any other quotes. And he agreed to renew the policy. The advisor 
couldnt have known Mr A hadnt seen the renewal documents unless M r A mentioned it. 
The advisors screen would have shown that the renewal invitation (with links to all the 
documents) had been emailed to Mr A automatically a month earlier.   
In my opinion, it isnt clear why (once Mr A had decided to renew the policy) he didnt ask the 
advisor about the policy documents, given that he hadnt seen them. Had he done so at that 
point, I think its likely the advisor would have referred him to the portal. Theres evidence of 
a problem in viewing some policy documents on the portal (although it was only identified 
many months after Mr A bought the policy). If the problem was present at the time of the 
sale, Mr A could have pointed it out and the issue could have been resolved. Mr A could 
then have made an informed decision about whether to renew the policy. Alternatively, he 
could just have asked the advisor to tell him about the charges payable on cancellation. 
Mr A has mentioned the difficult personal circumstances that led to the sale of his car and to 
the policys cancellation. I think Admiral acted as we would have expected a reasonable 
insurer to do, when a consumer is faced with unexpected financial problems, by offering Mr 
A an affordable payment plan for the sum owed. It also waived the £55 cancellation fee, as a 
gesture of goodwill. I dont think Mr A can show that Admiral acted unreasonably or that it 
treated him unfairly in any respect. So, even though I sympathise with the position Mr A has 
found himself in, I cant uphold his complaint.  
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision before 29 April 2022. 
Susan Ewins
Ombudsman