DRN-2689182
The complaint
Mrs W complains about the way Esure Insurance Limited (Esure) has handled a subsidence 
claim made under her home insurance policy.
All references to Esure in this decision include its appointed agents.
What happened
In 2016, Mrs W noticed some cracks along the interior wall of her home. She contacted 
Esure to make a claim. Esure accepted the claim and undertook site investigations to 
determine the cause of the damage. 
Reports in early 2017 confirmed that the property was suffering from subsidence, the cause 
of which was identified as clay shrinkage due to nearby vegetation. Recommendations were 
made for remedial vegetation removal works to commence, in order to restore stability to the 
property.
Works started in mid-2017 and a tree on a neighbouring property which was identified as the 
main cause of the subsidence was removed. Monitoring of the site took place between June 
and August of 2017 and the cracks appeared to be closing. However, the cracks reopened in 
October 2017 and so Esure recommended the removal of further vegetation that had been 
identified as causal in the arborists report.
Unfortunately, Mrs W was extremely unwell from Autumn 2017 and throughout much of 
2018, and was understandably unable to engage with Esure in relation to the further removal 
of vegetation. In October 2018, Mrs W outlined her concerns about the removal of the 
vegetation from her property. Esure confirmed that the vegetation was a potential cause of 
the recurring subsidence. 
Mrs W was unwell for much for 2019 and towards the end of that year, contacted Esure who 
advised that the file had been closed as they hadnt heard back from Mrs W. But it agreed to 
send an engineer to carry out a further inspection, review the file and consider next steps. 
An engineer attended Mrs Ws property in December 2019  and confirmed that any 
vegetation close to Mrs Ws conservatory could affect the soil and so it would need to be 
removed. He told Mrs W that if she didnt agree, the claim could be refused and her cover 
withdrawn.
Mrs W felt she had no option but to agree to the removal of the vegetation. She raised a 
complaint with Esure, explaining that she felt her concerns had been dismissed and that the 
matter hadnt been dealt with in a way which protected her interests. She also raised the 
following issues:
Esure hadnt made any attempts to recover losses from her neighbour or to make 
enquiries regarding the third party insurer.
A boundary fence had to be taken down in the process of removing vegetation which 
Mrs W says should be covered and compensated for.
The claim was closed prematurely in 2018.
Mrs Ws renewal quotes had increased.
Esure hadnt provided Mrs W with a Certificate of Structural Adequacy.
Mrs W suffered distress and inconvenience as a result of Esures poor handling of 
the claim.
Esure responded to Mrs Ws complaint, but didnt believe it had acted unreasonably in its 
handling of her claim. Mrs W remained unhappy with Esures response, so she referred her 
complaint to this service.
Our investigator considered all the issues and evidence, but didnt think the complaint should 
be upheld, as he thought Esure had acted fairly in the circumstances. Mrs W didnt agree 
with our investigators assessment  and so the complaint has come to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided not to uphold this complaint. I appreciate this will come as a 
disappointment to Mrs W, but Ill explain why Ive reached this decision. Where I have not 
referred to a specific point or argument raised, this is not intended as a discourtesy to either 
party. It simply reflects the informal nature of this service. Id like to assure both parties Ive 
taken everything provided into account, even if I havent referred to it specifically.
I appreciate Mrs W is no longer pursuing her complaint in respect of the Certificate of 
Structural Adequacy, which she accepts can only be issued once remedial work to fix the 
cause of the subsidence has been completed and the property is deemed stable. Mrs W has 
also said she wont be pursuing her complaint in respect of the early case closure in 2018  
save for the fact that there was no enquiry made of her neighbour during this time.
Ill deal with each of Mrs Ws remaining complaint points in turn.
Recovery of losses from a third party
Mrs W has cited a legal case in support of her view that Esure shouldve pursued her 
neighbour and recovered losses, including her £1000 excess. As an informal dispute-
resolution service, this service doesnt operate in the same way a court of law does  and so 
while I have regard for legal precedents and relevant legislation, and have taken these into 
consideration, I am not bound by them. My overriding objective is to reach a decision which I 
feel is fair and reasonable in the particular circumstances of this individual complaint.
In reaching my decision, Ive looked at the Root Identification Report dated 4 January 2017, 
the Geotechnical report dated 11 January 2017, the Soil Identification Report dated 12 
January 2017 and the Arboricultural Report dated 17 January 2017. Ive also considered all 
the correspondence between the parties, Mrs Ws letters to Esure and to this service, and 
Ive thought carefully about the case law and legislation Mrs W has referred to.
Firstly, I dont believe the facts of the cases cited are identical to this complaint. Even if three 
types of vegetation on Mrs Ws property were disregarded, there was still one which couldnt 
be discounted and so Mrs Ws vegetation is likely to have contributed to the damage to her 
property. I think its fair for Esure not to pursue things for that reason alone. Secondly, Mrs W 
refers to legislation which provides that where damage is caused by two parties, a claim isnt 
invalid just because the claimant was also at fault. But thats not a test that this service 
applies in determining whether the insurer acted correctly. My role is to consider whether it was fair and reasonable for Esure not to pursue the third party for losses based on its 
obligations under the policy. And I dont think the way it handled the situation was 
unreasonable.
The arborists report sets out the causes of the subsidence, referring to various vegetation 
on Mrs Ws property and a tree on her neighbouring property, which is referred to as the 
predominant element of vegetation proximate to the focal area of movement. However, the 
other vegetation is also referred to as problematic. The report goes on to say that the 
vegetation on Mrs Ws property cannot be discounted as contributing to the overall level of 
soil drying proximate to the area of damage and are therefore also considered to retain a 
contributory influence.
Bearing in mind that at least one type of vegetation on Mrs Ws property was identified as 
causal, I dont agree with Mrs Ws assertion that the neighbour should be held liable for the 
losses in relation to the subsidence. Mrs Ws vegetation was also a contributory factor and 
so it is correct that her insurer would need to pay to put things right (and she would need to 
pay the excess under her policy), as the policy states the insurer will pay for the loss or 
damage to Your Buildingsas a result of Subsidence or Heave of the site on which Your 
Buildings stand. 
Theres no contractual requirement for Esure to seek to recover Mrs Ws losses from her 
neighbour. That being said, I accept that sometimes insurers do recover policyholders 
losses and its own losses from a third party. But this will involve a consideration as to 
whether theres a good chance the insurer will succeed in recovering those losses. That 
would depend on whether it would be able to show that the neighbours tree was a cause of 
the damage, (which isnt in dispute), but also whether the damage was foreseeable and 
could have been prevented. And its clear to me from the correspondence that Esure did 
make that consideration, deciding not to pursue the neighbour for losses, as there wouldve 
been a problem in proving that the neighbour should have foreseen that their trees could 
cause damage to Mrs Ws property.
So regardless of the fact that the neighbours tree contributed to the damage to Mrs Ws 
property, there were other hurdles that Esure would have to overcome in order to recover 
costs from the neighbour. I can understand why Esure chose not to proceed when it wasnt 
sure if it would succeed and it might have incurred substantial additional costs for nothing. 
So I dont think it treated Mrs W unfairly in deciding to not pursue the matter.
As I believe Esure has discharged its duty under the policy of accepting the subsidence 
claim and taking steps to put right the damage, I wont be requiring it to do any more in 
relation to pursuing the third party for losses. If Mrs W disagrees, she is free to pursue a 
claim through the courts against her neighbour directly, for the losses incurred, but before 
doing so, I would recommend she obtains independent legal advice in relation to this.
The boundary fence
Ive considered whether Esure has applied the exclusion which relates to wear and tear 
correctly in this case. The exclusion states the following is not covered: wear and tear
 loss or damage as a result of the lack of maintenance
 loss of value over time; or
 loss or damage that happens gradually over time (for example, loss or damage 
resulting from wet rot or dryrot, rusting, corrosion, the affects of light or the 
atmosphere, damp, condensation, fading, moths, vermin, birds, insects, fungi or 
other gradual deterioration).
As our investigator has pointed out, the issue regarding the fence wouldnt be considered a 
sudden or one-off insurable event and it wasnt damage that was caused by the subsidence 
directly. The vegetation became enmeshed over a period of time and the experts believe the 
vegetation had kept the fence up. Replacement of the fence is not something that is covered 
by the policy in those circumstances. So I dont think Esure has acted unreasonably in 
refusing to replace the fence.
Renewal quotes
Mrs W says the price of her insurance has gone up as a result of the claim. This is 
unfortunately common after a property suffers from subsidence. Esures responsibility was to 
record accurate information about what had happened  which it did. So I cant say its acted 
unfairly, as its the subsidence which has made the cost of Mrs Ws insurance increase  not 
Esures actions.
I appreciate that Mrs W holds her neighbours responsible for the subsidence, but as Ive 
explained above, I dont agree that this means Esure wouldve been expected to recover her 
losses, including all future increases to the cost of her insurance as a result of the 
subsidence. Mrs W would need to pursue a claim for any losses incurred through the courts, 
obtaining independent legal advice as to the prospect of success of any such claim, as I 
dont agree that Esure has done anything we wouldnt expect it to, in relation to its recording 
of the claim.
Distress and inconvenience
Ive no doubt that this claim has caused Mrs W considerable upset and inconvenience and I 
do sympathise with her, particularly as shes told us about unfortunate personal 
circumstances which led to health issues at the time. But I have to consider how much of the 
distress and inconvenience is attributable to Esures actions or inaction and how much of it 
wouldve been caused as a direct result of the subsidence itself. 
Having carefully considered the timeline of events and all the correspondence in this case, I 
dont consider that Esure is responsible for adding to the usual levels of disruption and 
inconvenience which comes with having a property suffering from subsidence. And I cant 
hold it liable for the subsidence itself or the related issues. I note that Mrs W strongly 
believes that her concerns regarding removal of the vegetation on her property were 
dismissed  and while I understand her concerns  I dont think Esure was able to offer any 
suitable alternatives. The experts all agreed that additional vegetation would need to be 
removed to prevent further movement. 
All things considered, I think Esure has managed the claim reasonably and in the way wed 
expect. And so, Im really sorry to disappoint Mrs W, but Im afraid I wont be upholding her 
complaint or requiring Esure to do anything differently.
My final decision
I do not uphold this complaint. Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs W to accept or 
reject my decision before 13 October 2021.
 
Ifrah Malik
Ombudsman