DRN-3724520
The complaint
Mrs L has complained that Redmayne-Bentley LLP (RB) invested part of her portfolio into 
shares of a company in the AIM index, saying that this was too high risk and that its 
resulted in financial loss to her pension plan.
Mrs L has also said that shes unhappy that RB increased its fees without any contact from 
her appointed financial adviser within RB  and that she was therefore unaware of this 
change.
What happened
The investigator who considered this complaint set out a detailed background to the 
complaint in his assessment of the case. Im broadly setting out the same background 
below, with some amendments for the purposes of this decision.
Mrs L signed RBs Discretionary Service Agreement Form for her pension plan on 10 June 
2010, agreeing to pay 0.5% per annum from 5 January 2011 for this service. In signing this 
form Mrs L affirmed that, I/We* have read and understood the Service Description and 
Terms and Conditions and understood and retained a copy of Redmayne Bentley's Terms 
and conditions and A Guide to our Services and Charges.
Up until 2020, RB issued invoices for their fees. However, the business said it stopped 
issuing invoices when it introduced a new style of investment report, as this provided the 
relevant information for its customers.
Mrs Ls RB financial adviser wrote to her on 18 December 2019 to explain his decision to sell 
Mrs Ls holding in HSBC and reinvest this in Boohoo (the AIM investment), but Mrs L didnt 
respond to this at that time.
In a letter dated 21 February 2020, RB wrote to notify Mrs L that it was increasing its 
charges, enclosing a copy of its Discretionary Investment Management: Schedule of 
Charges which would apply to her account from 1 April 2020.
Mrs L then emailed her RB financial adviser on 27 August 2021 to query the recent 
investment performance of her SIPP and her adviser documented the outcome of a meeting 
held with Mrs L on 8 September 2021. 
Mrs L subsequently emailed her RB adviser on 12 September 2021 and 27 September 2021 
and the adviser replied to both, taking Mrs Ls latter email as a notification that she no longer 
required their services.
Mrs L subsequently raised a complaint with the RB regarding its increased charges and the 
investment in Boohoo in her letter dated 19 October 2021, but RB didnt uphold the 
complaint. 
Dissatisfied with its response, Mrs L referred her complaint to this service.
In submitting the complaint, Mrs L made us aware of the difficult personal circumstances 
shed faced around the time of these events. 
An in specie transfer of Mrs Ls RB SIPP to AJ Bell has since been completed.
The investigator who assessed the complaint didnt think it should be upheld, saying the 
following in summary:
Firstly addressing the investment in the AIM company, the discretionary service 
agreement form signed by Mrs L captured her knowledge and experience, recording 
that in the previous three years shed undertaken transactions in UK equities (not 
AIM) and fixed interest securities. Mrs L was also recorded as seeking capital growth 
and having a medium attitude to risk.
No additional comments or restrictions on particular types of investment were added 
to the agreement, which meant that Mrs L had conferred full discretionary 
management to RB, enabling it to invest in anything which it felt was consistent with 
Mrs Ls requirement for a medium risk portfolio.
The investigator noted the following from RBs Investment Management 
Discretionary Service brochure:
the intention is to manage your portfolio within agreed investment 
guidelinesOnce these guidelines are established, we assume responsibility for the 
management of your investments, working with other advisors such as your 
accountant or solicitor as required.
 
You are also kept in touch with all dealing activity undertaken on your behalf. Each 
time we trade, a contract note is sent and a separate explanation of the rationale 
behind the decision will follow. 
The investigator also noted that, under the heading Medium Risk Portfolio, the 
brochure also said the following:
Shares in the portfolio will generally be invested in companies ranging from the 
FTSE 100 to the FTSE 250 indicesA percentage of the portfolio may be invested in 
the shares of smaller UK companies, i.e. from outside the FTSE 350 Index, and other 
special situations.
The investigator therefore concluded that Mrs L was made aware of the possible 
investment options for her medium risk portfolio and of the potential for RB to invest 
in smaller companies, such as those within the AIM. He also said that it was 
reasonable for an investment manager to consider a wide range of investments for 
the sake of diversification, and to achieve the desired investment objectives.
He further noted that sections 2.9 and 2.12 of the plans terms and conditions said 
the following:
Please check that the information contained on contract notes, statements and other 
communications are correct. Where this is not the case please contact us 
immediately. If you do not do this you could lose your right to redress. 
You must inform us of any investments, type of investment or market on which you 
do not wish us to advise on or deal for you in.
The investigator considered that this meant that Mrs L had been placed on notice 
that she needed to check the contract notes shed received and inform RB if there 
was any particular market or type of investment which she didnt wish to be included 
in her portfolio. But no such instruction was received.
The annual investment reports also mentioned Mrs Ls medium level of risk and her 
objectives.
On 18 December 2019, the RB adviser wrote to Mrs L to explain his decision to sell 
her holding in HSBC and reinvest this in Boohoo. Mrs L didnt object to this.
The investment report which directly followed this change set out the Boohoo holding 
under the heading AIM Equities, and said that this represented 3.23% of Mrs Ls 
portfolio value  and that this was the sole AIM holding within it. And so Mrs L would 
have been aware of the holding.
The investigator said that the overall make up of Mrs Ls portfolio, although 
containing a high proportion (75%) of equities, was consistent with a medium risk 
investment strategy, and also contained lower fixed interest investments, along with 
cash, other types of fund and alternative investments. 
The investment report of 30 June 2020 said that the holding in Boohoo now made up 
4.93% of the holding, with the following commentary:
At the individual holding level, the holdings of Boohoo Group PLC, Halma PLC and 
Astrazeneca PLC were the top contributors to the change in portfolio value. They 
returned £5,707 between them, with the standout being Boohoo Group PLC which 
delivered a monetary return of £3,006 during the review period.
And so the Boohoo holding had, at the time of that report, outperformed the other 
investments. Whilst it may then have underperformed, this was only known with the 
benefit of hindsight, and couldnt have been predicted by RB.
The reports for the six months ending 31 December 2020 and 30 June 2021 set out 
that the Boohoo holding had been the main detractor to returns and that it 
represented 3.92% and 3.37% of Mrs Ls portfolio in those respective reports.
But Mrs L didnt contact RB to query this until 27 August 2021. Following the meeting 
of 8 September 2021, Mrs Ls adviser said the following:
Following concerns raised by [Mrs L] regarding the recent performance of her SIPP, 
I put together documents illustrating the performance and also carried out a cashflow 
assessment based on information she had provided. I gave her the graph I had 
constructed and explained that there was certainly a Covid dip recently, but it also 
showed the recovery afterwards. The period was to the end of June 2021, because 
that was the period she has used in her figures to me. She was reassured by
this.Although Mrs Ls reply dated 12 September 2021 recorded that she had discussed 
not wanting to invest in AIM holdings, or other risky investments, there was, and had 
been, no instruction to sell the Boohoo or any other holding.
After Mrs L had confirmed on 27 September 2021 that she had decided to move her 
SIPP away from RB, the latter said the following:
Further to our recent conversation, I am sorry that you have decided to transfer out 
your Discretionary portfolio with Redmayne Bentley. This letter is to confirm that as of 
28th September 2021 Redmayne Bentley are no longer responsible for the
management of your account. The service level of the portfolio has been changed to 
Execution Only (pending the completion of the transfer), which means that you are 
responsible for the decisions surrounding the investments, including any corporate 
action events that may occur (you will be notified of these and you will need to 
instruct us on the action to be taken, if any.
Mrs L then complained about the Boohoo investment on 19 October 2021, nearly two 
years after the transaction. And even then, Mrs L didnt sell this investment  and RB 
wouldnt by that stage have been expected to do so without her specific instruction.
Therefore, for the reasons given, the investigator didnt think that RB should be 
expected to compensate Mrs L for any investment loss shed incurred on the Boohoo 
holding.
Addressing the matter of the increased charges, the investigator noted that, under 
the heading Fees and Charges within the terms and conditions, it said the following:
9.1 We will charge fees and commissions in accordance with our published rates; A 
Guide to Our Services and Charges.
 
9.3 In limited circumstances we may seek to change our fees or charges under this 
contractIn any event we will notify you in writing at least 30 days in advance of any 
such change taking place. Please note that continued use of our services after 
implementation of such a change implies your acceptance of it.
This meant that RB was entitled to increase its fees, so long as it gave sufficient 
notice. And RB did so in its letter dated 21 February 2020, in which it enclosed a 
copy of the Discretionary Investment Management: Schedule of Charges which 
would apply to Mrs Ls account from 1 April 2020.
RB confirmed that the first investment management fee which would be subject to 
the new standard rate would be that in December 2020. And the accompanying two 
page document set out the various fees, one of which was described as follows:
ANNUAL MANAGEMENT FEE  0.85% + VAT Subject to a minimum of
£600 + VAT and calculated as a percentage of the total value of your portfolio, with 
payment collected in arrears via four quarterly instalments.
This, the investigator said, meant that RB gave Mrs L more than the necessary notice 
period and Mrs L had sufficient opportunity to then seek alternative arrangements if 
she wasnt happy with this. The investigator was also satisfied that the fee schedule 
was clear, fair and not misleading, as was the regulatory requirement.And although Mrs L had suggested that this coincided with RB ceasing to produce 
invoices for charges, this had in fact happened two years before the charges were 
increased  so the two events werent connected.
The first investment report following the fee increase included information regarding 
the charges deducted for the period 30 June 2020 to 31 December 2020. This was 
made up of investment management fees of £661, dealing charges of £1,071 and 
stamp duty reserve tax of £123, making the total fees deducted for that period 
£1,855.
Within that report, RB also said that a more detailed breakdown was available upon 
request.
These fees and charges were set out in the same format as before the fee increase, 
so Mrs L ought to have been able to compare the difference, and if Mrs L needed 
more detail about the fees, she had the opportunity to ask RB about them  but the 
investigator noted that she hadnt done so.
Although the investigator noted that Mrs L had a close personal connection with the 
RB adviser, and that she expected such changes to be personally communicated to 
her by them, this wasnt generally how such matters were conveyed. As such, he 
didnt agree that there had been a lack of transparency in the changes.
Mrs L disagreed, however, saying the following in summary:
She said she would like the matter referred to an ombudsman, as she didnt think 
that her recognised disability  post traumatic stress disorder  of which the RB 
adviser was aware, along with the events which resulted in it, had been taken into 
account. This made her a very vulnerable client.
The adviser had acted for her and her late parents for many years, and knew how the 
tragic events in her life had affected her. But the adviser failed to bring to her 
attention the increase in charges, which would affect her disproportionately due to 
the discount which she had previously enjoyed. 
The adviser had also failed to draw to her attention the change in the definition of 
moderate risk. Shed given RB the discretion to manage her investments within set 
parameters, but it altered its risk definition to incorporate much higher investments 
without informing her.
The new charges were unclear, with no invoices and no breakdown showing how 
theyd been calculated, or what the amount exclusive of VAT was.
The investigator replied as follows:
He noted and sympathised with the difficult time Mrs L had been experiencing, and 
said hed taken those circumstances into consideration, but he felt that RB had acted 
correctly  and explained that he could only uphold the complaint if he felt that it had 
done something wrong.
With specific regard to the risk parameters, he reiterated that it wasnt unusual for a 
mix of higher and lower risk investments to be included in a medium risk portfolio. And he remained satisfied that the level of AIM shares held within Mrs Ls portfolio 
was modest and reasonable.
He also didnt think that RB had changed the parameters for the investment 
management of a medium risk portfolio  and these had been explained in the 
literature which had been provided to her.
Turning to the charges, the investigator said that these had been fully detailed each 
year and Mrs L had been made aware of the ability to request further detail if 
required. It would then have been up to Mrs L to request any further clarity, and he 
couldnt hold RB responsible for her not doing so.
The investigator confirmed that the complaint would be referred to an ombudsman for 
review, and asked for any further comments.
Mrs L reconfirmed that she would like her complaint referred to an ombudsman, saying the 
following in summary:
The discretion afforded to RB to manage her investment did not include AIM 
investments  and she was unaware that the parameters had changed.
There was no evidence that the investigator had taken into account her personal 
situation due to her PTSD. Vulnerable clients shouldnt be expected to undertake 
complex mathematical calculations to work out the amount of the annual charge 
exclusive of VAT, or need to request further information.
She should have been sent professional invoices so it was clear, not just a composite 
figure which disguised the commission rate. Mrs L was unaware of any other 
professional organisation which did this, and clear information was vital to clients 
decision making.
The rise in fees was disproportionate for her, as shed previously been charged 
0.5%. This had been communicated to her personally by the adviser at the time, and 
the increase in fee should have been communicated in the same way.
The purchase of the Boohoo shares, and their riskier nature, should also have been 
communicated to her. When she discovered that they were AIM shares, she asked 
the adviser to sell them, but they failed to do so.
The investigator responded as follows:
He didnt agree with Mrs Ls interpretation of RBs remit under the discretionary 
management agreement, as set out by the terms and conditions to which hed 
previously referred. 
At no time had Mrs L specifically requested that investment in AIM shares be 
excluded from her portfolio, even after being made aware of the Boohoo investment 
and its AIM status.
The investment parameters hadnt changed and it wasnt unusual for a wide range of 
investments to be included in a medium risk profile. As previously set out, investment 
in smaller company shares within such a portfolio had been specifically referenced by 
RB.The investigator reiterated that hed taken into account Mrs Ls circumstances, but 
also needed to bear in mind what was fair and reasonable to expect of the business. 
Mrs L was able to request more information about the plan charges if she needed it, 
and it wouldnt be fair to expect RB to second guess Mrs Ls requirements.
Further, the information relating to charges contained within the reports wasnt 
dissimilar to that which had previously been contained within the separate invoices. 
And so he remained satisfied that Mrs L had been provided with adequate 
information about the plan charges, both before and after they were increased.
It was up to a business to decide how it communicated with its customers, and this 
wasnt something in which this service would usually intervene. Although he noted 
Mrs Ls view that she should have been contacted personally to discuss this, he was 
satisfied that RB had acted fairly by mailing her along with all its other customers. 
This ensured that a consistent message was delivered and minimised the risk of 
anyone not being informed.
As agreed, however, the investigator referred the complaint for review by an ombudsman, 
and so the matter has now been passed to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
And Ive set out above a detailed summary of what both the investigator and Mrs L have said 
about the matter for the specific reason that, having reviewed the available evidence, I agree 
with the investigators conclusions, and for broadly the same reasons.
Theres little that I think I can meaningfully or practically add to what hes already said about 
the complaint, but I would comment as follows with regard to Mrs Ls continuing concerns 
over the matter.
As with the investigator, I dont think the parameters of managing Mrs Ls portfolio within a 
medium risk strategy had changed. As set out above, the parameters had been 
communicated as follows:
Shares in the portfolio will generally be invested in companies ranging from the 
FTSE 100 to the FTSE 250 indicesA percentage of the portfolio may be invested in 
the shares of smaller UK companies, i.e. from outside the FTSE 350 Index, and other 
special situations.
And the actual percentage of investment in the smaller UK company  Boohoo  was small, 
representing just 3% of Mrs L portfolio when the shares were bought. I can really only 
reiterate the investigators comments, in that a medium risk portfolio would be expected to 
have a range of higher and lower risk investments to balance out the overall risk and 
diversify the asset classes within which Mrs Ls pension funds were invested. And I dont 
think the existence of a 3% holding in a smaller UK company as was the case here would 
reasonably be at variance with this.
Further, the June 2020 investment report clearly set out that the Boohoo shares were an 
AIM investment, and at that time were described as the standout performer within the 
portfolio, but I cant see that Mrs L took issue with that particular investment, or its AIM 
status, until the performance then deteriorated.Mrs L also remains of the view that the change in charges hadnt been fairly or clearly 
communicated to her, taking into account her position and disability. Shes said that the 
adviser was aware of her situation, and the tragic events which had led to her suffering from 
PTSD, and so, as with the investigator, Ive thought about whether RB did in fact treat her 
fairly in the provision of the information relating to the changes in charges.
I agree with the investigator that, although the format of how the charges were presented  
from invoices to inclusion in the investment reports - may have changed, they were still quite 
clearly set out. And I dont think it would have been unduly onerous for Mrs L to be in a 
position to compare the new fees to those shed been charged in previous years, especially 
if they would have been quite a bit lower due to the discount which had previously been 
applied.
Ive then thought about whether what Mrs L has said about the more personalised approach 
with regard to the 0.5% charge meant that this needed to be carried forward to other 
aspects, including the notification of an increase in those charges. I think its arguable that, 
by perhaps going further than they might have with other RB customers, the RB adviser 
might have created such an expectation, but I need to also consider whether the actual 
manner in which RB actually notified Mrs L of the change in charges was fair.
In general terms, changes to the terms or the level of fees would need to be communicated 
in writing, and it might reasonably be deemed to be more helpful that such significant 
changes, such as in charges, would be communicated in a formal way so as to avoid 
confusion or the possibility of miscommunication. And in this case, I think the letter of 21 
February 2020, although not sent directly from Mrs Ls own RB adviser, was quite clear in 
what it was conveying about the standard rate which would henceforth apply as the 
investment management fee.
Ive further noted what Mrs L has said about her circumstances and what shed experienced 
in recent years, and her feeling that the investigator hadnt taken this into account. Mrs L had 
been through an unimaginable situation, for which I have every sympathy. But I do think the 
investigator has taken this into account  although he quite rightly also said that he needed 
to think about what was fair and reasonable to expect from RB. 
I also think its fair to say that the available evidence supports the position that Mrs L has 
been fairly engaged with her pension plan. Mrs L has been able to meet with the adviser, 
query the performance of her portfolio and then, when dissatisfied with certain aspects of the 
plan and its performance, transfer her SIPP to another provider. And in terms of 
understanding the charging structure, Mrs L has confirmed that she previously received 
invoices which more clearly set out the plan charges. 
And so it might also reasonably be expected that Mrs L was capable of assessing the 
information which was sent to her relating to the increase in charges, and that, as suggested 
by the investigator, if any aspect remained unclear, either in that February 2020 letter, or in 
the later investment reports themselves, she could have requested further detail on the 
charges if required.
Overall, therefore, whilst I appreciate that this may come as a disappointment to Mrs L, my 
conclusions are aligned with those of the investigator, and for the reasons set out above. As 
such, I cant fairly or reasonably require Redmayne-Bentley LLP to take any action towards 
resolving Mrs Ls complaint.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, my final decision is that I dont uphold the complaint.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs L to accept or 
reject my decision before 11 April 2023.
 
Philip Miller
Ombudsman