DRN-4203977
The complaint
Miss L complains that Creation Financial Services Limited wont refund all the credit card 
payments she didnt make.
What happened
Miss L says she told Creation that she didnt recognise some payments on her credit card 
account. It made a refund to her. But she says she hadnt been receiving statements and her 
account was blocked. When she was able to see the information she noticed that there were 
more payments and reported these too. She is unhappy that no action was taken, and her 
credit file was affected.
Creation said that in error it hadnt refunded one of the original payments for £7.60. It 
refunded this. But it said that it hadnt received a response to its request for information 
about the further payments and hadnt been able to consider these. It said it could look at 
these but referred to the timescale for making a chargeback and couldnt guarantee the 
outcome. It said it wouldnt be amending her credit file as she hadnt been making payments. 
Even during a dispute Miss L would be required to make the minimum payments and taking 
into account that there had been undisputed payments on her account.
Our investigator recommended that the complaint be upheld in part. Miss L had provided 
evidence that she had sent details of the further disputed payments to Creation. And had 
followed this up until she raised the complaint. Our investigator noted that the further 
payments included some for which Miss Ls card would have needed to be present. Miss L 
had no explanation of how someone could have obtained her card at those times. So, our 
investigator said that only the further card not present transactions should be refunded. The 
total amount of those card not present transactions was £665.57. Creation should refund the 
further ones of £322.40 which she detailed in a schedule plus eight percent simple interest 
until the refund date. She noted that Miss L said she didnt have online access to her 
account. But she could have made payments over the phone. And so, there was no basis to 
alter her credit record. Miss L accepted the resolution.
Creation asked for a copy of the email evidence from Miss L about the further payments as it 
said it didnt have a record of this. Our investigator sent this. Creation maintained that by the 
date of contact from Miss L it wouldnt have been able to raise a chargeback because this 
was outside the 120-day time limit. It said Miss L had received all the statements and there 
was a note on the statements saying any dispute needed to be raised within 60 days.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I need to take account of the Payment Services Regulations 2017. And to think about 
whether Miss L authorised the payments from her account. Thats more than the payments 
being authenticated but would require her to consent to them. So, its not enough for it just to 
be authenticated, say with the card details. Where credit is involved, as is the case here on 
credit cards, the Consumer Credit Act 1974 applies and it states that a consumer wouldnt 
be liable for an unauthorised payment unless they consented to someone else having 
possession of that card.   
I dont have any audit information about these payments other than what is shown on      
Miss Ls credit card statement. So, Im unable to say that they were authenticated other than 
with the card details for the card not present payments and the presence of her card for the 
other ones.
I also need to consider if she consented to them. 
I note that all of the original payments she disputed and that were charged back appear to 
have been permanently refunded. Creation hasnt provided further evidence about what any 
response to the charge back was. But they were accepted as not made by Miss L.
It has provided internal information which would seem to confirm that as Miss L says when 
payments are missed statements are supressed and online access removed. So, I can see 
why Miss L would most likely have difficulty accessing her statements. She says that when 
she did have access she raised a dispute about further payments. Creation asked her to 
provide the details of these. And she has provided evidence that she did so. Ive seen the 
statement schedules that she marked and that these were sent more than once. Creation 
hasnt given any explanation of why it wouldnt have received these.
As our investigator says there are some disputed card present transactions. From what I can 
see these relate to three specific dates. And on each of those there were card not present 
transactions disputed too. But Miss L hasnt been able to explain how someone would have 
been able to have her physical card without her knowing. She didnt report losing this and 
she was making genuine card payments during the period.
I take into account that Creation undertook no investigation into her further claim. I 
understand that the way it would have obtained evidence is through the industry chargeback 
scheme which has deadlines. Miss L has given a plausible and reasonable explanation for 
not raising the further disputed payments earlier. And I also need to say that my finding on 
whether there was fraud on the account isnt fairly limited to the outcome of any chargeback 
process but is about whether I think the payments were authorised. 
None of the original card not present transaction refunds were disputed by the merchants on 
the information I have. So, I agree that its most likely that these further payments werent 
authorised taking into account that there is very limited information about how these were 
made and nothing further from Creation to show that these were authorised.
Miss L has already received a refund of £343.13 of the card not present payments. The total 
of card not present payments disputed was as our investigator says £665.57. So, the further 
refund is a net £322.44. This should be refunded to Miss L with simple interest.
I agree with our investigator that while Miss L was clearly unhappy that no action was taken 
it was reasonable to expect her to make minimum payments to the account. And that there 
was a means for her to do so. So, I wont be requiring Creation to make any alteration to her 
credit record.
My final decision
My decision is that I uphold this complaint in part and require Creation Financial Services Limited to refund to Miss L the further payments of £322.44 plus simple interest of eight per 
cent per annum from the date of each payment to the date of settlement.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss L to accept or 
reject my decision before 11 September 2023.
 
Michael Crewe
Ombudsman