DRN-2484446
The complaint
Mr and Mrs B complain that Amtrust Europe Limited has unfairly withdrawn funding under a 
legal expenses insurance policy for a legal claim brought against them.
 
For ease, when I refer to Amtrust, this includes reference to the acts or omissions of its claim 
handlers. 
What happened
Mr and Mrs B have family legal protection provided under their home insurance policy. In 
2019, they commissioned the building of a garden room with a builder, which Ill call K. Mr 
and Mrs B withheld final payment for the project in October 2019, as they say the works 
were of an unsatisfactory standard and had caused water ingress into the garden room. K 
subsequently took legal action. 
Its my understanding this is how events unfolded.
 
A few weeks later, Mr and Mrs B submitted a claim under their family legal protection cover 
to defend Ks claim against them and counter-claim if the remediation costs were to exceed 
the amount of the payment in dispute, which was £4,400 (but contested to be £3,350). 
Amtrust instructed solicitors, which Ill call LD, to review whether the case enjoyed 
prospects of success and was proportionate to pursue, both of which were required under 
the terms of the policy for cover to be provided. 
LD wrote to Mr and Mrs B setting out information about prospects and proportionality and 
requested further details about the claim. And they let Amtrust know that they couldnt 
assess prospects until expert evidence was provided about the build. That evidence appears 
to have been provided during December 2019, with LD notifying Amtrust that remediation 
works, and so any counter-claim, was valued between £4,500 and £6,500. LD informed 
Amtrust that it wasnt proportionate to go on record but as there were prospects, they wanted 
funding for the defence and counter-claim and said they could provide proportionate 
assistance up to the value of the claim. Amtrust agreed. 
LD filed a Part 20 counter-claim in December 2019 against K. And in February 2020, a 
judgment in default was obtained. But the sum to be awarded was to be decided at a later 
hearing. 
Mr and Mrs B then took steps for remediation work to be completed on the garden room as 
they were looking to sell their property.  Around the same time LD wrote to Mr and Mrs B 
providing an update on costs; they said the costs were estimated to be £7,000 plus £750 for 
disbursements if they were to go on record, which they werent. The letter confirmed it was a 
formality as they were continuing to assist from the side-lines. An update was provided to 
Amtrust and further funding requested to defend against Ks claim and assist with the 
counter-claim. 
Amtrust agreed the further funding, bringing it to £1,856 inclusive of VAT. And it said funding 
could continue to be provided which was proportionate, and which was usually the difference 
between the claim and counter-claim values. 
The remedial works were subsequently completed at a cost to Mr and Mrs B of £4,332. As 
the claim against them was contested to be just over £3,350, LD notified them it was no 
longer proportionate to proceed as the difference between the claims was under £1,000 and 
the full value of funding had already been exhausted.  However, as I understand it 
assistance was still provided to Mr and Mrs B on a pro bono basis.
 
Mr and Mrs B didnt agree the value of the respective claims ought to be offset against each 
other to establish proportionality; they considered their potential loss could be both claims 
combined. And so they complained to Amtrust. Clarification was sought by Amtrust about Ks 
prospects against Mr and Mrs B and were informed by LD that it is presumed K had 
prospects as that claim was in relation to an undisputed and withheld debt owed under the 
original contract.  
Amtrust didnt uphold Mr and Mrs Ks complaint as it was satisfied funding had been 
provided whilst it was proportionate to the value of the benefit from the claims; and it had 
actually funded over this amount. Our investigator also found that proportionality had been 
assessed and funding withdrawn fairly. 
Mr and Mrs B asked for matter to be reviewed as they are of the view proportionality hasnt 
been calculated correctly. 
Since the matter was referred to me, Mr and Mrs B have confirmed that although a judgment 
in default was obtained for the counter-claim, the judge allowed K to make submissions 
during a hearing in September 2020. They explained the court found in their favour and 
awarded the full counter-claim value of £4,332 and costs of £725.  The costs have been paid 
by K, but the damages will not be settled until Ks original claim has been decided. A hearing 
has been scheduled for June 2021 for the court to consider the remaining issues. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I understand Mr and Mrs B feel strongly about their claim and why they want funding to 
continue. But I can only ask for this claim to be settled, or reconsidered, if I find funding has 
been withdrawn incorrectly (i.e. not in accordance with the policy terms and conditions) or if 
the policy terms and conditions have been applied unfairly and/or unreasonably. 
The starting position is the contract Mr and Mrs B have with Amtrust  the policy document 
and schedule. These set out the level of cover provided and under what circumstances a 
claim can be made and any conditions and/or exclusions which maybe applicable. 
The family legal protection provides cover for, amongst others:
Consumer Pursuit
Advisers costs to pursue a legal action following a breach of contract you have for 
buying or renting goods or services for your private use. This includes the purchase 
of your home. The contract must have been made after you first purchased this 
insurance. 
Legal action is defined as:
The pursuit or defence of civil legal cases for damages or injunctions and the 
defence of criminal prosecutions. Contrary to submissions received from LD, via Amtrust, during our consideration of this 
complaint, the terms do appear to provide cover for Mr and Mrs Bs situation given that the 
definition of legal action includes the defence of a civil claim for damages, which this 
involves.
But as with almost all insurance policies, there are limitations and exclusions to the cover. 
Under Conditions of your Family Legal Protection, Prospects of Success, the policy says:
At any time we may form the view that you do not have a more than 50% chance of 
winning the case and achieving a positive outcome. If so, we may decline support or 
any further support. Examples of positive outcomes are:
a. Being able to recover the amount of money at stake.
b. Being able to enforce a judgment.
c. Being able to achieve an outcome which best serves your interests. 
And under the General Exclusions, the policy excludes:
1. There is no cover where:
c) A reasonable estimate of your advisers costs of acting for you is more than the 
amount in dispute.
 
Although Amtrust provides the family legal protection cover, assessments of whether cover 
is provided, and any subsequent legal claim and defence, is handled by solicitors (LD in this 
case). So my consideration here is whether Amtrust was entitled to fairly rely on the 
information it was given by LD about prospects and costs. We wouldnt usually find it unfair 
for an insurer to rely on legal advice unless we thought it obviously wrong or based on 
factual errors, such that a prudent legal expenses insurer ought reasonably to have realised 
this. Neither we nor the insurer can reasonably second-guess the expert legal opinion or 
day-to-day handling of litigation by professional solicitors (who are subject to their own code 
of conduct and regulatory standards). 
Mr and Mrs B were notified their claim had been passed to LD, who wrote to them setting out 
that cover would be provided so long as prospects of success were enjoyed, and legal action 
was proportionate to pursue. But at that time, that couldnt be established as it wasnt clear 
whether K had performed the contract to the required standard, such that Ks claim against 
Mr and Mrs B could successfully be defended or that they could have a reasonable counter-
claim against K. And it was only once they had obtained expert evidence on the build that LD 
determined they did have prospects both for defending the claim brought by K and of 
counter-claiming. However, it would seem that from very early on LD didnt think it was 
proportionate for them to go on record  that is, the cost of them officially representing Mr 
and Mrs B outweighed the potential benefit of the claims to the policyholders.
Strictly speaking, it appears Amtrust could have declined the claim outright because it wasnt 
proportionate for LD to go on record. However, its clear LD thought Mr and Mrs B had good 
prospects for a case against K, particularly since the expert identified faults with the build 
and quantified remediation works to cost between £4,500 and £6,500. And Amtrust agreed 
LD could provide assistance to Mr and Mrs B, which it would fund, but only until the claim 
value had been met. So it would seem Mr and Mrs B have received a benefit from the cover 
that, strictly, they werent entitled to. 
LD submitted a defence and counter-claim on behalf of Mr and Mrs B in December 2019. 
The file information shows that at various points, it was thought the claim and counter-claim would be considered together and conversely, they would progress separately.  Ultimately, it 
would appear Mr and Mrs Bs counter-claim progressed separately (and first in time) from 
Ks claim and any defence against it. I find that quite odd and am surprised Amtrust didnt 
query this, as I believe the generally accepted way such matters would ordinarily progress is 
so that all matters could be heard together; the defence and counter-claim being so 
interlinked, i.e. in effect we dont owe the alleged fee because you havent finished the job 
properly and indeed is now going to cost us additional money to put that right.  But I dont 
know if what happened was a result of how LD progressed the counter-claim or whether it 
was at the behest of the court. 
Either way, Mr and Mrs B obtained a judgment in default on their counter-claim against K. 
And that occurred prior to Ks claim against them being heard (and which is yet to be heard). 
But that judgment was for a non-specified sum on the counter-claim only, with the sum to be 
determined at a later hearing. Mr and Mrs B obtained quotes and it finally cost them £4,332 
for the remediation work to be completed. And it was around this time that LD said they 
could no longer assist as the funding that had been provided to date already exceeded the 
benefit of the claim. This was because they had established Ks claim against Mr and Mrs B 
was valued at only £3,350 whereas their counter-claim was for £4,332  a difference of 
under £1,000 - and funding of over £1,800 had already been provided.
 
Mr and Mrs B argued the way this had been calculated was unfair as they could potentially 
lose both cases and so lose nearly £8,000. Although I understand Mr and Mrs Bs point, I 
dont agree with it as, unrealistically (and contrary to the legal advice) their argument is 
predicated on them losing both cases. There is no persuasive evidence that is likely. They 
never made the final contractual payment to K, so this was money they still had and 
technically owed; they were effectively up by £3,350. And they were counter-claiming 
against K for £4,332. So assuming both cases were successful, the benefit to Mr and Mrs K 
would be the difference  which I agree is less than £1,000.  And it does seem LD assessed 
that both claims would be successful. I know Mr B says he was told by LD that Ks claim only 
had a 15% chance of success. But that doesnt appear anywhere in the file information 
weve been given, nor does it appear that LD advised Amtrust of that; indeed LD told 
Amtrust that K had prospects, as set out below.
 
So the question I need to consider is whether Amtrust was entitled to rely on LDs 
assessment that both claims enjoyed prospects  i.e. that both Ks claim and Mr and Mrs Bs 
counter-claim would have a more than 50% chance of winning and therefore nearly 
cancelling each other out. 
Clearly, LD assessed that Mr and Mrs B had a good case against K given that it filed a 
defence and counter-claim, so I think we can take it as read that LD believed they had good 
prospects of winning. Indeed, it seems reasonably foreseeable that a consumer will suffer 
damage  being the cost of putting things rights  if a builder, negligently and/or in breach of 
contract, fails to complete a job satisfactorily or at all. And I find it fair that Amtrust relied on 
that. 
But when it comes to defending Ks claim it doesnt appear that a detailed assessment of 
prospects was carried out. For example, I havent seen any legal advice about why Mr and 
Mrs Bs alleged breach of contract  the non-payment of the final sum  would likely lose, 
rather than be regarded as a fair quantum meruit part payment for work actually done, 
particularly as faults were identified with Ks work.  I can see Amtrust did query Ks prospects 
with LD when Mr and Mrs B notified it that LD had closed their file.  LD confirmed:
The other sides claim is in reference to an undisputed sum and withheld value 
against the original contract and so I would presume it would have good prospects of success. The client agrees it is owed under the contract and so the value of the total 
claim I assume would stand. 
This isnt the type of assessment Id necessarily expect to see in such a case, given what I 
have said above. LD have nevertheless confirmed that Ks claim had prospects of success 
and Im satisfied Amtrust was entitled to rely on that. As both the claim and defence/counter-
claim were deemed to have prospects of success, then I find it fair that the values were 
offset against one another to determine whether it was still proportionate to provide 
assistance. And as LD were never officially on record, and only providing assistance, I dont 
find it unfair that the assistance was withdrawn when it was. Mr and Mrs B had already 
received assistance over and above what they were entitled to under the policy. 
I have thought about Mr and Mrs B being left to deal with the upcoming hearing without LDs 
legal assistance. And as Amtrust provided funding when it didnt have to, whether fairly and 
reasonably it ought to continue doing so. I have thought about what the prudent uninsured 
person might reasonably do in such circumstances, as that seems a fair test. And I think it 
fair to take into account that Mr and Mrs Bs counter-claim has now been heard and they 
have a judgment against K, which they can make the judge aware of in the upcoming 
hearing (or Mr and Mrs B could attempt to settle out of court  although thats something for 
them to decide; Im not giving legal advice).  Taking everything into account, I dont find that 
Amtrust should continue to fund assistance when it isnt proportionate. A prudent uninsured 
person probably wouldnt spend thousands in legal fees trying to recover less than £1,000. 
I understand Mr and Mrs B will be disappointed with this outcome. But having considered the 
matter carefully, Im not persuaded Amtrust has done anything wrong in withdrawing funding 
when it did. It follows that I wont be asking it to do anything further. 
My final decision
For the reasons given, I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr and Mrs B to 
accept or reject my decision before 4 June 2021.
 
Claire Hopkins
Ombudsman