DRN-2764107
The complaint
 Mr H is unhappy with Santander UK plc (Santander) because his payments were held up 
because of Santanders fraud prevention procedures and generally with the level of service 
he received. 
What happened
Mr H experienced problems when trying to send funds to his son in America in July 2020, 
which our investigator documented in detail, but I have summarised these below again for 
ease of reference. 
27 July 2020: Mr H tried on several occasions to make a payment of £1,000 using a third 
party currency conversion service, which Ill refer to as X. He tried using his debit and credit 
cards and making a bill payment, but each payment was declined.
Santander attempted to contact Mr H about his debit card payment the same day but was 
unsuccessful in reaching him and left a voicemail. Mr H made a payment of £1,000 
successfully using his debit card the next day.
29 July 2020: Mr H tried to make a payment of £19,000 via open banking. This was flagged 
by Santanders fraud prevention system.
Mr H says Santander told him that the transactions for £1,000 were declined as they were a 
lot of money, but that he would need to speak to another team about the larger payment. As 
that team wasnt available to speak to him, Mr H was asked to call back the next day.
Mr H was unhappy with Santander, so he registered a complaint.
30 July 2020: Santanders fraud team contacted Mr H during the morning to confirm that the 
£19,000 transaction was genuine. Mr H confirmed that it was and was advised to make the 
payment again.
Mr H was assured that the payment of £19,000 would be made that day, and that there 
would be no problems with making further payments. The payment wasnt processed on the 
same day, so he tried to re-send it that evening, but it didnt go and his account was then 
blocked.
1 August 2020: Mr H called Santander and was told that the problem couldnt be resolved by 
back office before Monday.
4 August 2020: The Santander fraud team contacted Mr H and advised him to remake the 
payment as the account restrictions had been lifted. Mr H then made the payment of 
£19,000 via open banking successfully.
Santander called Mr H, and offered £75 compensation to cover the inconvenience hed 
suffered. It confirmed this in a final response letter and credited the money to Mr Hs 
account.
Mr H then had further problems with his debit card in September 2020: Mr H requested a 
new debit card and was told his account was still on a fraud list, and his request for a new 
card needed to go through to an adviser in the security team to authorise.  
Mr H complained about this.
Santander sent Mr H a further final response letter upholding his complaint. Santander 
explained that a temporary restriction on his card wasnt removed until 1 September 2020 
when Mr H asked for a new card. Santander credited Mr H with £50 as an apology for poor 
service.
Mr H wasnt happy with this and brought his case to our service. He said he should get more 
compensation and said hed lost out on interest and exchange rates and had needed to 
borrow to pay a tax bill.
Our investigator noted that Santander had acknowledged its errors and offered 
compensation. He reviewed Santanders account terms and thought Santander was entitled 
to apply fraud prevention measures, even though they may be inconvenient for customers. 
He thought that the amount offered by Santander wasnt enough to cover the inconvenience 
suffered and said Santander should pay another £100.
Santander agreed to this, but Mr H thought this wasnt enough and wanted Santander to pay 
£250. Santander wasnt willing to do this. 
Mr H remained unhappy, so the case has now come to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I have considered this from both sides, as I can see the banks need to have good fraud 
prevention measures, but also that they need to be operated without causing customers 
unnecessary inconvenience. 
Santanders General Terms and Conditions, under the heading, Taking money from your 
account , state in section 6.6 that Santander can refuse any payment instructions if it 
reasonably suspects these relate to fraud but will tell the customer by the end of the next 
working day if that happens. 
Santander is entitled to take fraud prevention steps in line with its terms and conditions and 
as it says in section 6.9.3 of the terms and conditions, there may be a delay in processing 
the payment while checks take place. This is reasonable and is for the protection of both 
customer and bank.
Section 9.9 of the General Terms and Conditions explains that the fraud detection systems 
may highlight unusual spending patterns. This is something Ive seen across the banking 
industry. This section also explains how Santander may contact its customers if it believes 
an account is at risk of a security threat.
While I can see that Mr H encountered inconvenient blocks and delays, Santander was 
entitled to use its fraud prevention measures so long as it did so in line with its terms and 
conditions, and its normal processes. One of the reasons its systems couldve flagged 
transactions for review would be if it was different to Mr Hs normal spending pattern, and 
Santander have said that the use of X for transactions wouldve caused this to happen. Overall, I cant say that Santander acted unreasonably in applying these measures.  
However, as it has conceded, Santander didnt do all it shouldve done, and made a number 
of errors.
When Mr H tried to make the £19000 payment for the second time, Santanders systems 
highlighted the payment for security checks again. This happened after Mr H had been told 
on the phone that there would be no further problems. Santander has said that the reason 
for the recurrence of the checks was that Mr H had changed the way he made the payment, 
so it looked different to the previous attempt. I cant say that Santander was at fault in 
highlighting the payment for further checks, but it shouldve contacted Mr H within one 
working day about this and didnt do so. I can understand that this was frustrating for Mr H, 
and that the resulting block on his account was inconvenient.
Mr H called Santander, but it was unable to give him an update. The issue was resolved 
after the weekend when the block was removed, and the payment cleared. This delay wasnt 
in line with Santanders normal processes, which it has acknowledged. Santander paid Mr H 
£75 compensation for the inconvenience suffered.   
Mr H then encountered further issues when he asked for a new debit card. He found that he 
was unable to get a new card straightaway because a temporary restriction had been left on 
his card since July and was only removed when he asked for a new card. However, from 
what I can see, this hadnt impacted his use of the account in the meantime and caused a 
small delay to the re-issue of Mr Hs debit card. Santander paid Mr H £50 for this 
inconvenience, which I think was reasonable in the circumstances.. 
Our investigator didnt think £125 was enough to cover the inconvenience and stress caused 
to Mr H, and thought a further £100 was appropriate to cover all the inconvenience caused. 
He intended this to also cover the small interest and exchange rates that Mr H estimated 
hed suffered. The additional sum of £100 takes the compensation to a total sum of £225, 
which I think is fair and reasonable. Santander was entitled to apply its fraud prevention 
measures, and these in themselves can unfortunately cause inconvenience Santander then 
added to this by its errors and delays, and I understand Mr Hs frustration with what 
happened, but I am satisfied that £225 is fair compensation for this.   
Putting things right
To put things right, Im requiring Santander to pay £100 to Mr H as it has already agreed to 
do. This is in addition to the £125 it has already paid. As Ive said, I think this is fair and I 
wont be asking Santander to do any more.
My final decision
To resolve this complaint, I require Santander UK plc to pay Mr H £100, as it has already 
agreed to do. This is in addition to the £125 it has already paid.  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 June 2021.
 
Rosemary Campbell
Ombudsman