DRN-3400022
The complaint
Ms H is unhappy that Western Union Payment Services GB Limited allowed her to send 
money to a scammer.
What happened
Ms H has said around June 2020 she met someone online she entered into a romantic 
relationship with. This person, who turned out to be a scammer, told her he needed her to 
send money to his sick family members in another country. Around six months after they 
started speaking she says the scammer started to threaten and intimidate her into sending 
money by claiming he had family members in government organisations and she would be in 
danger if she refused his requests for money.
Throughout the course of the scam Ms H made two payments to the scammer via Western 
Union - £1,300 on 1 February 2021 and £4,000 on 12 February 2021.
When she made the second payment, Western Union contacted her to discuss it in line with 
its security processes. Ms H said the payment was for a friend and provided the answers 
shed been coached to give by the scammer. As she was able to satisfy it the payment was 
genuine, Western Union allowed the payment to be made.
Ms H feels Western Union ought to have spotted she was vulnerable, questioned her further 
and shouldve recognised the information she provided was a cover story.  As it didnt do 
enough to protect her she feels it should be liable for her loss. Western Union feels it 
followed correct procedures when processing the transactions and gathered all the 
information it was required to.
Our investigator didnt uphold the complaint. As Ms H didnt accept this the complaint has 
been passed to me to make a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The relevant law and regulations  plus good industry practice suggest Western Union has a 
duty of care to protect its customers against the risk of fraud and scams so far as reasonably 
possible. And I think its actions reflect in this case that its on the look out for situations 
where its customers might be at risk. It questioned Ms H about one of the payments she 
made to satisfy itself they were genuine and provided her with fraud warnings before she 
requested the payments.
I think Western Union might be negligent and liable for reasonably foreseeable losses if, in 
breach of that duty of care, it fails to act on information which ought reasonably alert a 
prudent authorised payment institution to potential fraud or financial crime by, or against its 
customer.
But, the Payment Services Regulations 2017, alongside Western Unions own terms and 
conditions, also indicate that it should execute and authorise payment instructions without 
undue delay. And as a starting point there is a presumption that liability for authorised 
payments is on the payer, even where it mightve been made as part of a scam.
Theres no dispute in this case that Ms H authorised the transactions. So Ive taken the 
above obligations into account when deciding if Western Union acted fairly and reasonably 
when it followed her instructions. And having done so, I dont think it reasonably ought to 
have recognised anything unusual in the payments Ms H is asking it to refund. 
As a starting point this type of payment service is typically used for individuals to send 
money abroad, often to individuals they know. Due to the nature of this service people 
sending payments dont often have a longstanding relationship with the payment service or a 
regular pattern of use and Ms H didnt in this case. So its often not possible to establish 
when any behaviour is unusual or suspicious. And, the fact alone that someone has 
suddenly started using a money transfer service isnt an indication of this either. Again, part 
of the nature of the service is that it can be used quickly to send one off payments abroad.
That said, in this case, Western Union has said the second payment Ms H made, which was 
around £4,000, triggered an internal process to verify it and check she wasnt at risk of a 
scam. Western Union has explained it called Ms H to discuss the payment. A recording of 
the call is no longer available but I have seen its notes around what was discussed. 
According to Western Unions records Ms H told the person she spoke to that the payment 
was to a friend, that shed met face to face and had last seen two to four years ago. She said 
she kept in touch with them by phone. Ms H has confirmed she gave Western Union a cover 
story she was coached to give by the scammer.
Based on the information she gave, Western Union proceeded with her payment instruction. 
And overall I dont think this was unreasonable. Ms H has described being prepared with a 
cover story so I accept that what she told it may not have been true. But what Im 
considering here is whether Western Union reasonably ought to have known this was a 
cover story and that she was lying, and overall, I dont think there seems to have been 
anything provided in her answers that ought to have concerned it. Essentially, I dont think it 
reasonably couldve known Ms H wasnt being honest about the payment or that she felt too 
threatened to tell the truth.
All of the other information Western Union requests as part of its processes was provided, so 
I dont think it acted unreasonably in accepting her answers and following her instruction.
Ms H has described herself as vulnerable because she was the victim of the scam. And I 
can understand why the nature of this particular scam, especially given how emotionally 
involved she was with the scammer, not to mention the subsequent threats she endured, 
wouldve left her feeling very vulnerable. But Western Union could only act on vulnerability 
that was apparent to it. Whilst Ms H has said she was obviously distressed when she made 
payments, statements from branch staff say she was chatty and seemed fine.
Whilst these statements are both equally valid I have to take into account that Western 
Union staff ought to be on the look out for indications someone is at risk and clearly it is 
because it carried out initial checks. On balance, if Ms H had appeared distressed or 
vulnerable I think its likely it would have acted. But in any event, recognising a vulnerability 
wouldve meant carrying out additional security checks which is what Western Union did and 
Ms H wasnt honest about her circumstances. I understand Ms H had been coached and 
threatened so Im not suggesting shes at fault for providing a cover story. But ultimately 
Western Union could only act on the information she gave it.Ms H has raised the fact that she pawned jewellery minutes before sending the money 
through Western Union. As I understand it the Western Union agent was on the same 
premises as a pawnbroking service and this is set up so people can send money theyve 
obtained by pledging items in order to receive a short term loan. So I dont agree that using 
both services at the same time in itself shouldve been recognised as a vulnerability. Due to 
the nature of the services she was using, I think it wouldve been fairly common for people to 
use both at the same time.
Ms H has also mentioned that Western Union should have a name matching service in 
place. What shes mentioned doesnt apply to this type of service. But, in order to collect 
payment the recipient wouldve had to have had certain information that as I understand it 
Ms H provided to them as part of the scam. So overall it seems Western Union did follow its 
processes as it shouldve in sending the money.
Im sorry to hear of what Ms H went through. I can see it mustve been really difficult and 
emotionally distressing for her. But Western Union hasnt acted unfairly in this case so isnt 
liable for her loss.
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms H to accept or 
reject my decision before 11 July 2022.
 
Faye Brownhill
Ombudsman