DRN-3682059
The complaint
Ms A complains she hasnt received the service from True Bearing Limited which she signed 
up for, despite the fees shes paid. She believes shed have benefitted from ongoing advice, 
so shes suffered a financial loss. To resolve the complaint shed like the fees refunded plus 
additional compensation.
What happened
I issued a lengthy and detailed provisional decision on this case in May 2022, separating out 
the parts of the complaint  I thought were outside our jurisdiction as theyd been raised too 
late, and providing my thoughts on the merits of the part we could look at. 
The history of this complaint is well known to both parties, so Ill only give some key details 
here. 
In July 2012 Ms A took advice from Mr O of True Bearing Limited (TBL) about her pension 
arrangements. Shed been awarded a £25,000 pension sharing order as part of her divorce 
settlement, and she held paid-up pension plans with two other providers totalling around 
£20,000. At the time her circumstances were recorded as:
Aged 56, divorced with two non-dependent children
Had experienced poor health over a number of years;
Unemployed for a year, living off savings;
Risk profile of 3 (extremely cautious)
She was ten years away from retirement
TBL recommended Ms A consolidate and transfer her combined total pension benefits of 
around £49,367 into a personal pension with provider S. And after deducting TBLs fee, it 
said the funds should be invested in line with her risk profile of 3. The suitability report 
recommended Ms A should keep her pension under regular review. And TBLs terms of 
business said any recommended product would be reviewed with Ms A at agreed intervals. It 
set out the charges as a one-off advice fee of 3% and an annual fee of 0.5% which would be 
paid to TBL as commission from Ms As fund by provider S. 
Ms A accepted the advice and a retirement account was set up with provider S, which sent 
her annual statements over the years. The 2019 statement showed the plan value was 
around £64,567. 
In July 2019 Ms A complained to this service, as shed finally contacted the TBL adviser for a 
review, to be told she wasnt on its system. Ms A had discovered from S that over the years 
it had passed on more than £1,900 to TBL, so she requested S remove TBL from her policy 
to stop the payment of commission. As Ms A had received no reviews or contact from TBL 
since the initial meeting, she thought it unfair shed been paying for a service she hadnt 
received.
TBL said Ms A had raised her complaint too late, being more than six years since the advice 
had been given in 2012, and more than three years since she ought reasonably to have 
realised she hadnt been receiving annual reviews, if shed wanted them. It also pointed out 
it had written to Ms A as one of its transactional clients in November 2015, to explain that 
unless she paid a higher level of fees she was no longer entitled to ongoing service or 
advice. TBL said this letter wouldve triggered Ms As reasonable awareness she had cause 
to complain.
Ms A said she hadnt received the November 2015 letter, so wasnt aware TBLs service had 
changed. And during 2014-2017 Ms A had experienced various exceptional circumstances 
which explained why she hadnt complained sooner, including her own ongoing poor health 
and various home and family commitments. I havent been more specific about these events 
to protect Ms As privacy. So Ms A said it was unfair to time-bar the complaint, and to put 
things right she wanted a refund of all fees paid to TBL, and compensation equivalent to the 
current fund value (just over £64,567) plus compound interest. 
The complaint was considered by two of our investigators. But as agreement couldnt be 
reached the case was passed to an ombudsman. 
My provisional findings
In my provisional decision I set out the rules which this service must follow before we can 
consider the merits of a complaint. These rules are set by the Financial Conduct Authority 
and are known as the Dispute Resolution (DISP) rules. DISP rule 2.8.2 (2) says that where a 
business doesnt consent to us looking at a complaint, (and to be clear TBL doesnt have to), 
we cant consider it if its been brought;
(a) more than six years after the event complained of; or (if later)
(b) more than three years after the consumer knew, or ought reasonably to have been 
aware, they had cause to complain
unless 
-the complainant referred the complaint to the business being complained about or to 
the ombudsman service within that period, and has a written acknowledgement or some 
other record of the complaint having been received;
or
- the reason in the view of the ombudsman, the failure to comply with the time limits in 
DISP 2.8.2 was as a result of exceptional circumstances. 
-
Assessing the jurisdiction question in this case wasnt straightforward, and the two 
investigators had come to different views on whether Ms As complaint had been raised in 
time. 
The event being complained about was the advice given by TBL in 2012 to set up the 
retirement account within which to invest Ms As pension savings. This included the choice 
of product, the assessment of Ms As attitude to risk (ATR), the investment strategy and 
applicable charges and fees. It also covered the proactive ongoing service which TBL said 
Ms A could expect, including annual reviews.  
I was satisfied most of the complaint had been made too late under the six-year element of 
the rule, as Ms A had until July 2018 to complain to either TBL or this service. 
And Id seen no evidence of a complaint being raised prior to Ms As initial call in July 2019. 
Although TBL didnt consider it a complaint, Ms A says her call to TBL to request an annual 
review in which she was told she wasnt on the system should be taken as when she first 
raised her complaint. But that doesnt change the position here as that call took place in July 
2019 just prior to her call to this service. But it was more difficult to establish when Ms A ought reasonably to have known she had 
cause to complain. Ms A doesnt appear to be unhappy with the initial advice about what she 
should do with her pension, the choice of S as the provider, the assessment of her ATR, or 
the investment strategy, and accepts her pension with S has grown in value over the period. 
Ms As complaint relates to TBLs failure to deliver the aftercare service she believes shed 
signed up for and for which she was paying an annual fee of 0.5%. TBLs adviser Mr O was 
aware from the outset of Ms As poor health, and inexperience in financial matters. Hed 
reassured her TBL provided a proactive advice service centred around your immediate 
issues, that will require periodic review and re-planning in the future to give her peace of 
mind. 
Ms A feels the lack of reviews meant she may have missed opportunities to boost her 
pension by making additional contributions. But as Ms As expectations as to what she could 
expect going forward had been set by Mr O at the initial meeting, I felt shed have known 
quite soon whether those expectations were being met. So I said Ms A ought reasonably to 
have been aware she wasnt receiving the level of aftercare she expected when she hadnt 
been invited for an annual review in August 2013. So she had three years from then to 
complain (until August 2016), which didnt gain her any more time to complain. 
Id seen no evidence of a complaint having been received by TBL or this service prior to 
Ms As call in July 2019. And in terms of exceptional circumstances, I recognised and was 
sympathetic to the various health, personal and family issues Ms A has faced over the years. 
But as Ms A had successfully completed a first-class degree, and then embarked on a 
further qualification during that time, I thought Ms A could have raised a complaint sooner 
than she did. Ms A had told our investigator that she called Mr O 2-3 times between 2013 
and 2015/16 to find out how her pension with S was performing against expectations. So as 
it seemed she hadnt been incapacitated throughout, I didnt feel the bar of exceptional 
circumstances as set out in our rules had been met.
However, I agreed with the investigator that one element of Ms As complaint had been 
made in time, which was her specific complaint about the lack of annual reviews. As the six 
years for this complaint point would start not from when the advice was given in 2012, but 
from when the first review was due (in August 2013), which gave Ms A until August 2019 to 
complain about that. 
Having said we could consider that point I didnt uphold it, as I didnt feel the lack of reviews 
disadvantaged Ms A to the extent that a refund of all fees was appropriate. Although Mr O 
didnt make contact with Ms A to arrange a review, I thought Ms A couldve approached TBL 
at any time for a review if shed wanted one, such as when she was in a financial position to 
contribute to her pension. Even if she didnt receive the November 2015 letter, Ms A was no 
longer entitled to annual reviews from that point, unless she was prepared to pay higher 
fees. And based on what shed disclosed about her financial circumstances, I couldnt say 
shed been disadvantaged by the lack of annual reviews, particularly as her pension with S 
appeared to be performing as expected. 
So in summary, my provisional decision was most of Ms As complaint had been made too 
late, except for the element about the lack of annual reviews from 2013 to 2015 which I 
didnt uphold. 
Responses to the provisional decision
TBL accepted the conclusions and didnt raise any further points.
Ms A didnt accept it, as she felt it contained many inaccuracies. Overall she assumed TBL 
had an additional duty of care to her as a vulnerable client, due to her poor health and lack of experience and confidence in financial matters. Ms A felt shed been disadvantaged 
financially by the lack of reviews, as she had access to additional funds once shed repaid 
her mortgage and when she took benefits from her superannuation scheme in 2016, which 
she couldve reinvested in her pension. 
And although Ms A acknowledged she had successfully completed a degree and decided to 
continue studying for a PHD in order to benefit from a bursary, the impact on her mental and 
physical wellbeing of the various issues shed faced hadnt been given sufficient weight. It 
was only with a supreme effort shed managed to juggle everything, so it wasnt reasonable 
to say she couldve complained within the time limit.
Since the provisional decision was issued, Ms A has made a number of detailed 
submissions, and I understand she requested our investigation be placed on hold until her 
health improves. 
Its not my intention to cause her further distress, but to be fair to all parties, including those 
consumers who are waiting, I consider three months, since issuing my provisional decision, 
is a sufficient time period for any final evidence or submissions to be made. So Im now in a 
position to issue my final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ms As complaint is that in view of her financial inexperience she believed shed signed up to 
(and been charged for) a service whereby TBL would oversee her pension and would 
monitor its performance to give her peace of mind. This was the impression shed taken from 
the initial meeting with the adviser Mr O, who she felt sure was fully aware of how 
complicated and daunting she found the whole subject. Ms A also appears to have assumed 
that because the bulk of her investment came from a pension sharing order following her 
divorce, which caused her to become distressed during the meeting, TBL would have 
identified her as a vulnerable client, to which they owed a duty of care over and above their 
standard service. 
I can see the suitability report dated August 2012 does say TBL would provide Ms A with a 
proactive service and she was led to believe the 0.5% ongoing commission paid to TBL by 
the pension provider S covered the provision of ongoing advice. So I can see why once 
Ms A was in a position to reflect on her pension, she realised shed not received any follow 
up contact from TBL since the initial meeting. 
Did Ms A complain in time?
In terms of whether the complaint falls within our jurisdiction, I remain of the view that the 
majority of Ms As complaint was made too late. It doesnt appear to be in dispute Ms A 
complained in July 2019, which is more than six years since the original advice in July 2012. 
And I think Ms A ought to have known she wasnt receiving the proactive service she 
expected quite soon after the initial meeting, and certainly when she didnt receive an annual 
review in 2013, which doesnt provide her with any more time to complain under the three-
year element of the rule. Ms A was aware her pension was with S, and she received and 
retained its statements issued every August. So I think these wouldve prompted her to 
realise shed been receiving no ongoing services or contact from TBL or Mr O. Ms A believes the TBL adviser Mr O wouldve been aware she was a vulnerable client from 
her demeanour during the first meeting. The suitability report captured some brief 
information about Ms As health and that she was unemployed, but it doesnt capture the 
extent of the discussion or any other personal information Ms A may have shared. From 
what Ive seen, although the adviser may have been aware Ms A was inexperienced and 
unfamiliar with financial matters, I dont believe she was categorised as a vulnerable client, 
or that TBL had agreed to provide an enhanced service. It simply described its standard 
service for which Ms A was charged a standard fee as proactive. I think this led to a 
mismatch in expectations about what that meant in respect of the level of involvement and 
oversight TBL would have with Ms As pension going forward
Ms A was charged a combination of a one-off advice fee deducted from the transfer amount 
prior to it being invested with S, and an annual fee of 0.5% of her fund value paid to TBL by 
S. This fee covered amongst other things, the cost of providing ongoing advice and annual 
reviews if Ms A wanted them. But this arrangement was put in place prior to the impact of 
the Retail Distribution Review (RDR), which came into effect in January 2013 and prompted 
TBL to review its service offering. In November 2015 TBL wrote to customers such as Ms A 
whose fees were below a particular level, to say shed be treated as a transactional client, 
whereby services would be provided only on request.
When someone ought reasonably to have realised they might have a cause to complain 
isnt necessarily when they did realise. Its the point at which a reasonable person would 
most likely have been put on notice or set on the path to discovery that something might be 
wrong. From that point they dont have to make a decision about complaining right away, as 
they have three years in which to find out more information, consult paperwork, ask 
questions etc which should be ample time to do so, regardless of what else might be 
happening in someones busy life. Especially as all thats needed to raise a complaint either 
direct with the business or with this service is a phone call, brief email or letter or completing 
an online form. Ms A told our investigator she contacted Mr O a couple of times between 
2013 and 2015/16 to enquire about the performance of her pension with S, so during those 
conversations she couldve requested a formal review, or asked how she could make 
additional contributions to her pension if she had the means to do so. And those calls 
wouldve prompted her to reflect she hadnt received the proactive contact from the adviser 
shed been led to expect. So on balance I feel Ms A ought reasonably to have been aware 
she had cause to complain from August 2013. 
TBL says the November 2015 letter was another trigger point which ought reasonably to 
have given Ms A cause to complain. Ms A says she didnt receive the letter, even though it 
was correctly addressed. Im satisfied it probably was sent, but I cant say whether it went 
missing in the post or was received but overlooked. But as Ive already said, I think Ms A had 
enough information even without this letter to have started the three year clock running I 
dont think its necessary to consider the impact of the letter further, whether it was received 
or not. 
Exceptional circumstances 
As explained earlier, I can set the time limits aside if the reason for not raising the complaint 
in time is due to exceptional circumstances. Exceptional circumstances are not defined in 
our rules, but I think the bar is high, as the example given is someone being or having been 
incapacitated. And for the test to be met, the circumstances themselves must be 
exceptional and they must be the reason someone was prevented from complaining within 
the time limit. Ive no doubt Ms A has experienced ill health, and has had a very difficult time 
for various reasons over the years. I dont underestimate the amount of effort it entailed, but I 
cant overlook that despite everything that was going on, Ms A didnt just scrape through a 
qualification, she achieved a first class degree, which is a huge achievement in normal circumstances. And having graduated in summer 2017 she decided to embark on a PHD. 
Ms A says she took this decision mainly for financial reasons, as it entitled her to a bursary, 
and her health has meant shes subsequently had to put her studies on hold. But considering 
herself to have capacity for further intensive study, and being able to make rational financial 
decisions, tends to support the position that Ms A wasnt incapacitated, and couldve 
complained about her pension sooner than she did. 
Im aware Ms As physical and mental health has deteriorated since the period in question, 
and this service has categorised her as a vulnerable consumer for these reasons. But for the 
purpose of this decision Im only looking at events prior to August 2018 when the six-year 
time limit expired, and not anything which happened later. 
So Im still of the view the only element of Ms As complaint which we can consider, is TBLs 
failure to provide annual reviews, from 2013 onwards. 
Did TBL treat Ms A unfairly in this respect?
Apart from the November 2015 letter, it doesnt seem TBL contacted Ms A after the initial 
meeting and didnt invite her for annual reviews. So Ive looked at whether this meant TBL 
should refund the fees Ms A had been paying.
TBLs terms of business gave some options in terms of their remuneration. Clients could pay 
an adviser by the hour for the work they undertake, or they could pay on a portfolio basis. 
TBLs fee for portfolios up to £100,000 was 3%. Ms A agreed to pay a combination of the 3% 
portfolio fee and an annual fee of 0.5%, which S paid to TBL by way of commission. 
The way commission works was explained by TBL as follows: If you buy a financial product, 
we will normally receive commission from the product provider. Although you pay nothing up 
front, that does not mean our service is free. You still pay us indirectly through product 
charges. Product charges pay for the providers own costs and any commission. 
The charges are also set out in the Key Facts Illustration provided by S which explains that 
charges cover the cost of advice payments, profits, expenses and other adjustments, and 
that every month 1/12th of the 0.5% charge will be deducted from Ms As fund. It also set out 
Ss service charge of 0.35%. 
I understand why Ms A is unhappy that 0.5% has been deducted from her fund every year 
despite TBL not providing ongoing services. But the charge isnt dependent on annual 
reviews being provided, it simply meant if Ms A had an annual review she wouldnt be 
charged extra for it. The RDR changes meant that for products sold after 31 December 2012 
advisers couldnt be paid on a commission basis, and ongoing fees could only be charged if 
ongoing advice was provided. But that wasnt the case pre-RDR, and advisers were entitled 
to continue to receive trail commission from existing investments set up prior to this time. 
Ms A couldve stopped the trail commission by removing TBL as her adviser sooner than she 
did. But I cant say it was unfair of TBL to continue to charge her in line with the agreement. 
And I dont consider the lack of proactive contact is enough to say it should refund any fees 
already charged to Ms A. 
I realise this whole experience has been difficult and exhausting for Ms A, and shell no 
doubt be disappointed with the outcome. But having considered everything carefully, my final 
decision remains in line with my provisional findings. My final decision
This service has no jurisdiction to consider most of Ms As complaint as it was made too late. 
I do not uphold the element of the complaint which we can consider, relating to the lack of 
annual reviews, and make no award. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms A to accept or 
reject my decision before 3 October 2022.
 
Sarah Milne
Ombudsman