DRN-4215794
The complaint
Mr F complained that Monzo Bank Limited:
- blocked his card after he reported fraudulent transactions on his account; and 
- tried to charge him £50 for a new metal card.
What happened
On 23 November 2022, Mr F contacted Monzo by chat. He disputed several £7.99  
transactions, saying the recipient company wouldnt reply to him. 
Monzo replied that the transactions looked like a subscription. Mr F said that he had an 
account with the recipient company, but it was free. Monzo replied:
Ive blocked your card for you now, which should stop any more money being taken from it. 
You can still send and receive bank transfers while your card's blocked, but you won't be 
able to make card transactions. We can temporarily unblock your card if you need to make 
an urgent card payment or withdraw cash from an ATM. And we can permanently unblock it 
if you realise that you recognise the payment.
The next step for us here would be for you to follow the link I'm sending you below. The 
message continued with a link to how to report the disputed transactions.
Mr F replied: I do not want my card stopped. I didnt ask you to do that.  I shall try [merchant 
name] again and then look for a new bank. One that listens. 
Monzo replied: If a payment is reported as fraudulent/ unrecognised we need to block the 
card in order to prevent further payments from being taken. Mr F replied: 
You didn't explain that BEFORE you took the actions. Log a complaint on my account 
please. He also said Unblock my card which you had no right to do without asking me 
first.
At 21:30 Monzo continued in chat to Mr F: If you lose your Monzo metal card or it gets 
stolen then we charge £50 to replace it, as per our Monzo Premium Ts&Cs. Thats how 
much it costs us to get your Monzo Premium card made. If youd prefer, you can choose to 
order a standard hot coral card replacement instead. Youd still have access to all the Monzo 
Premium features.
Mr F didnt agree, saying that Monzo had blocked his card, and he hadnt lost it. So he said 
he shouldnt have to pay. Chat messages continued, and at 22:37 Monzo said that blocking 
a card wasnt optional once a fraud or unrecognised transaction had been reported. But it 
apologised for having advised him about card replacements after card loss or theft. It said it 
could look into replacing Mr Fs card with another metal one, but only after hed reported the 
disputed transactions to the fraud team, and theyd investigated. It said he could then get 
back in touch and Monzo would then look at his card replacement options. 
Monzo ordered Mr Fs new metal card two days later on 25 November, free of charge. It also 
refunded the disputed transactions.
On 28 November, Monzo issued its final response to Mr Fs complaint. It said:
- in regard to the blocked card, as a regulated bank it needed to do everything it could 
to make sure customers accounts were kept secure, particularly when a customer 
reports unrecognised transactions. So Monzo said it was best to keep a card blocked 
while it investigated, to cut out the chance of any more money being taken.  It said 
that if Mr F reported any future unrecognised transactions, it would need to block his 
card. It said it could unblock a card temporarily if a  customer wanted to make a 
payment or withdraw cash, but couldnt unblock a card permanently until it was sure 
the account was secure;
- in regard to the fee for a replacement card, the £50 replacement fee was set out in 
the Premium Terms and Conditions, which Mr F had accepted when hed signed up 
to Monzo Premium. It said it had reviewed the in-app chat, and colleagues had given 
the correct information. While Monzo was still investigating, it would have to charge 
the £50 fee or could have sent out a Hot Coral card. Monzo confirmed that it had 
ordered a free new metal card for Mr F, and if he needed to use his current frozen 
card in the meantime, Monzo could temporarily unblock it while Mr F made the 
transactions he wanted to.
Mr F wasnt satisfied and contacted this service. He said Monzo put a block on his card 
without telling him or getting his consent. He said he paid £15 a month to have an account 
package that included a metal card, so hed already paid for having this. The terms and 
conditions only said there would be a charge if the customers card was lost or stolen. Mr F 
still had his card, and the terms and conditions didnt say that an innocent party to fraud on 
the card should have to pay for it.
Mr F said he wanted an apology and £100 compensation for the fight hed had, as it wasnt 
in Monzos terms and conditions they it could charge the fee in these
circumstances. Hed been without a card for his current account for two weeks while he 
fought to not be charged £50. He said that if Monzo wasnt going to replace the card free 
when it hadnt been lost of stolen, he wanted a refund of all the money hed paid for his 
premium account, and also the terms and conditions needed updating to show all 
replacement cards incurred this fee.
Our investigator didnt uphold Mr Fs complaint. He said wed expect a bank to block a card 
as a precaution when fraudulent transactions are reported, because this would ensure no 
further fraudulent transactions could be debited. The investigator also noted that Mr C had 
said hed been inconvenienced for two weeks until his new metal card arrived. But the 
investigator had looked at Mr Cs statements, which showed payments from 24 November 
and multiple payments afterwards. So he was satisfied that Mr F could still access the funds 
in his account. And Monzo had sent Mr F a new metal card free. So Monzo didnt have to 
pay Mr M compensation. 
Mr F didnt agree and asked for an ombudsmans decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Blocking Mr Fs card
Mr F told Monzo repeatedly that it had no right to block his card without asking him first. But 
banks have responsibilities to keep their customers money safe, and blocking a card on which a customer has reported fraudulent or unrecognised transactions is a clear and 
obvious way in which to help keep a customers money safe. Monzo didnt have to ask Mr 
Fs permission before doing so.
The general terms and conditions of Monzos accounts, to which Mr F would have signed up 
when he opened the account, say If you lose your card or see transactions in the app that 
look wrong, you must freeze your card and tell us as soon as possible.  Mr F hadnt frozen 
his card himself, and Monzo was entitled to do so when Mr F disputed transactions, in order 
to keep Mr Fs money safe. I also cant see why a customer wouldnt want their money 
protected by blocking other potential fraudulent transactions.  
So I find that Monzo didnt do anything wrong by blocking Mr Fs card when he disputed 
transactions on it.
Replacement card
Monzos Premium terms and conditions say:
Well never charge you for replacements where your card expires, is faulty, or has 
been swallowed by an ATM.
If you lose your Monzo metal card or it gets stolen, then well charge you £50 to replace 
it. Thats how much it costs us to get your Monzo Premium card made.
I understand Mr Fs point that the terms and conditions dont specifically state that there will 
be a charge for replacing a card which hasnt been lost or stolen, but has been compromised 
by a fraudulent transaction. His card hadnt been lost or stolen. This service doesnt have the 
power to order a bank to change its processes, because thats the role of the regulator, the 
Financial Conduct Authority (FCA). So its not open to me to order Monzo to change its 
terms and conditions specifically to cover what happens when a customer reports that the 
card has been compromised but not lost or stolen.
But in practice Mr F wasnt charged by Monzo. The chat messages show that although 
Monzo indicated it would charge Mr F at 21.30 on 23 November, it amended this just over an 
hour later at 22.37 the same day, saying it would be reviewed after the dispute had been 
investigated.
So although the chat messages show that Mr F was angry, I find that his request for £100 
compensation isnt proportionate or reasonable for the hour during which it looked as if he 
might have to pay for a replacement metal card, or have a free plastic one instead. 
Mr F also said hed been inconvenienced for two weeks until his new metal card arrived. But 
the records show that Monzo ordered his new metal card within two days of Mr F disputing 
the transactions, which I find was reasonable, and Monzo isnt responsible for any postal 
delays. In addition, Monzos chat had made it clear that if Mr F wanted to make transactions 
in the meantime, he could contact Monzo and the block on the frozen card would be 
temporarily removed while he made the transactions. So it provided him with an alternative 
way of accessing his funds.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr F to accept or 
reject my decision before 29 July 2023.
 Belinda Knight
Ombudsman