DRN-2924761
The complaint
Mr B has complained that Lloyds Bank PLC (Lloyds) continued charging him excessive 
amounts for his overdraft when he was in financial difficulty.
  
What happened
Mr B complained to Lloyds about charges it was making for his overdraft. Lloyds didnt 
uphold the complaint. It said the fees it had applied were fair and as Mr B was dissatisfied he 
referred the complaint to our service.
Mr Bs complaint was considered by one of our adjudicators. She thought that Lloyds ought 
to have realised that Mr B was experiencing financial difficulty by 18 September 2014 and so 
shouldnt have added any more interest, fees and charges from this point onwards. Lloyds 
didnt respond so the case was passed to an ombudsman. 
  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Lloyds will be familiar with all the rules, regulations and good industry practice we consider 
when looking at whether a bank treated a customer fairly and reasonably when applying 
overdraft charges. So, I dont consider it necessary to set all of this out in this decision.
Having carefully considered everything provided, I think Lloyds acted unfairly when it 
continued charging overdraft interest and associated fees after it renewed Mr Bs overdraft 
on 18 September 2014. By this point, it ought to have been clear that Mr B was in no 
position to sustainably repay what he owed within a reasonable period of time. 
Mr B was hardcore borrowing. In other, words he hadnt seen or maintained a credit balance 
for an extended period of time. His overdraft level was almost always higher at the end of 
every month than the wages being paid into his account and there was evidence his 
employment had changed and income was reduced. It was clear the overdraft was only 
likely to increase. Lloyds own literature suggests that overdrafts are for unforeseen 
emergency borrowing not prolonged day-to-day expenditure. So, I think that Mr Bs overdraft 
usage should have prompted Lloyds to have realised that Mr B wasnt using his overdraft as 
intended and they shouldnt have continued offering it on the same terms. As Lloyds didnt 
react to Mr Bs overdraft usage and instead continued charging in the same way, I think it 
failed to act fairly and reasonably. 
I also think that by the review date of 18 September 2014, Lloyds should also have noted 
that Mr Bs statements showed significant gambling. There were frequent payments to 
betting companies and to the lottery. So, it should have been clear that Mr Bs income was 
going to unsustainable sources. Lloyds ought to have realised that Mr B was at a significant 
risk of being unable to repay what he already owed. They should have stopped providing the 
overdraft on the same terms and treated Mr B with forbearance rather than charge even 
more interest, fees and charges on the overdraft.
Mr B ended up paying additional interest, fees and charges on his overdraft and this ended 
up exacerbating difficulties he already had in trying to clear it. So, I think that Lloyds didnt 
treat Mr B fairly and he lost out because of what Lloyds did wrong. And this means that it 
should put things right.
  
Putting things right
Having thought about everything, I think that it would be fair and reasonable in all the 
circumstances of Mr Bs complaint for Lloyds to put things right by:
Reworking Mr Bs current overdraft balance so that all interest, fees and charges 
applied to it after the renewal on 18 September 2014 are removed.
AND
If an outstanding balance remains on the overdraft once these adjustments have 
been made Lloyds should contact Mr B to arrange a suitable repayment plan for 
this. If it considers it appropriate to record negative information on Mr Bs credit 
file, it should reflect what would have been recorded had it started the process of 
taking corrective action on the overdraft on 18 September 2014.
OR
If the effect of removing all interest, fees and charges results in there no longer 
being an outstanding balance, then any extra should be treated as overpayments 
and returned to Mr B along with 8% simple interest on the overpayments from 
the date they were made (if they were) until the date of settlement. If no 
outstanding balance remains after all adjustments have been made, then Lloyds 
should remove any adverse information from Mr Bs credit file. 
 HM Revenue & Customs requires Lloyds to take off tax from this interest. Lloyds must give 
Mr B a certificate showing how much tax it has taken off if he asks for one.
  
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, Im upholding Mr Bs complaint. Lloyds should put things 
right in the way Ive set out above. 
  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 6 November 2021.
 
Phillip McMahon
Ombudsman