The complaint
Mr and Mrs S complain about the way esure Insurance Limited handled a claim under their 
buildings insurance policy.
What happened
Mr and Mrs S' roof was affected by workmen carrying out repair and/or renovations on the 
roofs either side of theirs. Among other issues guttering was damaged and this apparently 
led to water running down the front of Mr and Mrs S' house and onto the porch flat roof. The 
authority responsible for the work on the adjacent homes had offered to send contractors to 
Mr and Mrs S to carry out certain work, but Mr and Mrs S wanted to wait for esure to 
complete their report.
Mr and Mrs S made a claim for damage to their roof, the front porch and mould inside their 
hallway. esure agreed to make payment for work to the main roof area only but not the front 
porch or hallway. esure said the flat roof of the porch hadn't suffered damage as a 
consequence of water falling onto it and it was likely that the damage pre-existed the work 
done on the other roofs. esure made particular reference to mould developing gradually and 
over time. In recognition of some delay though, esure paid £150 compensation to Mr and 
Mrs S.
Mr and Mrs S disagreed. They said since the work black mould had developed on the porch 
area and inside the front hall area providing photographs and videos.
One of our investigators investigated the complaint and formed an opinion that esure's 
settlement payment of £2,535.26 should be increased by £200 to reflect some issues of 
damp in the roof space/loft area and also consider the porch mould issue. His view was that 
water running down the front of Mr and Mrs S' home was the likely cause of mould and 
should be considered as part of the claim.
As the parties didn't agree the matter was referred for an ombudsman to make a final 
decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The claim was dealt with as 'Accidental Damage' which, under the policy, covers loss or 
damage as a direct result of a single, unexpected and unintended event which is not a result 
of a number of listed causes in the policy including repair, renovations or weather conditions.
DRN-1654498The main issue is the damage to the porch area consisting of black mould, which is also 
apparent inside the front hallway. Black mould by its nature takes time to form and is usually 
a result of damp conditions. There is insufficient information that shows the inside of Mr and 
Mrs S hallway was free from mould before the subject incident, and that the cause of the 
mould was 'accidental damage' and related to the damage caused by the contractors when 
renovating the neighbours' roofs.
I have seen images on Google street view. This shows the frontage of Mr and Mrs S' home 
and has images taken over a number of the preceding years. I have seen photos of the 
mould on the porch from the time of the incident. But equally, the images on Google street 
view from 2012, 2015 and April 2018 (before the claimed incident) all show black mould 
building up below the flat roof lip. Indeed, the flat porch roof adjoining Mr and Mrs S' has 
limited to no real visible black mould. Because of this, I am satisfied it's more likely than not 
there was an existing issue with damp and black mould in Mr and Mrs S' porch area. 
Putting things right
Before the complaint came to us, esure had offered £150 compensation for some delays and 
I'm satisfied that's fair in the circumstances. The authority responsible for the work on the 
adjacent roofs had offered to send contractors to Mr and Mrs S but that offer wasn't taken 
up. I appreciate Mr and Mrs S wanted to see esure's report, but they had an option to 
minimise some of the issues which they didn't take up.
Excluding the policy excess esure offered £2,535.26 and the investigator recommended an 
increase of £200, which esure paid. Having seen the report esure obtained, I'm satisfied 
esure should pay more. The total amount in esure's report was £3,842.89 (inc. VAT). Taking 
into account the policy excess (£100) the total amount to settle should be £3,102.41 (which 
excludes VAT of 640.48). This leaves a balance to pay of £367.15, which esure has sent to 
Mr and Mrs S.
That leaves VAT. Where Mr and Mrs S have repairs carried out with a VAT registered 
contractor, and they pay that contractor VAT as part of the overall payment, they can send 
that evidence to esure and esure must pay that VAT to Mr and Mrs S. The upper limit of this 
is £640.48 so, if Mr and Mrs S only pay £300 VAT then that is all esure need to pay to them.
My final decision
I uphold this complaint on the basis that esure Insurance Limited's total settlement for 
repairs must be £3,102.41. On receipt of evidence of VAT payments by Mr and Mrs S in 
relation to main roof repairs, esure must refund the amounts up to an upper limit of £640.48.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S and Mrs S to 
accept or reject my decision before 15 July 2020.
Sean Hamilton
Ombudsman