DRN-2962645
The complaint
Mr W has complained about his motor insurer Advantage Insurance Company Limited, 
because it handled his claim poorly, his excess was payable, and even though this claim 
was delayed, he had to pay a further excess when another claim was made.
Mr W has dealt throughout with the company that administers his policy and provides it a 
brand name. But Advantage is the insurer that bears the risk for the policy. As Mr Ws 
complaint is about the claim and policy excess, Advantage is the correct respondent 
company, and I cant name the administering/brand company. But the administering 
company, when handling claims and responding to complaints does act on behalf of 
Advantage. Therefore, in my decision, even though I know Mr W didnt deal directly with 
Advantage, Ive only referred to Advantage.
What happened
In November 2018 Mr W found that his car had been hit by another vehicle. He thought it 
had been hit by a local bus. He made enquiries with the police and the bus company. He 
made a claim to Advantage, advising it of what he had done, that there was possibly CCTV 
footage available and that he had taken paint samples. In a call a couple of weeks later 
Advantage highlighted that buses usually have CCTV footage, and Mr W pointed out again 
that he had paint evidence (flakes in a jar and transfer on his car) and that he wanted the 
bus company to be pursued.
Mr W paid his excess and Advantage fixed his car. But it was only in February 2019 that it 
passed the claim to its recovery team. And it was then January 2020 before Advantage 
applied for the police report, not making the correct payment to the police for that until 
September 2020. 
In the meantime, in April 2019, Mr W made a second claim. In October 2020, with his first 
claim still unresolved, Mr W made a third claim to Advantage. He was asked to pay an 
excess, which hes said he did do. But he was unhappy about this given that his claim from 
2018 was still outstanding. 
In a final response to Mr Ws complaint dated 11 November 2020, Advantage told Mr W that 
it accepted it should have dealt with his claim more proactively. It said it had caused about 
14 months of delay but it wasnt possible to know what would have happened if this had 
been avoided. Especially as it still hadnt received the police report. It said it would pay £150 
compensation  but the policy required excesses to be paid in the event of claims.  
Advantage later told us it had received the police report  but it hadnt helped with 
establishing liability of a third-party. It also said it had waived the 2020 excess as it was 
satisfied of third-party liability in that case.
It was March 2021 when Mr W complained to us. As well as telling us he was unhappy about 
delays and paying the excess, he said his premiums had gone up due to Advantages 
delays, and that he hadnt been offered a renewal for the coming year. When we put his 
complaint to Advantage, it said it hadnt had a chance to look at all of those issues, so it felt 
we should only look at the delay and excess points, as answered by its final response from 
November 2020. Our investigator agreed and explained the limited scope of our 
consideration to Mr W.
In respect of how Advantage had handled the 2018 claim, our investigator felt Advantage 
could and should have done more, and that it had kept Mr W waiting for a very long time. He 
said £250 total compensation was fairly and reasonably due. He noted Advantage had said 
the excess for 2020 had been waived, so said if Mr W could prove payment to it, Advantage 
should refund him this amount. 
Advantage said Mr Ws upset on account of its failures was limited as hed suffered no 
financial impact (because the claim outcome wasnt affected). So it argued that £150 
compensation was fair and reasonable. Mr W said he had more evidence to provide. 
However, despite our investigator asking for that on several occasions, and giving Mr W 
more time to reply, nothing more was received. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I can understand Mr Ws frustration  especially having heard the second call he had with 
Advantage. Hearing this and seeing the call notes clearly shows that Advantage didnt fully 
record all the details hed initially given it during his first notification of the claim (the call for 
which Ive also heard). Nor were the notes of the second call fully reflective of the 
conversation which actually took place. Mr W had gathered evidence and made enquiries 
with the bus company which he, quite reasonably, I think, expected Advantage to follow up. 
But not only did Advantage fail to obtain a copy of the police report for a very long time, it did 
nothing in respect of the other evidence and potential evidence either, for example CCTV or 
dashcam footage. And Ive seen that when it got the police report it noted its file to say whilst 
that wasnt helpful, it was now too late to pursue any other avenues of enquiry. In order to 
have handled this claim in a reasonable manner, Advantage should have followed up on all 
avenues at the outset.
However, and whilst, as I say, I accept that Advantages failures in this respect were very 
frustrating for Mr W, I cant be sure what would most likely have happened if it had done 
everything it should have done promptly. I note that Mr W thought there might be CCTV in 
the area but he wasnt sure. Even if there was, I cant be sure it would have captured Mr Ws 
car or have been kept. If Advantage had made enquiries with the bus company, it might 
have been able to identify which bus was driving that route that day, and then been able to 
check its CCTV, if it was recorded. But Im not persuaded its a foregone conclusion that all 
of that would have been successful and resulted in Advantage obtaining footage that 
showed the bus company was liable. Mr W took paint flakes from the area of the accident  
but I think anyone looking to defend the bus company would have been able to reasonably 
counter that evidence. I know there was paint transfer on Mr Ws car  that would perhaps 
be more difficult for the third-party/its insurers to dismiss, but I dont think that alone would 
be viewed as showing the bus company was most likely liable. So I cant reasonably say 
that, but for Advantages failure to pursue the bus company in respect of liability for this 
claim, Mr W wouldnt have ended up with a fault claim on his record, with no option of 
obtaining a refund of his excess from Advantage. 
I do think though that given the length of time Mr Ws upset was extended over, were not 
just talking a few weeks/months, £150 compensation isnt enough. In the circumstances 
here, I think £250 is fairly and reasonably due.I know Mr W would like the excess for his 2020 claim refunding too. And if he can show 
Advantage he paid that, given it has agreed to waive the excess (in fact it thinks it has 
already been waived), then it should refund this to him. But I otherwise would have no 
grounds on which to require it to do this  he made a further claim and, in that event, the 
policy requires that he pays an excess. Therefore, Advantage was entitled to ask him for this 
and it was initially reasonable for it to expect him to pay it.
Putting things right
I require Advantage to pay Mr W:
£250 compensation for distress and inconvenience.
If he provides it proof that he paid the excess for the 2020 claim, £345 as reimbursement 
of the 2020 excess fee paid but which it has said its happy to waive, in fact has waived.
My final decision
I uphold this complaint. I require Advantage Insurance Company Limited to provide the 
redress set out above at putting things right. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 1 October 2021. 
Fiona Robinson
Ombudsman