DRN-3182391
The complaint
Mrs T complains that Lloyds Bank PLC will not refund the money she lost after falling victim 
to a scam.
What happened
Between 7 July 2020 and 28 August 2020, Mrs T made four international payments totalling 
£4,658.99. She thought she was buying health products to sell from her online store. 
Unfortunately, Mrs T was interacting with a fraudster. 
Mrs T came across the company when looking online. She explained she was sent a 
products list and prices. She was pleased with what she saw and placed an order. 
On 7 July 2020, Mrs T made an international payment of £1,182.99 to the account details 
the fraudster gave her. 
Following the payment, Mrs T says she was told the order had been forwarded to the 
shipping company. She was told she must pay a refundable charge and so she made an 
international payment of £947.00 on 20 July 2020, to different account details provided.  
Mrs T then received a text message stating there were problems with the delivery. She was 
asked to pay a further fee for certification and a sales certificate. Mrs T made a further 
international payment of £1,408.00 on 17 August 2020 to different account details provided 
for the shipping company bank. 
A few days later Mrs T says she was asked to pay for permits and more certifications, 
otherwise her products would be held in France and auctioned. So, Mrs T sent an 
international payment of £1,121.00 on 24 August 2020, to the initial payment details 
provided.
 
It isnt clear when Mrs T reported the scam to Lloyds  it has no record of Mrs T speaking to 
the fraud team. The first contact from Mrs T appears to be when she complained to Lloyds 
on 30 September 2020. 
Lloyds in its final response said as the payments Mrs T made were international payments 
the Contingent Reimbursement Model (CRM) Code didnt apply. Lloyds said it was unable to 
refund the money Mrs T had lost as it didnt agree it had made any errors. Having reviewed 
her account, the bank said there was no reason to flag the payments as they werent 
unusual, compared to her recent account activity. Lloyds in its response said Mrs T needed 
to contact its international payments team in order for them to get in touch with the 
international banks to establish if any funds remained, although due to the time that had 
passed it said this might be unlikely.  
Mrs T remained unhappy with Lloyds response and so she referred her complaint to this 
service for review. 
Our investigator didnt think Lloyds ought to have been expected to prevent this loss. She 
didnt think the payments were unusual or suspicious in appearance, given the normal 
account activity, that ought to have caused Lloyds concern Mrs T was at risk of being 
scammed. Our investigator noted from the information provided that Lloyds didnt have any 
evidence that Mrs T spoke to its fraud team or international payment team. She concluded 
that unless Mrs T had contacted Lloyds, she wouldnt have expected it to have contacted the 
beneficiary banks to see what funds remained - in the absence of her consent to contact any 
third parties. She added that given Mrs T contacted Lloyds on 30 September 2020, a month 
after the last payment made, she didnt think any attempts to recover the funds would have 
made a difference in this case.  
As Mrs T disagreed, the complaint has been referred to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im sorry to hear of whats happened to Mrs T and I can understand why she wants to do all 
that she can to try and recover the money shes lost. Its a lot of money for anyone to lose. 
But having thought very carefully about Lloyds actions, I dont uphold this complaint. I will 
now explain why. 
At the outset Id like to recognise Mrs Ts strength of feeling about what has happened here. 
In bringing her complaint to our service Mrs T within her submissions has raised a number of 
points  highlighting the regulators rules and guidance, the law, relevant codes of practice 
and good industry practise in support of why she thinks Lloyds should reimburse her the 
money shes lost. While I may not specifically comment on each and every point thats been 
raised within this decision, it does not mean I have not considered all of the information 
thats been given to me by both Mrs T and Lloyds. 
I have simply looked at what I think is the heart of the matter here, being: should Lloyds have 
recognised Mrs Ts payments as being suspicious and intervened, and if it had done so, 
would it have made a difference to what happened.
I accept Mrs T has been the victim of a scam. It is also clear that this situation and losing this 
money has caused her stress and I dont underestimate the difficult time she has had. But 
that alone doesnt mean Mrs T should be reimbursed by the bank. That all depends on 
whether the bank did anything wrong  that is, could it have done any more to prevent the 
scam from taking place or intervened so that Mrs T would have realised what was happening 
and stopped before sending the money. 
In broad terms, the starting position in law is that a bank is expected to process payments 
and withdrawals that its customer authorises it to make. When Mrs T made the payments, 
she sent the money in good faith and didnt know she was dealing with a fraudster. But they 
were still authorised payments. Although Mrs T did not intend for the money to go to a 
fraudster, she is presumed liable for the loss in the first instance. 
However, taking into account the law, regulators rules and guidance, relevant codes of 
practice and what I consider to have been good industry practice at the time, I consider 
Lloyds should fairly and reasonably: 
Have been monitoring accounts and any payments made or received to counter 
various risks, including anti-money laundering, countering the financing of terrorism, 
and preventing fraud and scams.Have had systems in place to look out for unusual transactions or other signs that 
might indicate that its customers were at risk of fraud (among other things). This is 
particularly so given the increase in sophisticated fraud and scams in recent years, 
which banks are generally more familiar with than the average customer.
In some circumstances, irrespective of the payment channel used, have taken 
additional steps, or make additional checks, before processing a payment, or in some 
cases declined to make a payment altogether, to help protect customers from the 
possibility of financial harm from fraud.
In this case, I need to decide whether Lloyds acted fairly and reasonably in its dealings with 
Mrs T or whether it should have done more than it did. 
Mrs T doesnt dispute she made each payment herself. So Lloyds had an obligation to follow 
her instructions and make the payments she requested. But there are some situations in 
which a bank should reasonably have a closer look at the circumstances surrounding a 
payment. As Ive explained, I consider that as a matter of good practice Lloyds shouldve 
been on the lookout for unusual and out of character transactions.
Ive first thought about whether the first payment Mrs T made was out of character and 
unusual enough so that Lloyds ought to have intervened. There is a delicate balance to be 
struck. There are many millions of payments made each day and it would not be possible or 
reasonable to expect a bank to check each one. Having reviewed Mrs Ts bank statements 
in the months leading up to the payment, I can see shed previously made payments from 
the account of £900, £1,499, £1,600 and £2,000. And while I do note that these payments 
might not have been international payments, I dont think that alone is enough to say Lloyds 
should have treated the payment as suspicious. Im not persuaded that Mrs Ts activity that 
day should have stood out. The first payment she made was for £1,182.99. Its not 
uncommon for people to make an international payment for a specific purpose and on the 
face of it, theres nothing unusual about this payment. It is within a similar value of other 
payments Mrs T had previously made. It follows that I dont think Lloyds acted unreasonably 
by not making any enquiries about this payment before processing it. This means it didnt do 
anything wrong by following the instructions Mrs T gave and sending the payment without 
further checks.
Ive also gone on to think about the payments Mrs T then went on to make. But I dont think 
they were unusual enough that they should have been stopped for further investigation. The 
payments werent made in quick succession but over the course of a month. They also didnt 
rapidly empty her account or use all of her available balance at the time they were made. I 
dont think the amount of the payments would have made them stand out enough for the 
bank to have been concerned that Mrs T might have been at risk of financial harm from 
fraud. I dont find the payments to be particularly unusual or suspicious in appearance 
amongst Mrs Ts previous account activity and so, I cant fairly or reasonably say the bank 
missed an opportunity to identify a potential scam risk.
Ive also thought about what Lloyds did when it became aware of the scam. It isnt 
completely clear here as to when Mrs T reported the scam. But from the information, it 
appears Mrs Ts first contact with Lloyds was when she complained to it on 
30 September 2020. Lloyds information doesnt indicate there was any contact between 
Mrs T and its fraud team/international payments team either before or after this date. Within 
its final response letter Lloyds said Mrs T needed to contact the international payments team 
and that they will be able to contact the foreign banks to see if any funds remained, although given the time that had passed this might be unlikely. There is nothing within the information 
provided to me that shows Mrs T contacted the relevant team. 
Our investigator concluded that unless Mrs T had contacted Lloyds, she wouldnt have 
expected it to have contacted the beneficiary banks to see what funds remained - in the 
absence of her consent to contact any third parties. I agree with this position. But in any 
event, even if I consider contact ought to have been made with the beneficiary banks from 
30 September 2020, Im not persuaded on balance, that its more likely than not this would 
have made a difference here. I say this because, the last payment Mrs T made was on 
24 August 2020 and so a month had already passed by the time Mrs T contacted Lloyds to 
complain. From my experience of cases such as these, fraudsters either move or withdraw 
money very quickly. So, I think it is more likely than not that the money had already been 
moved from the receiving accounts prior to Mrs Ts contact with Lloyds. It then follows that 
on balance I dont think Lloyds could have done any more in this particular case to recover 
the money Mrs T has lost.    
I have considerable sympathy for what Mrs T has been through. There is no doubt that she 
has been the victim of a cruel scam and that the fraudster had no intention of providing the 
goods she had paid for. But I am only able to consider whether Lloyds can fairly be held 
liable for her loss. After carefully considering everything, Im unable to fairly say Lloyds 
should reimburse the money Mrs T has lost. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs T to accept or 
reject my decision before 17 February 2022.
 
Staci Rowland
Ombudsman