DRN-2361850
The complaint
Ms A is represented by a claims management company (CMC) in bringing her complaint. 
The CMC says she was mis-sold a with-profits endowment savings policy by an adviser from 
Sun Life Assurance Company of Canada (U.K.) Limited in October 1997.  
What happened
Ms A was recommended to invest in a single premium with profits endowment policy, with a 
monthly contribution of £50. The policy had a twenty five year term, with life cover and a 
guaranteed maturity value of £12,665 plus bonuses. It was surrendered in April 2005.
The CMC complained to Sun Life in December 2019. It said Ms A didnt have any need for 
the life cover provided by the policy. Further, it submitted that she wasnt told of any 
alternative investments she could have otherwise considered such as a personal equity plan. 
The CMC also said that Ms A didnt have any other disposable savings at the time of the 
recommendation, and it was inevitable that she would go on to cash the policy in early. 
Sun Life rejected the complaint in February 2020. It said that since Ms A had existing 
experience with other active savings plans, for either the same or similar terms, it felt she 
was comfortable with this type of policy to meet her savings objective.  
Further, the term of the policy was set to align with Ms As existing savings and needs, 
noting her anticipated retirement age was 60, in accordance with state retirement provisions 
at that time. Other types of savings vehicles had been discussed with Ms A, but she wanted 
to proceed with an endowment savings policy, noting that she did not want to consider a 
PEP as this had a greater risk with exposure to equities.  
The CMC referred Ms As complaint to this service. One of our investigators reviewed the 
complaint and felt it should not succeed. He said he felt a long term savings policy was 
suitable to recommend to Ms A as it met her recorded needs and was in line with her 
investment attitude established by Sun Lifes adviser.  
Though he did not feel the adviser was obliged to discuss alternative investments with Ms A, 
a discussion was had on that basis and recorded in the advisers fact find documentation. 
The CMC said Ms A disagreed. It asked for the complaint to be passed to an ombudsman. It 
also said it did not believe that the Financial Ombudsman Service should endorse the sale of 
products such as these to consumers who are single and without dependants. Further, it 
was unsure of the rational of suggesting a savings policy that was as long as twenty five 
years. Finally, it said Ms A could have revisited her life assurance needs in later years, 
rather than taking it out in her thirties. 
Sun Life had nothing further to add.   
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I do not believe this complaint should succeed. My reasons for that are 
summarised below.  
Sun Life has been able to provide some fact find information from the time of the sale, which 
sets out an assessment of Ms As circumstances, a consideration of her objectives and the 
advisers reasoning for his recommendation.  
While I note the CMC said Ms A was in her thirties, single and didnt have dependants at the 
time of the advice, I disagree that this automatically rendered the recommendation 
unsuitable. Ms As circumstances may have changed in future years. And, whilst the CMC 
says that she could have then considered life cover, it is recognised that the cost of such 
cover will increase with age and potentially with any detrimental changes to health.  
The life assurance inclusion was a qualifying requirement, to ensure any gains arising from 
the policy were exempt from income tax. Ms A is recorded as requiring a savings vehicle for 
future life planning, and I do not believe the inclusion of a small proportion of life cover 
causes the endowment savings policy to be unsuitable for that purpose.  
Though the policy did have charges, these were set out clearly to Ms A in a document called 
important information This explained how returns from the policy beyond the guaranteed 
sum on maturity were dependent on the growth of the investment. It also set out guidance as 
to the amount Ms A could receive if she chose to surrender the investment early, as well as 
an explanation of charges for the investment, including the cost of life cover, commissions, 
expenses, charges and surrender payments.
Though the CMC contends otherwise, I believe this document made clear in the form of a 
bold warning to Ms A that if you cash in during the early years you could get back less than 
you have paid in. To that end, it set out a table showing the likely sum Ms A could receive 
should she decide not to retain the investment for the agreed long term of 25 years  the 
example given for Ms A having surrendered after seven years was £2,110. Ms A 
surrendered the policy in April 2005 for £3,229.51. 
I dont believe that surrendering the policy early must lead to a conclusion that a long term 
savings vehicle was unsuitable for Ms A in the first place. I mustnt use hindsight in 
determining a reasonable outcome to a complaint. Instead, I must look at Ms As 
circumstances at the time of the sale based on any available evidence from both parties. 
In this case, it was recorded that Ms A already held two endowment savings policies (with 
different businesses) and she wanted an additional long term savings provision because her 
current savings represented less than 7% of her income. Both of these policies began two 
years previously; one for the same 25 year term. The other had a 15 year term to 2010. It 
seems to me that Ms A had some understanding of how these policies operated and it likely 
explains why she was happy to take out a number of similar investments.
Looking at Ms As financial circumstances, the proposed monthly contribution of £50 did not 
take her beyond a reasonable level of disposable income. I am satisfied the decision she 
took at the time to invest in this policy was within her means and with a term which coincided 
with her anticipated retirement. 
I appreciate the CMC says other types of investments such as a PEP was not considered, 
but this isnt the case. The adviser expressly addressed Ms As preferences and attitude to 
risk in his fact find document and recorded that other investment types were discussed with her, but she discounted those to opt for another with profits endowment policy. Similarly, a 
discussion was held with Ms A regarding a threshold for other savings on deposit, but she 
declined additional advice on that point.  
Ms A then signed a declaration on the fact find document to confirm that the adviser had 
understood her circumstances and needs as they had been set out. Ive seen no reason to 
dispute the contents of this document. I therefore conclude it was most likely that, even with 
the life cover provided by the policy in mind, Ms A was satisfied that taking out another 
endowment savings policy was the option she wished to pursue for her documented long 
term savings requirement. I therefore do not consider the advice was unreasonable or that 
the policy was mis-sold.  
My final decision
I reject this complaint and do not make any award.  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms A to accept or 
reject my decision before 13 April 2021.
 
Jo Storey
Ombudsman