DRN-4219003
The complaint
Mr and Mrs H complain about how U K Insurance Limited (UKI) trading as Direct Line dealt 
with a claim on their home insurance policy. 
Mr and Mrs H are represented on this complaint but for ease of reading, Ive referred to Mr 
and Mrs H throughout. 
What happened
Mr and Mrs Hs home suffered flood damage, so they claimed on their policy with UKI. The 
claim was accepted and UKI arranged to start the repairs. While the repairs where 
completed Mr and Mrs H were provided with alternative accommodation. After 11 months in 
alternative accommodation Mr and Mrs H returned to their home. 
Upon returning, it was discovered some of the work completed by UKI wasnt completed 
correctly. UKI reviewed this and rectified the poor workmanship. Mr and Mrs H still thought 
work hadnt been completed correctly and said UKI should also cover the claim for a door 
damaged by the flood. Unhappy with how UKI had dealt with the claim Mr and Mrs H 
complained. 
UKI reviewed the complaint and partly upheld it. It agreed some of the work hadnt been 
carried out to an acceptable standard but said this was being corrected. However, UKI stood 
by its position that the door to the lean-to wasnt covered by the policy as the main cause of 
damage wasnt related to the flood. UKI paid Mr and Mrs H £250 to compensate for the poor 
claim handling. Unhappy with UKIs response Mr and Mrs H referred their complaint here. 
Our investigator reviewed the complaint and recommended UKI increase the compensation 
to £450, to compensate Mr and Mrs H for the distress and inconvenience caused. However, 
he found the door to the lean-to hadnt been damaged by the flood and so wasnt covered. 
He also found that it had previously been accepted by Mr and Mrs H that the door wasnt 
covered, and so he didnt ask UKI to do anything else in relation to it. 
UKI accepted our investigators outcome, but Mr and Mrs H didnt agree. They said there 
was another leak which had been caused by UKI when the work was completed. They 
referred to a leak in the wall behind a toilet.  Our investigator reviewed this and found UKI 
was investigating the cause of the leak as a new claim as it couldnt see it was related to 
poor workmanship, which our investigator thought was fair and reasonable. 
Mr and Mrs H didnt and asked for an ombudsmans decision. They said UKI had caused a 
leak behind the toilet which needed repairing and there had been poor workmanship which 
needed correcting. In particular they referred to the Parque flooring, the quality of paint used, 
and the distress and inconvenience caused by this.   
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The terms and conditions of Mr and Mrs Hs policy cover them for certain events. The one in 
question here is a flood claim which is covered by the policy. UKI has accepted and dealt 
with the claim. I understand that Mr and Mrs H arent happy with how the claim has been 
dealt with and feel the door to the lean-to should also be covered. UKI has sent photos of the 
door which indicate the door was not damaged in the flood as there is damage to the top of 
it, Ive also seen e-mail correspondence from Mr and Mrs H accepting this and agreeing its 
not covered. Im therefore not persuaded UKI has done anything wrong in declining the claim 
for the door. 
Ive also considered the poor workmanship; this has resulted in Mr and Mrs Hs floor needing 
to be torn up and re-laid, along with other remedial work to their property. I understand 
alternative accommodation was offered to them which they declined. However, this 
additional unnecessary distress and inconvenience was only caused by UKIs poor 
workmanship. Therefore, UKI should compensate for the unnecessary distress and 
inconvenience caused from putting it right. UKI has agreed to pay Mr and Mrs H £450, this 
includes the £250 already paid. Im satisfied this is a fair and reasonable amount, UKI 
therefore needs to pay the additional amount if not already done so. I say this as Mr and Mrs 
H had the option of going to alternative accommodation but opted to stay in the property and 
while the work was disrupting, Im satisfied this is fair and reasonable compensation for it.
Ive also considered the leak behind the toilet. Mr and Mrs H have provided a video which 
shows in the gap between the wall behind the toilet there is a considerable leak. I can also 
see UKI investigated this and is of the opinion its not related to the claim and therefore 
needs to carry out a trace and access. Ive reviewed UKIs comments on this along with the 
video footage and Im satisfied there isnt sufficient evidence to say the leak was caused by 
UKIs poor workmanship. So, until the cause of the leak has been discovered, Im not 
persuaded UKI dealing with it as a separate claim is unreasonable. Im therefore not going to 
tell it to do anything more in relation to the leak. 
My final decision
For the reasons explained above, my final decision is that I uphold this complaint in part. I 
require U K Insurance Limited trading as Direct Line to pay Mr and Mrs H £450 for distress 
and inconvenience, this includes the £250 already paid. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H and Mrs H to 
accept or reject my decision before 18 August 2023.
 
Alex Newman
Ombudsman