DRN-1569428
 
The complaint
Mr and Mrs M complain that Lloyds Bank plc mis-sold them a payment protection insurance 
(PPI) policy (when Lloyds was trading as Cheltenham & Gloucester).  
What happened
This complaint is about a mortgage PPI policy. It was probably taken out in October 1996 
when Mr and Mrs M were applying for their mortgage. It covered them for accident, sickness 
and unemployment.
Our adjudicator didnt recommend that the complaint should be upheld. Mr and Mrs M didnt 
agree. Mr M said, in summary, that the adjudicator's conclusions were based on 
assumptions. There's no evidence that they were told about PPI or that they agreed to 
purchase it.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Weve set out our general approach to 
complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
Mr and Mrs Ms complaint.
Lloyds doesnt have a full record of the sale. In fact there is minimal paperwork available and 
a lot of information is unknown. This isnt surprising given the sale took place more than 20 
years ago. And, whilst I appreciate Mr M's concerns about assumptions that we've had to 
make, in cases like this, I reach my decision on the balance of probabilities  in other words, 
what I consider is most likely to have happened in light of the available evidence and the 
wider circumstances.
Firstly, I can't say for sure when and how the PPI was sold. But the bank's lending 
assessment form, which was completed as part of the mortgage application process, shows 
that payment protection was recommended. So it probably was sold in October 1996 in one 
of the bank's branches when Mr and Mrs M were applying for the mortgage.
The bank hasn't been able to tell us how the policy's benefit was split between Mr and Mrs 
M. Although the mortgage was in joint names, the lending assessment was completed using 
Mr M's income only. So I think it's likely the policy was in his sole name. However, to be fair 
to Mr and Mrs M, I have thought about whether the policy was mis-sold if it was in their joint 
names too.
Ive decided not to uphold Mr and Mrs Ms complaint for the following reasons:
Mr and Mrs M, understandably, can't remember much about what happened. And they say 
they didn't realise they had PPI. And I can see why they feel it should be for Lloyds to 
evidence that it was made clear the policy was optional and that they chose it, knowing they 
had a choice. But, as noted earlier, I make my decision based on all of the information and evidence, including what we know about PPI sales by Lloyds around this time. Having 
considered this I think it's more likely than not that Lloyds made Mr and Mrs M aware that 
the PPI was optional and that they chose to take it. 
The bank advised Mr and Mrs M to take out the policy and it doesnt look like it was 
unsuitable for them based on what Ive seen of their circumstances at the time. Let me 
explain why.
Mr and Mrs M were eligible for the policy given their circumstances and the terms and 
conditions.
Mr M says he would have received six months full pay followed by six months half pay from 
his employer if he couldnt work due to sickness or an accident. And Mrs M would probably 
have received around one third of her pay for two to three months. They also had a small 
amount of savings. But the mortgage was a significant long term financial commitment and 
Mr and Mrs Ms home was at risk if they didnt keep up with the repayments. The PPI would 
have paid out for up to 12 months in the event of a successful claim for accident or sickness. 
So I think the PPI couldve been a useful benefit, in addition to Mr and Mrs Ms existing 
arrangements. It also covered them if they'd become unemployed.
Mr and Mrs M weren't affected by any of the conditions limiting the policys main benefits 
such as those affecting self-employed people or people with pre-existing medical conditions. 
As they could have benefitted from the full extent of the cover I think it unlikely they needed 
better advice or information about the policys exclusions and limitations.
I cant see that the cost of the policy was clearly communicated to Mr and Mrs M before they 
agreed to purchase it. I dont think they were told it would cost £19.50 each month until after 
the mortgage had started. For this reason I have considered whether clearer information 
about the cost would have affected Mr and Mrs Ms decision to purchase the policy. They 
had chosen to take out the policy, knowing they would have to pay something for it. The 
policy was competitively priced and apparently affordable. So I think it unlikely they would 
have made a different decision if better information about the cost had been provided.
Its possible the information the bank gave Mr and Mrs M about the PPI wasnt as clear as it 
should have been. But, for the reasons Ive explained, I dont think Lloyds recommendation 
was unsuitable and I dont think Mr and Mrs M would have made a different decision about 
taking out the policy if better information had been provided to them  overall, I think they 
would still have taken out the policy. 
But Lloyds has paid back some of the cost of the PPI to Mr and Mrs M because: 
Lloyds got a high level of commission and profit share (more than 50% of the PPI 
premium) - so it should have told Mr and Mrs M about that. Because Lloyds didnt tell 
Mr and Mrs M, that was unfair.
To put that right, Lloyds has paid back the amount of commission and profit share 
that was above 50% of the PPI premium - and I think that is fair in this case.
 
My final decision
The PPI policy wasnt mis-sold  so Lloyds Bank plc does not have to pay back all of the 
cost of the PPI to Mr and Mrs M.But Lloyds Bank plc does have to pay back to Mr and Mrs M any commission and profit 
share it got that was more than 50% of the PPI premium. I understand it has already done 
this, so I dont award any further compensation. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M and Mrs M to 
accept or reject my decision before 27 April 2020.
Elizabeth Dawes
Ombudsman