DRN-2215246
The complaint
Mrs A and Mr H have complained that Great Lakes Insurance SE (Great Lakes) avoided 
their policy and refused to pay a claim.
What happened
Mrs A and Mr H had a multi trip travel insurance policy, underwritten by Great Lakes. Mrs A 
provided information to Great Lakes and bought this over the telephone in April 2019 for a 
holiday booked the following week. But unfortunately, Mr H was admitted to hospital and so 
the holiday was cancelled.
Great Lakes voided the policy and didnt pay the claim. It said Mrs A failed to disclose Mr Hs 
asthma when they took the policy. 
Mrs A and Mr H brought their complaint to us and our investigator thought the complaint 
should be upheld. He said Mrs A had provided clear information and so Great Lakes should 
pay the claim. 
Great Lakes disagreed and so the case has been passed to me for a final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I think this complaint should be upheld, and largely for the same reasons as 
already explained by the investigator. 
The relevant law in this case is The Consumer Insurance (Disclosure and Misrepresentation) 
Act 2012 (CIDRA). This requires consumers to take reasonable care not to make a 
misrepresentation when taking out a consumer insurance contract (a policy). The standard 
of care is that of a reasonable consumer. 
And if a consumer fails to do this, the insurer has certain remedies provided the 
misrepresentation is - what CIDRA describes as - a qualifying misrepresentation. For it to be 
a qualifying misrepresentation the insurer has to show it would have offered the policy on 
different terms or not at all if the consumer hadnt made the misrepresentation. 
CIDRA sets out a number of considerations for deciding whether the consumer failed to take 
reasonable care. And the remedy available to the insurer under CIDRA depends on whether 
the qualifying misrepresentation was deliberate or reckless, or careless.
Great Lakes thinks Mrs A failed to take reasonable care not to make a misrepresentation. 
Mrs A and Mr H have since provided further evidence from Mr Hs consultant to confirm that 
he didnt have a diagnosis of asthma. 
Great Lakes reviewed the evidence and accepted that Mr H didnt have a diagnosis of 
asthma. But it said that Mr H failed to declare an abnormal heart rhythm, breathlessness, 
high blood pressure and high cholesterol. It also said that at the time of purchase, there had 
been two heart related hospital admissions within 12 months but only one had been 
declared. Great Lakes said Mrs A didnt give reasons for the heart failure but just the heart 
failure itself. It completed a new quote with all of this information and said it wouldnt have 
offered a policy. 
Ive considered what Great Lakes has said and have also listened to the call Mrs A made on 
11 April 2019 when she answered the medical questions. Mrs A gave the following 
information:
Mr H had suffered from heart failure and had a defibrillator.
Mrs A wasnt asked any further questions about this and wasnt asked about the causes of 
heart failure. So I dont think she gave an incorrect answer here. As Mrs A mentioned a 
defibrillator which would indicate an abnormal heart rhythm. 
Mr H was given an inhaler as he was getting out of breath and Mrs A connected this 
with his heart failure.
Great Lakes say breathlessness wasnt declared but Im satisfied that Mrs A gave a 
complete answer here and explained that Mr H did get out of breath but not when he was 
walking on a flat. I havent seen any evidence that this was incorrect. A recent letter from Mr 
Hs consultant confirms that he suffers from breathlessness on exertion. The questions 
asked by Great Lakes were about whether Mr H becomes short of breath when walking on 
the flat or lying down. And the answer was no. So Im satisfied there was no 
misrepresentation here.  
Mrs A said Mr H had one unplanned hospital visit within the last 12 months. 
Great Lakes said Mr H had a significant hospital stay of 25 days in 2018 where he had a 
pacemaker fitted. It said Mrs A should have disclosed the visit from 25 March 2018 and 19 
April 2018 which was almost exactly 12 months earlier.  Our investigator said this period in 
hospital was most (95%) over 12 months ago at the point of sale. And the event that led him 
to go into hospital, which is what the insurer was underwriting with consideration of, was 
over 12 months ago.
Ive seen that Mr H was admitted to hospital on 25 March 2018 and again on 2 March 2019. 
The question Mrs A was asked was about any unplanned hospital visits within the last 12 
months. The question didnt specifically ask when the admission started or ended and so it 
wasnt unreasonable for Mrs A to take the date of when Mr H was first admitted to hospital 
with problems and provide an answer to this. 
As set out above, Im satisfied that Mrs A answered the question about the hospital visits 
accurately as she wasnt given any further information of whether to include visits which 
started more than 12 months ago.
Mrs A didnt declare the following:High blood pressure
High cholesterol
Mrs A says she didnt think Mr H had high blood pressure or high cholesterol and thought 
these were acute to his gall bladder problem. And so I think this amounts to a careless 
misrepresentation. 
I asked Great Lakes to provide a retrospective screening, to include high blood pressure 
(excluding breathlessness for the reasons explained above) and by inputting one hospital 
visit. 
It has provided a screening using 2019 prices which shows that Mrs A and Mr H would have 
paid £391.57 instead of £355.69. Great Lakes says the new screening doesnt reflect the risk 
the insured posed  it says it is clear Mr H suffered breathlessness as he was prescribed two 
inhalers for this. Great Lakes say had they been able to quote based on full medical history, 
the premium would be much higher. 
As explained above, I dont think Mrs A made a misrepresentation in relation to 
breathlessness and so there was no qualifying misrepresentation. But I do think she should 
have declared high blood pressure and high cholesterol. Im satisfied she answered all 
questions accurately but made a careless misrepresentation by failing to declare high blood 
pressure and high cholesterol as she thought the conditions were acute to Mr Hs gall 
bladder problem. 
Great Lakes should now pay the claim, plus 8% interest from the date of claim to the date of 
settlement. It can proportionately reduce the claim based on the retrospective screening. 
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I think Mrs A and Mr Hs complaint should be upheld and 
direct Great Lakes Insurance SE to:
pay the claim (which can be settled proportionately). It should add 8% simple interest 
from the date of claim to the date of payment
reinstate the policy, amend its records and any central databases to remove any 
record of the avoidance.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs A and Mr H to 
accept or reject my decision before 15 January 2021.
 
Shamaila Hussain
Ombudsman