DRN-4120106
The complaint
Mr D complains that Capital One (Europe) plc irresponsibly gave him two credit cards that he 
couldnt afford.
What happened
Mr D was given two credit cards by Capital One. The first card was taken out in June 2015 
with an initial credit limit of £1,000. The limit was increase to £1,250 in March 2016, the 
account still remains open with an outstanding balance. The second card was taken out in 
December 2016 with a credit limit of £200. The limit on the second card was never 
increased, but the card remains open with an outstanding balance.
In 2022, Mr D complained to Capital One to say that it should never have given him the 
credit cards or the limit increase. It said that if Capital One had done appropriate checks it 
would have seen the credit was unaffordable to him.
Capital One didnt think it had acted unfairly. It said that it had completed appropriate checks 
before lending which showed that Mr D could afford the borrowing.
I sent Mr D and Capital One my provisional decision on 25 April 2023. I explained why 
I thought the complaint should be upheld. I said:
Ive had in mind the rules and guidance for lenders within the Consumer Credit 
Sourcebook (known as CONC) within the regulators handbook, when thinking about 
whether Capital One acted fairly and reasonably.
Prior to granting Mr D with credit, Capital One were required to ensure it would be 
affordable and sustainable. There isnt a set list of checks it needed to complete, 
instead it needed to ensure the checks it did complete were proportionate for each 
lending decision. What is considered proportionate will therefore vary with each 
lending decision. In deciding what is proportionate, Capital One needed to take into 
consideration things such as (but not limited to): the amount of credit, the cost of 
credit, the size of any sustainable repayments to ensure the credit could be repaid in 
a reasonable period of time (this is likely to be higher than the minimum contractual 
payment) and Mr Ds specific circumstances.
When Mr D applied for credit card one, he declared he earned an annual income of 
£40,000. Capital One completed a credit check which showed that Mr D had a 
mortgage, car finance, three credit cards, some loans and an overdraft. His monthly 
commitment towards secured borrowing was around £750 per month and around 
another £750 per month for his unsecured debts. Capital One says it also estimated 
Mr Ds essential household expenditure using statistical data. Taking all of this 
information together, it said that Mr D appeared to have sufficient disposable income 
to afford a credit limit of £1,000.
The information and evidence Capital One gathered suggested that Mr D was 
managing his existing credit commitments with no recent history of payment difficulty. 
It was also entitled to rely on the information Mr D gave on the application form about 
his circumstances, unless it knew or ought to have known it was untrue. Mr D says 
he inflated his income figure. However, Ive not seen anything to suggest that Capital 
One ought to have known this. This is because I think Capital One completed 
proportionate affordability checks and I dont think those checks revealed any 
affordability concerns. I therefore think it made a fair lending decision.
However, I dont think Capital One made a fair lending decision when it increased the 
credit limit on credit card one or when it opened credit card two. Ill explain why.
The increase to the credit limit was around nine months after the credit card was 
opened. While the increase in monetary terms wasnt large, it still represented a 25% 
increase on the overall limit, which I consider to be significant. Further, I think at this 
stage, Capital One had enough information to suggest Mr D was in financial difficulty 
and unable to sustainably afford more credit.
I say this because Capital Ones credit checks show that in the previous six months, 
Mr D had taken out nine payday loans. The volume of such high-cost short-term 
borrowing ought to have concerned Capital One. I note also that Mr D was paying off 
some of those payday loans using the credit card from Capital One  this was 
evident from the credit card statements. The fact Mr D was paying credit with credit, 
and this information was available to Capital One ought to have caused them to 
question Mr Ds ability to sustainably repay not just more credit, but the existing 
facility too.
Further, it appears that in the nine months since the credit card was opened, Mr D 
had taken out a further two credit cards elsewhere as well as an additional loan. The 
amounts he was borrowing were significantly increasing in a short period of time and 
he was relying on expensive payday loans as well as paying credit with other credit 
to avoid missing payments. Mr D was clearly not in a position to be able to afford 
more credit and this ought to have been evident to Capital One from the checks it 
completed and from what it already knew about its customer.
By the time Mr D opened the second credit card, his unsecured debt had increased 
even further. Its clear his financial position was even worse than it had been when 
the limit was increased on credit card one. It therefore made an unfair lending 
decision in granting the limit increase on credit card one and opening credit card two. 
Ive therefore thought about a fair way to put things right.
I think it ought to have been clear to Capital One at the time it increased Mr Ds limit 
in March 2016, that he could no longer sustainably afford any limit on the credit card 
it had, let alone any increases in credit. I therefore think at that stage, not only should 
Capital One have not increased Mr Ds credit limit but also taken steps to support his 
financial difficulties.In the absence of it having done anything at all, I think its therefore fair and 
reasonable that it refunds all interest, fees and charges that have been applied to 
credit card one from March 2016 onwards. However, as Mr D has spent money using 
that card, it is fair he pays back what he borrowed. 
As I dont think credit card two should ever have been opened, I think Capital One 
should remove all interest, fees and charges on that card from the outset. However, 
as above, I think its fair for Mr D to pay back the capital amounts he borrowed.
Both Mr D and Capital One accepted that outcome and had nothing further to add. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As both parties have accepted my provisional decision and provided no further comments or 
evidence, Ive seen no reason to reach a different conclusion. Therefore, for the reasons 
I gave in my provisional decision above, I think Capital One acted unfairly and unreasonably 
when it continued to offer credit to Mr D after March 2016.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I uphold this complaint and direct Capital One (Europe) plc to:
Re-work credit card one removing all interest, fees, charges and insurances (not 
already refunded) from March 2016 onwards.
Re-work credit card two removing all interest, fees, charges and insurances (not 
already refunded) from account opening.
If after the re-work Mr D has paid back more than he borrowed, Capital One should 
refund any overpayments to Mr D, adding 8% simple interest per year on any refunds 
from the date of each overpayment to the date of settlement. It should also remove 
any adverse information it may have recorded on his credit file in relation to both 
credit cards from March 2016 onwards.
Or;
If after the re-work there is still a capital balance outstanding, Capital One should 
arrange an affordable repayment plan the outstanding amount. Once Mr D has paid 
back that balance, Capital One should remove any adverse information it may have 
recorded on his credit file in relation to both credit cards from March 2016 onwards.
If Capital One considers tax should be deducted from the interest element of my award it 
should provide Mr D with a certificate showing how much tax it has taken off, so he can 
reclaim that amount if he is eligible to do so.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision before 6 June 2023.
 
Tero Hiltunen
Ombudsman