DRN-2614547
The complaint
Mr H has complained about the poor service he received from Admiral Insurance Company 
Limited when he made a claim under his car insurance policy.
What happened
In May 2018 Mr H was involved in an incident with another vehicle and he reported it to his 
insurer, Admiral. 
Mr H said he wasnt at fault for the incident. Admiral said it may settle the claim on a shared 
liability basis, but it agreed with Mr H to set out the allegations to the third party insurer (TPI).
Admiral was unable to agree a settlement with the TPI and so it instructed solicitors to act on 
theirs and Mr Hs behalf. 
Mr H continued to chase Admiral for updates. In January 2020 Mr H complained about the 
lack of updates and progression of the claim. 
In June 2020, having not heard from Admiral, Mr H contacted it by webchat. Admiral 
discovered it hadnt dealt with Mr Hs complaint as it should have passed the details to the 
solicitor to reply. 
Admiral upheld Mr Hs complaint that it had failed to communicate with Mr H how his 
complaint would be dealt with. For failing to manage Mr Hs expectations, Admiral paid him 
£100 compensation. It said it passed his details to the solicitors to reply to him. 
In September 2020 Mr H contacted Admiral to complain again. He said he hadnt received 
any update from it or the solicitors. 
Admiral upheld Mr Hs complaint. It said it should have been more proactive in chasing the 
solicitors for an update on the claim since June 2020, particularly when it was aware of the 
upset it was causing.  It said it should have provided more updates to Mr H during this time. 
For the distress caused, Admiral paid Mr H a further £100 compensation. It explained that it 
couldnt address his complaint about the solicitor as it doesnt have access to their file. 
Admiral provided Mr H with contact details for the solicitor and the Legal Ombudsman. 
Admiral said it would allow Mr Hs No Claims Discount (NCD).
In November 2020 Mr H asked us to look at his complaint. He felt it was unfair that hes had 
to pay more for his insurance since the incident due to the open claim. He said his current 
insurer didnt reduce his premium as a result of Admirals allowance of the NCD. 
Our investigator thought Admiral should increase the compensation it paid by a further £150. 
She thought the delay and lack of progression had impacted on the premium Mr H had to 
pay for insurance and that a further £150 was fairer to reflect the additional time and 
inconvenience caused to Mr H. 
Admiral said it would pay the additional sum if Mr H accepted the investigators view.
Mr H didnt agree. He says the additional compensation amount isnt enough to reflect the 
time and inconvenience hes been caused. Mr H wanted the investigator to give Admiral a 
deadline to settle the claim. 
As Mr H didnt agree, the case has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I cannot consider the actions of the solicitor as any complaints about them are outside of our 
jurisdiction. I can see that in September 2020 Admiral provided Mr H with details of the 
solicitor and of the Legal Ombudsman. 
My decision is about the actions of Admiral as Mr Hs insurer. 
It isnt in dispute that Admiral failed to provide Mr H with updates under his claim. There are 
periods from August 2018 to February 2019 when Admiral said it would instruct solicitors to 
progress the claim. In May 2019 Mr H called Admiral as hed heard nothing from the 
solicitors. Mr Hs complained in January 2020 but Admiral failed to pass Mr Hs concerns to 
the solicitors. And despite being aware of the poor service Mr H had received, Admiral failed 
to proactively follow up on the claim between July 2020 and September 2020 when Mr H 
raised a second complaint. 
Admiral has paid Mr H a total compensation award of £200. While I dont think its 
responsible for any delays caused by the solicitors, I think it is responsible for updating Mr H 
on his claim  and I think it failed to do enough to chase the solicitors for any meaningful 
updates  particularly after Mr Hs concerns from January 2020 werent addressed until June 
when he contacted Admiral again. 
I cant make any conclusions as to when the claim would have settled if Admiral been more 
proactive  and its for this reason that I cannot consider Mr Hs claim for financial loss by 
having to pay more for his insurance elsewhere since the incident. The reason why the claim 
was passed to solicitors was due to the TPI not agreeing to a settlement. And while a claim 
is open, its industry practice for insurers to treat the claim as a fault claim until it is closed. 
If a claim is settled on a partial or full fault basis, it is recorded as a fault claim as the insurer 
hasnt been able to recover all of their costs from a third party. So, if Admiral settles the 
claim on any basis other than non-fault then the impact on Mr Hs premiums since the 
incident will have been the same. 
If Admiral settles the claim as a non-fault claim, Mr H can contact his current insurer and ask 
them to take this into account. If Mr H is unhappy with the way his current insurer replies, he 
can raise a separate complaint about that. 
So taking everything into account, I think a fairer outcome is for Admiral to increase the 
compensation its paid Mr H for its poor service from £200 to £350. I think this is in line with 
awards which we give for similar cases. I think Mr H has been caused distress and 
inconvenience by Admirals poor handling of the claim and for failing to pass his complaint to 
the solicitor. 
My final decisionFor the reasons Ive given above, my final decision is that I uphold this complaint. I require 
Admiral Insurance Company Limited to pay Mr H £150 compensation in addition to the 
compensation its already paid him for the distress and inconvenience caused. 
Admiral Insurance Company Limited must pay the compensation within 28 days of the date 
on which we tell it Mr H accepts my final decision. If it pays later than this it must also pay 
interest on the compensation from the date of my final decision to the date of payment at a 
simple rate of 8% a year.
If Admiral considers that its required by HM Revenue & Customs to withhold income tax 
from that interest, it should tell Mr H how much its taken off. It should also give Mr H a tax 
deduction certificate if he asks for one, so he can reclaim the tax from HM Revenue & 
Customs if appropriate.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 23 June 2021.
 
Geraldine Newbold
Ombudsman