DRN-3422567
The complaint
Ms W is unhappy that Unum Ltd declined a claim she made on her former employers group 
income protection scheme. 
What happened
Ms W was a member of her former employers group income protection scheme. In 
September 2020 she became absent from work due to experiencing depression and anxiety. 
She made a claim on their income protection scheme.
Unum declined the claim on the basis that the medical evidence suggested Ms W was 
experiencing wellbeing problems rather than an incapacitating mental illness or disorder. 
They said it was perceived workplace issues, rather than a medical illness or injury had 
caused her to become absent. Ms W appealed but Unum maintained their decision to 
decline the claim. Unhappy, Ms W complained to our service. 
Our investigator looked into what had happened and didnt uphold the complaint. He thought 
that Unum had fairly declined the claim based on the available medical evidence. He said 
that it was open to Ms W to send further information to Unum if she wanted them to reassess 
the claim. 
Ms W sent further medical information which our investigator sent on to Unum  but he 
explained that he was considering whether Unum had fairly declined the claim at the time, so 
the additional information didnt change his thoughts about the outcome of this complaint.   
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The relevant rules and industry guidelines say that Unum has a responsibility to handle 
claims promptly and fairly. And, they shouldnt reject a claim unreasonably. Its for Ms W to 
show that she has a valid claim under the policy, not for Unum to show that she doesnt. 
In order to make a successful claim Ms W needed to demonstrate that she met the definition 
of incapacity. The policy terms and conditions say: 
A member is incapacitated if they are unable to perform the material and substantial 
duties of their insured occupation because of their illness or injury and are not 
performing any occupation
For the insured occupation cover definition of incapacity, material and substantial 
duties means the duties that are normally required for the performance of the 
members insured occupation and which cannot be reasonably omitted or modified. It 
is those duties required for the performance of the occupation at their, or any other 
employer. The insured occupation does not include: 
 The specific manner in which the member was expected to complete work tasks 
for a specific employer or at a specific location. 
Im not upholding this complaint because I think it was reasonable for Unum to conclude 
Ms W was absent from work due to workplace issues rather than mental illness. I say that 
because: 
When Ms W claimed on the policy, she reported low mood, stress, anxiety, fatigue 
and feeling overwhelmed which made it hard for her to regulate her emotions and to 
focus. When asked what assistance she would need to return to work she listed a lot 
of things shed need. They included, Understanding from my employer and my 
manager, For my role and tasks to not keep swapping and changing all the time, 
The proper training and supported promised at interview for the agreed training to 
actually happen. To be able to ask questions without feeling criticised or being 
punished for doing so, To be heard when Im struggling. So, I think Unum 
reasonably concluded Ms W was experiencing issues in the workplace. 
Unum acknowledged that Ms W experienced depression. But I think they reasonably 
concluded this wasnt the main barrier to Ms Ws return to work. That conclusion is 
consistent with the information in the medical evidence. For example, the GP notes 
from around the time Ms W became absent say she was having trouble at work 
following changes to her job and that she was unhappy and unsure what would 
happen. There were further references to workplace issues in the notes during the 
relevant period including a note which says that Ms W was feeling ganged up on 
and attacked by work. 
Ive thought about whether Unum has been selective about the medical evidence and 
focused unfairly on the workplace issues. I dont think thats whats happened. 
Theres a clear theme in the documentation submitted as part of the claims process 
which suggests that workplace issues were the main barrier to Ms W returning to 
work as opposed to a mental illness.  
Ive taken into account what Ms W has said about how she was feeling around the 
time of the claim, her confusion about the claims process and how the pandemic 
impacted her access to treatment. But Unum could only assess the claim on the 
basis of the information provided. And, as Ive outlined above, its for Ms W to 
demonstrate she has a valid claim on the policy not for Unum to prove she doesnt. 
So, this hasnt changed my thoughts about the outcome of this complaint.
Ms W has provided further information in support of her claim following our 
investigator sending his findings to her. This information wasnt provided to Unum at 
the time the claim was made and so it wasnt something Unum could consider. So, I 
cant fairly conclude that this means they were wrong to decline the claim on the 
basis of this new information as they could only work with the evidence they had at 
the time.My final decision
Im not upholding this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms W to accept or 
reject my decision before 24 October 2022.
 
Anna Wilshaw
Ombudsman