DRN-4066333
The complaint
Limited company B complains that Lloyds Bank PLC hasnt refunded it after it paid money 
upfront by bank transfer for a vehicle and this turned out to have been a scam.
What happened
In January 2022, B (a motor repair company) was attempting to buy a vehicle advertised for 
sale on a well-known auction website. 
The sellers advert didnt allow the use of the auction website for the purchase. It said 
anyone interested in buying needed to contact the seller directly. So B messaged the seller 
and then spoke to them on the phone. 
The seller said the vehicle was about to be purchased by a trader, but if B paid a deposit 
(half the price) then the vehicle would be secured for B.
The seller said the vehicle was in great condition, and it was the mileage and age B wanted.
Bs director later explained to Lloyds it was such a good deal that he decided to proceed. 
B explained it didnt carry out checks into the seller or the vehicle at that point, because the 
seller sounded genuine.
B offered to pay the full price advertised, rather than a deposit - wanting to ensure the 
purchase was secured. The seller accepted this, and he sent over bank details to be used 
for the payment. B then made a Faster Payments bank transfer of £4,500 from its business 
current account with Lloyds. The payment was made to an account (the receiving account) 
in a different name to that of the seller.
However, when Bs director travelled to the supposed location of the vehicle that weekend, 
he found out the address was fake. The seller stopped responding and it was apparent that 
the sale had been a scam.
B reported the matter to the police and later to Lloyds.
Lloyds tried to recover Bs money from the receiving account. But unfortunately, by the time 
the scam had come to light, the money had been removed and none remained to be 
recovered.
Lloyds is signed up to the Lending Standards Boards Contingent Reimbursement Model 
(the CRM Code) which can offer additional protection from Authorised Push Payment scams 
(APP scams) such as this one. But Lloyds said it wouldnt refund the loss because B hadnt 
been sufficiently cautious when deciding to go ahead and make the payment. 
B didnt agree and referred a complaint about the outcome to this service for an independent 
review. 
Our Investigator looked into everything that had happened. But she didnt think Lloyds had 
treated B unfairly, and didnt think it needed to refund the money it had lost. 
The Investigator said the price advertised was very low relative to the normal market value 
for that vehicle, taking into account its age and mileage, being less than half what trade 
valuations suggested. She thought this was too good to be true. The Investigator thought 
other features of the sale should have raised concerns. B hadnt carried out checks to 
reassure itself prior to making the payment. Lloyds could have given a scam warning when 
the payment was being made but this would have been very unlikely to have prevented the 
payment being made. Under the CRM Code, B wasnt entitled to a refund from Lloyds, and 
Lloyds wasnt liable for any other reason.
B didnt accept the Investigators assessment. The complaint has been referred to me to 
reach a final decision on the matter. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In deciding whats fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of a complaint, Im required to 
take into account relevant: law and regulations; regulators rules, guidance and standards; 
codes of practice; and, where appropriate, what I consider to be good industry practice at the 
time.
Im sorry to hear about what happened to B here. This was a criminal scam, and B now 
faces the financial consequences of that. Of course, the principal cause of the loss are the 
scammers actions, and it doesnt follow that Lloyds is necessarily liable for what happened. 
Lloyds has a primary obligation to carry out the payment instructions its customers give it. As 
a starting point, a customer is then assumed to be liable for payments they have instructed 
to be made.
As Ive mentioned above, the CRM Code can provide additional protection for the victims of 
APP scams. Im satisfied that the payment B made fell within the scope of the CRM Code. 
But despite offering additional protections, the CRM Code includes provisions allowing a firm 
not to reimburse APP scam losses in some situations. 
Relevant here, this includes where the banks customer made a payment without a 
reasonable basis for believing that the person the customer was dealing with was legitimate, 
selling genuine goods, or that the payee was the person the customer was expecting to pay.
Lloyds says this exception applies here. It reviewed Bs claim against the CRM Code, but it 
didnt think it was required to reimburse the money lost. 
In deciding this complaint, I must first determine whether Lloyds has established this 
exception to reimbursement can be fairly applied  in other words, that B made the 
payments without having a reasonable basis for believing either that it was legitimate, selling 
a genuine vehicle or that B was paying the person it believed it was paying. 
In determining these points, I have carefully considered everything submitted by B (and Bs 
representatives) as well as the evidence submitted by the bank. 
Firstly, I think the price was very low relative to the market value of the vehicle. Arguably this 
was simply too good to be true. From what Ive seen, the market value for this vehicle at the time (given the mileage, condition and age) would, conservatively, be more than double what 
was being asked for it. 
I dont doubt that offer would have appeared enticing, considering how cheap it was in 
comparison to the typical price. But a very low price can be one indicator that there is 
potentially something untoward about the seller or the proposed deal.
I understand Bs argument that sometimes vehicles can be bought at a lower than usual cost 
and that B was an experienced purchaser of vehicles, one with the facility to repair the 
vehicle if it happened to need it. But all things considered I think the low price of this vehicle 
indicated higher than usual risk here and that this should have led B to take greater than 
usual care about whether or not to go ahead.
Besides the low price, I find there were other factors here that should have raised additional 
concerns about the legitimacy of the seller. 
The sellers advert indicated from the outset that the auction websites purchase platform 
couldnt be used for the sale. B notes that, normally, going through the platform allows the 
use of other payment methods (which might provide some buyer protection). But for this 
vehicle any purchasers were told theyd need to leave the platform and contact the seller 
directly. While this might have been done to avoid platform fees, moving the sale away from 
the platform and associated methods of payment was also a red flag - a sign that a sale 
might not be legitimate.
The name of the account B was asked to pay didnt correspond to the person whod been 
acting as the seller. Bs director thought it might have been the sellers partner or daughter. 
But it doesnt seem to me this was queried at the time of making the payment  B simply 
made the payment to the account directed by the supposed seller without question. This 
mismatch was another risk or red-flag.
Besides the above, B accepts it hadnt carried out any further checks on the vehicle (such as 
an HPI check) or checks on the seller. B had only seen photos of the vehicle on the advert 
and didnt ask the seller to provide any further evidence of ownership or their identity. 
Unfortunately, I think this was only very limited information to base the decision to send a 
large sum of money by irreversible bank transfer. When B later checked the sellers profile it 
was found he had minimal sales history.
In short there were a number of factors indicating that things might not be as they seemed 
with the sale, and B had done little to mitigate those risks. Ultimately, I think B was putting a 
lot of trust in a stranger. Buying a vehicle available for sale only outside the website it was 
advertised on, sight unseen, and at a considerable discount was always a big risk.
All considered, I think B should have considered walking away from the deal  it was too 
good to be true, and other factors about the sale were red flags. Unfortunately, I think paying 
a large upfront payment in that situation was an unreasonable and unnecessary risk to have 
taken. However I understand why B might have been willing to run that risk in exchange for 
the possibility of a very good bargain.
With all of this in mind, and while I am sorry to hear how B has lost money to this scam, I 
dont find that B had a reasonable basis for believing the payment was: for genuine goods or 
services; being paid to the person B thought it was; or that the person with whom they 
transacted was legitimate.
In terms of the CRM Code, where a customer made a payment without having a reasonable 
basis for believing they were paying for legitimate goods from a legitimate seller, or that they were paying the person they believed they were, then their bank does not need to refund 
them for their loss even when this was due to a scam. I think Lloyds is entitled to rely on that 
here  I think it has done enough to establish that B didnt have a reasonable basis for 
believing this was legitimate.
Based on what Lloyds could reasonably have known at the time, this payment wasnt one 
which would have particularly stood out as being at risk of being connected to a fraud or 
scam. The payment doesnt stand out from the normal transactions on Bs business account 
and at the time it was made, and only equated to around 10% of the account balance. With 
this being a business account expected to be used for this type of transaction, arguably 
Lloyds wouldnt have considered this particular payment presented an obvious risk of being 
an APP scam. I dont think Lloyds needed to take specific steps at the time, such as 
intervening directly before it would release Bs payment. 
But even if the CRM Code still obligated Lloyds to give an Effective Warning, I am not 
persuaded that this would have made a material difference to the success of this scam. 
I think B would most likely still have made this payment, knowing it had made similar 
purchases in the past, the director having been in the motor trade for several decades, and 
in the belief that it had secured a very good deal with a plausible sounding seller.
When Lloyds was made aware of what had happened it acted appropriately and tried to 
recover the funds, although none remained in the receiving account.
In short, I dont find Lloyds is to blame for Bs losses. I dont find it is liable to refund B under 
the terms of the CRM Code either. 
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I do not uphold Bs complaint about Lloyds Bank PLC.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask B to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 July 2023.
 
Stephen Dickie
Ombudsman