DRN-3796526
The complaint
Mr M complains about National Westminster Bank Plc (NatWest) advice about reducing his 
credit limit.
What happened
Mr M says he spoke to NatWest in July 2021. He says it told him to reduce his credit card 
account limit which would improve his credit score. Mr M says he followed the advice, but his 
credit score reduced by 46 points. He would like appropriate compensation for what took 
place and for his credit limit to be re-instated. He would also like his previous credit score re-
instated.
NatWest says it wouldnt have given Mr M any guarantees about increasing his credit score 
but accepts in the absence of a call recording that the advice should have been clearer. It 
has paid £220 compensation and says the credit limit was reduced in October 2021. 
NatWest says it cant amend a credit score in any event and will look at the affordability of 
any credit limit increase.
Mr M brought his complaint to us and our investigator didnt uphold the complaint. The 
investigator thought the compensation appropriate and that it was up to NatWest to set a 
credit limit.
Mr M doesnt accept that view and says the compensation isnt enough but says the 
previous credit limit has now been re-instated.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I have come to the overall view that NatWest has dealt fairly with this 
complaint by paying an appropriate compensation amount.
There is no dispute here that NatWest ought to have been clearer in the telephone call with 
Mr M in July 2021. I say that as NatWest accepts that and has paid compensation. So, the 
only real issue for me to decide is the compensation level.
I appreciate Mr M says the advice meant his credit score reduced. I have not seen a copy of 
Mr Ms credit file and so I am not sure what other information was recorded on it. And I can 
see that the credit limit reduction was requested some time after the telephone call in July 
2021 when there may have been a change in Mr Ms circumstances. I have not seen any 
evidence of any financial loss caused by what I think was a relatively small reduction in the 
credit score. 
Im satisfied that NatWest has fairly apologised for what took place and think its 
compensation payment of £220 is fair and reasonable. I accept Mr M was caused distress 
and inconvenience as a result of what took place but have made clear that I have not seen 
any evidence of actual financial loss. I dont think what took place justifies greater 
compensation or that it had such a significant impact to do so. I also think Mr Ms credit limit 
has now been re-instated and that NatWest has no control over the credit score produced by 
the Credit Reference Agencies in any event.
I appreciate Mr M will be disappointed by my decision and he will be aware that a credit 
score is made up of a variety of variable factors in any event. I find this now brings an end to 
what we in trying to resolve this dispute informally can do to.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 10 February 2023.
 
David Singh
Ombudsman