DRN-3807893
The complaint
Mr B complains that Royal & Sun Alliance Insurance Limited (RSA) carried out inadequate 
repairs to his roof following his home insurance claim, and failed to tell him about other work 
that required attention, resulting in further damage some years later. 
Mr Bs broker brought the complaint on his behalf but, for ease, Ill refer to Mr B throughout 
my decision.
What happened
In 2014, Mr B claimed under his policy for storm damage. Although the damage was mainly 
wear and tear, RSA accepted the claim and appointed company W to complete the repairs.
In November 2019, Mr B identified similar roof damage. He instructed company V to assess 
the damage, which concluded that the workmanship was inadequate. Mr B contacted RSA in 
February 2020 to say the damage was the result of poor workmanship by its company W 
from his previous claim. RSA appointed company E to look into Mr Bs claim. 
Company E tried to arrange an inspection with Mr B. To begin with he wasn't available, and 
then he refused an inspection because of covid concerns. But Mr B said the repairs were 
already underway. RSA told Mr B not to continue with repairs until it had an opportunity to 
inspect the damage. Despite this, repairs continued, and Mr B let RSA know that the work 
was completed.
Because RSA didnt have an opportunity to inspect the damage, it completed a desktop 
survey. RSA reported that Mr Bs roof was in need of maintenance more generally, and the 
flashings needed to be repaired, likely because of poor workmanship. But there was no 
evidence that the latest repairs were the same as the previous repair. Further, RSA said it 
should never have accepted the original claim because the roof damage was due to wear 
and tear which wasn't covered under the policy.
Mr B complained. He said the flashing repairs by company W were inadequate and he 
maintained that its poor workmanship allowed further damage to happen. Mr B also 
complained that company W failed to tell him about existing defects when it repaired the 
flashing in 2014. Because of that, he wasnt able to prevent further damage by having the 
necessary work done at the same time. Mr B thought RSA should pay for the repairs which 
hadnt been done properly first time round.
RSA declined to offer any financial assistance with the repairs because it hadnt had an 
opportunity to inspect the damage and verify Mr Bs claim that it was due to poor 
workmanship. RSA said it may consider his claim if Mr B provided supporting evidence, but it 
would need to visit the property. Mr B brought his complaint to this service.
Our investigator partly upheld Mr Bs complaint. Because RSA accepted the original claim, 
she didnt put any weight on RSAs comments about it being excluded under the policy. On 
consideration of the repairs carried out in 2014, and the more recent repairs, our investigator 
thought RSA should pay the cost of the work to the flashings on receipt of a valid invoice. 
She also proposed that RSA should consider any interior repairs resulting from the faulty 
flashing and pay 8% simple interest on the reimbursement of the flashing costs. 
RSA didnt agree. It said there was limited evidence of the original repair and, because Mr B 
already had his roof repaired again, it wasn't possible to determine whether the work was of 
a poor standard or even whether the repairs were to the same part of the house. However, 
RSA told Mr B it would consider his claim if he provided supporting evidence and allowed a 
site visit.
I issued a provisional decision in October 2022 explaining that I was intending to not uphold 
Mr Bs complaint. Heres what I said:
Provisional findings
Firstly, I wont be considering whether RSA shouldve accepted Mr Bs original claim in 2014. 
While I understand it may have been excluded from cover, the fact is RSA accepted the 
claim and provided a 75% contribution to the roof repairs. And because RSA appointed the 
contractor to complete the repairs, Id expect it to be responsible for any issues with 
workmanship, provided theyre evidenced and raised within a reasonable time.
I wont go into every detail of Mr Bs complaint, and as both parties have the expert reports I 
wont repeat the content here unless I need to illustrate a point. Instead Ill focus on giving 
the reasons for my decision.
The photos and desktop survey show that Mr Bs roof was in need of maintenance, 
and showed signs of significant wear and tear. For example, the pointing was 
crumbling away, and there was heavy moss growth suggesting dampness. 
The survey indicates that there are visible defects in the roof build which wouldve 
been there when Mr B made his first claim. Such as coping stones not protruding 
sufficiently and the lack of adequate damp proofing around the parapets.
The photos show that the face of each wall was wet, originating from the flat roof. 
The evidence doesnt suggest that RSA repaired the full roof in 2014. Therefore, the 
wet walls on all sides of the property indicate that previous repairs couldnt have 
been the only factor in the later damage.
Even if RSA spotted the inherent defects in the roof, theres no evidence to say 
whether it did or didnt tell Mr B in 2014. And general maintenance of the house was 
Mr Bs responsibility on an ongoing basis, so he shouldve been aware of the 
condition of his roof. Therefore, I cant reasonably hold RSA responsible for his 
failure to repair those defects.
While its understandable that Mr B didnt want visitors during lockdown, which is why 
he rejected RSAs visit, he did have his own contractors on site to complete repairs. 
So, I agree that RSA was denied an opportunity to inspect the damage and 
determine whether it had contributed to the need for further repairs.
Mr B hasnt provided the information RSA asked for in respect of the more recent 
repairs, and the details of the original repairs are no longer available. Ive seen the 
2014 quotes, along with the loss adjusters assessment of the damage during that 
time. But RSA hasnt been able to assess the extent of work carried out in 2014, and 
determine whether the recent work was limited to the site of the original repairs. In the absence of any clear evidence, I dont find that Mr B has evidenced ineffective 
repairs for which RSA is responsible.
Looking at the 2014 loss investigation, it says:
lead flashings are becoming dislodged due to general weathering and poor cement 
pointing surrounding the flashings. We also find that cement pointing in the brick 
parapet walls at roof level is failing prematurely due to poor sand/cement mix. It 
appears that due to general weathering over the last few years the pointing has been 
blown out and washed out by wind and rain.
Rectifying poor workmanship is specifically excluded within the terms of the policy.
This evidence indicates that the flashings, and indeed the roof as a whole, were not 
in a good state of repair when Mr B first made a claim. Therefore, I find it difficult to 
conclude that the 2014 repairs, whether or not of poor standard, were a significant 
contributory factor to the overall damage to Mr Bs roof. 
The expert reports confirm the roof is in a state of general disrepair, and the 
descriptions of the disrepair are broadly similar to those in the 2014 report. So, it 
would be unreasonable to expect RSA to contribute towards the costs of any repairs 
which are, more likely than not, due to inherent defects, wear and tear, and general 
maintenance needs dating back several years.
Overall, for the reasons Ive given, Im not persuaded that RSA did anything wrong when it 
declined to offer financial assistance to Mr B for the recent repairs. And I find that RSAs 
offer to reconsider on receipt of supporting evidence and completion of a site visit is fair and 
reasonable.
I asked both parties to send me any further comments and information they might want me 
to consider before I reached a final decision.
RSA had nothing further to add.
However, Mr B didnt agree with my provisional decision and made a number of further 
comments, summarised as follows:
RSA relied on a survey which Mr B hadnt, and still hasnt seen.
Circumstances around Covid and health issues meant Mr B didnt want RSAs 
surveyor attending because they wouldve had to walk through the house to access 
the roof from upstairs. But Mr B explained he felt comfortable with his own builder 
carrying out work because he accessed the roof from outside using ladders.
Mr B was concerned about further water ingress, so he allowed his builder to 
complete repairs accessing the roof by ladder. Mr B comments that his actions 
protected RSA from further costs. 
Estimates from company W for the 2014 repairs, along with a calculation of the settlement 
figure at that time, allow one to deduce that the repairs needed in 2020 are the same as 
those completed in 2014.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.Having looked through the evidence again, and considered Mr Bs further submissions, Ive 
decided not to uphold his complaint. 
I wont repeat the detail again  instead Ill respond to the further comments Mr B made, 
explaining which evidence Ive relied on to reach my decision.
Survey
Mr B said hed never seen the desktop survey carried out by RSAs surveyor, who Ill call 
company E. In my provisional decision I summarised the content. Our investigator also 
provided Mr B with the content after he asked for it. Further, RSA emailed the content to Mr 
Bs representative, Mrs C, in September 2021. Mrs C replied to the email. So, Im satisfied 
that RSA made the survey content available to Mr B and its unreasonable to say he hasnt 
had an opportunity to respond to it.
Site inspection
Mr B explained why he didnt allow RSA to inspect the damage before he had it repaired. 
Looking at the policy booklet, it states:
7 Our rights after a claim
We have the right to inspect the damaged property should we wish to do so. 
I can understand that Mr Bs concerns around Covid and in relation to his wifes health 
issues meant he didnt want RSAs surveyor to come into his home to inspect the roof - 
although I note his own roofer inspected and completed the repairs by accessing the roof 
from outside. Nevertheless, I cant reasonably ask RSA to pay for repairs that it didnt have 
an opportunity to inspect and for which it hasnt received clear evidence of responsibility.
 
Prevention of further costs
Mr B says he prevented further water ingress by having his roof repaired and, therefore, 
protected RSA against further costs. I agree that the repaired roof wouldve prevented 
further water ingress. However, Id expect any homeowner to maintain their property and 
prevent further damage, so I cant agree that it was done to protect RSA from further costs. I 
dont consider that this has any bearing on whether RSA is responsible for the cost of 
repairs.
Same areas of damage
Mr B says the same rooms that were damaged in 2014 were affected by the water ingress in 
2020; therefore, it must follow that the original repairs were inadequate. Ive looked again at 
the repair estimate, the settlement figure, and the surveyors comments, but I havent been 
able to reach the same conclusion as Mr B from the evidence he refers to. The evidence 
shows me that Mr Bs home was affected by water ingress on all faces of the property, which 
suggests an underlying problem with the roof. Indeed, had the repairs been inadequate, on 
balance, I think its more likely than not that the water wouldve entered his home sooner 
than five or six years later.
Ive considered the report Mrs C provided, which was also a desktop survey completed after 
repairs and based on photographs. While in places the report says the damage was due to 
poor workmanship, I note it says:This desktop report has been prepared solely on the basis of the photographs & details 
provided by [Mrs C].
We have not undertaken a site survey.
Exploratory works are recommended to ascertain the construction of the parapet wall 
before any repairs are considered.
We have not been provided with a full list of repairs undertaken on behalf of insurers in 
2014.
The surveyor also comments that a site survey would be needed to determine the extent of 
damage, which is exactly what RSA had asked for.
In light of this context, I see no reason to place more weight on this survey than any other 
report from 2014 onwards, all of which confirm the general poor and pre-existing condition of 
the roof.
Overall, I dont think its fair to expect RSA to pay for repairs to damage that it didnt have an 
opportunity to inspect. So, I wont be asking RSA to do any more here. That said, Mr B may 
wish to bear in mind that RSA has said it will consider his claim again if he can provide clear 
evidence that the repairs he had done were only for the same roof damage as his original 
claim, and upon completion of a site visit.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained above, and in my provisional decision, I dont uphold Mr Bs 
complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 23 December 2022.
 
Debra Vaughan
Ombudsman