DRN-4459851
The complaint
Mrs W complains that BUPA Insurance Limited has turned down claims she made on a 
personal private medical insurance policy and that its applied a special exclusion to her 
contract.
What happened
The circumstances of this complaint are well-known to both parties, so Ive simply set out a 
summary of what I think are the key events.
Mrs W was insured under her employers group medical insurance policy on full medical 
underwriting terms. However, the group policy was due to lapse on 31 October 2021 and so 
Mrs W applied for a personal, continuation policy through a broker. Mrs W answered medical 
screening questions during the application process and based on her answers, BUPA 
agreed to offer continuation cover. The new policy began on 1 November 2021.
A few months later, Mrs W made claims on the policy for treatment related to her ears.
BUPA investigated Mrs Ws claims and obtained medical evidence from her treating doctors. 
It noted that in mid-October 2021, shed been diagnosed with an ear infection by a 
consultant and had been prescribed a one-month course of ear-drops. As the infection 
hadnt cleared, in mid-November 2021, Mrs W had returned to the consultant, whod 
prescribed antibiotics.
So at the time Mrs W had been going through the policy application, BUPA concluded that 
shed been receiving treatment for an ear infection. Therefore, it felt she should answered 
yes to one of its medical screening questions, which had asked whether she had any 
treatment planned or pending. It said that had Mrs W correctly answered this question, it 
wouldve applied an exclusion for all claims related to ear infections to her policy. So it 
applied a backdated special condition to the policy and turned down Mrs Ws claims.
Mrs W was very unhappy with BUPAs decision and she asked us to look into her complaint. 
She said shed believed that the October 2021 ear infection would be covered under the 
terms of her old policy. And she said she thought her infection had resolved by the time she 
applied for the policy, so she hadnt thought she needed to tell BUPA about her condition.
Our investigator didnt think Mrs Ws complaint should be upheld. She thought Mrs W had 
been asked a clear question about her health, which she had failed to take reasonable care 
to answer. So she concluded that Mrs W had made a qualifying misrepresentation under the 
Consumer Insurance (Disclosures and Representations) Act 2012 (CIDRA). She was 
satisfied that BUPA had shown that if Mrs W had correctly answered its question, it wouldve 
applied a special condition excluding ear infections from the outset. So she concluded that 
BUPA wouldnt have agreed to have covered any claim related to ear infection and that 
therefore, it was entitled to turn the claims down.
I issued a provisional decision on 1 November 2023. In my provisional decision, I explained 
the reasons why I thought it had been fair for BUPA to turn down any claims related to Mrs 
Ws October/November 2021 ear infections, but why I didnt think it had been fair for BUPA 
to apply the special condition to the policy. I said:
First, Id like to reassure Mrs W that while Ive summarised the background to this complaint 
and her submissions to us, Ive carefully considered all thats been said and sent to us. 
Within this decision though, I havent commented on each point thats been raised and nor 
do our rules require me to. Instead, Ive focused on what I think are the key issues.
The relevant regulators rules say that insurers must handle claims promptly and fairly. And 
that they mustnt turn down claims unreasonably. So Ive considered, amongst other things, 
the terms of the policy, the available evidence and the relevant law, to decide what I think is 
fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Should Mrs Ws claims be covered under the group scheme?
Its common ground that Mrs W was covered under the terms of the group scheme until 31 
October 2021  around two weeks after shed been prescribed ear-drops for the ear infection 
by the consultant. However, it seems that Mrs W went on to claim for further treatment shed 
received in November 2021  under the new, personal policy. The terms of the group 
scheme say:
We only pay benefits for treatment you receive while you are covered under the agreement 
and we only pay benefits in accordance with the cover that applies to you on the date the 
treatment takes place. We do not pay for any treatment, including any treatment we have 
pre-authorised, that takes place on or after the date your cover ends.
In my view, the policy terms make it clear that BUPA will only pay for treatment which takes 
place while the group contract remains on-risk. In this case, while Mrs W developed 
symptoms of ear infection while she was still covered under the group scheme, it doesnt 
appear that she claimed for treatment for the infection until after the group scheme had 
ended. I say that because the last claim paid on the old policy was for hearing loss on 17 
October 2021. So I dont think it was unfair for BUPA to conclude that Mrs Ws claim for ear 
infection wasnt covered under the lapsed group scheme.
Has BUPA acted in line with CIDRA?
The relevant law in this case is CIDRA. CIDRA requires consumers to take reasonable care 
not to make a misrepresentation when taking out a consumer insurance contract. The 
standard of care is that of a reasonable consumer.
And if a consumer fails to do this, the insurer has certain remedies provided the 
misrepresentation is - what CIDRA describes as - a qualifying misrepresentation. For it to be 
a qualifying misrepresentation, the insurer has to show it would have offered the policy on 
different terms - or not at all - if the consumer hadnt made the misrepresentation.
CIDRA sets out a number of considerations for deciding whether the consumer failed to take 
reasonable care. And the remedy available to the insurer under CIDRA depends on whether 
the qualifying misrepresentation was deliberate or reckless, or careless.
When Mrs W took out the continuation cover, the broker asked her medical screening 
questions which had been set by BUPA. BUPA used this information to decide whether or 
not to insure Mrs W and if so, on what terms. BUPA says that Mrs W didnt correctly answer 
one of the questions she was asked during application process. This means the principles 
set out in CIDRA are relevant. So I think its fair and reasonable to apply these principles to 
the circumstances of Mrs Ws claim.BUPA thinks Mrs W failed to take reasonable care not to make a misrepresentation when 
she went through the application process. So Ive considered whether I think this was a fair 
conclusion for BUPA to reach.
First, when considering whether a consumer has taken reasonable care, I need to consider 
how clear and specific the questions asked by the insurer were. BUPA believes that Mrs W 
answered the following question incorrectly:
Do any of the applicants have any planned or pending investigations, treatment or surgery 
for any condition or symptom thats not already excluded on their existing scheme?
Its clear, from the medical evidence, that on 16 October 2021, Mrs W had seen her 
consultant with an urgent problem. She was diagnosed with an infection in both ears. The 
doctor felt it looked staphylococcal and the letter states that the consultant asked (Mrs W) 
to use (a steroid spray) after cleaning it all out and carry on using it nightly, five drops on 
each side, using separate bottles, for a month. And further medical evidence, which was 
sent directly to BUPA, states that Mrs Ws subsequent appointment on 16 November 2021 
was mainly to check the infection in her right ear had resolved. Based on the medical 
evidence then, its clear that Mrs W was experiencing symptoms of an ear infection  and 
was being treated for it  at the point she applied for the policy.
However, BUPAs question doesnt ask whether an applicant is already experiencing 
symptoms or undergoing treatment. Instead, it asks whether an applicant has planned or 
pending investigations, treatment or surgery for any condition or symptom. In my view, a 
general interpretation of pending means until or awaiting and I think is likely to be a 
common understanding of the word. As such, I think planned or pending suggest future 
investigations, surgery or treatment. At the time of application, Mrs W wasnt waiting for any 
investigations, treatment or surgery and it doesnt appear that any were pending either. The 
evidence suggests that - as it appears Mrs W told the broker - she was waiting to see her 
consultant to be signed-off following a check that the infection had cleared.
As such then, while I can understand why BUPA would likely have wanted to know about 
Mrs Ws infection and treatment, I dont think its question was clear or specific enough to 
prompt her to disclose it. In my view, the evidence suggests that Mrs W answered the actual 
question she was asked honestly and to the best of her knowledge and belief. And on that 
basis, I dont think I could fairly find that Mrs W made any misrepresentation under CIDRA.
Accordingly, I dont think it was fair or reasonable for BUPA to rewrite the policy or impose 
the special condition which would have applied had Mrs W told it about her ear infection at 
the time. So I intend to direct BUPA to remove the retrospective special condition which 
excludes all claims relating to ear infections from Mrs Ws policy.
Was it fair for BUPA to turn down any claims for Mrs Ws ear infection?
While I dont think Mrs W made a misrepresentation under CIDRA, I do need to bear in mind 
what the policy terms and conditions say. Its accepted that Mrs Ws policy was taken out on 
an underwritten basis. Page five of Mrs Ws personal policy terms set out Important 
Information about the contract. Point four says:
If your underwriting method shown on your Membership Certificate is:
- Underwritten: we do not pay for treatment for any special conditions detailed on your 
Membership Certificate or any Pre-Existing Conditions.
A pre-existing condition is defined as:any disease, illness or injury for which in the seven years before your Effective Underwriting 
Date:
- you have received medication, advice or Treatment, or
- you have experienced symptoms,
whether the condition was diagnosed or not.
This definition is also set out on Mrs Ws membership certificate.
As Ive explained above, I think the medical evidence clearly shows that Mrs W had 
experienced symptoms of, advice for and treatment of a specific ear infection, prior to the 
start date of her policy. So on that basis, I currently think it was fair for BUPA to conclude 
that Mrs Ws October 2021 ear infection was a pre-existing condition in line with the policy 
terms and to therefore, turn down any claims for the treatment of that particular infection.
I asked both parties to send me any further information or evidence they wanted me to 
consider.
Mrs W maintained that she felt shed correctly answered the medical questions she was 
asked when she went through medical screening.
BUPA accepted my provisional findings.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I still dont think it was unfair for BUPA to turn down any claims for Mrs Ws 
October/November 2021 ear infection, but I dont think it was fair for BUPA to apply the 
special condition to the policy.
As I explained in my provisional decision, I dont think Mrs W made a misrepresentation 
when she went through medical screening with the broker. BUPA accepted my provisional 
decision and so I see no reason to change my findings.
Based on the available medical evidence though, Im still satisfied that Mrs W had 
experienced symptoms of, advice for and treatment of a specific ear infection before her 
policy began. So I still find it was fair for BUPA to conclude that Mrs Ws October/November 
2021 ear infection was a pre-existing medical condition and to turn down any claims for the 
treatment of that particular infection.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above and in my provisional decision, my final decision is that I 
direct BUPA Insurance Limited to remove the special condition from Mrs Ws policy.
But I think BUPA was reasonably entitled to turn down any claims for treatment of the ear 
infection Mrs W was experiencing when she applied for the policy.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs W to accept or 
reject my decision before 18 December 2023.
 
Lisa BarhamOmbudsman