DRN-3166174
The complaint
Mr A complains about the suitability of the advice he says he was given by Portal Financial 
Services LLP (Portal) to transfer the benefits of his Occupational Pension Scheme (OPS) 
into a self invested personal pension (SIPP), and then to invest the benefits into Unregulated 
Collective Investment Schemes (UCIS). 
What happened
Mr A had been a member of the National Railways Pension Scheme for seven years. In 
2012, just prior to his 55th birthday, having seen an advert suggesting ways of increasing his 
retirement provision, Mr A met with Portal to discuss his retirement planning options. In 
May 2012 Mr A decided to withdraw his tax free cash lump sum of £8,214.95 from the 
scheme and transfer the residual balance of £22,995.62 into a SIPP across four UCIS, 
although Portal said that it advised against the transfer because the critical yield figure that 
was required from the SIPP to match the OPS benefits was too high. 
Later that year Mr A needed some more funds to help his partner to buy a car and the 
following year he decided he wanted to take a one off income payment from the SIPP for a 
holiday. 
But by 2018 the unit prices of the UCIS were valued at £0.0001 which made the SIPP almost 
worthless. So in June 2019, using a representative, Mr A complained about the suitability of 
the advice hed been given which had led to the loss of virtually the entire value of his SIPP.  
Portal said Mr As complaint had been made outside of the time limits allowed and therefore 
it wasnt obliged to answer it, but it did say it would ensure that Mr A was provided with an 
income at retirement based on the original expected performance of the funds and prevailing 
annuity rates. It said this would be paid until the situation with the funds liquidity was 
resolved.
Mr A wasnt happy with that outcome and brought his complaint to us where initially one of 
our investigators considered whether the complaint had been made in time. She said it had 
but Portafina didnt agree  so one of our ombudsmen reviewed the matter and decided that 
the complaint had been brought in time and was one that we could consider. 
The investigator then considered the merits of Mr As complaint and said she thought that 
the complaint should be upheld. She made the following points in support of her findings:
The regulators position at the time of the advice was that a firm should start by 
assuming that a transfer from a defined benefits OPS wasnt suitable.
Mr A would be giving up significant guaranteed benefits - such as a secure income 
for life - if he transferred.
The critical yield figure which indicated what growth was required from the SIPP to 
match the OPS benefits was 7.8% per year  which was above the relevant 
discounted rate for an investment horizon of nearly 10 years. 
The investments recommended were outside of Mr As attitude to risk (ATR) and 
outside of his capacity for loss. 
She believed the answers Mr A gave in his risk profile questionnaire suggested he 
was a cautious investor. 
There was insufficient exploration and recording of the reasons given for Mr A 
requiring access to his tax free cash at that time.
She didnt believe Mr A met the criteria for being an insistent client, nor did Portal 
correctly follow the insistent client process.
The recommendation to invest 87% of his funds into UCIS meant Mr A was exposed 
to significant risk which led to significant losses. It wasnt suitable advice for Mr As 
ATR at all. And there was no evidence to suggest that Mr A had significant financial 
experience or sophistication, so it was unlikely the UCIS should have been promoted 
to him. 
Mr A wasnt presented with any information about the risks, consequences, or 
implications of opting out of his OPS in order to then be able to transfer the benefits. 
Portal should undertake a redress calculation in line with the regulators pension 
review methodology and also pay Mr A £200 for the trouble and upset caused by the 
disruption to his retirement planning. 
Portal didnt agree. It said it had acted fairly and reasonably throughout and with Mr As best 
interests in mind. Specifically, it said it had:
Recommended against the transfer and that Mr A chose to transfer against its 
advice.
Mr A was assessed as having a balanced ATR  which he accepted and agreed with. 
It didnt think the small sample of questionnaire answers wed used to determine that 
he should have been assessed as having a lower ATR looked at the situation as a 
whole. Portal said it should be entitled to rely on information provided by Mr A. 
Treated Mr A as an insistent client according to the regulatory guidance at the time. It 
believed it had integrated most aspects of the insistent client process into its advice 
standards and was able to document a best practice for such transactions  
including Mr As. 
 
The investigator wasnt minded to change her view. She made the following points in 
response:
Shed considered the principles for business within the regulators handbook and 
concluded that Portal hadnt satisfied its regulatory duties. 
The fact find that Portal completed suggested Mr A had no savings or investments 
apart from his OPS benefits.
She didnt believe Mr As acknowledgement that he was acting against Portals 
recommendation was written in his own words. So she didnt think Portal had 
followed the insistent client process properly. 
She thought the process Portal followed undermined its own attempts to treat Mr A 
as an insistent client. For example, she noted that Mr A agreed to be an insistent 
client without having had access to the analysis that he would have needed to make 
such a decision. 
She didnt think Portal had made Mr A aware that he was giving up guaranteed 
benefits for short term gain that might have been achieved through alternative 
means. 
She remained unsure, based on his risk assessment responses, how Mr A had been 
assessed as having a medium ATR. But even if that was the case, to invest 87.5% of 
his funds into UCIS was outside of his ATR and capacity for loss. 
As no resolution could be found the complaint was passed to me for a review. What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
And having done so I agree with the investigators assessment  so Ill explain my 
reasoning. 
Was Mr A an insistent client and was the process followed correctly?
Portal has said that it recommended against the transfer and that it treated Mr A as an 
insistent client when he confirmed he wanted to go against its advice and transfer his OPS 
benefits into a SIPP. It says it had worked within the regulators guidance around insistent 
clients for some time, and by the time it met with Mr A these practices were integrated into 
its processes  so that it could document a best practice for such cases.
So Ive looked carefully at Portals requirements in treating Mr A as insistent, particularly in 
respect of the regulators position, to see whether I think Portal acted fairly  and also 
whether in fact he could be categorised as being insistent. 
The regulator had defined an insistent client as:
A client who has received a personal recommendation from the business.
Who wants to enter into a transaction that is different from that recommended by the 
business; and.
Who wants the business to facilitate that transaction. 
Ive looked at the pension release review letter that Portal sent Mr A which was dated 
20 February 2012  the same day that Portal completed a fact find with him. It stated that as 
the critical yield (growth rate required to match your guaranteed benefits with Railways) is 
7.8% it would be against our recommendation to do this. So I think Mr A did receive a 
personal recommendation from Portal  which was not to transfer, but the same letter also 
said that if you decide that you still wish to proceed, we can help you release money from 
your pension, but we would have to treat you as an insistent client, as this would be against 
our recommendation. 
Although this set out Mr As options going forward its unclear to me why Portal confirmed 
the potential to use its insistent client process at this point, as theres no evidence to suggest 
that Mr A had said he wanted to go forward with the transfer, against Portals advice. He was 
also told to return the form to us immediately if he wished to proceed, because of the 
possible expiration of the guarantee period of the transfer value. But I think this put 
unnecessary pressure on Mr A with regards to being able to consider his next course of 
action. 
Three days later Mr A received a 28-page suitability report setting out the options that fit 
your priorities and requirements. The report noted that Mr A wanted to transfer his existing 
OPS benefits into a SIPP to release his tax free cash and leave his residual fund invested. 
But it also set out a recommended investment portfolio, which hadnt previously been 
referred to in the pension release letter and didnt seem to be a suggestion from Mr A of an 
insistent investment strategy on his part. 
However, this report was accompanied by a letter which also enclosed the necessary 
application and discharge forms and a declaration that covered off Mr As insistent client 
status and his decision to opt out of the OPS. The declaration, which required Mr As signature said that, I am fully aware that by opting 
out of my Railways Pension Scheme, I may not be able to rejoin at a later date to accrue 
future benefits. I fully understand that the funds invested in the Transact SIPP are relatively 
illiquid and therefore may not produce an income in the first few years of starting the SIPP. 
This is acceptable to me as I do not wish to take an income for 10 years and therefore do not 
need to access the funds within my SIPP at this time. I wish to proceed on this basis as my 
main priority is to purchase a car and make home improvements (ahead of retirement 
planning).
But, as part of the regulatory guidance on insistent clients, Portal needed to obtain from 
Mr A acknowledgement that:
The transaction is not in accordance with the personal recommendation given by the 
business; and 
The transaction is being carried out at the request of the client. 
That acknowledgement should be in the client own words.
Whilst Im sure Portal will say that its declaration reflected the words Mr A had used when 
explaining his objectives, I think the requirement here was for a personal explanation from 
Mr A, which hadnt been previously sent to him by Portal as a kind of template  ready for 
him to sign. In my view this didnt show Portals actions as being in line with the insistent 
client process as it has previously suggested. I think Mr A needed to confirm his actions 
clearly in his own words, so I dont think I can reasonably accept this as a correct 
interpretation of the insistent client process.
But there are also other reasons for thinking that Mr A couldnt be considered as an insistent 
client. I note that the declaration was part of the covering letter for the suitability report which 
was sent three days after the fact find and pension release form were issued. Im not 
persuaded that Mr A could have been an insistent client at that point, as the only 
documentation hed received confirmed Portal didnt recommend the transfer but didnt make 
any mention of an investment strategy that Mr A then decided he wanted to adopt just three 
days later.
Ive also taken into account that the declaration was provided alongside the suitability report 
and not after it, which wouldnt have given Mr A much time to reflect on the advice and 
decide if it was suitable or not. It also required him to return it urgently. 
Im also not persuaded that Mr A was experienced in financial matters or had any previous 
financial experience. He didnt hold any investments or savings, and this was his only 
pension provision apart from a small personal pension hed contributed to for several months 
in 1992. So, while I understand that Mr A might have been attracted to the possibility of 
releasing tax free cash for some requirements he had, I dont think he was likely to have 
insisted upon this course of action against the advice of a professional adviser. I dont think 
Mr A had enough knowledge about such matters to think that he knew better than the 
adviser here, so I dont believe he was truly an insistent client even though Portal said it 
would treat him as such. 
But even if my assumptions and thoughts about Mr As intentions are wrong, Ive also 
considered that while Portal treated Mr A as an insistent client with regards to his transfer, it 
hasnt explained  or shown, that he acted as an insistent client with regards to the 
investment strategy.  So Ive gone on to look at that part of the process in more depth. 
Within the pension release form  under the section that said Mr A would be treated as an 
insistent client, it said The reason I have recommended a pension switch to the selected 
provider is because the potential benefits available at retirement with them look likely to exceed the benefits available with other possible providers once you have taken your tax 
free cash lump sum from your pension.
But its unclear to me why  when Portal said the transfer was against its recommendation, it 
was able to select a provider which it thought might provide benefits which exceeded those 
available from other providers. Theres no evidence to show that Mr A was given any point of 
sale material to substantiate such a claim or that Portal should have provided investment 
advice for the very funds it said shouldnt be transferred and was simply facilitating that 
course of action. Ive seen nothing to suggest that Mr A had put forward the investments as 
being those he wanted to invest into, so I have to conclude that it was Portal who put 
together the investment strategy and implemented it against its own previous advice.
If Portal simply agreed to carry out the transfer on an insistent client basis I wouldnt have 
expected it to put forward a recommendation for a complex, high risk investment strategy, 
but simply to have allowed the transfer of the funds into cash for Mr A to then decide what 
was the best investment strategy for his situation. 
So, as I havent seen any evidence to show that Mr A was previously aware of these specific 
funds, or indeed that it was him who told Portal of their existence and his determination to 
invest into those particular funds, I dont think its likely that Mr A would have insisted on 
investing in them following the transfer. And under the Code of Business Sourcebook Portal 
had a duty to assess the suitability of the transfer and the subsequent investment strategy. 
Although it said that the transfer was insistent and against its recommendation I havent 
seen any such warning around the investment into the four UCIS. 
 
Indeed the suitability report confirmed that, The reasons why we believe this investment is 
suitable for you are set out below which outlines all the potential risks, and rewards which we 
believe are pertinent to this investment and of which you should be aware.
The two pages that followed the above statement within the suitability report provided 
positive reasons and factors for investing into the funds. If Mr A was truly an insistent client 
then I wouldnt have expected to see this positive endorsement of the funds with a 
suggestion of the attractive returns that might be available. I would have expected Portals 
position to be neutral and simply state that Mr A had chosen to invest in those funds against 
its advice  but it didnt and I have therefore concluded that, on balance, Portal did 
recommend investment into those funds. 
Although Portals suitability report said it was treating Mr A as an insistent client  and that 
his decision was against its recommendation, it also said that, We have recommended that 
you invest in the following funds. 
It doesnt seem reasonable that such an instruction wouldnt have confirmed to Mr A that 
Portal had recommended an investment strategy for his funds. So, having decided that I 
dont think Portal followed the insistent client process here, or indeed that Mr A should have 
been treated as such, Ive gone on to consider the suitability of the transfer of Mr As OPS 
benefits.
The suitability of the advice to transfer and invest into UCIS
As our investigator set out, when considering whether to transfer a defined benefit pension
plan, the industry regulator, the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA), sets out that an adviser
should, as a starting point, assume that transferring would be unsuitable and would need to
clearly demonstrate that the transfer was in the clients best interests.
When advising a retail client who is, or is eligible to be, a member of a defined benefitsoccupational pension scheme or other scheme with safeguarded benefits whether to
transfer, convert or opt-out, a firm should start by assuming that a transfer, conversion or
opt-out will not be suitable. A firm should only then consider a transfer, conversion or opt-out
to be suitable if it can clearly demonstrate, on contemporary evidence, that the transfer,
conversion or opt-out is in the client's best interests. (COBS 19.1.6).
The starting position here was that Mr A shouldnt have transferred  unless there were 
compelling reasons to do so. So Ive looked carefully at those reasons.
The fact find that Portal completed on 20 February 2012 showed that Mr A wanted to 
withdraw his tax free cash to buy a car and carry out home improvements. There were no 
further details to support those reasons although I note at the time that Mr A lived in a rented 
property and already held a car loan with over £4,000 outstanding. Of course that doesnt 
mean that Mr A wouldnt have been tempted by the opportunity to realise tax free cash for 
those purposes, but it would suggest that those reasons wouldnt have been compelling 
enough to transfer the pension if it was shown to Mr A that hed be worse off by transferring.  
The most compelling reason to demonstrate whether Mr A would be better off after 
transferring at that time was to look at the Critical yield or returns required by the SIPP to 
match the OPS benefits. The advice was given during the period when the Financial 
Ombudsman Service was publishing 'discount rates' on our website for use in loss 
assessments where a complaint about a past pension transfer was being upheld. Whilst 
businesses weren't required to refer to these rates when giving advice on pension transfers, 
I consider they provide a useful indication of what growth rates would have been considered 
reasonably achievable when the advice was given in this case.  
The investment return (critical yield) required to match the occupational pension at 
retirement was 7.8% per year. This compares with the discount rate of 5.5% per year for 
9 years to retirement in this case. So, in order to match, and not better the benefits Mr A was 
being advised to give up, his pension pot would need to grow by at least 0.8% more each 
year than the mid-range growth rate considered reasonably achievable. I think it was 
unlikely, given the investment horizon here, that the returns would have been achieved 
without investing into funds that were high risk and outside of Mr As ATR. 
And Portal itself said that the critical yield was probably too high to be realistically achieved 
consistently over the nine years until Mr A retired and wanted access to his funds, so the 
prospect of an alternative arrangement not matching the scheme benefits in monetary terms, 
on the basis of reasonable assumptions, made it all the more important that the other 
reasons for transferring were sufficiently compelling.
Portals initial recommended investment strategy was for 87% of the transferred OPS 
benefits to be invested across four separate UCIS. These consisted of an overseas villa 
complex in Thailand, a solar thermal development in Cyprus, a company making loans to a 
property developer in Yorkshire and a company investing in oil. These were highly 
speculative and leveraged investments which were restricted to being promoted to 
sophisticated and high net worth consumers.
Portal itself accepted that Mr A didnt fit these definitions as it explained that, You are not a 
person who is exempt under the FSMA 2000 PCIS orders. i.e. a high net worth or 
sophisticated investor, however you are a person for whom we as an Independent Advisory 
Firm qualified to advise on UCIS investments have taken reasonable steps to ensure that 
the investment in the particular collective investment scheme(s) is suitable following a full 
KYC (Know Your Customer Investigation) and ATR (Attitude to Risk Assessment), this 
therefore provides an exemption under COBS (Conduct of Business) regulations 4.12.But I dont think it had taken these reasonable steps. It had been agreed that Mr A had a 
medium ATR with little or no capacity for loss. So Im not persuaded investment into high 
risk UCIS was in line with Mr As risk profile and therefore it wouldnt have been suitable 
advice following a full know your customer investigation. This would suggest that the UCIS 
werent promoted lawfully to Mr A as a retail client, but of course I still need to consider the 
suitability of such investments in respect of Mr As overall circumstances and objectives.
The initial fee for the transfer was £1,642.99 with further annual adviser payments, annual 
commission to the platform, and wrapper administration charges. These typically varied 
depending on the fund value, but Ive calculated they amounted to over £400 per annum 
most years. Taking into account the relatively small value of the transfer, these fees 
amounted to around 10% of the value of that fund in the first year. So, with an investment 
horizon of around 9 years (to normal retirement) I think it would have been difficult to have 
offset the effect of those fees over that timescale. 
And in the absence of any illustration which may have shown Mr A the comparative position 
of both schemes at age 65, it would have been difficult for him to have made an informed 
decision about whether a transfer was in his best interests and whether hed be better off 
financially. In order to achieve the returns required to offset the higher charges Mr A would 
have needed to invest into higher risk rated funds or assets  such as the ones Portal 
recommended. But as Ive already suggested these funds werent suitable because they 
were outside of Mr As agreed medium ATR, as well as the fact that, in my view, Mr A had 
neither the financial experience nor the appetite for such speculative investments. 
Ive also taken into account that in order to carry out this transfer Mr A needed to opt out of 
his OPS. This was explained as part of the declaration form within the suitability report cover 
letter. This form is required in order that you are fully aware that you may not be able to 
rejoin your Railways Pension Scheme and that the SIPP you will be transferring into will 
have limited liquidity of funds. Please note that in order to proceed with Pension Release you 
need to opt out of the Railways Pension Scheme.
Im not satisfied this form set out the disadvantages of opting out of the OPS or explained 
the ramifications of such an action. It simply stated that the transfer could only be achieved 
by opting of the scheme. I would have expected there to have been reference to the benefits 
of remaining within the scheme  such as death in service benefits for example, and how 
these would need to be replaced after leaving the scheme. I think it would have been difficult 
for Mr A to have drawn an overall conclusion about whether to transfer based on the lack of 
information he was given about certain aspects which would have been important factors in 
making such a decision. 
Summary
I would normally expect to see compelling reasons for the transfer of such a relatively small 
fund value as this one. In this case I havent seen any compelling reasons and I dont think 
the transfer was in Mr As best interest. 
The charges involved in the transfer, as well as the recommendation of such high risk funds 
 beyond the risk that I think Mr A would have been comfortable with, would suggest that he 
was unlikely to be better off as a result of the transfer. 
And Portal had already confirmed that the investment returns required to match the OPS 
benefits would probably mean the transfer wasnt in Mr As best interest as well. 
But as Ive concluded that Mr A shouldnt really have been treated as an insistent client or 
indeed that Portal followed the insistent client process correctly and according to the regulatory guidelines at the time  then I think that Portals recommendation to transfer and 
invest into various UCIS wasnt suitable for Mr A.  
Based on the evidence Ive been presented with, I dont think, if hed been made fully aware 
of all the advantages and disadvantages of transferring  such as whether he would be 
better off financially by doing so, that Mr A would have decided to transfer. And I find it 
difficult to conclude that Mr A would have invested his funds into the investment strategy that 
Portal recommended if hed been fully aware of the risks involved. 
Putting things right
A fair and reasonable outcome would be for the business to put Mr A, as far as possible, into 
the position he would now be in but for the unsuitable advice. I consider he would have 
remained in the occupational scheme. Portal Financial Services LLP must therefore 
undertake a redress calculation in line with the regulators pension review guidance as 
updated by the Financial Conduct Authority in its Finalised Guidance 17/9: Guidance for 
firms on how to calculate redress for unsuitable DB pension transfers. 
This calculation should be carried out as at the date of my final decision, and using the most 
recent financial assumptions at the date of that decision. In accordance with the regulators 
expectations, this should be undertaken or submitted to an appropriate provider promptly 
following receipt of notification of Mr As acceptance of the decision.
Portal Financial Services LLP may wish to contact the Department for Work and Pensions 
(DWP) to obtain Mr As contribution history to the State Earnings Related Pension Scheme 
(SERPS or S2P).
These details should then be used to include a SERPS adjustment in the calculation, which 
will take into account the impact of leaving the occupational scheme on Mr As SERPS/S2P 
entitlement.
If the redress calculation demonstrates a loss, the compensation should if possible be paid 
into Mr As pension plan. The payment should allow for the effect of charges and any 
available tax relief. The compensation shouldnt be paid into the pension plan if it would 
conflict with any existing protection or allowance.
If a payment into the pension isnt possible or has protection or allowance implications, it 
should be paid directly to Mr A as a lump sum after making a notional deduction to allow for 
income tax that would otherwise have been paid. 
Typically, 25% of the loss could have been taken as tax-free cash and 75% would have 
been taxed according to his likely income tax rate in retirement  presumed to be 20%. So 
making a notional deduction of 15% overall from the loss adequately reflects this.
The compensation amount must where possible be paid to Mr A within 90 days of the date 
Portal Financial Services LLP receives notification of his acceptance of my final decision. 
Further interest must be added to the compensation amount at the rate of 8% per year 
simple from the date of my final decision to the date of settlement for any time, in excess of 
90 days, that it takes Portal Financial Services LLP to pay Mr A.
Its possible that data gathering for a SERPS adjustment may mean that the actual time 
taken to settle goes beyond the 90 day period allowed for settlement above  and so any 
period of time where the only outstanding item required to undertake the calculation is data 
from DWP may be added to the 90 day period in which interest wont apply. In addition, Portal Financial Services LLP should pay Mr A £200 for the disruption caused to 
his retirement planning. 
Where I uphold a complaint, I can award fair compensation of up to £160,000, plus any 
interest and/or costs that I consider are appropriate. Where I consider that fair compensation 
requires payment of an amount that might exceed £160,000, I may recommend that the 
business pays the balance.
Determination and money award: I require Portal Financial Services LLP to pay Mr A the 
compensation amount as set out in the steps above, up to a maximum of £160,000.
Where the compensation amount does not exceed £160,000, I additionally require Portal 
Financial Services LLP to pay Mr A any interest on that amount in full, as set out above.
Where the compensation amount already exceeds £160,000, I only require Portal Financial 
Services LLP to pay Mr A any interest as set out above on the sum of £160,000.
Recommendation: If the compensation amount exceeds £160,000, I also recommend that 
Portal Financial Services LLP pays Mr A the balance. I additionally recommend any interest 
calculated as set out above on this balance to be paid to Mr A.
If Mr A accepts my decision, the money award is binding on Portal Financial Services LLP.  
My recommendation is not binding on Portal Financial Services LLP. Further, its unlikely 
that Mr A can accept my decision and go to court to ask for the balance. Mr A may want to 
consider getting independent legal advice before deciding whether to accept this decision
My final decision
I uphold Mr As complaint against Portal Financial Services LLP.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision before 16 January 2022.
 
Keith Lawrence
Ombudsman