DRN-3374915
The complaint
Mrs S complains that BUPA Insurance Limited turned down her private medical 
insurance claim.
What happened
Mrs S held private medical insurance cover with BUPA.
In 2019, Mrs S needed a c-section because large fibroids meant her life was at risk 
during childbirth due to the risk of haemorrhaging. She made a claim for the c-section 
under the policy, and BUPA accepted the claim.
Then in 2020, Mrs S needed another c-section. Again, this was necessary because of 
her fibroids. She contacted BUPA, and it said it needed more information before it 
could authorise the surgery. Mrs S then went into early labour, and so had the 
emergency c- section. BUPA contacted the hospital later that day, and advised the 
nurses that the claim wouldnt be covered.
BUPA told Mrs S that it had paid the 2019 claim in error. It said it shouldnt have paid that 
claim because the c-section didnt treat the fibroids. But it wouldnt be asking for her to 
repay this. However, although it had made an error in 2019, it said that didnt mean it 
should approve the 2020 claim in error too. Though it offered Mrs S £2,000 compensation 
to recognise that its 2019 claims decision had led her to believe the 2020 claim would be 
covered. Unhappy with this, Mrs S brought a complaint to this service.
Our investigator recommended the complaint be upheld. She accepted that Mrs Ss claim 
wasnt covered under the policy terms. However, she thought that BUPAs actions had 
given Mrs S the impression that the c-section in 2020 would be covered. Our investigator 
thought BUPA ought to therefore pay the claim on a fair and reasonable basis.
I issued a provisional decision on 2 March 2022. This is what I said:
The policy excludes childbirth, and delivery of a baby. However, it says there are 
certain situations where the exclusion wouldnt apply, and these are:
Eligible treatment of the following conditions:
miscarriage or when the foetus has died and remains with the placenta in the 
womb
stillbirth
hydatidiform mole (abnormal cell growth in the womb)
foetus growing outside the womb (ectopic pregnancy)
heavy bleeding in the hours and days immediately after childbirth (post-
partum haemorrhage)
afterbirth left in the womb after delivery of the baby (retained placental membrane)
complications following any of the above conditions
Eligible treatment of the member (mother) that relates to pregnancy or childbirth but only 
if:
the Treatment is required due to a flare-up of the medical condition, and
the Treatment is likely to lead quickly to a complete recovery or to you being 
restored fully to your state of health prior to the flare-up of the condition without 
you needing to receive prolonged Treatment.
On 22 September 2020, Mrs Ss specialist (Mr D) wrote a report. He explained that Mrs S 
had two large fibroids which were causing her abdominal pain. Mr D said he strongly 
recommended that Mrs S have a c-section in the next ten days to avoid her going into 
labour, and to minimise the risk of intrapartum haemorrhage and bleeding and 
complications due to the large fibroids and her previous c-section. Mr D also said that Mrs 
S was at risk of uterine dehiscence which was a potentially life-threatening condition for 
her.
I agree with BUPA that Mrs S didnt meet any of the exceptions to the childbirth exclusion. 
Also, although she had fibroids, the c-section wasnt treatment of the fibroids themselves. 
Im therefore satisfied that it was reasonable for BUPA to say the claim wasnt covered 
under the policy.
Although these same policy terms applied in 2019, BUPA assessed the claim at that time 
incorrectly and found it to be payable. Mrs S was of course advantaged by this because it 
meant an ineligible claim was paid. However, this did give her the (mistaken) impression 
that if she needed another c-section due to the risk of haemorrhage due to her fibroids, 
then this would again be covered by BUPA.
Unfortunately, BUPA didnt help the situation when Mrs S spoke with its staff member on 9 
September 2020. BUPA incorrectly advised Mrs S during this call that if there was any risk to 
her life, then the c-section would be absolutely fine. The staff member said it needed more 
information to establish this, but once BUPA received the information, the surgery would 
most likely be covered. She then said she didnt want to say it would definitely be covered, 
but it had been covered previously, so would potentially be covered in the future. The staff 
member said later in the call that BUPA would contact Mrs S with its decision, and if the 
claim wasnt eligible, BUPA would go through this with her.
BUPA has explained that it no longer considers maternal risk to life as eligible criteria for a 
c- section, and that its policy wording changed around two years earlier. Its unfortunate 
that BUPAs staff member wasnt aware of this change to the policy wording, because Mrs 
S was given the impression that her surgery would most likely be covered. As far as Mrs S 
was concerned, childbirth did present a risk to her life, just as it had the previous year  
BUPA had covered that previous surgery, and had reassured her that the c-section she 
needed in 2020 would also most likely be covered, for that reason.
However, it remains the case that Mrs S hadnt actually received authorisation from 
BUPA before having the c-section. I understand that Mrs S went into labour and 
needed an emergency c-section, and therefore she says she didnt have time to contact 
BUPA again. However, this was 19 days after shed spoken to BUPA, and so I think 
she couldve contacted BUPA again to check whether a claims decision had been 
made.
BUPA has confirmed that it made the decision to turn down Mrs Ss claim on 24 
September 2020. Unfortunately, it didnt tell her of this at the time. Instead, BUPA told 
the hospital that the claim wasnt covered a few hours after Mrs Ss c-section had taken 
place, which was four days later.Despite Mrs S being given the wrong information on 9 September 2020, the situation 
couldve still been avoided if BUPA had told Mrs S promptly of its claims decision on 24 
September 2020. If Mrs S had been aware of this, she couldve gone to the NHS to have 
the c-section and so wouldnt have incurred the private hospital costs. Given that Mrs S 
didnt have the funds to pay for the private treatment, Im satisfied that this is what would 
have happened, had she known that the c-section wouldnt be covered by BUPA.
I appreciate that this is an unusual situation, but taking into account all the circumstances, 
I think BUPA ought to pay 50% the claim on a fair and reasonable basis. I dont intend to 
require BUPA to pay the full claim. Although Mrs S was led to believe the claim would be 
covered, she hadnt received confirmation of this before having the c-section and was 
aware there was a possibility that it may not be covered. So I cant say that BUPA was 
entirely at fault for what happened.
As I understand it, Mrs S paid £3,554.51 towards the surgery, and family members paid 
the remaining amount (though Id appreciate it if Mrs S could confirm this in her response 
to this provisional decision). I only intend to require BUPA to pay interest on the amount 
that Mrs S paid for her treatment, as interest is awarded to recognise that someone 
hasnt had use of the money. We cant compensate her family members for this, as they 
arent eligible complainants.
Having said that, I think Mrs S would have been caused unnecessary distress and 
inconvenience as she had to ask family members to loan her the additional funds needed 
(even to make up 50% of the costs). I therefore require BUPA to pay her £200 
compensation for this.
I asked both parties to provide any further comments they wished to make. 
BUPA responded to say it disagreed with my provisional findings. It made the following 
main points:
It doesnt think theres a straightforward answer to the extremely unusual set of 
circumstances which led to the complaint.
It can understand why I sympathised with Mrs Ss position, given the vague advice 
it provided when she first contacted it. 
Though it says it was Mrs Ss duty to have her treatment authorised. 
It sought advice from this services technical helpdesk when it was looking into 
Mrs Ss complaint, and is disappointed that the advice it received had very little 
impact on my decision.
It says theres no evidence that Mrs S borrowed funds from family members.
Its concerned that a precedent is being set for such circumstances. For example, if 
it covered a claim incorrectly due to a mistake, it may be obliged to continue to 
cover ineligible treatment because of the expectations it may have set.
Mrs S responded to say she was disappointed that I hadnt agreed with our investigators 
recommendations, but she understood my reasons for that. She therefore accepted 50% 
of the claim. She confirmed the amount of the claim was £16,054.51. Mrs S also 
confirmed that shed borrowed £10,500 from family members for the treatment. What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I accept that it was Mrs Ss duty to obtain authorisation for her treatment. However, she 
attempted to do this, and was given the wrong information by BUPA. 
BUPA explains that it sought advice from this services technical helpdesk when it was 
looking into Mrs Ss complaint. BUPA is unhappy that the advice it received had no impact 
on my decision. 
When informal advice is given to a business from our technical helpdesk, this is only basic 
guidance and is based on one side of the situation, and without possession of all the 
relevant facts. BUPA told our helpdesk that it had accepted Mrs Ss previous c-section claim. 
However, it didnt explain that Mrs S was misled when she called BUPA in September 2020 
about her second c-section (in fact, BUPA incorrectly stated that Mrs S hadnt called it at all 
about her second c-section). 
I do appreciate that BUPA wanted to reach a fair settlement for Mrs S, and made attempts to 
do this. I also accept that these were very unusual circumstances, and Id like to reassure 
BUPA that my decision doesnt set a precedent. We look at the individual merits of each 
case, and make decisions based on what we consider to be fair and reasonable in all the 
circumstances.
To be clear though, if BUPAs only error had been to pay the first c-section by mistake, I 
wouldnt have required it to pay towards the second c-section (as I accept this wasnt 
covered under the policy). Im requiring BUPA to pay 50% towards the claim on a fair and 
reasonable basis because it continued to give Mrs S wrong advice about her cover when 
she called it in September 2020. If BUPA hadnt made that mistake, then Im satisfied Mrs S 
wouldnt have had the private treatment in 2020. 
BUPA says theres no evidence that Mrs S borrowed funds from family members. However, I 
see no reason to doubt Mrs S, and I note shes confirmed how much she borrowed in 
response to my provisional decision. Given that the £200 compensation Im awarding for this 
inconvenience is less than the interest I wouldve awarded if shed paid for all the treatment 
herself, I dont think Mrs S had any reason not to be truthful about this.
Mrs S has confirmed that she borrowed £10,500 from family members for the treatment. 
Taking into account the £2,000 paid by BUPA, that meant she paid £3,554.51 out of her own 
funds for the treatment. I remain satisfied that it would be appropriate for BUPA to pay 
interest only on this amount, for the reasons explained in my provisional decision.
Mrs S has confirmed that the original claim cost was £16,054.51. She should provide the 
invoice/s directly to BUPA when it settles 50% of her claim.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint in part. I require BUPA Insurance Limited 
to pay 50% of the claim (less the £2,000 already paid) in line with the remaining policy 
terms. Mrs S should be reimbursed directly, and interest added on the amount she paid 
of £3,554.51. This should be at the rate of 8% simple per annum from the date the 
invoice was paid to the date of settlement*.I further intend to require BUPA to pay Mrs S £200 compensation.
* If BUPA considers that its required by HM Revenue & Customs to take off income tax from 
that interest, it should tell Mrs S how much its taken off. It should also give Mrs S a certificate 
showing this if she asks for one, so she can reclaim the tax from HM Revenue & Customs if 
appropriate. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs S to accept or 
reject my decision before 13 April 2022.
 
Chantelle Hurn-Ryan
Ombudsman