DRN-1079495
The complaint
Mr D says Bank of Scotland plc (BoS) mis-sold him a payment protection insurance (PPI) 
policy.
What happened
Mr D took out a credit card with BoS in 2004. He says he was mis-sold PPI alongside the 
credit card that would have helped protect his repayments if he couldnt work due to 
disability or unemployment.
Our adjudicator didnt think the mis-sale complaint should be upheld as they believed Mr D 
had already been refunded the premiums hed paid. Mr D didnt agree with the adjudicator, 
so the case was passed to me to review afresh.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website. And 
Ive taken this into account in deciding Mr Ds case.
Having done so, Ive decided not to uphold the complaint. Ill explain why.
Mr D says he paid premiums for the PPI and wants them to be refunded to him. If BoS did 
mis-sell the PPI, wed have expected it to compensate him for the premiums hed paid.
From the available evidence and copy statements provided, Im satisfied Mr D paid one 
premium for the PPI  in February 2004  amounting to £13.26. Im also satisfied that BoS 
refunded Mr D for the premium in full by adding a credit of £13.26 to his account on the 
same day. 
I havent seen any evidence, despite carefully reviewing Mr Ds credit card statements, to 
indicate he paid any other premiums for the PPI. 
So, taking everything into account, Im persuaded Mr Ds already been compensated for any 
mis-sale that may have taken place. Accordingly, I find that BoS neednt make any further 
payments.
Ive thought carefully about the letter from BoS that Mr Ds provided dated December 2018. 
It informed Mr D of changes to his repayments cover as a result of him reaching the age of 
65. Mr D says the letter shows his policy must have continued beyond 2004. However, I 
cant be sure that the policy referred to in the letter relates to the credit card he took out in 
2004. Its also possible BoS simply sent the letter in error. Either way, the letter doesnt 
change my decision.
My final decision
For the reasons given, Ive decided not to uphold the complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision before 7 January 2021.
 
Nimish Patel
Ombudsman