DRN-3127002
The complaint
This complaint has been brought by Mr S in his capacity as a director of a limited company I 
will refer to as L or the company.  Mr S has complained that a loan was mis-sold to L in 
2015 by Barclays Bank UK Plc.
Introduction
The evidence in the case is detailed, running to almost six thousand pages of documents. 
Ive read everything, and its apparent that some parts of the evidence are less relevant to 
the underlying case than others. There are also a lot of duplicated documents and repetition 
of arguments. In what follows, I have, by necessity, summarised events in rather less detail 
than has been presented.
No discourtesys intended by that. Its a reflection of the informal service we provide, and if I 
dont mention something, it wont be because Ive ignored it. Itll be because I didnt think it 
was material to the outcome of the complaint. This approach is consistent with what our 
enabling legislation requires of me. It allows me to focus on the issues on which I consider a 
fair outcome will turn, and not be side-tracked by matters which, although presented as 
material, are, in my opinion peripheral or, in some instances, have little or no impact on the 
broader outcome.
I will also explain that the complainant in this case is L, a limited company and a legal entity 
in its own right. It is not Mr S, who, as a director, is bringing the complaint on behalf of L. Nor 
is it Mrs S, who is an officer of the company and who has, in addition to Mr S, also provided 
personal guarantees for the companys borrowings.
I need to make this clear at the outset, because much of what Mr S has told us relates to 
what he believes to be misconduct, fraud, misrepresentation and criminal activity against him 
and Mrs S by Barclays. But this complaint is about whether or not a loan was mis-sold to L, 
and so that it the only issue I will be looking at here.
Furthermore, the Financial Ombudsman Service doesnt investigate criminal matters. I can 
see that Mr S has already referred his concerns about Barclays in relation to what he says 
are very serious criminal actions towards him and Mrs S to the police. I will therefore make 
no further comment on those matters, as it is up to the police to investigate allegations of 
criminal behaviour, not the Financial Ombudsman Service.
I will also make no further comment on matters that have already been the subject of 
previous investigations and final decisions of the Financial Ombudsman Service. I have no 
power to reinvestigate matters that an ombudsman has already decided.
What happened
In relation to the current complaint about mis-sale of a loan to the company in 2015, what 
happened can be summarised briefly.
In 2015 L asked Barclays for a loan of £135,000. At the time, L already had a loan with 
£61,000 outstanding. The facility letter for the 2015 loan shows that the bank required new 
security for the companys borrowing  a personal guarantee for £196,000, a debenture and 
charges over three properties. Barclays already held personal guarantees for £40,000 and 
£50,000 which Mr S believed would be released.
In early 2016 the company took out a further loan and at that point Mr S as director provided 
Barclays with a new personal guarantee for £248,000.
Mr S later discovered that the £40,000 and £50,000 personal guarantees hadnt been 
released at the time L took out the loan in 2015. They were discharged in 2017.
Mr S says that, if hed known this at the time, he would never have taken out the loan 
because the security held by Barclays would have been greater than Ls total borrowing. 
Mr S says he would never have agreed to take on such a large personal liability, and as a 
result he believes the loan was mis-sold. Mr S complained to Barclays that it had mis-sold 
the loan by not releasing the £50,000 guarantee.
Barclays said that the loan wasnt secured against the personal guarantee of £50,000 and so 
the loan hadnt been mis-sold. Mr S brought his complaint to the Financial Ombudsman 
Service.
In support of his complaint, Mr S provided correspondence between himself and Barclays 
which said that, by agreeing to the new personal guarantee of £196,000, the previous 
guarantees would be released. After our investigator provided this to Barclays, the bank 
acknowledged that it should have released the two earlier guarantees. But the bank also 
said that there had been no detriment arising from this as the guarantees had not been 
called upon.
Our investigator was satisfied that Barclays should have released the personal guarantees 
before taking on the new £196,000 personal guarantee. However, he didnt think this meant 
that the loan had been mis-sold, nor did he find any loss or detriment to the company. As a 
result, he didnt think Barclays needed to take any further action.
Mr S disagreed with the investigators findings and asked for an ombudsman to review the 
complaint. He has reiterated his previous arguments about the impact on himself and Mrs S 
in their personal capacity in relation to their dealings with Barclays over a number of years. 
He has provided a timeline going back over the historical relationship between L and 
Barclays and made allegations of fraud, forgery and dishonesty.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As I said at the outset, Ive read everything Mr S and Barclays have provided. As I also said, 
I will be looking at this complaint only in relation to its impact on the complainant  which is 
the company, not Mr S or Mrs S personally.
Generally where a director gives a guarantee or legal charge to a bank as security for the 
borrowings of a limited company, the security is for all monies. What this means is that it is 
not only for the current debt, but is for all future liabilities, up to the value of the amount 
stated in any personal guarantees. Therefore, even if the original borrowing is repaid, banks 
will generally keep the security in place to cover any future borrowing. This saves time and costs by avoiding the need to put separate security in place each and every time there is an 
increase in borrowing.
Here I can see that Barclays did agree to remove the two personal guarantees for £40,000 
and £50,000 when it asked for a further guarantee of £196,000 in 2015. Due to an oversight, 
the guarantees werent cancelled until 2017. 
Mr S says that this means that the 2015 loan was mis-sold to the company on the basis of 
misrepresentation. I think that the banks failure to cancel the guarantees was simply human 
error rather than (as Mr S believes) a deliberate act of malice towards him personally. But in 
any event, as I said above, I am not looking at how Mr S believes the bank has treated him; 
this complaint is from the company, and is that the loan was mis-sold. 
Barclays did not need to call in the guarantees, and so there was no detriment to the 
company, nor any financial loss to it, as a result of those guarantees erroneously remaining 
in place. In the circumstances, I am not persuaded by Mr Ss arguments that the loan was 
mis-sold to the company. 
I appreciate this isnt the outcome Mr S was hoping for. I can see he feels very strongly that 
Barclays has acted dishonestly towards him and Mrs S in their personal capacity, and he 
has made very serious allegations of criminal behaviour which, as I noted above, he has 
reported to the police. I have already explained that those arent issues I can look at in this 
complaint, which is from L as a limited company, a legal entity in its own right. In addition, 
many of the other issues Mr S has complained about  regulatory and compliance issues or 
the validity of contracts  simply do not fall within our remit and so are more suited to the 
regulator or the courts. 
If Mr S on behalf of L doesnt accept my final decision, then the company, along with Mr and 
Mrs S, are free to pursue their grievances against Barclays in court, should they wish to do 
so. If Mr S is considering court action against Barclays, having read the points he has made 
about case law, common law and statute, I think it might assist Mr S to take advice from a 
solicitor before embarking on any legal action against the bank.
Conclusion
Whilst Barclays made an error in not releasing the personal guarantees of £40,000 and 
£50,000 in 2015, this did not result in any financial loss or detriment to L. As a result, I do not 
require Barclays to take any further action.
My final decision
My decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
This final decision concludes the Financial Ombudsman Services review of this complaint. 
This means that we are unable to consider the complaint any further, nor enter into any 
correspondence about the merits of it.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S on behalf of L 
to accept or reject my decision before 22 March 2022.
 
Jan O'Leary
Ombudsman