DRN-3830710
The complaint
Mr L complains about the repairs that esure Insurance Limited made to his car after a claim 
on his motor insurance policy.
 
What happened
Two days after it was serviced, another driver drove into the front of Mr Ls parked car. Mr L 
made a claim and a month later the car was taken for repairs at esures approved repairers. 
The car was repaired but Mr L reported a problem with the cruise control warning light. The 
repairer checked the car and said this was a past fault and the cruise control worked 
normally. Mr L said the fault recurred and asked for his car to be taken to a dealership 
garage. 
Over the next five months, the approved garage reinspected the car and said there was no 
fault. The garage then said there was evidence of a second incident since it had made the 
repairs. Mr L raised a complaint with esure. 
esure replied that its engineers thought there had been a second incident since the repairs 
had been made. It said the garage had shown that the cruise control fault appeared 4,000km 
after the repairs. 
Mr L took his car to a dealership garage. It removed the front bumper and found no evidence 
of a second accident. It said the garage had glued on parts rather than replace them. It said 
the radar was bent causing the cruise control fault. esure insisted there had been a second 
accident. But it paid Mr L £75 compensation for delays in the claim. Mr L paid for the repairs 
as his lease was ending. Mr L wanted a refund of the cost of repairs and further 
compensation. 
Our Investigator recommended that the complaint should be upheld. She thought esures 
compensation wasnt sufficient for the nine months delay in addressing Mr Ls concerns by 
taking the car to a dealers garage and its poor communication. So she thought it should pay 
Mr L £175 more (£250 in total). 
She thought esure hadnt shown that there had been a second accident and that the fault 
pre-dated when esure thought this had occurred. She thought esure hadnt fully considered 
the report from the dealers garage. And so she thought esure should reimburse Mr L for the 
cost of the engineers report and repairs, £735.05, with interest. 
esure didnt reply to the Investigators view, so the complaint has come to me for a final 
decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I can understand that Mr L feels frustrated that his car wasnt fully repaired the first time it 
was taken to esures approved garage. And I can see that Mr L paid for the repairs to the 
radar eleven months after the accident and following numerous emails to esure and after he 
had sent in photos, videos and an engineers report showing the fault. But esure still insisted 
that the fault had been caused by a second accident. 
Were not engineers. We dont assess whether or how damage to a vehicle would be caused 
as this is a matter for the experts in these situations, the insurance companies and 
engineers. Our role in these complaints is to determine whether an insurance company has 
considered all the available evidence and whether it can justify its decision to not pay for 
additional repairs. 
And in Mr Ls case, Im satisfied that esure hasnt reasonably considered the evidence and 
so hasnt justified its decision not to pay for the repairs to the cruise control and radar. I think 
this for the following reasons.
esure confirmed its garages view that this damage had been caused by a second accident 
that occurred 4,000km after the repairs, which would be in February 2022. But I dont think 
this is reasonable as:
The fault hadnt been evident when the car was serviced a few days before the 
accident.
Mr L had been reporting the fault since July 2021 after the first repairs were 
completed.
I havent seen an engineering report from esure to show that there has been a 
second accident, just an email exchange and two photographs.
A previous inspection by esures garage hadnt noted evidence of a second accident.
Mr L has provided an engineers report, following stripping of the car and an 
inspection, to confirm that there was no evidence of the second accident. 
The same report also found that the garages repairs hadnt repaired the bent radar. 
So Im not persuaded that esure reasonably considered all the evidence available. And so 
Im satisfied that it hasnt justified its decision that the cruise control fault wasnt related to 
the accident. And nor has it justified its decision not to pay for the repairs to the radar. I think 
it should reimburse Mr L for this cost and his engineers report. And, as hes been without his 
money for some time, I think it should reasonably add interest to this amount. 
I can see that there have been significant delays in the claim:
It took a month following the claim notification for esure to take the car for repairs.
It took two months after Mr L reported the fault to the garage for it to be taken back 
for inspection.
Following this, the garage said it would take the car to the dealers garage for 
inspection. But this didnt happen until Mr L arranged it nine months later.
And I can also see that Mr L had to pursue the garage and esure for updates and responses. 
He sent in photographs and videos to evidence his concerns. And he had the trouble of 
arranging for his car to be inspected and repaired by the dealers garage. 
I think this was avoidable and caused Mr L significant trouble and upset. Our Investigator 
thought esure should increase its compensation for this to £250 (£175 further). And I think 
thats fair and reasonable as its in keeping with our published guidance for the impact the 
errors had. 
Putting things right
I require esure Insurance Limited to do the following:
1. Reimburse Mr L for the cost of the inspection and repairs he had made, £735.05, adding 
interest to this amount from the date of payment to the date of settlement.2. Pay Mr L £175 further compensation (£250 in total) for the distress and inconvenience 
caused by its handling of his claim.
If esure considers that its required by HM Revenue & Customs to deduct income tax from 
that interest, it should tell Mr L how much its taken off. It should also give Mr L a tax 
deduction certificate if he asks for one, so he can reclaim the tax from HM Revenue & 
Customs if appropriate.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, my final decision is that I uphold this complaint. I require esure 
Insurance Limited to carry out the redress set out above.  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr L to accept or 
reject my decision before 5 January 2023.
 
Phillip Berechree
Ombudsman