DRN-2418858
The complaint
Ms B complains about Shop Direct Finance Company Limited trading as very and the 
interest they applied to her account after she failed to clear her Buy Now Pay Later (BNPL) 
balance before the given deadline.
What happened
In August 2019, Ms B made two purchases on her Shop Direct account on a BNPL basis. 
Ms B chose the 12-month option, meaning she needed to clear the purchase amount before 
21 August 2020 to avoid interest being applied to her account.
But Ms B didnt clear the full balance amount before this date so very applied the interest, 
totalling £29.03, to her account. Ms B was unhappy with this, so she raised a complaint.
Ms B complained that Shop Direct had failed to send her a text to remind her that payment 
was due. And she explained Shop Direct had done this on similar occasions and because of 
this, she relied on this as a reminder. So, she didnt think it was fair for Shop Direct to charge 
her interest when shed made an honest mistake by not clearing the balance by the required 
deadline. And she wanted the interest removed from the account.
Shop Direct didnt agree. They thought the interest had been applied correctly, in line with 
the terms and conditions of Ms Bs account. And they also thought theyd made Ms B 
reasonably aware of the deadline for payment on her monthly statements. So, they didnt 
think they needed to do anything more. Ms B remained unhappy, so she referred her 
complaint to us.
Our investigator looked into the complaint and didnt uphold it. He recognised Ms Bs 
frustration that a text hadnt been sent as a reminder. But he didnt think Shop Directs failure 
to do so meant theyd done anything wrong. He thought the interest had been applied 
correctly in line with the terms and conditions of the account. And he thought Shop Direct 
had made Ms B reasonably aware of the date the balance needed to be paid on her monthly 
statements. So, he didnt think Shop Direct needed to do anything more.
Mrs B didnt agree. She maintained her view that it was unfair for Shop Direct to charge her 
interest when shed made an honest mistake. As Ms B didnt agree, the complaint has been 
passed to me for a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im not upholding the complaint for broadly the same reasons as the 
investigator. Ive focused my comments on what I think is relevant. If I havent commented 
on any specific point, its because I dont believe its affected what I think is the right 
outcome.
First, I want to recognise the impact this complaint has had on Ms B. I recognise Ms B 
wouldve been upset when she realised interest had been applied to her account as I dont 
dispute it was her intention to pay the full balance by the deadline to avoid this. And I can 
understand why she felt this was unfair if Shop Direct had sent text reminders in the past. 
But for me to say Shop Direct did something wrong, Id need to see that the interest wasnt 
charged in line with the terms and conditions. Or if it was, that their decision to apply the 
interest was unfair. And in this situation, I dont think thats the case.
The terms and conditions of Ms Bs account explain that you can avoid paying any interest 
on your BNPL transaction by paying off the full cost of the transaction before the end of the 
delayed payment period. And its not in dispute that Ms B failed to do so for the transactions 
in question. 
The terms and conditions also explain that With BNPL, interest is calculated from date 
order, compounded every 28 days during the delayed payment period (so you are charged 
interest on interest) and will be applied to your account as a lump sum after the delayed 
payment period ends. So, as Ms B failed to pay the full balance of the BNPL purchases by 
the delayed payment deadline, I think Shop Direct have acted in line with the terms and 
conditions of the account when applying the interest. So, I cant say they did anything wrong 
when doing so.
But even though the interest was applied correctly, Im also able to consider whether Shop 
Directs decision to do this was fair in this specific situation. Ms B doesnt think it was as she 
didnt receive a text to remind her the payment was due.
And I do understand why Ms B would think is. Especially if shed received similar texts in the 
past which led her to expect text reminders as part of the payment process. But Shop Direct 
have confirmed the text reminders arent a mandatory part of the service they provide. So, I 
cant say they acted unfairly for this alone.
Ive seen in each monthly statement Ms B received after making the purchases in August 
2019, Shop Direct documented the BNPL balance and the date it would need to be paid in 
full to avoid interest being charged to the account. So, even though a text reminder wasnt 
sent on this occasion, I think Shop Direct did enough to make Ms B aware of when payment 
needed to be made. And I think it was Ms Bs responsibility to ensure she managed her 
account effectively and so be aware of when payments were required. Because of this, I 
cant say that Shop Direct acted unfairly when charging the interest to Ms Bs account. And 
so, I dont think Shop Direct need to do anything more.
My final decision
For the reasons outlined above, I dont uphold Ms Bs complaint about Shop Direct Finance 
Company Limited trading as very.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms B to accept or 
reject my decision before 20 January 2021.
 
Josh Haskey
Ombudsman