DRN-3667014
The complaint
Mr and Mrs G are unhappy about an offer made by Vitality Corporate Services Limited to put 
things right for mistakes made on their whole of life policy.
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here. The facts are not in dispute, so Ill focus on giving the reasons for my decision. Below, I 
have highlighted some key dates I think are relevant to the complaint:
November 2020: Vitality identified a connection issue which meant the activity points 
earned were not contributing towards Mr and Mrs Gs payments and a refund of 
£79.00 was issued.
September 2021: a similar issue occurred and Mr and Mrs G were incorrectly 
charged for their monthly benefit taking Mrs G into her overdraft. A refund for the 
incorrect charge was requested and refunded two weeks later. 
October 2021: Mr and Mrs G were told theyd receive an update regarding their 
payments which didnt happen.
November 2021: a refund was raised.
Vitality has paid Mr and Mrs G £75 for what happened, our Investigator recommended it pay 
a further £75 for its mistakes. However, Vitality didnt agree, it said it had done enough to put 
things right. Mr and Mrs G also didnt agree and are seeking an increased amount of 
compensation. 
As an agreement couldnt be reached the matter has been passed to me for a decision.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I broadly agree with the conclusion reached by our Investigator for the 
following reasons: 
All partis agree that things went wrong and Mr and Mrs G didnt benefit from the 
policys features as they should have. They have experienced ongoing issues with 
the reward scheme. Given that they met the criteria required, I can understand why it 
would be disappointing to then not receive the reward as expected. 
From what Ive seen Mr and Mrs Gs experience has not been a smooth one, theyve 
had several issues with payments unexpectedly debited from Mrs Gs account. More 
recently Vitalitys error resulted in Mrs G becoming overdrawn, something which both 
Mr and Mrs G say caused them worry and distress about this occurring again in the 
future. 
I appreciate Vitality has taken steps to put things right, but Im inclined to uphold this 
complaint because the error has occurred on more than one occasion. Further, 
Vitality failed to update Mr and Mrs G when it said it would, during a time Mr and Mrs 
G were anxious that a further unexpected payment may be taken. Im therefore 
satisfied that some compensation is due, to address the impact of Vitalitys errors. 
To put things right I think Vitality should pay Mr and Mrs G a further £75 
compensation. Under the circumstances of this complaint, I think the amount fairly 
reflects the distress and inconvenience its errors have caused. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint and direct Vitality Corporate Services Limited 
to pay the sum of £75 for the reasons outlined above. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr G and Mrs G to 
accept or reject my decision before 12 May 2023.
 
Rajvinder Pnaiser
Ombudsman