DRN-3648571
The complaint
Mr S as a director of A, a limited company complains that Barclays Bank UK PLC trading as 
Barclaycard rejected his chargeback request.
What happened
In Mr S purchased several items from abroad using an online platform I will call E. He paid 
using the company credit card held with Barclays. He says the goods were faulty and he 
emailed the seller to complain. It disputed the claim and Mr S had the goods repaired. I note 
that one was beyond repair. He contacted Barclays to make a chargeback. It said that as he 
had had the goods repaired it could not make a chargeback.
Mr S didnt agree and made a complaint which he brought to this service. It was considered 
by one of our investigators who didnt recommend it be upheld. She said Mr S had raised the 
chargeback request after he had had the goods repaired and under the chargeback rules the 
claim would not have been successful.
Mr S disputed the facts as set out by our investigator and said he had never asked for the 
costs of repair. He had not undertaken repairs until his claim had been refused by the seller, 
E and Barclays. Our investigator noted that Mr S had told this service that he had the goods 
repaired after his claim was rejected by the seller and E, but before he made a chargeback 
claim to Barclays. This was reinforced by various emails between Mr S and Barclays.
Mr S said that he had phoned Barclays prior to accepting the quotation for repair of the 
goods. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I appreciate the strength of feeling Mr S has shown in pursuit of his claim, but I do not 
consider I can uphold his complaint. I will explain why.
First of all I should explain the regime under which Mr S made the claim. Chargeback is a 
process that is provided by the Card Scheme - in this case MasterCard. It allows customers 
to ask for a transaction to be reversed if there's a problem with the goods or services they've 
paid for. There's no automatic right to a chargeback.  Nor is chargeback a guaranteed 
method of getting a refund. MasterCard checks the nature of the problem against the 
possible chargeback reasons to see whether the claim will be successful. If the bank feels 
that a claim won't be successful, they don't have to raise a chargeback.
That means Barclays is not responsible for the rules. It has to abide by them and if a claim 
does not fit within those rules it cannot be held responsible for not pursuing it.
I have noted that Mr S made contact with Barclays and asked that he be recompensed for 
£1495.66 which was the cost of the repair. He didnt ask that he be allowed to reject the 
goods. The bank sought clarification and Mr S said the seller had refused to take the goods 
back. He explained in his email of 23 February that the repair was ongoing. 
I believe by the time he had made the matter clear to Barclays so that it was in a position to 
give proper consideration to a chargeback claim the repairs were underway and so any 
chargeback claim would have failed. I appreciate Mr S has said that he called Barclays, but 
reading his subsequent emails I have no reason to believe this would give me cause to 
reach a different conclusion. I am satisfied that Mr S was, quite reasonably, seeking to make 
the best of the situation by having the goods repaired. It is unfortunate that in doing this 
meant a chargeback was not an option. Barclays was constrained by the rules of the 
scheme and as such I cannot say it did anything wrong.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S on behalf of 
A to accept or reject my decision before 13 December 2022.
 
Ivor Graham
Ombudsman