DRN-2579596
The complaint
Mr and Mrs M complain that Lloyds Bank PLC (when it was trading under a different 
business name) mis-sold them a payment protection insurance (PPI) policy.
What happened
Mr and Mrs M took out PPI alongside their joint mortgage which started in January 1995. 
This protected their mortgage repayments in the event that they couldnt work as a result of 
accident, sickness or unemployment. 
Our adjudicator didnt uphold the complaint. Mr and Mrs M disagreed with the adjudicators 
opinion.
In summary, Mr and Mrs M mainly said that they would not have purchased the insurance 
had they been asked. They felt that the PPI was recommended without any reference to 
whether it was needed and they had other ways to pay the mortgage if they werent able to 
work. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding this case. 
Ive decided not to uphold Mr and Mrs Ms complaint. Ill explain why.
I've taken carefully into account everything Mr and Mrs M told me. But what Mr and Mrs M 
say isnt enough on its own for me to be able to uphold this complaint. I must look at all the 
available information and decide what I think is most likely. I must be impartial. In order to 
uphold this complaint Id have to find that its likely that Mr and Mrs M werent given a fair 
choice about PPI or that it was added to their account without their consent. 
Based on the information Ive seen, I cant fairly say that the policy wasnt presented as 
optional or that Mr and Mrs M wouldve been unaware PPI was being taken out with their 
mortgage. Heres why I say this.
The copy of the signed paperwork Lloyds provided from when Mr and Mrs M took out their 
mortgage isnt very clear. But I can see that in the section headed MortgageSure (this is 
what Lloyds called its PPI at the time) there were tick boxes for applicants to say either Yes 
or No to PPI. 
So I think Mr and Mrs M wouldve been able to see that having PPI was a matter of choice. 
And they couldve ticked the No box if they hadnt wanted PPI.  
It looks like Mr M ticked the Yes box to take out PPI  I cant see what Mrs M ticked on this 
part of the form. 
But the next part of the form looks like its been completed by both Mr and Mrs M and 
theyve filled in details of the amount of cover they each wanted to take out and answered 
questions to check if they were eligible for the policy. I can clearly see that boxes are ticked 
in answer to the questions being asked. 
So it looks to me like Mr and Mrs M wanted to have PPI. And, despite what theyve told me 
about their circumstances, I can see why they mightve felt this policy was useful to have. 
Mr and Mrs Ms mortgage was a major financial commitment, repayable over a number of 
years. Their home wouldve been at risk if their mortgage payments werent kept up to date. 
PPI provided dependable protection. It looks to me as if PPI couldve been helpful to 
Mr and Mrs M as it offered them benefits over and above any arrangements they had in 
place already to help them make their mortgage repayments if one or both of them couldnt 
work. 
On balance, I think its more likely that Mr and Mrs M wanted to have the benefits that PPI 
offered them and that Lloyds added the policy to their mortgage account when Mr and Mrs M 
decided to buy it.
I think this is borne out by what happened when Mr and Mrs M arranged some further 
borrowing on their mortgage account in 2004. I can see that they indicated on the application 
they completed that they understood their existing PPI would be automatically extended to 
cover their additional borrowing on the account. So whilst I can completely understand why 
Mr and Mrs M have forgotten this now, the information I've seen makes me think they 
wanted PPI when they arranged it  and they valued the protection it offered them 
sufficiently to keep the policy running when they increased their borrowing. 
Mr and Mrs M initially told us that Lloyds did not recommend PPI to them. Lloyds said that its 
advisor had recommended PPI to Mr and Mrs M and I think this is the fairest way to assess 
this complaint as it imposes extra obligations on the lender. If a business makes a 
recommendation about PPI, it doesnt just have to give important policy information in a clear 
way. It also has to take reasonable steps to make sure the cover it recommends is suitable.   
Lloyds told us that it doesnt any longer have a policy document from the exact date when 
Mr and Mrs M took out the PPI. But it has provided a policy document which came into use 
afterwards. So I think its reasonable to rely on this information and I think its likely that the 
policy Mr and Mrs M took out wouldve had substantially the same terms and conditions. 
I think it was appropriate for the policy to be taken out in both their names. And it makes 
sense that the benefit was split equally between Mr and Mrs M, as they had requested on 
their application, given that they were both in work and contributing to the monthly mortgage 
repayments.
Taking into account Mr and Mrs Ms employment and their financial circumstances, it looks 
to me as if PPI wouldve been a suitable recommendation based on what Mr and Mrs M 
have said about their situation at the time. 
Ive seen nothing to make me think that they werent both eligible for the policy. 
The policy paid out a monthly benefit that protected Mr and Mrs Ms mortgage repayments 
for up to 12 months per claim. Mr and Mrs M were both entitled to 6 months full sick pay followed by 6 months on half pay. 
But I think PPI still couldve been useful. It wouldve paid out in full for up to 12 months per 
claim in the event of accident and sickness. So the PPI provided better protection than they 
couldve relied on getting through their employers. And it wouldve paid out on top of sick pay 
providing Mr and Mrs M with a useful benefit at a difficult time  especially if they had some 
extra costs as a result of being sick or disabled. 
PPI wouldve also paid out for up to 12 months for any one claim if either (or both) 
Mr and Mrs M became unexpectedly unemployed. 
There was no guarantee when Mr and Mrs M took out this mortgage that they would always 
have savings to rely on because everyones circumstances can change unexpectedly. 
Possibly they mightve used at least some of that money towards their move and setting up 
their new home. And, if Mr and Mrs M didnt put all their money towards keeping down the 
cost of the mortgage, perhaps because they preferred to keep savings intact to provide 
financial security or to spend on other things, then I think they wouldve valued the protection 
PPI offered. Having PPI meant that Mr and Mrs M could be sure theyd be able to pay the 
mortgage monthly repayments without breaking into savings.  
Mr and Mrs M mentioned having personal health cover and personal accident cover set up 
and Ive read carefully through all the policy information they have sent me. But I havent 
seen anything to make me think that the PPI duplicated benefits they already had. PPI 
provided a different sort of cover and paid out in different circumstances. 
Looked at overall, I think that the PPI Lloyds sold Mr and Mrs M with their mortgage was 
suitable bearing in mind their particular situation at the time. 
Its possible some information Lloyds gave Mr and Mrs M about the PPI wasnt as clear as it 
shouldve been. So I've thought about whether this would make any overall difference to the 
outcome of their complaint. 
There were some policy exclusions and limitations which meant some things werent 
covered under the policy. But it doesnt look as if this affected Mr and Mrs M. So, I dont think 
having more information about things the policy didnt cover wouldve put them off taking it 
out.  
Mr and Mrs M paid for this policy each month. I havent seen anything to suggest that paying 
for the policy was a problem for them. And they couldve cancelled it at any time without 
incurring any extra cost if they no longer wanted to pay to keep the policy Lloyds sold them. 
On balance, I dont find that the PPI was mis-sold. So Lloyds doesnt have to repay 
everything Mr and Mrs M paid for it.
But Lloyds has paid back some of the cost of the PPI to Mr and Mrs M because: 
Lloyds got a high level of commission and profit share (more than 50% of the PPI 
premium) - so it should have told Mr and Mrs M about that. Because Lloyds didnt tell 
Mr and Mrs M, that was unfair. 
To put that right, Lloyds has paid back the amount of commission and profit share 
that was above 50% of the PPI premium - and I think that is fair in this case.In coming to my decision Ive thought carefully about everything that Mr and Mrs M have 
said, including the comments made in response to our adjudicators view. 
Each complaint is looked at on its own merits - Ive looked at the circumstances that apply in 
this particular case and the PPI sold with this mortgage. So what they said about the way 
Lloyds sold PPI doesnt change my conclusion.
In my decision I've concentrated on dealing with the main points raised that affect the 
outcome of Mr and Mrs Ms complaint about the way they were sold this PPI. I appreciate 
that they feel strongly about this complaint and that what Ive said will come as a 
disappointment. But I hope that setting out the reasons as Ive done will help explain how 
Ive reached my decision.
My final decision
The PPI policy wasnt mis-sold  so Lloyds Bank PLC does not have to pay to 
Mr and Mrs M all of the cost of the PPI that Mr and Mrs M paid.
But Lloyds Bank PLC does have to pay to Mr and Mrs M any commission and profit share it 
got that was more than 50% of the PPI premium Mr and Mrs M paid. I understand it has 
already done this, so I dont award any further compensation. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs M and Mr M to 
accept or reject my decision before 24 March 2021.
 
Susan Webb
Ombudsman