DRN-2217296
The complaint
Mr A complains about what happened when he missed a payment on a plan hed set up with
American Express Services Europe Limited (AESEL) to pay off his charge card.
What happened
Mr A had a charge card with Amex. Hes supposed to pay off the balance at the end of each
month, but hed run into some financial problems, and reached an agreement with AmEx to
pay the balance off over a longer period. He told us the payment agreement hed reached
with AmEx was broken. He said AmEx promised to contact him about this, but it didnt.
Mr A said he then discovered that AmEx had defaulted this debt. He said if AmEx had simply
contacted him as it said it would, this could all have been avoided. Mr A wanted AmEx to
remove the default, to pay him compensation and reinstate points on his card. He said then
hed be happy to reach an agreement with AmEx to pay back the outstanding debt.
AmEx confirmed that Mr A entered into a payment plan, with a reduced interest rate and an
agreement to pay £195 per month in December 2018. Payments started in early January
2019. Mr A paid double in April, then not at all in May. AmEx said that by not paying in May,
Mr A breached the plan. And he hadnt paid in July ether. So AmEx wrote to him on 11 July,
saying it had terminated his plan. That meant the standard terms of the card came back into
force.
AmEx showed us the letter it sent to Mr A on 11 July, which said that its collections
department would be in contact with him to confirm the outstanding balance and discuss his
repayment options. It sent a separate letter saying that as it would be terminating his card
member agreement, it would also delete his reward points. Amex defaulted his account on
27 July 2019. It has since said it wont remove this default.
Our investigator didnt think this complaint should be upheld. She said that AmEx had
already sent Mr A a notice of default in December 2018. So it didnt do anything wrong when
it applied a default to Mr As account, after he missed a payment onto the plan it had agreed
with him.
Our investigator thought that this shouldve been explained more clearly to Mr A. So she said
she would ask AmEx to pay Mr A £125 in compensation because of this. But she said Mr A
shouldnt have stopped payments towards his debt while he was waiting for the complaint to
be resolved.
Our investigator thought AmEx had removed Mr As reward points in line with the terms of
the account. It didnt have to put them back.
Amex agreed with our investigator, but Mr A didnt. He said that if AmEx had told him when
he contacted it that he was about to default, he wouldve moved heaven and earth to avoid
the default. He says its having a serious impact on him, and his career.
Our investigator said that on the call Mr A had with AmEx, he said he hoped to make a
payment next week. so she didnt think he couldve paid straight away. And AmEx had sent
a default notice in December 2018, so it met its legal obligations. She didnt change her
mind.
Mr A still thought he shouldve been warned on the call about the upcoming default. He
wanted his complaint to be considered by an ombudsman, so it was passed to me for a final
decision.
My provisional decision
I issued a provisional decision on this complaint and explained why I did propose to uphold 
it. This is what I said then: 
AmEx told us that Mr A broke his payment plan in May, because he didnt make a 
payment. But it also told us that Mr A paid double in April. So hed already paid for 
May. I dont think that Mr A did break his plan in May. I think he broke it when he 
missed a payment for July.
The purpose of issuing a default notice is to give a debtor a last chance to pay his 
debt, before a default is registered on a credit file. The notice normally contains clear 
information about the amount of the debt, and the time that someone has left to pay, 
before the default will be applied.
Not only did Mr A not get this information in advance of the default that was applied 
in July 2019, the last thing AmEx said to him was that it was going to get back in 
touch with him to discuss his options.
Mr A said that he was hoping to make a payment in a week, to put the plan back on 
track. He wasnt told about the consequences of having already missed a payment. 
Hes told us that if hed known, he wouldve moved heaven and earth to avoid the 
default. He suggested that he couldve borrowed from family, if hed been aware of 
how serious this had become. But AmEx hadnt told him. 
I think that applying a default in these circumstances, effectively out of the blue, was 
unfair and unreasonable. This default should be removed from Mr As credit file.
Mr A still owes Amex money, and a way needs to be found for him to pay this back. I 
think it would be reasonable for AmEx to reinstate the repayment plan he broke in 
July 2019, as it was from 1 July. Assuming Mr A makes his payments, his credit file 
would then only show an arrangement to pay. And if Mr A doesnt make payments 
under the arrangement, AmEx could, with due warning, default the debt.
Mr A also wants his reward points reinstated. But I think that Mr A had broken the 
payment plan that he was in, by missing a payment in July. And under the terms of 
his account, that means his reward points are forfeited. So I dont think Amex has to 
reinstate these points.
I appreciate that this problem has had a significant effect on Mr A. But I also note that 
Mr A hasnt been paying anything towards this debt since it defaulted. The effect of 
my decision will be that Mr A has effectively benefitted from an interest free loan on a 
debt that he didnt repay in line with the agreement. For that reason, I dont think 
AmEx also has to pay compensation.
I invited the parties to make any final points, if they wanted, before issuing my final decision. 
Both AmEx and Mr A replied.What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr A said he was very relieved that the default was going to be removed. But he still thought 
AmEx should compensate him, either to the value of the points which were removed, or 
alternatively, it should be invited to consider how it should compensate him. He thought this 
was the right thing to do, given the worry this had caused. 
I understand that this has been a very unpleasant experience for Mr A, and I took that into 
account in making my decision. But Ive explained why I dont think Mr A is still entitled to the 
reward points he had previously earned. He broke his plan in July, and that was not caused 
by the mistake AmEx then made in not warning him about the default. 
And not every complaint that comes to our service results in a payment of compensation. In 
this case, Im satisfied that putting Mr A back in the situation he was in before AmEx made 
its mistake, provides a fair and reasonable outcome to this complaint.
AmEx wrote at length, to disagree with my decision. It reminded me that a Notice of Default 
was issued on 6 December 2018. Mr A then set up a payment plan. AmEx said it explains 
that plan in full to its customers. 
AmEx still thought that Mr A had caused the plan to fail by paying double in one month, and 
not at all the next month. 
AmEx said Id noted that Mr A hadnt been paying towards his debt since June 2018. AmEx 
didnt think removing the default would be in keeping with its obligation to ensure that 
information shared with the credit reference agencies presents an accurate picture of how a 
consumer has managed his affairs. And AmEx said Mr A was clearly in breach now, 
because he hadnt paid anything for over a year. 
AmEx said it had discussed the proposed repayment plan internally, and based on Mr As 
past repayment history, in particular that he hadnt paid anything since the default, it didnt 
think the plan should be reinstated. 
AmEx wanted to emphasise that no collections activity had been undertaken against Mr A 
while wed been considering his complaint, although there was no dispute that the money is 
owed.
So AmEx said it disagreed with my view. 
Ive thought carefully about what AmEx has said, but nothing in its recent submissions 
explains why it would be fair for AmEx to record a default on Mr As account for his debt, 
almost immediately after AmEx clearly indicated to him that it would be in touch with him to 
discuss repayment of the same debt.
Ive also thought about what AmEx has said about Mr A not having paid towards this debt 
since. Mr A has told us that a default affects his employment. So he had a strong incentive to 
avoid a default. Once this default had been registered against him, he had less of an 
incentive to pay it off. And the issue has remained in dispute until now. 
I dont think it would be fair and reasonable for me to assume that Mr A would not have 
cleared this debt, if hed been told the alternative was a default. He has told us he wouldve found a way to do so, given the possible impact on him of a default. I still think the default on 
Mr As credit file is a result of AmEx not giving him a fair opportunity to do that. 
So I still think AmEx has to do something to put this right. And I think the fairest outcome is 
that Mr A should be put back in the position that he was in before AmEx made its mistake. 
So I havent changed my mind.
My final decision
My final decision is that American Express Services Europe Limited (AESEL) must remove 
the default from Mr As credit file, and reinstate his repayment agreement as it was on 1 July 
2019.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 October 2020. 
Esther Absalom-Gough
Ombudsman