DRN-3342620
The complaint
Mr Y complains about advice he was given to transfer the benefits of a defined-benefit (DB) 
occupational pension scheme (OPS) to a personal pension plan. He says the advice was 
unsuitable for him and believes this has caused him a financial loss.
Portal Financial Services LLP is responsible for answering this complaint. To keep things 
simple Ill refer to Portal. 
What happened
Mr Y approached Portal in 2018 to discuss his pension and retirement needs. The 
information gathered by Portal about Mr Y at around the time was broadly as follows:
Mr Y was 55 years old living with a partner in a housing association property rented 
for £356 a month. He did not own a property.
He earned approximately £55,000 (gross) a year and was said to have disposable 
income after expenses of £2,000 per month.
Mr Y was a deferred member of this OPS, having left the scheme in the 1990s. The 
cash equivalent transfer value (CETV) was £68,848 with a normal retirement age of 
65. He was a member of a current employers pension scheme.
Mr Y had unsecured debt with monthly repayments of £320. He had no further assets 
or liabilities other than those outlined above.
In the light of recently changed rules - pension freedoms - Mr Y told Portal he 
wanted to access his OPS to take the tax-free cash available, although he said he 
didnt have any current plans to retire or stop working. He said he wanted cash to pay 
for some home improvements and an extension. 
A suitability report was issued by Portal, on 1 May 2018. The report started by saying it 
recommended Mr Y should not transfer his pension at all but leave it where it was instead. 
Nevertheless, in the same report, Portal said that because Mr Y was adamant he wanted to 
transfer out of his OPS, it would help him do this. It said it could treat him as an insistent 
client, a term used in the industry to describe a situation where a client goes against the 
advice of a professional financial adviser.
Portal therefore went on to give Mr Y a second recommendation - to transfer his OPS to a 
flexi-access drawdown product in order to release tax free cash and leave the remaining 
funds invested. It says this was on an insistent client basis.
Mr Y now says he was given unsuitable advice by Portal and referred the complaint to our 
Service. One of our investigators looked into the complaint and said we should uphold it. 
They thought Mr Y would not have transferred out of his OPS if Portal had given him suitable 
advice. Portal hasnt agreed with our investigator and as the complaint couldnt be resolved 
informally, its come to me for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided to uphold the complaint. 
What was Portal required to do?
Portal says Mr Y ultimately went against its advice. It says that he was advised in the 
suitability report that he ought to stay inside the DB scheme, and it was Mr Y himself that 
insisted he wanted to transfer out. It says he signed a number of forms to this effect. Portal 
says this meant he became an insistent client. Ive therefore considered this point first.
The regulator, the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) places important general obligations 
on firms like Portal when giving financial advice to clients. These include the overarching 
principles such as: Principle 1  Integrity; Principle 2 - skill, care and diligence; Principle 6 - 
customers interests; Principle 9 - reasonable care. 
There was also more specific guidance available at the time when Portal provided this 
advice to Mr Y. In 2018, the FCA had provided guidance about what businesses 
responsibilities were with regards to insistent clients. In its Conduct of Business 
Sourcebook (COBS), under COBS 9.5A, it set out three key steps for advisers to take when 
faced with these situations.
1) Where a firm proceeds to execute a transaction for an insistent client which is not in 
accordance with the personal recommendation given by the firm, the firm should 
communicate to the insistent client, in a way which is clear, fair and not misleading, 
and having regard to the information needs of the insistent client so that the client is 
able to understand, the information set out in (2).
2) The information which the firm should communicate to the insistent client is:
a) that the firm has not recommended the transaction and that it will not be in 
accordance with the firms personal recommendation;
b) the reasons why the transaction will not be in accordance with the firms 
personal recommendation;
c) the risks of the transaction proposed by the insistent client; and
d) the reasons why the firm did not recommend that transaction to the client.
COBS 9.5A.4 went on to say the following about any acknowledgement from the insistent 
client:
(1) The firm should obtain from the insistent client an acknowledgement that:
(i) the transaction is not in accordance with the firms personal 
recommendation; and
(ii) the transaction is being carried out at the request of the client.
(2) Where possible, the acknowledgment should be in the clients own words.However, I should also point out that there is no rule to prevent advisers transacting 
business against their advice, if the client insists. So, I need to think here about whether 
enough was done by Portal to try and find alternative ways of meeting Mr Ys objectives. I 
have also considered whether the insistent client process in this case was merely, in the 
words of the regulator, a papering exercise. 
Was Mr Y an insistent client?
Everything Ive said above demonstrates that firms, like Portal, had a number of important 
responsibilities when providing advice. Despite what Mr Y thought he wanted, I think his 
expectation in paying for regulated financial advice was that he would be clearly guided on 
the basis of his circumstances and means. The information ought to have been clear, fair 
and not misleading. In particular, it should be clear that Portal had not recommended the 
transaction and the risks, of the transfer Mr Y was interested in, ought to have been pointed 
out.
I dont think Portal adequately did this. 
While, on first look, Portals communications with Mr Y did set out that its initial 
recommendation for him was not to proceed with the transfer of his DB pension, I think this 
was seriously undermined by statements and actions it made elsewhere. 
Portal said, for example, that its suitability report of 1 May 2018 was substantially based on a 
form Mr Y had signed the previous week about being an insistent client. Portal said this 
form showed Mr Y had wanted to disregard Portals advice not to transfer his pension, and 
that he wanted to go ahead with the transfer so he could access some cash. 
However, Ive looked at this form and note it was heavily templated. The first part involved 
Mr Y selecting from one of two tick-box pre-determined options about his OPS which had 
been set out for him by Portal. The first option was to access cash from his pension by 
transferring out, and the second was to do nothing and leave his pension where it was. In 
my view, these were not the only options available to Mr Y in his situation and Portals 
advice ought to have fairly reflected this. 
The second part of the form was also substantially flawed. I say this because the explanation 
from Mr Y in his own words about why he wanted to access his pension early was very 
short indeed. I think what he wrote was demonstrative of someone who may not have 
understood the situation he may be getting into. Mr Ys statement about transferring out of 
his OPS contained very little information as to why he was prepared to discount the apparent 
advice from Portal not to transfer out of his DB scheme and only said Mr Y wanted to 
undertake an extension and home improvements. In my view, this does not show, nor does it 
even imply, Mr Y was made aware of the longer-term consequences of giving up his pension 
benefits and / or his retirement security. I also note the reasons he apparently wanted to 
access his pension early seem inconsistent with him owning no property of his own and 
currently living in a housing association rental. 
So, I think this insistent client form and the processes around it fell considerably short of 
what I would expect to see from regulated financial advisers. I think the insistent client 
situation was simply engineered by Portal and the form  which was mainly pre-populated  
was used to facilitate this. It was presented to Mr Y who clearly wanted to access some cash 
at the time and he was required to do very little to get it. Portal failed to ask reasonable 
questions when the information provided by Mr Y quite obviously appeared to be 
inconsistent with his circumstances. Portal should have reiterated the risks this course of 
action would cause and explained why it wouldnt be in his best interests.As for the suitability report itself, sent out to him the week after, despite Portal saying its 
advice was against transferring out of the scheme, there was a clear underlying bias in the 
report in favour of actually transferring out anyway. I note that the actual title of the report on 
the front page was Flexi - Access Drawdown. To me, this shows Portal was pre-disposed 
to enabling Mr Y to access his pension by transferring out to another provider. Also, directly 
under the reports first recommendation it said Mr Y had told Portal he wanted to transfer out 
and so Portal made another recommendation just a few lines down from the first. This 
second recommendation was directly at odds with the first; it said Mr Y would be treated as 
an insistent client and that Portal would carry on with the transfer process. The report said, 
we propose that you transfer your [pension] plan to a [personal pension]. This 
recommendation went on to say that by accepting this Mr Y could release £17,212 in tax-
free cash and enter a flexible drawdown fund with the remainder.
Overall, I think this report was unclear on what it was really saying. And despite what Portal 
says, I think it was merely setting the scene for Mr Y to transfer out anyway.
Ive noted Mr Y was also asked to sign a Declaration Form and return it to Portal. This 
contained a number of statements which I think was intended basically to indemnify Portal 
from any responsibility. So, Portals actions and inactions here fitted the regulators definition 
of a papering exercise. Mr Y says he didnt fully understand the process. And by acting as it 
did, Portal offered Mr Y a very easy option to go ahead anyway. 
I dont believe the evidence is plausible that Mr Y even was an insistent client. He wasnt 
experienced in these matters and so was heavily influenced by his advisor. Portal produced 
mainly templated forms and statements which I think offered Mr Y what he thought was an 
easy way to achieve his objectives. These forms failed to highlight the risks and issues of 
him giving up his pension. 
Suitability of advice
Given Portal itself has said it advised against a transfer, it would be hard for it to argue that 
the transfer was in fact suitable. And I agree that it was not. 
In my view, there were a number of shortcomings in the information Portal both obtained and 
provided in this case, to enable Mr Y to make a fully informed decision. Portal failed, for 
example, to established whether it might be suitable for him to have accessed his DB 
scheme early or to otherwise have met his objectives for cash. I therefore dont think Mr Y 
was able to make an informed choice  I think he believed the only way to meet what he 
thought was his objective was to transfer out and thus lose the significant benefits he had.
I also think its more likely than not that the provision of full information and better analysis 
would have influenced Mr Ys decision making. So, if Portal had followed the insistent client 
process correctly, I dont think Mr Y would have insisted on going ahead with the transfer. I 
say this for the following reasons:
It would have been clear to Mr Y what he would be losing out by transferring his 
deferred benefits.
Im unconvinced that Mr Y had a pressing or genuine enough need to access his tax-
free cash to warrant the loss of his guaranteed pension. 
Theres no evidence that Mr Y, an inexperienced investor, desired any input or 
control over the investment choices of his pension funds.Mr Y was paying for independent financial advice, and if that advice had been 
persuasive about the suitability of remaining in his OPS, I think its more likely that 
hed have followed that advice, rather than being pushed immediately down an 
insistent client route.
Mr Y was also only 55 at the time of the advice, and based on both what Ive seen and been 
told by Portal, he didnt have concrete retirement plans. I think this just added to the fact that 
it was simply too soon to make any kind of decision about transferring out of the DB scheme. 
I dont think Portal explained these issues to Mr Y or why it wasnt suitable for him to give up 
all the guaranteed benefits the DB scheme came with when he didnt really yet know what 
his needs in later life would be. There was no evidence that he had such an urgent need for 
cash or a variable income at this point. Accessing the pension at 55 was therefore to the 
exclusion of other major priorities, especially when considering what hed have to forgo to 
get at it. Portal didnt explain any of this to Mr Y.
Summary
I have set out in this decision why I dont think Mr Y met the definition of an insistent client. I 
think there is substantial and verifiable evidence that this process was used by Portal simply 
to transact what Mr Y had said he wanted to achieve  access to his pension early. 
I think its fair to say that from the outset Portal was merely setting the scene for Mr Y to 
transfer out of his OPS anyway. Its initial recommendation not to transfer was not 
comprehensive, meaningful, or easy to understand. It did not adequately explain why 
transferring out was not in Mr Ys best interests, in a way that was personal to him. Portal 
then simply offered Mr Y a very easy route to accessing his pension early anyway, via a 
series of templated and pre-populated forms. Mr Ys explanation in his own words about 
transferring out clearly showed he didnt understand the risks and Portal failed to clarify the 
obvious anomalies in what he said the money was for.
Finally, I went on to think about whether, if Mr Y had been given clear and persuasive 
reasons why transferring wasnt in his best interests, he would have followed advice to 
remain inside the DB scheme. My view is that I think he would. With his circumstances and 
lack of investment history, Mr Y went to Portal seeking advice, which he paid for. I think its 
much more likely that he would have followed that advice had it been delivered with the skill, 
care and diligence required and shown to be in his interests.
Putting things right
A fair and reasonable outcome would be for Portal to put Mr Y, as far as possible, into the 
position he would now be in but for its unsuitable advice. I consider Mr Y would have most 
likely remained in his DB scheme if suitable advice had been given.
Portal must therefore undertake a redress calculation in line with the regulators pension 
review guidance as updated by the Financial Conduct Authority in its Finalised Guidance 
17/9: Guidance for firms on how to calculate redress for unsuitable DB pension transfers.
This calculation should be carried out as at the date of my final decision and using the most
recent financial assumptions at the date of that decision. In accordance with the regulators 
expectations, this should be undertaken or submitted to an appropriate provider promptly 
following receipt of notification of Mr Ys acceptance of the decision.
Portal may wish to contact the Department for Work and Pensions (DWP) to obtain Mr Ys 
contribution history to the State Earnings Related Pension Scheme (SERPS or S2P). These details should then be used to include a SERPS adjustment in the calculation, which will 
take into account the impact of leaving the occupational scheme on Mr Ys SERPS/S2P 
entitlement.
If the redress calculation demonstrates a loss, the compensation should if possible be paid 
into Mr Ys pension plan. The payment should allow for the effect of charges and any 
available tax relief. The compensation shouldnt be paid into the pension plan if it would 
conflict with any existing protection or allowance.
If a payment into the pension isnt possible or has protection or allowance implications, it 
should be paid directly to Mr Y as a lump sum after making a notional deduction to allow for 
income tax that would otherwise have been paid. Typically, 25% of the loss could have been 
taken as tax-free cash and 75% would have been taxed according to his likely income tax 
rate in retirement - presumed to be 20%. So making a notional deduction of 15% overall 
from the loss adequately reflects this.
The payment resulting from all the steps above is the compensation amount. This amount 
must where possible be paid to Mr Y within 90 days of the date Portal receives notification of 
his acceptance of my final decision. Further interest must be added to the compensation 
amount at the rate of 8% per year simple from the date of my final decision to the date of 
settlement for any time, in excess of 90 days, that it takes Portal to pay Mr Y.
Its possible that data gathering for a SERPS adjustment may mean that the actual time 
taken to settle goes beyond the 90 day period allowed for settlement above - and so any 
period of time where the only outstanding item required to undertake the calculation is data 
from DWP may be added to the 90 day period in which interest wont apply.
Where I uphold a complaint, I can award fair compensation of up to £160,000, plus any
interest and/or costs that I consider are appropriate. Where I consider that fair compensation
requires payment of an amount that might exceed £160,000, I may recommend that 
Portal pays the balance.
In acknowledgement of the importance of Mr Ys pension and the knock-on effect and 
emotional impact of the unsuitable advice, Portal should pay £250 for distress and 
inconvenience.
My final decision
Determination and money award: I uphold this complaint and require Portal Financial 
Services LLP to pay Mr Y the compensation amount as set out in the steps above, up to a 
maximum of £160,000.
Where the compensation amount does not exceed £160,000, I would additionally require
Portal Financial Services LLP to pay Mr Y any interest on that amount in full, as set out 
above.
Where the compensation amount already exceeds £160,000, I would only require Portal 
Financial Services LLP to pay Mr Y any interest as set out above on the sum of £160,000.
Recommendation: If the compensation amount exceeds £160,000, I also recommend that
Portal Financial Services LLP pays Mr Y the balance. I would additionally recommend any 
interest calculated as set out above on this balance to be paid to Mr Y.
If Mr Y accepts this decision, the money award becomes binding on Portal Financial 
Services LLP.My recommendation would not be binding if he doesnt accept my decision. Further, its 
unlikely that Mr Y can accept my decision and go to court to ask for the balance. Mr Y may 
want to consider getting independent legal advice before deciding whether to accept any 
final decision.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr Y to accept or 
reject my decision before 12 August 2022.
 
Michael Campbell
Ombudsman