DRN-1953826
The complaint
Mrs M says S.D. Taylor Limited trading as Loans At Home (LAH) lent to her irresponsibly. 
She says that the representative didnt really consider her circumstances or the information 
she provided at the time of sale. If he had done she says LAH wouldnt have lent to her. 
What happened
Mrs M has two complaints at this Service. One about the conduct of the LAH representative 
and one about irresponsible lending. Im only looking at the irresponsible lending complaint 
here. 
This complaint is about six home collected loans LAH provided to Mrs M between 
December 2016 and April 2018.
loan 
numberdate 
startedamount 
borrowedterm 
(weeks)date ended
1 15/12/2016 £200 33 06/07/2017
2 27/04/2017 £200 33 09/11/2017
3 06/07/2017 £250 45 18/04/2018
4 09/11/2017 £250 45 written off
5 14/12/2017 £500 45 written off
6 11/04/2018 £400 45 written off
Our adjudicator partially upheld the complaint. She thought that LAH was wrong to approve 
loan 6. 
LAH has said that it wrote off the outstanding amounts owing on loans 4, 5 and 6. And it said 
that Mrs M had made repayments of £84 on loan 6 when it did this. So it wrote off £316 of 
the capital Mrs M had borrowed. 
LAH agreed with the adjudicator but said that no payment was due as Mrs M didnt repay all 
of the capital due for this loan. It said that it would amend Mrs Ms credit file appropriately. 
Mrs M disagreed with the adjudicators opinion. She maintained that LAH didnt properly look 
at her circumstances at the time of sale. 
As no agreement has been reached the complaint has been passed to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about short-term lending - including all of 
the relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice - on our website. 
LAH needed to take reasonable steps to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In practice 
this means that it should have carried out proportionate checks to make sure Mrs M could 
repay the loans in a sustainable manner. 
These checks could take into account a number of different things, such as how much was 
being lent, the repayment amounts and the consumers income and expenditure. With this in 
mind, in the early stages of a lending relationship, I think less thorough checks might be 
reasonable and proportionate.  
Why I think LAHs checks were proportionate for loans 1 to 4
Ive seen a record of the information Mrs M provided when she completed her loan 
applications for these loans. Mrs M said she had a weekly income of between £450 and 
£550. And she had regular monthly outgoings of around £150 to 250. So, this would give her 
a weekly disposable income of at least £200 and possibly more. 
The weekly loan repayments of £10 for each loan were modest. And they were a small 
proportion of her income even when Mrs M was repaying more than one loan at a time. So it 
wouldve been reasonable for LAH to think that Mrs M would afford the loan repayments. I 
think this is still the case over what is a longer period of time to commit to making the 
repayments over. 
I havent seen any further information that shows its likely LAH was made aware of any 
financial problems Mrs M mightve been having. Or anything else that wouldve prompted it 
to investigate her circumstances further for these first four loans. So, I think it was 
reasonable for LAH to rely on the information it obtained.
So overall, in these circumstances, I think the assessments LAH did for loans 1 to 4 were 
proportionate. And I think its decisions to approve these loans were reasonable and Im not 
upholding Mrs Ms complaint about them. 
Why I dont think LAHs checks were proportionate for loan 5 and what proportionate 
checks wouldve shown
Going forward Mrs M continued to lend. She had now been borrowing for around a year and 
loan 5 was a commitment to make repayments for another 45 weeks. I think this is a 
significant amount of time. 
So I think LAH couldve realised at that time that Mrs M may have some longer term financial 
problems and she wasnt just using the loans to manage, for example, cyclical income 
fluctuations. LAH shouldve also become concerned about whether it knew enough about 
Mrs Ms true financial situation.
I think that it wouldve been proportionate to fully review Mrs Ms financial situation. And I 
think that it needed to verify the information it found out where possible. As far as I can see I 
dont think LAH did this. 
But Mrs M has been unable to supply any substantial further information about her 
circumstances at the time of loan 5. Because of this Im unable to say what further checks 
wouldve shown LAH and that LAH was likely to have found out that the lending was 
unaffordable. So Im not upholding Mrs Ms complaint about loan 5. 
Loan 6Our adjudicator thought that LAH was wrong to approve loan 6. LAH agreed to this. I agree 
that LAH shouldnt have approved this loan for the same reasons as the adjudicator. As 
there is no longer any disagreement about this lending I wont comment further on this loan. 
Putting things right
As our adjudicator outlined where a loan has been irresponsibly lent then, ordinarily, a 
business should refund any interest and charges that the consumer has paid on this loan. 
But all of the repayments Mrs M made went towards the capital and she didnt pay an 
interest or charges. LAH haas written of the remainder of the balance. As she did not pay 
any fees or charges on this loan there is no refund to be made. 
But any information recorded about loan 6 is adverse. So all entries about loans 6 should be 
removed from Mrs Ms credit file.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I partly uphold Mrs Ms complaint.
S.D. Taylor Limited should put things right by doing what Ive said above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs M to accept or 
reject my decision before 5 October 2020.
 
Andy Burlinson
Ombudsman