DRN-3828121
The complaint
Mr N is unhappy with Very, who is a trading name of Shop Direct Finance Company Limited. 
Mr N complains that Very lent to him irresponsibly when it agreed to open a catalogue 
shopping account for him and subsequent credit limit increases which he says were 
unaffordable for his circumstances. 
For the purposes of this decision, I have referred to Shop Direct throughout as it is 
accountable for the actions of Very.
What happened
Mr N applied for a Very catalogue shopping account with Shop Direct in January 2021 and 
was given a £500 credit limit. His credit limit was increased to £600 in May 2021 and then to 
£900 in August 2021.
Mr N complained to Shop Direct in June 2022. He said that Shop Direct shouldnt have 
given/increased the credit limits on his catalogue account because he couldnt afford to 
repay the amounts within a reasonable timescale. He explained that he had a poor credit 
record at the time, he had borrowed close to the limit on his credit card, he had missed 
repayments to his credit card between 2017 and 2020, and he had a Count Court 
Judgement (CCJ) from 2017.
Shop Direct says it did check whether the catalogue account and credit limit increases were 
affordable, and based on those checks, Mr Ns credit file and repayment history suggested 
he wasnt in financial difficulty and could afford the repayments. Unhappy with Shop Directs 
response, Mr N referred his complaint to this service.
Our investigator considered the complaint. She concluded that with reasonable and 
proportionate checks, Shop Direct had acted fairly when it considered Mr N able to 
sustainably afford the catalogue shopping account credit limits.
Mr N disagreed with the investigator and because an agreement couldnt be reached, the 
case has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve explained how we handle complaints about unaffordable and irresponsible lending on 
our website. And Ive used this approach to help me decide Mr Ns complaint. Having 
thought about all of that, I have reached the same conclusions as those reached by our 
investigator for broadly the same reasons.
Shop Direct needed to take reasonable steps to ensure that it didn't lend to Mr N 
irresponsibly. It should have completed reasonable and proportionate checks to satisfy itself 
that Mr N would be able to repay the credit limits in a sustainable way. There is no set list of 
what reasonable and proportionate checks should look like, rather greater thoroughness 
might be reasonably expected where a person on a lower level of income may be borrowing 
a high sum, or taking out borrowing over a longer period which could potentially cost more in 
the longer term.
Shop Direct granted Mr N a modest credit limit at £500, which it later increased to £900. But 
Mr N says in his complaint that he earnt a modest salary, taking home £1,620. Shop Direct 
did complete some checks to see if the credit limits were affordable. It explained that part of 
its checks involved reviewing the applicants credit file and agreed Mr Ns credit limit based 
on the information it got from the credit reference agency. This included information about a 
CCJ for £2,460 (which Mr N says dated back to 2017), Mr Ns total revolving credit limit 
stood at £4,050, and him having no loans. It shows in the 24 months leading up to Mr Ns 
application, he had missed only one payment, and his repayments were up to date on all 
accounts opened within the last two years. I dont think this information ought reasonably to 
have prevented Shop Direct from lending to Mr N or prompted further checks, given the size 
of the credit limits involved.
Mr N says he had over £16,000 of debt and he was repaying more than £600 a month, 
adding he was having to borrow to meet his existing credit repayments. But I find this 
information at odds with that showing on Shop Directs search of Mr Ns credit file. This 
shows that no searches of his credit file were made in the previous month, and no searches 
were made by credit card or mail order providers in the last year. I think it reasonable for 
Shop Direct to proceed based on the information gathered from Mr Ns credit file. 
Shop Direct also had the benefit of Mr Ns repayment history before deciding to increase his 
credit limit and on both occasions, it showed he had been maintaining his account well, 
paying more than the minimum contractual repayments. And as there were no obvious signs 
of recent financial distress, I think Shop Direct acted fairly before agreeing to and increasing 
Mr Ns credit limit.   
Shop Direct points to a downturn in Mr Ns account management from September 2022, 
after he had been in contact to say he had been in a car accident. It also considers the 
reason behind his financial difficulties is an increase in his external indebtedness, which 
occurred after the final increase to his credit limit. That might be so, but I ought to remind 
Shop Direct about its obligations to treat Mr N fairly and offer due forbearance should he 
continue to find himself in financial difficulty. 
I am sorry to hear of the stresses and strain Mr Ns financial difficulties may have caused. 
My findings are in no way meant to diminish his circumstances, but my role is to decide what 
I think is fair and reasonable in the circumstances to resolve this complaint and Im unable to 
say Shop Direct was wrong to lend to Mr N based on the submissions and evidence 
available to me.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I do not uphold Mr Ns complaint or make an award.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr N to accept or 
reject my decision before 30 March 2023.
 
Stefan Riedel
Ombudsman