DRN-3929449
The complaint
Mrs As complained that Legal & General Assurance Society Limited (L&G) unfairly 
declined the claim she made on her joint life insurance policy after her husband passed 
away.  L&G also cancelled the policy because they said Mr A had misrepresented his health 
history at the time he and Mrs A bought it.
What happened
Mr and Mrs A bought a joint life policy in late 2018.  They answered a number of health and 
lifestyle questions as part of the application process.  On the basis of the information 
provided, L&G offered them cover.
Mr A sadly passed away in autumn 2021.  Mrs A submitted a claim to L&G.
As part of their verification of the claim, L&G obtained Mr As medical records.  They noted 
Mr A had received treatment for raised blood pressure and that hed been advised to take 
medication for raised cholesterol.
L&G said this information meant that Mr A had answered a question on the application form 
inaccurately.  Mr A had answered no to the question:
Apart from anything youve already told us about in this application, during the last 5 years 
have you seen a doctor, nurse or other health professional for:
Raised blood pressure, raised cholesterol or condition affecting blood or blood 
vessels, for example anaemia, excess sugar in the blood, blood clot, deep vein 
thrombosis?
L&G said, based on the information in his medical records, Mr A should have answered 
yes.  They said Mr A had made a misrepresentation and, if theyd known the details of his 
health, they wouldnt have offered him cover without further investigations.  So they declined 
Mrs As claim, cancelled the policy, and offered Mrs A a refund of the premiums that had 
been paid.
Mrs A complained about L&Gs decision.  She said their questions were ambiguous and not 
all relevant questions had been asked.  L&G reviewed their position but didnt change it.  So 
Mrs A brought her complaint to our service. 
Our investigator reviewed the complaint and concluded L&G didnt need to do any more to 
resolve it.  He explained that, if they feel theres been a misrepresentation, insurers need to 
deal with that in accordance with the Consumer Insurance (Disclosure & Representations) 
Act 2012  known as CIDRA.  Having assessed what had happened, he concluded L&G had 
applied CIDRA fairly and reasonably.
Mrs A didnt agree with our investigators view.  So Ive been asked to make a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done that, Im not upholding Mrs As complaint.  I know this will be upsetting and Im 
sorry about that.  I hope it will help if I explain the reasons for my decision.
As our investigator explained, where an insurer concludes theres been a misrepresentation, 
we consider whether or not theyve done that in accordance with CIDRA.
CIDRA requires consumers to take reasonable care not to make a misrepresentation when 
taking out a consumer insurance contract (a policy). The standard of care is that of a 
reasonable consumer. 
And if a consumer fails to do this, the insurer has certain remedies, provided the 
misrepresentation is what CIDRA describes as a qualifying misrepresentation. For it to be a 
qualifying misrepresentation the insurer has to show it would have offered the policy on 
different terms or not at all if the consumer hadnt made the misrepresentation. 
CIDRA sets out a number of considerations for deciding whether the consumer failed to take 
reasonable care. And the remedy available to the insurer under CIDRA depends on whether 
the qualifying misrepresentation was deliberate or reckless, or careless.
Ive considered the question Mr A was asked  which is set out above.  I think its clear that 
L&G want to know whether the applicant  in this case, Mr A  has any of the conditions 
listed.  
Mrs A has said her husband answered this question accurately, because he actually saw his 
GP for other issues, not specifically about either raised blood pressure or raised cholesterol.  
Ive thought about this.  But I dont think its reasonable to say that Mr A shouldnt have 
disclosed the advice he was given about these conditions, just because he made an 
appointment for another reason.  The medical notes make it clear both conditions were 
discussed a number of times in the period 2013-2016. I can also see Mr A was given 
medication for raised blood pressure and was recommended to take medication for raised 
cholesterol.  
I think, in these circumstances, L&Gs conclusion that Mr A misrepresented his health by 
answering no to the question was reasonable.
And Im satisfied the misrepresentation was a qualifying one.  L&G have shared their 
underwriting criteria with us.  This shows, if the question had been answered yes, they 
would have postponed offering cover until further blood pressure tests had been completed 
and they would have asked for a GPs report on Mr As raised cholesterol.  So I think its fair 
to say Mr As misrepresentation was a qualifying one.
L&G concluded that Mr As misrepresentation was deliberate or reckless and that he must 
have known the answer to the question was wrong.  I can see Mrs A says her husband had 
been advised his blood pressure had reduced, he could stop taking the medication and 
monitor himself at home.  
Unfortunately for Mrs A, Mr As medical records dont evidence this.   Additionally, they 
include a recommendation to take medication for raised cholesterol.  So I think L&Gs 
conclusion is a reasonable one to draw.
Where a deliberate or reckless misrepresentation is made, an insurer is entitled to decline a 
claim, cancel the policy, and retain the premiums.  However, in this case, L&G have offered 
to refund the premiums paid to Mrs A.  Or theyve said theyll continue the policy in her sole 
name.Mrs A hasnt accepted either of these options to date.  If she now wants to take either of 
them, Id expect L&G to honour their offer.  But I dont think they need to do any more to 
resolve Mrs As complaint.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, Im not upholding Mrs As complaint about Legal and General 
Assurance Society Limited.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs A to accept or 
reject my decision before 7 June 2023.
 
Helen Stacey
Ombudsman