DRN-3090196
The complaint
Ms F is unhappy that Advanced Payment Solutions Limited (APS) put restrictions in place 
that prevented her from making payments towards her account. Ms F is also unhappy that 
APS then proceeded to default her account for non-payment and then sold the account debt 
to a third-party debt purchasing company.
What happened
Ms F attempted to make payments to her APS credit account but was unable to do so 
because of restrictions APS had placed on their mobile app. Because Ms F couldnt make 
payments, her account fell into arrears and was ultimately defaulted by APS for non-
payment and then sold by APS to a third-party debt purchasing company. Ms F didnt feel 
that this was fair, so she raised a complaint.
APS looked at Ms Fs complaint. They felt that it was reasonable that Ms Fs account had 
been defaulted because she hadnt made a payment to the account for several months prior 
to the default. APS also felt that the sale of debt had been reasonable and hadnt been 
prohibited. So, they didnt uphold Ms Fs complaint.
Ms F wasnt satisfied with APSs response, so she referred her complaint to this service. 
One of our investigators looked at this complaint. But they didnt feel that APS had restricted 
their mobile app in the way that Ms F claimed, and they noted that alternative means of 
payment had been open to Ms F even had the app not been working. Because of this, our 
investigator didnt feel that APS had acted unfairly by defaulting Ms Fs account for non-
payment or in selling the account debt, and so they also didnt uphold the complaint.
Ms F remained dissatisfied, so the matter was escalated to an ombudsman for a final 
decision.   
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ms F has stated that she wasnt able to make payments to her APS account via the mobile 
app because of restrictions put in place by APS which prevented her from making such 
payments. However, APS have been able to demonstrate that they didnt put any such 
restrictions in place and that the ability for customers to pay via the mobile app has always 
been present. 
Its also notable that Ms F has herself provided an email to this service which confirms that 
she needed to update the mobile app before a certain date in order the functionality of the 
app to be maintained. As such, it seems more likely to me than not, on balance, that any 
issues that Ms F may have encountered with the functionality of the mobile app may have 
been as a result of the app not being updated by her, rather than because of any restrictions 
APS might themselves have put in place to prevent payments being made by the app, 
Additionally, it must be noted that it would be highly unusual for a business such as APS to 
proactively put barriers in place to prevent their customers making payments to them.
It also must be noted that several other methods of payment remained available to Ms F  if 
it were the case that she was unable to make payments via the mobile app. And indeed, 
APS have been able to demonstrate that Ms F had used these alternative payment methods 
previously, with the majority of payment being made by Ms F paid via the telephone, with 
only two recent instances of Ms F making payment by the mobile app.
Ms F has also stated that she attempted to make payments using the bank details provided 
to her verbally by APS, but that these bank details were wrong which meant that the 
payments werent received to her account. However, APS have no record of a call where 
incorrect bank details were provided to Ms F, and Ms F hasnt provided this service with any 
further details of when the call took place to enable a recording of the call to be potentially 
located. It also must be noted that the correct details for Ms F to make payments to were 
present on each monthly account statement that Ms F received from APS.
As such, I find it difficult to conclude that Ms F was prevented from making payments to her 
account in the manner that she alleges here, and it follows from that that I feel that it was fair 
for APS to consider the account as having fallen into arrears following a period where 
several payments due on the account werent received, and that it was reasonable for APS 
to issue the default notice to Ms F that they did.
Ms F is also unhappy that, following APS subsequently defaulting her account for non-
payment, that APS then sold her account debt to a third-party debt purchasing company. I 
can appreciate how Ms F might have been upset to have been contacted by a third-party 
company, but sales of debt such as this arent unusual, and its notable that the default 
notice sent to Ms F by APS confirms that in the event of default  which did take place  that 
the credit agreement between APS and Ms F would be terminated and that Ms Fs rights 
under that agreement  which included conditions surrounding the sale of the account to a 
third-party  would be terminated or deferred. As such, I dont feel that APS acted unfairly 
towards Ms F by selling her account to the third-party in the manner that they did.
All of which means that I find it difficult to conclude that APS acted unfairly or unreasonably 
here, and it follows from this that my final decision will be that I wont be upholding this 
complaint or instructing APS to take any further action. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms F to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 March 2021.
 
Paul Cooper
Ombudsman