DRN-3234001
The complaint
Mr U complains that ReAssure Limited wrongly advised him to transfer his pension from his 
occupational pension scheme (OPS) to a personal pension arrangement. Mr U thinks the 
loss assessment completed as part of the pensions review didnt consider the increased 
value that his occupational pension scheme would have provided if hed stayed in it.
What happened
Mr U was advised by Gan Life & Pensions Plc to transfer out of his former employers OPS 
in 1992. Gan Life later transferred some of its business to ReAssure (so Ill refer to 
ReAssure throughout this decision). The advice he was given was subsequently subject to 
the regulators industry wide pension review and was investigated by ReAssure in 1998. 
ReAssure say the review found that Mr U had not lost out as a result of the advice they had 
given him to transfer. Mr U complained about the results on receipt of the review which 
ReAssure say they addressed at the time. They also sent Mr U a breakdown of the 
calculations used in the review.
More recently Mr U complained to ReAssure in March 2021. In brief, he set out the 
background to the advice hed been given to transfer and the events since. He said hed 
been encouraged to transfer by ReAssures adviser who said that the personal pension 
would give him a far greater return on his pension than the OPS could.
ReAssure didnt uphold his complaint and Mr U referred it to us. One of our investigators
looked into Mr Us complaint. Her view was that the firm had already carried out the loss 
calculation which showed Mr U had not suffered a loss as a result of the advice to transfer. 
She explained that the firm had been required to review their advice as part of the regulators 
industry wide pension review and that the firm had met its obligations under the review and 
had done what was expected of it. In the circumstances, she didnt think the firm needed to 
review the matter again. Mr U didnt agree with the Investigators findings.
Mr U maintained that hed been given unsuitable advice. He said that if hed known the 
personal pension would not outperform the OPS he would not have transferred, and he said 
he relied completely on the advisers recommendation. Mr U asked for his complaint to be 
passed to an ombudsman to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The advice Mr U was given to transfer his pension was reviewed as part of the regulators
industry wide pension review. This review was set out by the regulator because it feared
that investors had been given advice which didnt meet the required standards at the time.
If it was decided that unsuitable advice had been given, the regulator asked firms to 
calculate whether this had caused a financial loss. In Mr Us case, the firm carried out the 
review and subsequent calculations which suggested, at the time, he was unlikely to lose out 
financially as a result of the transfer.
The reason why the loss calculation was carried out at the time of the review as opposed to 
the investors retirement age is because for many people, they were a long time away from 
their retirement date. So, the calculations were based on a number of assumptions that were 
necessary because of this. The then regulator set out how the calculation needed to be run 
and the assumptions that all firms had to use to assess the potential loss incurred.
As explained by the investigator, the assumptions that the firms used havent always been 
consistent with what has transpired. We know now that often the assumed growth rates used 
in the review calculations didnt materialise. This, combined with annuity rates falling, had an 
impact on the benefits provided by personal pensions. 
However, our service wouldnt ask ReAssure to re-calculate an investors loss because the 
assumptions used didnt materialise and their personal pension now doesnt match the 
benefits of their OPS. That would effectively mean re-doing the pensions review. So, while 
Mr U may now find himself facing a shortfall in what his personal pension can provide 
compared to his previous OPS, that doesnt mean I would require ReAssure to reassess the 
sale now. 
I recognise that many people like Mr U will feel this is unfair. But market conditions that 
werent foreseen when the Pension Review was being undertaken isnt a reason for this 
Service to require that process to be re-run and recalculations made. The pensions review 
was overseen by the regulator and the aim was effectively to draw a line under any pension 
mis-selling and put matters right, if need be, at that time. 
I appreciate Mr U is concerned about the circumstances behind the advice he was given to 
transfer and that he was encouraged to transfer by the adviser as most of the points he has 
raised to the Investigators view are about this. I know this will be disappointing to Mr U, but 
the Pension Review was designed to assess the mis-selling of pension transfers and Im 
satisfied ReAssure has done that in this case. 
Ive also not seen anything to persuade me that the transfer wasnt reviewed in line with the 
relevant requirements. I realise that my findings will be very disappointing to Mr U. 
But overall, given that the firm complied with the regulators requirements when it 
investigated the transfer, I dont think it would be appropriate for me to order the firm to 
revisit the matter again now.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr U to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 February 2022.
 
Timothy Wilkes
Ombudsman