DRN-3012719
The complaint
Mr and Mrs D complain that The Prudential Assurance Company Limited (Prudential) 
declined their request for further borrowing on their lifetime mortgage. They have since re-
mortgaged with another lender but were charged an Early Repayment Charge (ERC) of 
around £10,000. 
Mr and Mrs D have brought their complaint to this service with the help of a representative, 
who Ill call Mr R.
What happened
 In 2008, Mr and Mrs D took out a lump sum max lifetime mortgage with their previous 
lender (Stonehaven) - following advice from a broker. They borrowed around £40,000 
against their property, which was valued at £160,000. 
Since then, their mortgage has been taken over by Prudential. Mr and Mrs D asked if they 
could apply for further borrowing in 2019 and Prudential responded to say this wasnt 
possible. It said the terms and conditions of the mortgage state that in deciding whether or 
not to agree to make a further advance, the current lending criteria will be applied. It said 
these terms have remained the same since Mr and Mrs D took the mortgage out but its 
lending policy has changed, and it no longer provides lifetime mortgages or further advances 
on any existing mortgage lending. 
Mr and Mrs D re-mortgaged with another lender and incurred an ERC when they redeemed 
their mortgage with Prudential in October 2019. They raised a complaint. Prudential replied 
to say it hadnt done anything wrong and was within its rights to decline the request for 
further borrowing as the lending criteria had changed and further advances were never 
guaranteed. 
Unhappy with this, Mr R brought Mr and Mrs Ds complaint to this service. Our investigator 
considered the complaint but didnt think it should be upheld. She concluded that Prudential 
were able to set its own lending criteria and that further advances were not guaranteed. 
Mr R disagreed and asked for an ombudsman to consider the matter. 
My provisional findings
I issued a provisional decision setting out my thinking. I said:
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. 
Further borrowing 
Mr and Mrs D say that, at the time they took this mortgage out, they were told that 
further borrowing may be available in the future and that the original paperwork 
confirmed this. Prudential has said that the type of mortgage they took out (a Lump 
Sum Max) only offered a one-off loan at the outset - and that was it. And it says that 
the conditions of the mortgage stated no further borrowing was available. 
Ive carefully considered the original mortgage offer from 2008, and accompanying 
terms and conditions. I can see that additional advances are mentioned in the 
mortgage offer under Section 5- Description of this mortgage. This has the following 
wording: 
Additional Advances -if you need to release further funds from your property in the 
future, you should contact your financial adviser who will be able to talk through your 
options. The amount available to you will again be based on your age and property 
value at the time and will be subject to Stonehavens lending criteria at the time. (my 
emphasis). This suggests to me that additional borrowing may be possible with this 
mortgage, and that an application would be considered by the lender.   
Its accompanied by the terms and conditions - which under section 14: (specifically 
14.1), it is written: - we will consider an application for further advances at any time 
where you have kept to the terms of your lifetime mortgage. (my emphasis) 
Having thought about this carefully, I think the mortgage contract did allow for 
applications for further borrowing to be made. I dont think that additional borrowing 
was a guaranteed right of the mortgage contract - but Im satisfied that these terms 
provide Mr and Mrs D with a contractual right to make an application for further 
advances, and for any such applications to be fairly considered  provided they had 
kept to the terms of the mortgage contract. 
The above offer and terms do put conditions on these rights - for example the 
amount that could be borrowed is dependent on the age of the borrowers at the time 
and property value, and subject to lending criteria. I think thats reasonable and the 
following terms outline how it could be subject to such criteria: 
14.2  To decide whether or not we will agree to make a further advance we will 
apply our then current lending criteria. This includes such things as the type and 
value of properties we are willing to accept as security for our loans and the minimum 
and maximum amounts we are willing to lend. 
14.3  we are not committed to making any further advances. Further advances are 
not guaranteed and are decided by the lending policy at the time of the request.
These seem reasonable to me. As these terms outline the relevant considerations 
that the lender will take account of when assessing applications for further borrowing, 
I think this further demonstrates that Mr and Mrs Ds mortgage contract did allow 
applications for further advances  and, in my view, an implied term that any 
application would be given reasonable consideration. 
From the information Ive seen, Mr and Mrs D kept to the terms of their lifetime 
mortgage and so I think this gives them a reasonable expectation that an application 
for further advances would be considered. 
But thats not what happened here. When Mr and Mrs D called Prudential in 2019 to 
ask for additional borrowing, they were simply told that they couldnt have any - and 
that no application could even be made because its lending criteria had changed. I 
dont think this is in line with the mortgage contract  which, as Ive said, in my mind 
gives them a clear right to make an application and for any such application to be fairly considered. 
Lending criteria 
Ive carefully considered Prudentials reasons for not allowing Mr and Mrs D to apply 
for further borrowing. Its said that the lending policy has changed and that it no 
longer offers lifetime mortgages or further borrowing of any kind on existing 
mortgages. Its entitled to set its own lending criteria and make decisions as to 
whether to offer alternative mortgages such as a lifetime mortgage.
But in applying this here, I dont think that its resulted in a fair outcome for Mr and 
Mrs D. Prudential took over this mortgage from Stonehaven  and in doing so it 
agreed to take on the liability for the whole mortgage and, in turn, give fair 
consideration to any contractual features  such as a right to apply for further 
borrowing. 
The terms outline that further advances are decided by the lending policy at the time 
of the request. I think thats reasonable and I accept that further borrowing on this 
mortgage was never guaranteed and was subject to certain criteria as Ive already 
mentioned. The mortgage contract doesnt give them the right for further advances, it 
gives them the right to have an application fairly considered. The issue here is that 
Prudential failed to allow an application.
Has the contract changed? 
The call notes from Mr Ds request in 2019 reflect that Prudential told him the terms 
hadnt changed since the mortgage passed from Stonehaven - and so he would not 
have been able to apply for additional borrowing with them either. I dont think thats 
correct. As Ive set out, I think Mr and Mrs D were entitled apply for further borrowing 
and for any applications to be considered. This applied from the start of the mortgage 
contract in 2008, and included the period Stonehaven owned the loan. 
The relevant rules  specifically MCOB 7.6.1 - state that a firm must inform their 
customers if there is a material change to the contract. Here, Mr and Mrs D had a 
mortgage which contained terms that state a request for additional borrowing would 
be considered at any time. Ive not seen anything to suggest that a change to the 
terms has been communicated to Mr and Mrs D since they took it out - and 
Prudential agree that they havent. 
Im also aware that some of the Stonehaven mortgage book has been bought by 
other lenders  who still offer lifetime mortgages and other mortgage borrowing. I 
dont consider it fair for Mr and Mrs D to be prevented from making an application 
due to circumstances outside of their control  that their mortgage was taken over by 
Prudential rather than a different lender. 
Having considered everything available to me, Im satisfied that the contract 
continued to make this a mortgage in which Mr and Mrs D could apply for further 
advances. And so, it follows that this entitled Mr and Mrs D to make an application - 
and to have that application fairly considered. 
Its in the nature of a lifetime mortgage that it runs for the rest of the borrowers lives. 
Needs and circumstances can change over time  as they get older, borrowers might 
need to fund adaptations to their property, or need to withdraw more equity to 
support their lifestyles. Thats why its common across the industry for further 
advances to be considered  subject to matters like loan to value  and no doubt why Mr and Mrs Ds mortgage was set up and sold to them on the basis that they would 
be able to make further applications. 
In my view, removing the ability to apply for further borrowing on a mortgage set up 
on that basis solely because one lender rather than another bought the mortgage 
from the previous lender hasnt resulted in Mr and Mrs D being treated fairly. While I 
cant fairly require Prudential to lend to them when it no longer wishes to do so, I 
think it should recognise that in fairness it shouldnt stand in Mr and Mrs Ds way if, 
as a result, they need to access further borrowing elsewhere. 
Putting things right 
Since Mr and Mrs D were told that they could not have a further advance, they re-
mortgaged to another lender and incurred an ERC of around £10,000. I dont 
consider it was fair for Prudential to have charged this for Mr and Mrs D to exit the 
mortgage as they have said they needed the additional borrowing to fund day to day 
living and they were left with no choice but to re-mortgage elsewhere. 
As this was a direct result of Prudentials refusal to consider an application, I think its 
fair that the ERC is refunded to Mr and Mrs D. 
I also think that Prudential should pay Mr and Mrs D £250 in compensation for the 
trouble and upset this matter caused. Having considered all the circumstances, I 
consider that this is a fair sum.
My provisional decision 
My provisional decision, subject to further information from either party, is that I plan 
to uphold this complaint. 
I intend to direct Prudential Assurance Company Limited to refund the ERC that it 
charged Mr and Mrs D when they redeemed their mortgage. If accepted, Prudential 
should also add simple annual interest of 8% to the ERC refund, running from the 
date the mortgage was redeemed to the date the refund is paid. 
I also intend to direct Prudential to pay Mr and Mrs D £250 in recognition of the 
trouble and upset caused by this matter.
The responses to my provisional decision
Mr R responded and agreed with my provisional decision. 
Prudential didnt agree with my provisional decision or my proposed settlement. It said, in 
summary, that:
When it took over the mortgage in 2010, it wrote to Mr and Mrs D to explain that any 
further advances would not be possible
Specifically, for the Lump Sum Max product that Mr and Mrs D had, the letter 
outlined that it does not include a Guaranteed Cash Reserve facility and Prudential 
will no longer be offering you access to non-guaranteed further advances. 
It complied with MCOB 7.6.1 as it told customers about the change
Its entitled to make a commercial decision such as this and has no facility to offer any such lending on this product
There was no guarantee that additional borrowing would have been provided even if 
Prudential still offered it 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive also reconsidered my provisional decision in light of the comments made. 
I dont dispute that Prudential wrote to Mr and Mrs D to let them know that it will not provide 
additional borrowing as far back as 2010. But regardless of when they were told this  it 
doesnt change the fact that it was unfair to remove this from their mortgage and deny Mr 
and Mrs D the chance to have an application considered  which is the key issue here. 
I consider that the mortgage contract continued to allow for applications for further advances. 
And that it gave Mr and Mrs D a reasonable expectation that such applications would be 
given fair consideration.
I agree that Prudential is entitled to make a commercial decision as to the lending it wishes 
to provide. But I dont think, when applying this as a blanket policy, its resulted in a fair 
outcome for Mr and Mrs D. 
Mr and Mrs D took this mortgage out with their original lender and agreed to the terms and 
features at the time  which as I set out in my provisional decision  clearly included the right 
to apply for additional borrowing.
In taking it over, Prudential accepted liability for the whole of the mortgage as well as any 
key features from Stonehaven. This change in lender was outside of Mr and Mrs Ds control 
and has resulted in, what I consider, a key feature being removed  the option to apply for 
additional borrowing. I dont consider this fair, especially keeping in mind that their mortgage 
could have been taken over by a different provider who offered lifetime mortgages and 
further borrowing. 
Prudential is of course entitled to make a commercial decision not to offer additional 
borrowing and I accept that its said it has no facility to offer any such lending on this 
product. I cant fairly direct Prudential to lend. But I think it should appreciate that, in fairness, 
it shouldnt put barriers in the way if Mr and Mrs D need to go elsewhere to access the 
additional borrowing required.  
I take the point that additional borrowing was never guaranteed and, again, I cant fairly 
require Prudential to lend. But thats not the key issue here. Their mortgage  taken with the 
original provider  offered the option to apply for additional borrowing and, implied in this is 
the right to have an application fairly considered. Thats not what happened here. They were 
simply told no application would even be considered. 
I understand that Mr and Mrs D have now changed providers and their representative has 
said theyve been able to draw down further funds on their lifetime mortgage. They were 
charged an ERC of around £10,000 to exit from Prudential and so it follows that its only fair 
for this to be refunded now. 
For these reasons, Ive not been persuaded to change my provisional decision. Putting things right
To put matters right, I consider it fair for the ERC to be refunded and for Prudential to pay Mr 
and Mrs D £250 for the trouble and upset caused by this matter. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given, my final decision is that I uphold this complaint and direct 
Prudential Assurance Company Limited to:
Refund the ERC charged to Mr and Mrs D when they redeemed their mortgage  
adding simple annual interest of 8% to the refund running from the date the mortgage 
was redeemed, to the date the refund is paid
Prudential may deduct income tax from the 8% interest element of my award but 
should give the calculations to Mr and Mrs D so they can reclaim the tax from HMRC 
if theyre entitled to do so.
Pay Mr and Mrs D £250 in recognition of the trouble and upset caused by this matter  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs and Mr D to 
accept or reject my decision before 4 October 2021.
 
Camilla Finnigan
Ombudsman