DRN-3704091
The complaint
Mrs P is a sole trader, trading as S. She complains about the settlement of her business 
interruption insurance claim by Hiscox Insurance Company Limited. The claim was made as 
a result of the COVID-19 pandemic. 
What happened
The following is intended only as a brief summary of events. Additionally, whilst a number of 
other individuals have been involved on both sides, for the sake of simplicity I have largely 
just referred to S and Hiscox. 
S operates as a hairdressers and held a commercial insurance policy underwritten by 
Hiscox. The policy provided a number of areas of cover, including for business interruption. 
Following the government-imposed restrictions introduced in March 2020 as a result of the 
COVID-19 pandemic, S made a claim on the policy for its loss of income. 
Ultimately, Hiscox agreed that the claim was covered, and offered S a settlement. Several 
issues were raised by S at this time, but theyve largely been dealt with. However, one of the 
issues S raised was that Hiscox should not have deducted from the settlement the payments 
S received from the Government under the Self-Employed Income Support Scheme 
(SEISS). 
Hiscox did not change its stance and ultimately Ss complaint was brought to the 
Ombudsman Service. S said that the SEISS payments were not made to support specific 
fixed costs and that deducting them from the claim settlement was at odds with the fact other 
Government grants which were used to support businesses have not been deducted. 
Our Investigator largely agreed with S and recommended the complaint be upheld. She said 
that the SEISS payments did not have to be used by a receiving business for any particular 
purpose, so they could not be said to be a saving against any particular cost. She also did 
not consider the payments were made for work S had done, so she did not consider they 
were takings of the business which might act to reduce Ss losses. 
Hiscox disagreed. It said that the SEISS payments were analogous to payments under the 
Coronavirus Job Retention Scheme (furlough). And that the Ombudsman Service has 
considered such furlough payments to be deductible from claim settlements. Hiscox also 
said SEISS payments were not one of the grants included in the Financial Conduct Authority 
(FCA) list of payments that should not be deducted from settlements. 
Hiscox considered the SEISS payments must be considered income, a saving, or a 
mitigated loss. They were calculated and paid to replace the business income. And that if 
they were not deducted, the customer would be better off than they would have been had a 
claim not been required  which would breach the indemnity principle. 
As Hiscox did not agree with the Investigators recommendation, this complaint was passed 
to me for a decision. 
Since then, a judgment has been handed down in Stonegate Pub Company v MS Amlin and 
Others [2022] EWHC 2548 (Comm) (Stonegate). This judgment, in part, considered 
whether furlough payments should be deducted from relevant business interruption 
insurance claims. As Hiscox consider SEISS payments to be analogous to furlough 
payments, I considered this judgment to be relevant. So, I contacted Hiscox to set out my 
initial thoughts. 
I explained that I considered there were key differences between the SEISS payments and 
the furlough ones. I thought that the furlough payments were made specifically to cover the 
wages of employees who were not working, whereas the SEISS payments were made even 
where businesses remained in operation and the self-employed owners were still working. 
There was no requirement for SEISS payments to be used by receiving businesses in any 
particular way. And that the SEISS payments did not directly correlate the reduction in 
turnover of the relevant businesses. 
I felt these SEISS payments were more akin to the other business grants provided by the 
Government, such as the Small Business Grant, that the FCA had said insurers shouldnt 
deduct from claim settlements. I also did not think the SEISS payments would be interpreted 
as income, nor that they reduced the expenses or costs of the business. 
Hiscox responded, saying that the common law position  as outlined in Stonegate  meant 
that SEISS payments could be deducted. Hiscox felt these were payments that reduced the 
loss S experienced. And the Government hadnt expressly intended S to benefit from the 
payments to the exclusion of Hiscox. Hiscox also considered that the SEISS payments were 
either a saving or income.
As Hiscox did not agree to change its stance, Ive gone on to reach a final determination. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Hiscox has provided detailed submissions as to why it considers SEISS payments made to 
S can be fairly deducted from the claim settlement. Hiscox has argued that the wording of 
Ss policy allows for this, on the basis that these payments are either income or a saving, 
and that even if the policy does not allow for this the indemnity principle under which 
insurance operates means these payments should be taken into account  that not doing so 
would lead to S being put in a better position than it would have been had a claim not been 
required. 
I will deal with each of these aspects in turn. Firstly though, I think it is first necessary to think 
about what these SEISS payments were, why they were made, and how they compare to 
other funding businesses received from the Government during the COVID-19 pandemic. 
Government funding during the pandemic
The Government provided businesses with funding via a number of different schemes. The 
initial raft of schemes included furlough, SEISS, and various other grants (including Small 
Business, Retail, Hospitality and Leisure or Local Authority Discretionary grants  which I will 
refer to collectively as business support grants). 
The arrangements for both furlough and SEISS were introduced under powers granted by sections 71 and 76 of the Coronavirus Act 2020. The arrangements were set out in 
Directions issued by the Government in April 2020. Entitlement to a payment under one of 
these schemes did not prevent a business from receiving any of the other grants or 
payments to which it might be entitled.
The Direction relating to SEISS said: 
The purpose of SEISS is to provide for payments to be made to persons carrying on 
a trade the business of which has been adversely affected by the health, social and 
economic emergency in the United Kingdom resulting from coronavirus and 
coronavirus disease.
The payment made under the first version of SEISS, introduced in April 2020, was the lower 
of £7,500 or 80% of the business estimated profit for a three-month period. 
All that was required to claim was for an eligible business to have been adversely affected 
by reason of circumstances arising as a result of coronavirus or coronavirus disease. It isnt 
clear what adversely affected required, but it is clear that a business need not have 
suffered either a £7,500 or 80% loss of profit in order to receive this sum from the 
Government. Later iterations of the scheme made this even more clear, stating that a 
business suffering a 30% reduction in turnover would be entitled to a payment equivalent of 
80% loss of profit.
Businesses receiving SEISS payments were also not required to use these funds for any 
particular purpose. Whilst some businesses would have used the money, either partially or 
wholly, to provide personal finance to the owner of the business, others would not. The 
money may have been spent on operating costs, invested into the business, or saved for 
later use. 
These points can be contrasted with the arrangements for the furlough scheme. The relevant 
Direction from the Government for this scheme made it clear that furlough payments were to 
be used to pay employment costs. The Direction stated:
The purpose of CJRS is to provide for payments to be made to employers on a 
claim made in respect of them incurring costs of employment in respect of furloughed 
employees arising from the health, social and economic emergency in the United 
Kingdom resulting from coronavirus and coronavirus disease.
And:
The total amount to be paid to reimburse any employer national insurance 
contributions must not exceed the total amount of employers contributions actually 
paid by the employer for the period of the claim.
My understanding is that separate furlough claims were required for each calendar month. 
However, claims under SEISS were for a single one-off payment relating to the full 
three-month period of the scheme. 
The business support grants were introduced to support [businesses] with their cashflow 
and fixed costs1. The Government did not specifically state that these payments were to 
cover uninsured losses only or that they were made to exclusively benefit the recipient and 
not insurers. However, the FCA, HM Treasury, and a number of insurers through the 
1 https://www.gov.uk/government/speeches/chancellor-of-the-exchequer-rishi-sunak-on-covid19-
response Association of British Insurers (ABI) made a number of statements in 2020 in relation to 
these grants. They confirmed that how these grants were treated for tax purposes was not 
determinative of how they should be treated for insurance claims. And that, ultimately, 
insurers should not be deducting the amount of such grants from the settlements of relevant 
claims. 
The insurance contract
Ss policy provided cover for Loss of Income and defined this as:
the difference between your actual income during the indemnity period and the 
income it is estimated you would have earned during that period or, if this is your first 
trading year, the difference between your income during the indemnity period and 
during the period immediately prior to the loss, less any savings resulting from the 
reduced costs and expenses you pay out of your income during the indemnity period. 
We will also pay for increased costs of working and alternative hire costs.
I have added my own emphasis to the most relevant sections. Effectively, in order for Hiscox 
to fairly and reasonably deduct SEISS payments from the settlement of the loss of income 
sustained by S, these payments would need to either be actual income or a reduction in 
costs and/or expenses. Hiscox has argued that both of these could be said to be true, and 
that the payments must fall into one of these categories.
A number of the words within the above definition carried their own specific meanings within 
the policy. The policy defined income as:
The total income of the business carried out from your salon.
However, as this definition refers to income in itself, it is necessary to think about what this 
term would be understood as meaning by a reasonable person at the time the contract was 
entered. 
Income has a different meaning in different circumstances. From an accounting point of 
view, it might mean one thing. And grants such as those claimable by business in relation to 
the COVID-19 pandemic have been treated as income for tax purposes. But its use in 
insurance may mean something different. 
The judgment in Stonegate, with reference to Riley on Business Interruption Insurance (11th 
ed), suggests account classification in tax returns, etc. is not determinative for insurance 
purposes. The FCA Dear CEO letter in relation to business support grants also stated that: 
We therefore do not consider the Governments treatment of [business support 
grants] for tax purposes is a proper basis for insurers treating those payments as 
turnover under the policies 
When setting out its arguments to this Service, Hiscox equated income with revenue. It is the 
understanding a reasonable person would have had, when the contract was entered, that is 
relevant though. Largely speaking, I think it likely a reasonable person would have 
considered income, in the context of the policy, to be the money generated by the insured 
activity of the business.
I acknowledge Hiscoxs point that the definition above does not require the money to be 
generated by the business. And that income is likely to be more than just the money paid 
for providing hairdressing  the business of S as set out on the policy schedule. As well as 
ancillary beauty treatment activities that might be provided, this would also likely include the money the business received through, for example, interest on savings it held in a bank. 
However, to a party entering this contract of insurance, I think it is reasonable they would 
consider income to refer to insured income. The definition refers to total income, but the 
policy then sets out that the insured loss is the difference between actual and received 
income (less savings). So, reading the contract as a whole, I think it a reasonable person 
would understand income to only refer to sums that would be claimable if not received. 
It doesnt seem to me that a government grant, of the nature of those paid to businesses in 
relation to a novel situation such as the pandemic, is something a business would regard as 
being insurable income. So, I do not consider SEISS payments would be considered income 
as defined in the policy.
Hiscox has also argued that SEISS payments ought to be considered as amounting to a 
saving resulting from reduced costs or expenses. 
However, in direct contrast to furlough payments, SEISS payments did not have to be used 
for any specific purpose. Whereas furlough payments directly reduced the employment costs 
of the business  given they were to be used exclusively for this purpose, SEISS payments 
could be and were used for a number of different purposes. They were not specifically a 
saving against a fixed cost. Whilst some SEISS payments were likely used to cover the 
income of self-employed people, the SEISS payments could be and were used for various 
other purposes which enabled these businesses to remain active. Some businesses will 
even just have retained the money to increase their liquidity. 
Further, it is likely that part of the business support grants were also used to cover staff 
wages - certainly the 20% not covered by the furlough payments. So, in this regard also, the 
SEISS payments are more analogous to the business support grants.
The judge in Stonegate made specific reference to the fact that employment costs were a 
'cost normally payable' out of income/turnover. And then made a finding that employment 
costs were at least reduced pro tanto by payments of corresponding amounts under the 
furlough scheme. SEISS payments were not made to cover employment costs in the same 
way. Whilst some of the money may have been used by some businesses to cover 
employment costs, the purpose of the Government making these payments was much 
broader. And was to support the receiving businesses in remaining active.
I note that Hiscox has said that it does not matter that the Government did not specify which 
costs the SEISS payment was to be used for. And that regardless which costs and expenses 
a business used the SEISS payment to fund, there was a reduction in costs and/or expenses 
of the business. 
However, it is necessary to consider the basis on which the payments were made. The 
amount claimable was not specific to any particular loss or cost a business faced. Rather it 
was based on a proportion of profit (capped at £7,500) received in previous years. The 
retention of profits within a business cannot, to my mind, be described as a cost or expense 
of that business. And a highly profitable business that retained its capital would potentially be 
able to claim more under SEISS than a business with large costs or expenses. 
Additionally, it is necessary to think about the approach taken to other funding and consider 
what is fair and reasonable in all the circumstances. I will return to this point below.
The indemnity principle
Insurance is historically provided on the basis that a claimant is only able to recover their losses and is not able to put themselves back in a better position than they otherwise would 
be. This is not always the case even in policies generally provided on an indemnity basis; for 
example, some contents insurance policies offer a new-for-old basis of settlement. But the 
doctrine of subrogation is a relevant consideration in Ss complaint. 
The judge in Stonegate explained this in detail, but ultimately said there were three matters 
to consider in terms of a payment received. He set these out at paragraph 284 as:
(1) If a third party has made a payment which has eliminated or reduced the loss to 
the insured against which it had insurance, then, subject to the exception below, the 
insurers are entitled to the benefit of that payment, either in reducing any payment 
that they might have to make under the policy or, if they have already paid, by 
claiming the amount from the insured.
(2) This will not be the case, however, if it can be established that the third party, in 
making the payment, intended to benefit only the insured to the exclusion of the 
insurers
(3) In assessing the intentions of the third party payor, it does not matter whether that 
payor gave any thought to the position of insurers. A payment can still diminish the 
loss even if no such thought is given.
In terms of the first of these, the judge in Stonegate reasoned that furlough payments had 
reduced the employment costs to the same extent as the size of those payments. They were 
payable to businesses that were required, effectively, to pay their employees the 
corresponding amount either before or after the furlough payments had been made. 
In considering whether SEISS payments had a similar effect, it is necessary to determine 
what the relevant costs of the business were that these payments reduced. However, as 
has already been stated, SEISS payments were not made to specifically cover any particular 
cost. And, as stated above, I dont think the SEISS payments reduced the loss of insured 
income. 
Even if I am wrong in this, it is necessary to consider whether it is fair and reasonable for 
Hiscox to deduct the amount of SEISS payment received from the claim settlement. 
Fair and reasonable
Hiscox has argued that the SEISS payments were analogous to the furlough payments. But 
it is clear there are significant differences. The payment under SEISS was not necessarily 
the equivalent of the loss suffered nor of any particular cost the business incurred. And it 
was not to be used specifically to cover any specific cost or expense  for example 
employment costs. It is arguable that, in relation to these points, SEISS payments are more 
closely aligned with business support grants. 
Other, historic grant schemes  for example those introduced in relation to flooding  have 
explicitly said that they only for uninsured losses. However, it is clear that the FCA and 
Government did not intend money received from business support grants to be used to 
reduce claim settlements by insurers. This is despite the lack of any explicit comment on this 
point when the grants were introduced. So, whilst the Government did not make any 
statement in relation to SEISS payments in terms of whether they were exclusively to the 
benefit of the recipient, I consider it is necessary to think about whether a different approach 
should be taken to SEISS payments compared with business support grants. 
The Government was specific, within the relevant Direction, that furlough payments were to reduce a specific cost of the receiving business. No such reference was made in relation to 
SEISS payments or those made through the business support grants. 
Taking these points, and all of the other circumstances of the complaint, into account I am 
persuaded that the fair and reasonable approach is to treat SEISS payments in the same 
way as payments made through the business support grants. I consider the SEISS 
payments to be most comparable to those through the business support grants, rather than 
furlough payments. And I dont think it is fair and reasonable to take a different approach to 
SEISS payments to that applied to business support grants. 
It follows that, even if I have erred above in applying the law, I do not consider it fair and 
reasonable for Hiscox to deduct the money S received through SEISS payments from the 
settlement of its claim. 
Putting things right
Hiscox Insurance Company Limited should not have deducted the amount Mrs P, trading as 
S, received in SEISS payments from the claim settlement. Hiscox should therefore increase 
the settlement payable to Mrs P by this amount. Hiscox should also add interest on this 
amount at a rate of 8% simple per annum from a date two months after Mrs Ps claim was 
made up to the date this complaint is settled. 
My final decision
My final decision is to uphold the complaint of Mrs P, trading as S. Hiscox Insurance 
Company Limited should put things right as set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs P to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 March 2023.
 
Sam Thomas
Ombudsman