DRN-4526316
The complaint
The estate of Mrs P (the estate) is unhappy that Al Rayan Bank PLC didnt transfer the 
estates funds into a profit-incurring account after a fixed term deposit matured.
The estate of Mrs Ps complaint is brought to this service by its executor, whom Ill refer to as 
Mr X.
What happened
The late Mrs P held a fixed term deposit with Al Rayan which was due to mature on 4 
October 2021. Sadly, the late Mrs P died before this date, with Al Rayan being notified of 
Mrs Ps death in July 2021.
In January 2023, Mr X raised a complaint with Al Rayan on behalf the estate because he 
was unhappy that when the fixed deposit did mature on 4 October 2021, Al Rayan didnt 
transfer the matured funds to a profit-incurring account. Instead, Al Rayan held the money in 
a non-profit-incurring account until January 2023, when Mr X, in his role as the estate 
executor, instructed Al Rayan to move the estates money to a more beneficial account.
Al Rayan responded and explained that their process when an account holder has died 
before a fixed term deposit matures is that any existing maturity arrangements agreed with 
the deceased person are void and that they require an instruction from the executor of the 
estate. And Al Rayan further explained that Mr X had refused to comply with their verification 
process to enable him to be confirmed by them as the executor of the estate until December 
2022, which meant they didnt receive a viable instruction until that time.
However, Al Rayan did accept that when Mr X did provide a viable instruction to move the 
estates money on 29 December 2022, that instruction wasnt actioned by them until 9 
January 2023. Al Rayan apologised to Mr X for this and backdated the profit that the estates 
money had incurred to 29 December 2022. Mr X wasnt satisfied with Al Rayans response, 
so he referred the estates complaint to this service.
One of our investigators looked at this complaint. But they felt that Al Rayans response to 
the estates complaint, including the explanation of why they had moved the estates money 
to the non-profit-incurring account that they did, already represented a fair resolution to the 
complaint. Mr X remained dissatisfied, so the matter was escalated to an ombudsman for a 
final decision.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Id like to begin by confirming that this service isnt a regulatory body or a 
Court of Law and doesnt operate as such. Instead, this service is an informal, impartial 
dispute resolution service. And while we do take relevant law and regulation into account 
when arriving at our decisions, our remit is focussed on determining whether we feel a fair or 
unfair outcome has occurred  from an impartial perspective, after taking all the factors and 
circumstances of a complaint into consideration.
In their response to the estates complaint, Al Rayan explained that when a fixed term 
account matures, their process is to act on the instructions provided to them by the 
authorised account signatory, and that if no viable instruction is provided to them that the 
matured funds will be held on a non-profit-incurring holding account until a viable instruction 
is provided.
Additionally, Al Rayan also explained that Mr X refused to follow Al Rayans process to 
validate himself as the executor of the estate. And that because of this, Mr X wasnt able to 
provide an instruction which Al Rayan could act upon until he did eventually follow the 
required process.
Ultimately, Al Rayans explanation as summarised above seems both fair and reasonable to 
me. And so, it follows that I wont be upholding the estates complaint that Al Rayan didnt 
move the estates money to a profit-incurring account upon maturity of the prior investment.
Mr X has explained that feels that Al Rayans process the led to the estates money being 
moved to a non-profit-incurring account upon maturity is unfair. But Im satisfied that its for 
Al Rayan to set their own policies and processes. And Im also satisfied that Al Rayan have 
acted in accordance with their process. 
I also feel that Mr X himself could reasonably have mitigated against what happened here by 
complying with Al Rayans executor verification process  which it appears he didnt do for 
over a year  sooner than he did. And if Mr X had complied with Al Rayans process when 
he was first asked to, then this would have enabled Al Rayan to accept an instruction from 
him as the estate executor to move the estates money to a more beneficial account at a 
much earlier time.
Im aware that Mr X feels that Al Rayan didnt explain matters specific to the estate to him as 
he would have liked them to during the majority of the time in question. But Al Rayan have 
explained that this was because Mr X hadnt verified himself as an account executor to their 
satisfaction, and as such he wasnt entitled to any detailed information as he would have 
liked. And again, Al Rayans position here seems reasonable to me.
Finally, I note that Al Rayan have acknowledged that when they did receive a viable 
instruction from Mr X to move the estates money on 29 December 2022, that they didnt 
move the estates money until 9 January 2023. And Al Rayan have accepted that this led the 
estate not incurring profit on its money for the period 29 December to 9 January  calculated 
to be £29.29  as it reasonably should have.
Because of this, Al Rayan offered to make a payment of £100 to the estate to cover this 
missed profit and provide some financial compensation for the inconvenience incurred by the 
estate in bringing this specific matter to them. This seems like a fair outcome to me, and I 
wont be instructing Al Rayan to take an further or alternative action beyond this.
All of which means that, while I will be upholding this complaint in the estates favour, Ill only 
be doing so on the limited basis to instruct Al Rayan to make the £100 payment to the estate 
that theyve already offered to pay. I realise this wont be the outcome Mr X was wanting, but 
I hope hell understand, given what Ive explained, why Ive made the final decision I have.
Putting things right
Al Rayan must make a payment to the estate of £100.My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint against Al Rayan Bank PLC on the basis 
explained above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask the estate of Mrs P 
to accept or reject my decision before 17 January 2024.
 
Paul Cooper
Ombudsman