DRN-3964164
The complaint
Mr M bought shares in a Special Purpose Acquisition Company (SPAC) via IG's platform. 
When he decided he wanted to redeem his shares in the SPAC, he was told IG didn't offer 
this option. As a result, he claims he has been caused a financial loss.
What happened
Mr M bought shares in the SPAC via IG's website in February 2021. A SPAC is a company 
that has no commercial operations, and created with the purpose of eventually buying or 
merging with an existing company. Shareholders in a SPAC are then, subject to rules 
relating to the specific SPAC, usually entitled to redeem shares they've bought for cash, or 
to have their shareholding converted into shares of the newly merged or bought company.
The prospectus of the SPAC Mr M bought shares in explained, among other things, that:
The SPAC's objective was identify companies in the technology, media and 
telecommunications industry.
It was offering 20,000,000 units at an offering price of $10.00 each - each unit 
consisting of a share of the common stock and three fourths of one redeemable 
warrant.
Purchasers of the public units would have the opportunity to redeem all or a portion 
of their public shares upon the completion of the initial business combination at a per- 
share price, payable in cash, equal to the aggregate amount then on deposit in the 
trust account.
On 16 April 2021 Mr M contacted IG via its webchat service to ask about redeeming his 
shares in the SPAC. He was told that IG didn't offer this option, and so there was no way for 
him to do this. On 29 April 2021 Mr M complained. He said that his holding in the SPAC 
gave him the right to redeem his shares by 19 April 2021 at $10.10 a share.
He complained that IG's failure to facilitate this caused him a loss as the shares then went 
below the NAV and he lost out. He provided IG with a loss calculation that quantified his loss 
at around $3,000.
IG looked into Mr M's complaint, but didn't think it had done anything wrong. It said that IG 
did not offer or ever claimed to offer ad hoc SPAC redemptions. It said that for share dealing 
accounts, IG only offered mandatory corporate events - and this was set out in the customer 
agreement which Mr M agreed to. 
It quoted section 11 of the agreement that said IG may, but are not obliged to, offer you any 
other rights or special offers that are made available to holders of instruments. It therefore 
concluded that it hadn't done anything wrong and wouldn't offer Mr M any compensation.
One of our investigators looked into Mr M's complaint and considered it should be upheld. In 
short, he said that one of the main features of buying shares in a SPAC was the ability to 
redeem purchased shares at a set price - essentially a 'money-back guarantee' with the 
possibility of making a profit. He said this was the reason SPACs generally had high 
redemption rates. He considered IG's references to their terms and conditions, particularly 
around corporate actions, but concluded that they did not apply to this particular investment. 
He said that given one of the key features of buying shares in a SPAC is the ability to 
redeem them before the business combination, IG ought to have made it clear that this 
would not be possible with shares in SPACs bought on its platform. The investigator 
therefore said that Mr M had suffered a financial loss, as he was left with shares in a newly 
created company which he never intended to hold and which, by the time he was given the 
shares, were worth less than the redemption price.
However, the investigator didn't think it would be fair to offer Mr M the compensation he was 
after. He considered that Mr M had an opportunity to sell the shares at a time when their 
value was higher, thereby reducing the overall size of the loss he had suffered. He therefore 
recommended compensation based on the difference between $10.10, and what the new 
shares he received in May 2021 were worth at that time. He also recommended 
compensation for the distress and inconvenience he was caused.
Mr M didn't agree. He said that he would never had these shares as he would have 
redeemed had that option been available. Alternatively, he would never have bought shares 
in this SPAC if he had known in advance that redeeming was not an option.
IG didn't agree. It said that it wasn't reasonable 'to expect IG to list all the services' which it 
didn't offer. It said that if early redemption was important to [Mr M], it seems that it should 
have been his responsibility' to see if IG offered this service. It made an offer to settle the 
complaint which Mr M declined.
I issued a provisional decision in January 2023. I said:
I've considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide what's fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I've reached the same conclusions as the investigator and for broadly the 
same reasons.
In relation to IG's reasons for disagreeing with the investigator's view, I'm not persuaded. I 
don't think the investigator was suggesting that IG needed to list all the services it didn't 
offer.
Instead, I think it's clear that the investigator was suggesting that the ability to redeem 
shares in a SPAC was a key feature underpinning why a consumer might choose to invest in 
a SPAC in the first place.
IG already had a responsibility to ensure that it paid due regard to the interests of its 
customers (PRIN 6) as well as their information needs (PRIN 7). Furthermore, the regulator 
expects firms to provide clients with information about the risks and nature of the 
investments they sell. And specifically, it expects firms to include 'information on 
impediments or restrictions for disinvestment [...] including an illustration of the possible exit 
methods and consequences of any exit' (COBS 14.3A.5).
So I'm satisfied that first and foremost, it was for IG to ensure that consumers had all the 
necessary information on the securities it was selling to make informed decisions about 
issues like entitlements and disinvesting - particularly because, as an execution only 
investor, it would ultimately have been down to Mr M to decide whether or not to invest.I acknowledge that IG couldn't provide a reference in the terms and conditions of the 
account to cover all the services it didn't provide. But in relation to buying shares in SPACs 
I'm satisfied that it's decision not to offer consumers the chance to redeem their shares in 
line with the prospectus was information that consumers needed to have. I agree with the 
investigator that the terms and conditions simply do not cover investments in SPACs at all, 
nor the possibility of consumers being unable to redeem early.
I've also looked at archived pages of IG's website before Mr M invested. IG does talk about 
SPACs, the main features and the fact that it offered zero commission on US SPACs. It 
explains how to invest, whether via owning shares in the SPAC or trading a derivative. It 
talks about some of the risks. But it never mentions the fact that IG would not allow 
consumers to redeem their shareholding early - there is no mention of IG's decision not to 
facilitate this anywhere.
In my view, this is key to this complaint. Mr M was entitled to assume, initially, that buying 
shares in a SPAC through IG's share-dealing service would not put him at a disadvantage 
compared to any other shareholder. I'm persuaded he was entitled to assume this because, 
as far as he was concerned, he was buying shares which gave him a number of entitlements 
- he had no way of knowing or anticipating that IG would not allow some of those 
entitlements to be realised.
And I'm satisfied that the terms and conditions would not have helped Mr M to understand 
this any better - because the terms only deal with corporate actions, and the various types of 
corporate actions which IG may, or may not, facilitate.
Furthermore, I don't agree that including this information or mentioning it would've been 
particularly onerous. This was not technical or hypothetical information - this was a 
commercial decision which IG had made not to facilitate early redemptions of shares from 
investors who had bought shares in a SPAC. At the point it made this decision, given 
everything I've said above about IG's obligations, it ought to have communicated this in 
some way to its customers. So I'm satisfied IG ought to put right the financial impact on Mr M 
caused by this failure.
And looking at Mr M's communications, and bearing in mind what I've said above about this 
being a key feature of investing in a SPAC, I'm satisfied that it's more likely than not that Mr 
M would not have bought shares in this SPAC if he had known in advance that IG would not 
allow him to redeem his shares early. I'm satisfied this was a key reason for him investing.
Unfortunately, Mr M could not redeem his shares in the way he wanted - and did not sell at 
the time because the share price was trading below the NAV. At this point, I think Mr M was 
faced with an exceedingly difficult decision - one that I'm satisfied IG's omission foisted on 
him.
He had to decide whether to sell shares in the SPAC at market price, crystalising a loss, or 
wait and see what the price of the new shares would be once the new company was 
created. I think this decision was in the range of reasonable decisions which Mr M was 
entitled to make.
However, it's clear to me that once his shareholding in the SPAC was converted to shares in 
the newly acquired company, Mr M had to decide whether he wanted to continue taking the 
risk that the shares would further drop in value - or, essentially, cut his losses. This is 
because he had a duty to take reasonable steps to minimise any losses. In looking at the 
share price of this holding, I'm satisfied that by 14 May 2021, Mr M had enough information to make an assessment about whether or not the share price was going to increase in value. 
In my view, within that 7 day period, he had opportunities to mitigate his losses which he 
ought to have taken. For this reason, I don't agree that it would be fair and reasonable to ask 
IG to compensate Mr M for any loss in value in these shares since 14 May 2021.
Between 7 May 2021 and 14 May 2021, the price of the shares fluctuated significantly - and I 
can't say on balance when precisely Mr M ought to have sold, and what price he would've 
received.
Instead, I think a fair and reasonable way to put things right is to look at the average price of 
the shares between these dates - including opens, highs, lows and closing values. This 
gives an average share price of $7.2572 - whilst I can't say for sure that's what Mr M 
would've been able to achieve, I think it's a fair and reasonable measure to assess the loss 
caused to Mr M.
So IG need to pay Mr M the difference between the price he could've had if redemption had 
been possible and the price above. It needs to provide Mr M with its calculation in a clear 
and simple format.
I agree that IG's actions here have caused Mr M trouble and upset. I'm persuaded that Mr M 
was placed in a difficult situation he had not foreseen, with losses that he had no ability to 
avoid. Taking all this into account, I'm satisfied £200 is fair and reasonable compensation for 
that.
Neither Mr M nor IG provided any comments in response to my provisional decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having reconsidered the evidence, and in the absence of any submissions from either party, 
I see no reason to change my provisional findings. I therefore confirm them as final. 
Putting things right
Im satisfied the fair and reasonable way to put things right is to look at the average price of 
the shares in Lightening eMotors between 7 May 2021 and 14 May 2021 - including opens, 
highs, lows and closing values. This gives an average share price of $7.2572 - whilst I can't 
say for sure that's what Mr M would've been able to achieve, I think it's a fair and reasonable 
measure to assess the loss caused to Mr M.
So IG need to pay Mr M the difference between the price he could've had if redemption had 
been possible and the price above. It needs to provide Mr M with its calculation in a clear 
and simple format.
I agree that IG's actions here have caused Mr M trouble and upset. I'm persuaded that Mr M 
was placed in a difficult situation he had not foreseen, with losses that he had limited ability 
to avoid entirely. Taking all this into account, I'm satisfied £200 is fair and reasonable 
compensation for that.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold Mr Ms complaint. IG Markets Limited must pay the 
compensation Ive awarded above. Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 22 March 2023.
 
Alessandro Pulzone
Ombudsman