DRN-2248137
The complaint
Mrs S complains that Santander UK Bank Plc failed to complete an international transfer for 
her. Miss S also complains that she was unfairly charged by Santander despite the transfer 
being returned. 
What happened
The background to this complaint and my initial conclusions were set out in my provisional 
decision dated 8 September 2019. In my provisional decision I explained why I didnt intend 
to uphold Miss S complaint. I said: 
What happened
Miss S wanted to send $5,000 to a friend abroad. On 10 June 2019 Santander exchanged
£4,040.95 for $5,000 and arranged the international transfer. Santander charged Miss S a
£25 international transfer fee, taking the total amount she paid to £4,065.95.
Santander instructed an intermediary bank to complete the international transfer.
On 12 Jun 2019 the $5,000 transfer was returned to Santander by the intermediary bank.
Santander converted the payment back to sterling and credited Miss S account with
£3,816.78. Santander said the transfer couldnt been completed as its intermediary bank had
been unable to confirm the payment met legal and regulatory obligations.
Miss S complained and Santander responded on 5 July 2019. Santander apologised as
Miss S had been given some unclear information about the international transfer fee in
branch and promised to provide feedback. But Santander didnt agree it had made a mistake
and said the international payment charge is applied regardless of whether the transfer
completes. Santander also explained that the difference in the amounts sent and received
back was due to the exchange rates used. On 29 July 2019 Santander responded again and
said it had given feedback to the branch about the information provided. Santander paid
Miss S £25 to cover the international payment charge.
Miss S referred her complaint to this service and it was passed to an investigator. They
thought Santander had dealt with Miss S complaint fairly and didnt ask it to do anything
else. Miss S asked to appeal so her complaint has been passed to me to make a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Santander used an intermediary bank to complete the transfer. I understand Miss S is
concerned that this process wasnt fully explained and that the business returned the
transfer without a reasonable explanation. As our investigator has said, international
transfers are often sent via intermediary banks. The intermediary Bank was acting on
Santanders behalf. I wouldnt expect the branch staff to have told Miss S that an
intermediary bank may be used to complete the international transfer.
Miss S has asked for a better explanation of why the transfer wasnt completed. I understand
Santander has only provided limited information about what happened. But Santander has
confirmed it couldnt be made as the intermediary bank was unable to confirm the
international transfer met its legal and regulatory obligations. I understand that doesnt give
Miss S a lot of information, but Im satisfied Santander has correctly explained why the
transfer was returned and that there was a legitimate reason behind its actions.
There appears to be some confusions over whether any third party fees or charges have
been applied here. Ive looked at the available evidence, and no third party costs or charges
were incurred or charged to Miss S. The only charge Miss S incurred was a £25 international
transfer fee. Santanders final response dated 29 July 2019 confirmed the £25 fee had been
refunded as a gesture of goodwill.
The difference of £224.17 was due to the exchange rates used when Miss S instructed the
transfer and the rate applied when the funds were returned. When Miss S sent the payment
each dollar cost about £0.81. But when the transfer was sent back on 12 June 2019 the
exchange rate meant each dollar was converted to £0.76. Ive checked the figures and the
exchange rate difference between the outgoing and incoming transfer was the cause of the
£224.17 difference, not a third party charge.
In response to our investigator, Miss S said the wrong terms and conditions had been
quoted. Ive checked the relevant terms and conditions of Miss S account with Santander.
They say:
1.2 Fees and exchange rates
a)The exchange rate used will be determined by our current exchange rate on the 
day we process the payment out or into your account.
1.3 Returned payments
a) If a payment is returned to us, it will be credited to your account net of any fees
charged by third party banks in returning the payment.
b) If the returned payment is in a currency other than sterling, before crediting the
returned payment into your account, we will convert the returned paymentinto
sterling using our current exchange rate applicable for payments made into your
account This may mean that your account will be re-credited with a different
amount than was originally debited.
3.2 International Payment delays or failures
a) We shall not be liable for any loss you may incur or suffer as a result of any delay 
or failure in an International Payment reaching the bank account of the beneficiary of
the payment, where that delay or failure is a result of (or arises in connection with):
(iii) any statutory or other legally required checks being carried out in relation 
to the International Payment; or
(iv) any event or circumstance beyond our reasonable control.
Ive only quoted the sections of Santanders terms that are relevant to Miss S complaint, but
the full version is available on its website. As set out above, Santanders terms say it will
determine the exchange rate used. They also say returned payments will be converted tosterling before crediting the account and that a different amount may be received. Section
3.2 says Santander wont be liable for any losses incurred as a result of checks required and
circumstances beyond its control.
Im very sorry to disappoint Miss S but Im satisfied that Santander has acted in line with the
account terms. Santander has confirmed that its intermediary bank was unable to complete
the international transfer and why. No third party costs were incurred. The difference in the
amounts sent then received back was caused by the exchange rates used, in line with the
account terms. Santander refunded the £25 international transfer fee to Miss S as a gesture
of goodwill. As I havent been persuaded that Santander made a mistake and I think its dealt
with Miss S complaint fairly, Im not telling it to take any further action.
I invited Miss S and Santander to respond to my provisional decision with any additional 
comments they wanted to make. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Santander responded to say it had nothing further to add. We didnt hear back from Miss S. 
As neither party has provided new information for me to consider, I see no reason to change 
the conclusions I reason in my provisional decision. I remain of the view that Santander has 
dealt with Miss S complaint fairly so Im not telling it to take any further action. 
My final decision
My decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss S to accept 
or reject my decision before 16 November 2020.
 
Marco Manente
Ombudsman