DRN-3591745
The complaint
Mr F and Mrs F complain about Inter Partner Assistance SA (IPA) under the home 
emergency cover provided as one of the benefits of their packaged bank account. They are 
unhappy at how IPA responded to a leak at their property.
This decision covers Mr F and Mrs Fs complaint about IPA as the provider of home 
emergency cover, not the packaged bank account provided by the bank.
What happened
One evening in November 2021, Mr F and Mrs F called IPA because there was a water leak 
coming through their kitchen ceiling. They thought the leak was coming from the bathroom 
above, which appeared to be linked to use of the bath.  
IPA sent an engineer the following day to assess the cause of the leak, but he couldnt fix 
the problem. A second engineer visited the next day but was also unable to identify or fix the 
problem. A third engineer came out, four days after Mr F and Mrs F first contacted IPA, 
diagnosing the issue was to do with a blocked drain, so required a drainage engineer rather 
than a plumber. An engineer from the drainage firm came out the following morning, but 
advised he needed a ladder and a second engineer as he couldnt reach the location of the 
blockage. Mr F and Mrs F contacted IPA again and were told the drainage firm needed to 
submit a breakdown of the costs of carrying out the repair with two engineers.
At this point, without use of their bathroom for five days (and having a young child and Mrs F 
in late pregnancy) Mr F and Mrs F contacted the drainage firm directly to have the repair 
carried out privately. An engineer attended and fixed the blockage, at a cost of £330. The 
drainage firm issued a refund to cancel the £330 cost as they said the repair shouldnt have 
needed two engineers and should have been carried out under the home emergency cover.
 
Mr F and Mrs F were unhappy at what had happened and how long it took for the problem to 
be fixed (and theyd had to resolve it privately). They were also unhappy at not having use of 
the bathroom and having to use facilities at a relations property. So, they complained to IPA.
In their final response, IPA accepted the service theyd provided wasnt to the standard Mr F 
and Mrs F should have received. They said it wasnt acceptable for Mr F and Mrs F to be 
without use of the bathroom and having to rely on family for personal hygiene (particularly 
given Mrs Fs pregnancy and having a very young child). Nor were they advised to seek 
alternative accommodation that IPA would have reimbursed. By way of an apology and 
recognition of the distress and inconvenience caused, IPA offered £350 compensation. 
Mr F and Mrs F then complained to this service. They were unhappy at IPAs final response 
and compensation offer, saying it didnt recognise the full impact and stress of being without 
bathing facilities for a week (and limited toilet use). They also said their child had slipped on 
water when one of the engineers filled the bath and it leaked. They thought compensation 
closer to £1,000 would be fair given all the circumstances.
Our investigator didnt uphold the complaint, concluding IPA didnt need to take any action. 
She thought it reasonable IPA had refunded the £330 cost of the blocked drain (given the 
policy limit was £250). She noted alternative accommodation should have been offered, 
given the lack of bathroom facilities and the impact of the leak on the kitchen lighting, which 
under the policy would have been up to £100. However, as Mr F and Mrs F had used the 
facilities at a family members property, they hadnt incurred accommodation costs. She also 
thought IPAs £350 compensation offer was fair in the circumstances. 
Mr F and Mrs F disagreed with the investigators conclusions and requested an ombudsman 
review the complaint. They didnt think IPAs compensation offer reflected the impact the 
incident had on them, particularly given Mrs Fs advanced pregnancy and young child and 
the need to travel to family each day. They also said their child had slipped on water from 
the leak when the engineer visit filled the bath (causing it to leak again), causing injury.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
My role here is to decide whether IPA has acted fairly towards Mr F and Mrs F.
The main elements of Mr F and Mrs Fs complaint are that IPA couldnt fix the cause of the 
leak from their bathroom, despite three engineers visiting before it was identified the problem 
required a drainage engineer. And that they had to engage the drainage company privately 
before the problem was finally fixed. While Mr F and Mrs F were reimbursed for the cost of 
the private repair, they were without proper access to bathroom facilities (for five days) and 
had to rely on family members during that time. They also say Mr F being at a late stage of 
pregnancy and having a young child significantly added to the stress of the situation. Given 
these circumstances, they dont feel IPAs offer of £350 compensation is sufficient for the 
distress and inconvenience theyve suffered.
IPA accept the service they provided to Mr F and Mrs F fell short of the standard expected. 
They also recognise they didnt make Mr F and Mrs F aware of the option to take up 
alternative accommodation. They also acknowledge the repair of the blockage didnt need 
two engineers and the repair should have been covered under the home insurance policy. 
They think their compensation offer is fair reflection of what happened.
On the first of these issues, I agree it shouldnt have taken three engineer visits to diagnose 
the cause of the problem before it was determined to be a blocked drain issue (so required a 
different firm). Even then, the situation was exacerbated by the [incorrect] diagnosis that two 
engineers would be needed to fix the issue. In these circumstances, with continuing delay 
and the impact of the loss of bathroom facilities, I can understand why Mr F and Mrs F 
engaged the drainage company directly to fix the problem. 
As theyve been reimbursed for the cost (in practical terms the cost of the service was offset 
by a matching refund at the same time, meaning Mr F and Mrs F didnt need to first pay for 
the repair) then theyve not lost out financially. Ive also noted that  had the cost of repair 
not been offset by the refund  the cost wouldve been higher than the limit under the policy 
(£330 compared to £250). As the repair should have been covered under the policy, I think 
thats fair and reasonable.
On the point about alternative accommodation, IPA acknowledge they didnt make Mr F and 
Mrs F aware they would have been entitled to the cost of alternative accommodation (up to 
£100 under the terms of the policy). Its not clear whether  had they been offered this option 
 Mr F and Mrs F would have taken advantage of it, given their circumstances. As it was, 
they called on family members to use bathroom facilities. While this meant they didnt incur 
direct alternative accommodation costs, it would have caused them inconvenience from the time taken to travel to and from the family members (Mr F and Mrs F say they were 15 
minutes away). Ill consider this when I come onto the question of what would be fair and 
reasonable compensation. 
Ive also considered the issue of compensation. IPA offered £350 compensation for the 
distress and inconvenience caused by the leak and Mr F and Mrs F not having full use of 
their bathroom for five days. Ive considered whether its fair and reasonable (in addition to 
the £330 cost of the repair being refunded). Ive considered what Mr F and Mrs F have told 
us about the impact of the incident, including the need to travel to family members to use 
their bathroom facilities and the stress of the incident and the time taken to fix the problem. 
Ive also considered what Mrs F has told us about her being at a late stage of pregnancy 
(and the stress both of that and her previous pregnancies). 
Mr F and Mrs F also say their child slipped on water when the second engineer filled the 
bath and it leaked, causing injury. I dont doubt what Mr F and Mrs F have said, but as a 
service we wouldnt directly consider the impact of an incident on other family members of 
complainants. But I have considered the additional stress the injury would have caused Mr F 
and Mrs F. Taking account of our published guidelines on compensation awards for distress 
and inconvenience, I think the circumstances and the impact it had on Mr F and Mrs F 
warrant an award of between £300 and £750. This range is where the impact of an incident 
has caused considerable distress, upset and worry (and significant inconvenience). I think 
this reflects the circumstances faced by Mr F and Mrs F, where the impact was short-term, 
but serious. Based on these considerations, I think IPAs offer of £350 compensation is 
reasonable in the circumstances, so I wont be asking them to increase that figure.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, my final decision is that I dont uphold Mr F and Mrs Fs 
complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr F and Mrs F to 
accept or reject my decision before 24 August 2022.
 
Paul King
Ombudsman