DRN-2508217
The complaint
Mr M complains that The Prudential Assurance Company Limited failed to provide him with 
sufficient information when he bought three annuity plans in 2013. 
What happened
Mr M held pension savings with Prudential as a result of an occupational pension scheme he 
had been a member of. In late 2012 Mr M got in touch with Prudential as he was due to 
retire when he reached 65 years of age in January 2013. 
Prudential sent Mr M some information about his pension benefits by post. It seems that 
Prudential held an incomplete address for Mr M so that information was delayed, but it did 
eventually arrive. And Mr M had a number of telephone conversations with Prudential about 
the choices he could make regarding his pension benefits. Ultimately Mr M chose a pension 
on a single life basis, but with a ten-year guarantee.
Since he made his complaint, Prudential has been in touch with Mr M to let him know that it 
is undertaking a review of annuities it sold to consumers who werent assisted by a financial 
advisor. Prudential has concerns that it might not have given enough information to some 
consumers about enhanced annuities that might be available due to certain health 
conditions. I have seen that Prudential has already paid Mr M compensation in relation to 
one of his annuities, and it says it is still reviewing the other two. So Im not going to deal 
with that aspect of Mr Ms complaint in this decision. I think that, should he still remain 
unhappy about that part of the annuity sale, it would be right that he should make a further 
complaint to Prudential after its review has concluded.
One of our investigators has assessed Mr Ms complaint. She thought that Prudential had 
given Mr M all the information it needed to at the time the annuities were sold. So she didnt 
think that Prudential had done anything wrong, or that it needed to pay Mr M any 
compensation.
Mr M didnt agree with that assessment. So, as the complaint hasnt been resolved 
informally, it has been passed to me, an ombudsman, to decide. This is the last stage of our 
process.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In deciding this complaint Ive taken into account the law, any relevant regulatory rules and 
good industry practice at the time. I have also carefully considered the submissions that 
have been made by Mr M and by Prudential. Where the evidence is unclear, or there are 
conflicts, I have made my decision based on the balance of probabilities. In other words 
I have looked at what evidence we do have, and the surrounding circumstances, to help me 
decide what I think is more likely to, or should, have happened.
At the outset I think it is useful to reflect on the role of this service. This service isnt intended 
to regulate or punish businesses for their conduct  that is the role of the Financial Conduct 
Authority. Instead this service looks to resolve individual complaints between a consumer 
and a business. Should we decide that something has gone wrong we would ask the 
business to put things right by placing the consumer, as far as is possible, in the position 
they would have been if the problem hadnt occurred.
Mr Ms complaint is regarding the information that Prudential gave to him in 2012 about the 
annuity options that were available to him. A considerable period of time has passed since 
then, so it wouldnt be at all surprising that, despite his best efforts, Mr M might not entirely 
remember everything that happened at that time. So, although I have of course taken careful 
account of what he has told us, I am naturally more inclined towards the contemporaneous 
evidence that Prudential has retained from the time such as copy letters, and notes of 
telephone conversations.
From that evidence I am satisfied that Prudential did provide Mr M with details of the annuity 
options that were available to him. In particular I can see it discussed with him whether he 
would be able to add dependents benefits to his pension. And what guarantee periods might 
be available. I will deal with both those matters in a little more detail later in this decision. 
And I can see that Mr M returned the signed application forms to Prudential. That application 
form was part of the information that Prudential sent Mr M, so that would lead me to believe 
the annuity information was both sent to Mr M, and safely received by him.
One of the areas Mr M explored in detail with Prudential at the time he took the annuities 
was whether he could add dependents benefits. Prudentials notes from the time record that 
Mr M was divorced, but was hoping to re-marry the following year. But he told Prudential that 
his future wife currently lived in another country. Although Prudential asked Mr M for details 
of his partner, such as her date of birth and name, he didnt provide those details to enable a 
quotation to be issued. Mr M also told Prudential that, at that time, his youngest child was 
aged 11.
When an annuity is set up, it generally cant be altered in the future. So Prudential explained 
to Mr M that he would need to include his future wife as a dependent before the annuity was 
taken if he wished her to benefit from the pension after his death. And in order for his 
children to be considered as dependents, and so receive pension benefits after his death, 
they would need to be under the age of 23 and in full time education when the benefits were 
paid to them.
Mr M didnt provide Prudential with the information it needed to provide him with a quotation 
for a pension providing dependents benefits to his future wife. And, at the time the ten-year 
guarantee expired, there would be little remaining time for Mr Ms child to be paid any 
dependents benefits. So it doesnt seem to me that it would have been possible in the case 
of his future wife, or appropriate in the case of his child, for Prudential to have provided 
those additional quotations to him. And I havent actually seen anything to make me think 
those were quotations that Mr M had asked for  I expect hed have wanted to see them 
before making his final decision if they were outstanding.
The original quotations that Prudential issued to Mr M were based on a five-year guarantee 
period. It seems that he then asked Prudential for further quotations based on a ten-year 
guarantee period. And the application form that he completed offered the option to take a 
five-year, a ten-year guarantee, or the option to take no guarantee at all. So I think it 
reasonable to conclude that Mr M was aware of the various guarantee options that were 
available to him, and that he chose the ten-year guarantee because he thought it fit his 
circumstances best.So having taken everything into account, I am persuaded that Prudential gave Mr M 
sufficient information about the annuity options that were available to him when he took his 
pension benefits in 2013. I appreciate that subsequent changes in Mr Ms circumstances 
might mean that he would take a different decision now, but I dont think that means 
Prudential did anything wrong when it originally sold the annuities to him.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I dont uphold the complaint or make any award against 
The Prudential Assurance Company Limited.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 March 2021.
 
Paul Reilly
Ombudsman