DRN-1823699
 
The complaint
Mr K has complained about Ageas Insurance Limited. He isnt happy about the settlement 
offered under his Guaranteed Asset Protection (GAP) insurance policy.
What happened
Mr K took out a GAP insurance policy when he bought a second-hand prestigious car in 
2014. When he was involved in an accident that wrote off his car in July 2019 he made a 
claim under his car insurance policy initially and then claimed under his GAP insurance 
policy for the difference in the value of his car. 
But he was unhappy with the value offered, and so he complained to Ageas and then this 
service. He said that Ageas hadnt acted in line with the policy which should allow him to buy 
a like for like replacement, or a newer model if the previous model had been superseded. He 
thought that Ageas offer didnt allow him to purchase the car he would like and thought he 
was entitled to.
Our investigator looked into things for him but didnt uphold his complaint. She was of the 
view Ageas had acted reasonably. It had offered the nearest equivalent replacement, and 
she thought the cars Mr K had suggested were similar (because of the colour of the car) 
were significantly newer and would amount to betterment.
As Mr K didnt agree, maintaining that the colour was important to him, the matter has been 
passed to me for review. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Having done so I dont think the complaint 
should be upheld. Ill explain why. 
I can understand Mr Ks position and that the colour of the car was very important to him. 
And so I can appreciate why he wanted a car that is similar in colour to the one that was 
written off. But I dont think it would be fair for him to get a far newer car and upgraded model 
based on this. I think Ageas has acted fairly in offering to pay for a similar model and 
specification to the one Mr K had. 
I know Mr K feels that Ageas hasnt acted in line with the policy and that its offer doesnt 
allow him to buy a like-for-like replacement. But I think it does, even though he cant find the 
exact colour. I know the colour is important to Mr K but even his purchase invoice doesnt 
specify the colour, it just specifies metallic paint. As such, I dont think it would be fair on 
Ageas to say that the colour is a key requirement or specification, although I accept it was 
important to Mr K.
Car manufacturers regularly change the colours they use, and I dont feel that it would be fair to pay Mr K for a significantly newer model of car based on this. The policy says;
Replacement Vehicle - A vehicle of the same make, model, and specification as the insured 
Vehicle when you purchased it. If the model is no longer available, the price of the nearest 
equivalent Vehicle, or superceding model will be used instead.
Ageas has looked at similar models and specification to Mr Ks in making its offer. Mr Ks car 
was just over three years old when he bought it. And Ageas has used examples that 
were similar in age to when Mr Ks car was written off in making its offer. Ive seen these and 
I think that Ageas offer was in line with the nearest equivalent vehicle as defined in the 
policy.
So, although I know that this will come as a disappointment to Mr K, and I know how 
important the colour of his car is to him, I think Ageas has acted reasonably and made a fair 
offer in line with the policy terms. I dont think it would be fair to ask it to pay for a car that 
would be only about a year old as that would amount to betterment.
My final decision
It follows, for the reasons given above, that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr K to accept or 
reject my decision before 24 July 2020.
Colin Keegan
Ombudsman