DRN-3812361
The complaint
Mr M and Mrs M complain that Lloyds Bank PLC wont refund the part of a cash machine 
withdrawal from their joint account that they didnt receive.
What happened
Mrs M explains that she tried to withdraw £200 on 18 September 2021 but only received £50 
from a cash machine. She was told by staff that the machine had likely run out of £20 notes. 
She went to a Lloyds cash machine and took out £150. And she made a claim for the £150 
she hadnt received.
Lloyds said it wouldnt be refunding the money. The cash machine was operated by another 
part of its business group. It had received information from that business that the cash was 
dispensed correctly. Lloyds stated at the time of the final response letter that the machine 
balanced. When it provided a business file to this service it said that the cash machine 
balanced with no surplus. And when it provided further information about the machine it 
said that it was balanced on 21/09/21 and there was no surplus/overage. It then added that 
any rejected cash in the machine gets counted along with any remaining money in the 
cassettes when the cash machine is balanced.
Our investigator didnt recommend that the complaint be upheld. He said that the information 
provided by Lloyds was that 20 £10 notes were dispensed to Mrs M at 10:58 that day. The 
machine was used by another customer without apparent incident at 11:05. He said that 
Lloyds had provided information to show that the machine was balanced a few days before 
and then a few days after that day. While the machine had gone out of service later that day 
and didnt dispense cash that wouldnt have affected Mrs Ms withdrawal. Lloyds didnt have 
information about rejected notes and the journal entry and balance information was 
sufficient.
Mrs M didnt agree and wanted the complaint to be reviewed. She said that she wouldnt 
pursue this given the amount unless shed lost money. And she was sure that only £50 had 
been dispensed and shed been told in the branch that the machine had likely run out of 
cash. Thats why shed gone to make a further withdrawal and immediately made a claim 
when she found her account had been debited with £200 and not £50.
my provisional decision
I issued a provisional decision on 20 October 2022. I set out below what I said.
I wouldnt be able to say exactly what happened and I would be thinking about what is most 
likely. Through our investigator I asked Lloyds for some more information about the cash 
machine.
It now stated that the machine wasnt balanced on 21 September 2021 but on 28 September 
2021 and that there was no difference that would account for the amount in dispute here. It 
said that it would be contacting the branch for balancing sheets on that day and provide 
them. It said that information about retained notes in the machine was not relevant as this 
was not conclusive of a successful or unsuccessful cash withdrawal and isnt used as 
evidence as an industry standard and could be accounted for by rejected or soiled notes 
and machine testing. It also said that purge bins are often emptied between balances.
Id looked at the version of events Mrs M gave Lloyds when she complained. She said that 
the shutter on the machine had closed after £50 had been dispensed. And shed gone 
straight into the branch and her husband had waited by the machine. It seemed to be 
accepted that shed been told by a staff member that the machine had likely run out of 
money and if so she wouldnt be debited. And she then went to a Lloyds branch and 
withdrew £150 from a cash machine. When she was told that shed also been debited the full 
£200 too she raised a dispute.
As referred to by our investigator I noted that the cash machine did have a fault later on 18 
September 2021. And that the machine was also serviced on 21 September 2021 but as is 
now stated not balanced that day. There were retained notes in the machine at that time. I 
didnt have the details of the balancing information still for that or any other day or any 
statements from the branch about what happened.
Generally, a copy of the journal roll showing successful entries before and after the one in 
dispute, as here,  and details about the cash machine balancing could be sufficient to 
demonstrate that no error was made. And may lead to a conclusion that Mrs M had been 
somehow mistaken. However, I thought that the following points are relevant:
- This service has as set out above been provided it seems with inconsistent 
information about the balancing of the machine and about how rejected notes are 
dealt with.
- I still hadnt seen the balancing sheet for 28 September 2021 and Lloyds has had 
ample time to provide this.
- Mrs M in my view has given a plausible and I found reliable explanation of what 
happened, and I could see from her statement that she did withdraw £150 from 
Lloyds that day after the disputed withdrawal.
- While information about the rejected notes is I accepted not conclusive, what I had 
seen about them isnt inconsistent with an error being made here. And the machine 
has been said to have been found subject to errors albeit there wasnt a discrepancy 
to account for the whole £150 disputed here. But it had been accessed at least twice 
from 18 September 2021 before the date it was balanced.
Having weighed all the factors I found it most likely that an error has been made. I made 
clear that even if Lloyds were now to provide the balancing information for 28 September 
2021 Id be unable to place significant weight on that given the inconsistent information. And 
also, because it fairly should have provided this already to support its case and without 
explanation has relied on different information before.
So, I said I intended to uphold this complaint and to require Lloyds to refund the money 
together with simple interest of eight percent per annum to reflect that Mr M and Mrs M 
havent had this money.What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Lloyds said that it in light of my comments it accepted my provisional decision.
Mr and Mrs M said that they had nothing to add and hoped that this would be resolved soon. 
My final decision
My decision is that I uphold this complaint and I require Lloyds Bank PLC to:
1) Refund £150 to Mr M and Mrs M.
2) Pay simple interest of 8 per cent per annum from the time the money was debited to 
the date of settlement.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M and Mrs M to 
accept or reject my decision before 16 December 2022.
 
Michael Crewe
Ombudsman