DRN-4293204
The complaint
Mr R has complained about the delays and poor workmanship caused by contractors 
appointed by his insurer Zurich Insurance PLC when he made a claim under a home 
insurance policy which he shares jointly with Mrs R.
What happened
Mr and Mrs R made a claim for an escape of water in 2021. Repairs were completed to an 
ensuite and bathroom in March 2022. 
In December 2022 Mr R contacted Zurich as the ensuite shower was leaking. He raised a 
complaint as he was unhappy with the delay in getting the matter resolved. 
Zurich replied to Mr Rs complaints in February 2023 and May 2023. In February 2023 
Zurich apologised for the delay. It said it had arranged for a leak detection company to 
attend to identify the source of the leak with a view to putting things right. Zurich paid Mr R 
£500 compensation for the distress and inconvenient caused. 
Unfortunately there were further delays and the leak detection agent didnt arrive when 
expected, causing further delays and inconvenience. 
A contractor from Zurichs appointed LA visited Mr and Mrs Rs home and identified poor 
workmanship in the ensuite shower works. Mr R didnt want the original LA to carry out 
rectification works due to the previous problems. The LA offered a cash settlement sum for 
the rectification works which Mr R said was an insult. 
Zurich asked Mr R to obtain estimates from a preferred contractor to carry out the works and 
it said it would consider these. Mr R didnt feel this was unfair as he was having to take time 
out to obtain the estimates. 
In May 2023 Zurich apologised for the further poor service. It offered Mr R £250 
compensation for the inconvenience of having to obtain estimates and the further delay. 
Mr R asked us to look at their complaint. Our Investigator thought that Zurich had done 
enough to resolve things. She explained that we can only consider Mr Rs complaints up to 
Zurichs final response dated 17 May 2023. Any ongoing complaints after that date are 
issues we cannot consider unless Zurich has had the opportunity to respond within the 
timescales set by the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA). Then we can consider any new 
complaints if Mr R wishes to bring them to us. 
Mr R didnt agree. He says his complaint is about the same issue which is ongoing and 
remains unresolved. He wants this service to consider the complaint including issues since 
17 May 2023. 
So the case has been passed to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Theres no dispute that Zurich has provided Mr and Mrs R with a poor service and caused 
avoidable delays since Mr R contacted it in December 2022 about the leaking shower. And 
theres no dispute that the ensuite shower is leaking as a result of poor workmanship by 
Zurichs appointed contractors.
Mr R wants the repairs to be done and for Zurich to compensate him for his time and the 
inconvenience caused by having to chase it, deal with the LA, and obtain estimates for 
repairs. 
As the Investigator explained, we can look at the complaint(s) raised - and whether Zurich 
has done enough to resolve the complaint(s). When things go wrong, we look at the impact 
and what an insurer has offered/done to put things right. 
Its clear that Zurich has taken too long to resolve matters for Mr and Mrs R and the ongoing 
leak has caused further damage to their home. So in addition to the expected disruption of 
dealing with a claim, Mr and Mrs R have been put to further disruption because of poor 
workmanship. 
But I think Zurichs compensation payments totalling £750 is a reasonable amount to reflect 
the distress and inconvenience caused. This amount is in line with awards we give in similar 
circumstances - examples of which can be found on our website. And I expect Zurich to 
promptly deal with estimates Mr R provides so that works can be completed as soon as 
possible. As Mr R understandably didnt want the original LA to carry out rectification repairs 
due to the poor workmanship, I think the fairest approach to take was for Mr R to obtain 
estimates from a contractor of their choice. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above, my final decision is that I think Zurich has done enough to 
resolve the complaints up to and including 17 May 2023. 
Mr R says he hasnt received the £250 compensation offered by Zurich on 17 May 2023. If 
Mr R wishes to accept this payment, he can contact Zurich with his bank details to arrange 
payment. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs R and Mr R to 
accept or reject my decision before 17 October 2023.
 
Geraldine Newbold
Ombudsman