DRN-4026872
The complaint
Mr W complains Clydesdale Bank Plc, trading as Virgin Money, closed his account without 
explanation causing him inconvenience and distress. He also complains about poor 
customer service. 
To keep matters simple, Ill mainly refer to Virgin in my decision.   
What happened
On 10 May 2022, Virgin sent Mr W a letter of its decision to close his bank account in 
60 days time from the date of the letter. 
Mr W says he tried to contact someone to complain about this as set out in the letter but was 
told to go into branch. But the nearest Virgin branch was some way away in another town. 
Here he was told to call another telephone number, and then another, but both operatives 
told him nothing about the reasons for closure.  
Unhappy, Mr W complained. Virgin didnt uphold Mr Ws complaint. In short, it said there 
hasnt been a banking error, the account has been closed in line with the terms of the 
account and it doesnt need to explain its actions. 
Mr W referred his complaint to this service.  One of our Investigators looked into Mr Ws 
complaint, and they didnt recommend it be upheld. In summary they found: 
- Virgins decision to close Mr Ws account was in line with the terms of the account, 
and was fair and reasonable 
- Virgin are under no obligation to give Mr W an explanation for its actions 
- Though the exact date the account would be closed was left blank on the notice of 
closure letter, Virgin had told Mr W it would be closing the account in 60 days from 
the date of the letter. So Virgins communication was clear enough 
Mr W did not agree with what our Investigator said. He says this account was closed due to 
separate complaint he raised about his credit card - and being sent to branch and then 
having to make calls to a fraud department, caused him distress and inconvenience. 
Mr W also complained about Virgin not complying with his data subject access request. But 
as our Investigator explained this needs to be dealt with separately, so will not be the subject 
of my decision. 
As Mr W didnt agree, this complaint has now been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided not to uphold this complaint. Ill explain why. 
Banks in the UK, like Virgin, are strictly regulated and must take certain actions in order to 
meet their legal and regulatory obligations. They are also required to carry out ongoing 
monitoring of an existing business relationship. That sometimes means banks need to 
restrict, or in some cases go as far as closing, customers accounts.
I note Virgin didnt restrict Mr Ws account in any way but wrote to him to explain its decision 
to close his account in 60 days time. Virgin is entitled to close an account just as a customer 
may close an account with it. But before Virgin closes an account, it must do so in a way, 
which complies with the terms and conditions of the account. However if a complaint about it 
has been referred to this service, it must show us why it acted as it did. 
The terms and conditions of the account, which Virgin and Mr W had to comply with, say it 
could close the account by giving him at least two months notice. And in certain 
circumstances it can close an account immediately or with less notice. 
Having looked at the information given to me by Virgin, Im satisfied it was entitled to close 
the account in the way that it has done. As I said above, Virgin had written to Mr W to 
explain its actions in May 2022. 
I can understand why Mr W wants an explanation as to why Virgin took this course of action. 
But I am not aware of any obligation under which it must do this.
Mr W says this matter has caused him trouble and upset. I do appreciate this matter 
wouldve caused him some difficulty. But having looked at whats happened in this particular 
case, I can see no basis on which I might make an award against Virgin given that I dont 
think it failed to properly follow its own procedures when it closed Mr Ws account.
I also note Mr W had full access to his funds and was able to facilitate a switch to another 
bank which was instigated in the corresponding month of June 2022. He also says he had 
another separate bank account. So I think any impact to him was minimal. Though, as Ive 
said, I can appreciate why this caused him inconvenience and some distress.  
Mr W complains about the omission of a specific date on the notice of closure letter. But the 
letter starts by saying the account will be closed in 60 days from its date. So I dont think 
Virgin failed in clearly explaining what was going to happen to him. 
Mr W also says Virgins customer service standards were poor as he was told to go into 
branch some distance away and there, he was told to call other departments who were 
unable to give him an explanation. 
As Ive said, Virgin have acted in line with the terms of the account, and fairly and 
reasonably in closing Mr Ws account.  Its unfortunate Mr W faced some inconvenience and 
distress here, but as Virgin did nothing wrong, I dont find basis enough to award any 
compensation for poor customer service. 
My final decision
For the reasons above, I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 20 October 2023.
 Ketan Nagla
Ombudsman