DRN-1783795
The complaint
Mr C complained about Liverpool Victoria Insurance Company Limited increasing his 
premium on his motor insurance policy. 
What happened
Mr C took out a policy with Liverpool Victoria (LV). Before his policys annual renewal in 
June 2019, LV sent him a renewal premium quote. The premium had gone up from the 
previous year. Mr C negotiated this down a little and accepted it. However he complained 
that it was too much.
Mr C had made a claim under his policy in January 2019 and LV had paid out on the claim.  
Mr C saw that the increase in his premium was more than the January claim amount. So he 
thought that LV were effectively making him pay for that claim and that this was unfair. He 
said that this had happened to him before and he had already complained to this service 
about another insurer doing the same thing. He thought that insurers were increasing 
consumers premiums to make them pay for the cost of their claims and that this was bad 
practice which should be stopped. 
LV didnt agree. They explained that they look at a number of different factors to calculate 
their risk and decide the renewal premium. Only one of these factors was a consumers 
claims history, including the number and type of claim a consumer made within a five-year 
period. Mr Cs incident in January 2019 happened after he first took out the policy with them 
so they were entitled to consider it prior to the policys annual renewal. And they noted that it 
was Mr Cs third fault claim in five years as thered been previous claims in 2017. So they 
said that did change Mr Cs risk profile for them.
However they said theyd assessed his new premium according to their underwriting process 
which was the same for all consumers in the same position as him. LV also said that Mr C 
didnt have to accept their renewal premium quote and was free to seek alternative 
insurance if he wished. 
Our investigator looked in to Mr Cs complaint and didnt think it should be upheld. He also 
explained that Mr Cs complaint against the other insurer had already been decided by this 
service and we wouldnt look at it again. He also explained that this service wont usually 
make judgments about the way insurers assess risk, the risk assessments themselves or the 
premiums they charge to cover a certain risk. Thats because these are commercial matters 
which are up to the insurer. However we can look and see if a consumer was treated in line 
with how other customers would be. 
The investigator looked at how the policy was priced, and thought LV had explained the 
increase, and rated Mr Cs renewal in line with its underwriting criteria. He didnt think that 
LV had been unreasonable in how theyd handled his policy or complaint and so he didnt 
ask them to do any more.
Mr C remained dissatisfied and so his complaint has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As the investigator explained to Mr C, insurers can choose what information to consider 
when setting the price of a policy. This price, or premium, is based on the risk an insurer 
wants to take. The factors considered, and the weight placed on these factors is the insurers 
choice. Its not my role, nor is it the role of this service, to say what factors an insurer needs 
to take into consideration. Nor is it for us to question the weight it places on these factors. All 
this is commercially sensitive information and allows competition in the market. But I do need 
to make sure LV have treated Mr C fairly, in line with their underwriting criteria. So I need to 
be sure LV have treated him the same as they would have done any other customer with the 
same circumstances. 
Mr C thought that because LV had increased his premium at renewal by more than the value 
of the January 2019 claim theyd paid out, he was effectively paying for the claim himself 
instead of LV paying it. As he said this had happened to him before with another insurer, he 
felt that this showed a pattern of industry behaviour which was unfair. However this service 
deals with every case on its own facts and every case is different. I am looking at the facts 
and circumstances of this case only. His previous complaint has been decided by this 
service already and so I wont comment on it here.
I can see that the January 2019 claim value and the increase in premium were similar, and 
so I can see why Mr C thought that the premium has increased by about the amount of the 
claim. However thats simply coincidence and is not supported by the underwriting 
information have shown us. 
And so I dont think it was unreasonable of LV to not tell him what his premium would have 
been if not for the fault incident in 2019. They said they wouldnt do so because the 2019 
claim had happened, and they could only base a premium quote on the facts and, in any 
event, that wasnt the only factor they used to calculate that premium.
And though Mr C was also unhappy that LV had taken into account the previous claims 
because they happened before he was insured with LV, that doesnt matter- insurers are 
entitled to take previous claims into account regardless. So I dont think LV were being 
unreasonable there.
 
As LV explained, Mr C didnt have to accept their renewal quote and could have looked for 
alternative insurance at a lower cost if hed wished. It was his choice to pay the higher 
premium.
I can see he feels very strongly about this, but I think that LV have treated Mr C fairly here, in 
line with their underwriting criteria and the same as they would have done any other 
customer with the same circumstances. Ive seen the information LV used in the form of their underwriting criteria, which is 
confidential because its business sensitive, and Ive seen the approach they use. Ive looked 
too at the difference between Mr Cs renewal quote and the price he paid for the previous 
year. And Im satisfied LV rated his policy based on the factors they consider, including his 
claims history, and rated him correctly in line with their underwriting criteria. Im satisfied LV 
treated him fairly by pricing his policy based on his previous claims and other factors, in line 
with their underwriting criteria. This means that I dont ask LV to do anything else. 
My final decision
For the reason Ive given above, its my final decision is that I dont uphold Mr Cs complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 21 October 2020.
 
Rosslyn Scott
Ombudsman
