DRN-3018864
The complaint
Mr T complains about the service he received from Santander UK Plc in relation to a 
£150,000 investment made. 
Hes unhappy about the redress offered by Santander. 
What happened
In September 2018, Mr T was advised to invest £150,000 in two unit-trusts  namely the 
Atlas Portfolio 4 and the Max 70% Share Portfolio  managed by the respective unit-trust 
fund managers. Mr T had also been allocated a Santander private banker. 
In September 2020, Mr T tried to contact his private banker to enquire about his ISA 
allowance but didnt receive a response. He contacted Santander again, a few days later, 
and spoke to an operative who he says was unable to locate his investments, causing him 
significant distress. 
I understand the operative got in touch with Mr Ts former private banker, who subsequently 
called him a few hours later, and apologised for not contacting him sooner. The private 
banker explained that hed changed roles and that due to a technical fault Mr T hadnt been 
allocated a new private banker. 
Shortly afterwards Mr T was appointed a new private banker. Santander also confirmed that 
he hadnt suffered a financial loss as a result. 
In due course, Mr T complained about the service he received. In a final response letter 
dated October 2020, Santander apologised but concluded that the matter had been 
resolved. It also offered Mr T £50 by way of an apology and a gesture of goodwill. 
Mr T remains unhappy that he wasnt consulted before Santander issued its final response 
and didnt initially provide referral rights. 
 
One of our investigators having initially considered the complaint thought it should be 
upheld, on the basis that Santanders behaviour caused Mr T significant distress and 
inconvenience. The investigator initially recommended Santander pay Mr T £200 
compensation for this. 
Mr T accepted the investigators initial view however Santander disagreed with it and 
submitted a number of points in response. In summary, it said:
In conclusion
1. A glitch in our system did result in Mr Ts (name anonymised) new Private Banker not 
being allocated to him in late 2018 when his Private Banker (name anonymised) was 
promoted to Area Manager, but Mr T was unaware of this as he hadnt attempted to 
use the Private Banker service during this time so it didnt impact on him. We have 
nevertheless offered him £50 by way of an apology, which I feel is fair and 
reasonable. A new Private Banker was allocated to him immediately as soon as the 
glitch came to light. 
2. He isnt paying for the Private Banking service. Its free of charge.
3. He hasnt suffered any financial detriment and his investments are self-managing so 
there is no onus on Santander to pro-actively contact him to review them.
4. I dont believe that not being able to speak to his Personal Banker for three working 
days warrants a compensation payment.
5. I dont believe that the complaint handler (name anonymised) not speaking to the 
customer before issuing her initial letter, or not including FOS rights, justifies a 
compensation payment or equates to poor complaint handling. Theres nothing 
wrong with how his complaint has been handled.
6. Ive confirmed above, with evidence from our Holdings system, that Mr Ts accounts / 
investments were never lost by Santander.
7. I can find no reason why the operative (name anonymised) would not have been able 
to locate his Investment Hub on our Holdings system and I cant find any evidence to 
support his assertion. Additionally, Mr T could have checked them immediately online 
himself. Consequently, there is no evidence that he has experienced a significant 
level of anxiety and distress and I can see no justification to support a compensation 
payment of £200.
The investigator, having considered Santanders response, was persuaded to change his 
view. In summary, he said:
I think we can agree, Santander made an error when they failed to allocate a private 
banker. I also feel the private banker (name anonymised) should have contacted Mr T (name 
anonymised) sooner. However, Santander did resolve the error, apologised and offered 
£50.00 compensation, which I feel is fair and reasonable in the context of the 
circumstances.
Mr T disagreed with the investigators view and asked for an ombudsmans decision. In 
summary, he said that Santander was chancing its arm. Its reasons for not having a record 
of the conversation are convenient for its own purposes. 
Santanders treatment of him has been disgusting  suggesting that it had resolved the 
complaint when it hadnt even spoken to him and hadnt given him proper referral rights. In 
the circumstances he doesnt think £50 compensation for the distress and inconvenience 
caused is fair and reasonable. Despite paying £3,750 in fees, Santander couldnt even help 
him when he needed it and so should be held accountable for its actions.  
The investigator having considered the additional points wasnt persuaded to change his 
mind. He explained that the fees Mr T refers to, wasnt for the ongoing advice and services, 
it was simply for the advice and recommendation that Santander initially made. 
The investigator maintained that the evidence supports that Santander failed to allocate a 
private banker, but theres insufficient evidence that the investment/account was 
missing/lost.  
As no agreement has been reached, the matter has been passed to me for review.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.Having done so, I agree with the investigators latest conclusion. Im not going to uphold this 
complaint. 
On the face of the evidence, and on balance, despite what Mr T says, Im unable safely say 
that hes entitled to any further compensation in the circumstances.  
Before I explain why this is the case, I think its important for me to note I very much 
recognise Mr Ts strength of feeling about this matter. He has provided submissions to 
support the complaint, which Ive read and considered carefully. However, I hope that he 
wont take the fact my findings focus on what I consider to be the central issues, and not in 
as much detail, as a discourtesy. 
The purpose of my decision isnt to address every single point raised. My role is to consider 
the evidence presented by him, and Santander, and reach what I think is an independent, 
fair and reasonable decision based on the facts of the case. My role isnt to be a consumer 
champion. 
In deciding whats fair and reasonable, I must consider the relevant law, regulation and best 
industry practice. But its for me to decide, based on the available information Ive been 
given, whats more likely than not to have happened. 
I note that Mr Ts former private banker had been promoted at the end of 2018.  Theres no 
dispute that after this, owing to a glitch/technical fault, Mr T was left without a personal 
banker. However, Mr T wasnt aware of this until he called his private banker, two years 
later, in September 2020, to try and book an appointment to discuss his investments. 
Therefore, and on balance, Im satisfied that Mr T was unaffected by this oversight. 
In other words, Im unable to safely say that this oversight has had an adverse impact on Mr 
T or his investments. Im mindful that the investments were managed by the respective unit-
trust fund managers and not a private banker, so wouldnt have been impacted by this.
I also cant say that Mr Ts been deprived of this service when he hasnt tried to use it. 
Besides, if Mr T wanted/needed to, he couldve called the private banking call centre which I 
understand is open outside of normal working hours.
Despite what Mr T says, I understand that he paid fees only in relation to initial investment 
advice (in 2018), and not for any ongoing service, therefore I cant say that he paid for a 
service that he didnt receive. 
Ive seen nothing to suggest that Santander was obliged to provide an ongoing advisory 
service. I understand that the private banker service is a separate, and free service, that isnt 
linked to the fees he paid for the investment advice.  
In a separate point, I understand that Mr T is unhappy that his private banker didnt return his 
call until a few days later. But Im also mindful of Santanders point that Mr Ts private 
banker, by that stage, had been promoted to a different role, and therefore wasnt obliged to 
call him back immediately. In any case, Im mindful that Mr T got to speak to him a few days 
later. 
Its unclear if the call operative was unable to locate Mr Ts investment based on the details 
he provided. I note calls to private bankers mobile phones arent recorded so theres no way 
of knowing for sure what happened. And a subsequent call note makes no mention of the 
operative not being able to find Mr Ts investments.  Whilst Im mindful of Mr Ts recollection, Im unable to safely say that his investment had 
been lost. I note Santander said that the investment was always safe, and that Mr T couldve 
logged on to his investment hub to confirm this immediately. 
Even if Santander was unable to immediately locate Mr Ts investment, based on the 
information he provided  which on balance I think is unlikely  Im mindful that this wouldve 
only been a momentary oversight, and Mr T was called back by his (former) private banker, 
the same day  only a few hours later  to apologise and to explain that hed moved roles 
and that owing to an technical error Mr T wasnt appointed a new private banker. I note that 
in due course this matter was promptly resolved, and Mr T was appointed a new private 
banker. 
So, whilst I appreciate that Mr T is unhappy and upset by the service provided by Santander, 
on balance Im unable to say that hes due any compensation as a result of this. Im mind of 
Santanders observation that he hasnt suffered a financial loss, and just because the service 
didnt meet Mr Ts expectations doesnt mean Santander behaved unreasonably. 
 
Im mindful of Mr Ts comments about the final response, but in the circumstances, I dont 
think Santander was wrong to express its opinion that the complaint had been resolved. Im 
conscious that by then Mr T had been offered an apology, appointed a new personal banker, 
and assured that thered been no loss to his account. In other words, hed been put in the 
position he wouldve been in, but for the error. In the circumstances, I cant say the £50 
compensation was unreasonable. 
 
Whilst I appreciate Mr T was unhappy that Santander didnt contact him to discuss his 
complaint before a decision was made, I dont think Santander was obliged to, unless it 
needed to ask questions or seek clarification. In this instance, given the relatively 
straightforward nature of the complaint and background, I cant say that Santander was 
unreasonable not to contact Mr T, before providing a response  in this instance by a 
specialist complaint investigator for private banking. I note she subsequently spoke to Mr T, 
when she needed to, after he raised additional issues.  
Notwithstanding what Mr T says about the referral rights, I cant see that this has had an 
adverse impact on him, or that he didnt know he could refer his complaint to us. I also note 
the issue was rectified within two days and Mr Ts complaint wasnt at risk of being out of 
jurisdiction. 
I note the business has offered to pay Mr T £50 compensation as a gesture of goodwill. In 
the circumstances I dont think Mr Ts entitled to any further compensation. 
I appreciate Mr T will be thoroughly unhappy Ive reached the same conclusion as the 
investigators latest view. Whilst I appreciate his frustration, Im not going to ask the business 
to do anything. 
On the face of the available evidence, and on balance, Im unable to uphold this complaint 
and give him what he wants.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr T to accept or 
reject my decision before 3 December 2021.
 Dara Islam
Ombudsman