DRN-1621826
 
The complaint
Mr W complains that U K Insurance Limited ("UKI") has not fairly settled a claim under his 
travel insurance policy. 
What happened
Mr Ws gold chain was stolen when he was on holiday, along with damage to two articles of 
clothing. Mr W made a claim and UKI said it would pay a total of £360, with £300 being the 
maximum amount payable under the policy for the stolen chain.
Mr W felt that UKI should pay at least £500 for the stolen chain. In his opinion, the terms of 
the policy are unclear on the limits.
Our investigator didnt uphold this complaint. He felt the policy terms did make it sufficiently 
clear that £300 was the maximum amount payable for the gold chain.
Because Mr W didnt agree with our investigator, this case has been passed to me for a final 
decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive reviewed the policy terms and outlined the relevant sections below.
Section H outlines the cover for baggage. It says UKI will provide cover if baggage is lost or 
stolen and it is this section that applies to Mr Ws claim. Section H makes it clear that the 
most UKI will pay is:
£300 for any one item
£500 in total for valuable items
 
Both the above need to be read together along with the policy definitions, as outlined below:
Baggage is defined as personal possessions or valuable items
Personal possessions are defined as luggage, clothing, and personal effects but 
excluding personal money and valuable items
Valuable items include jewellery, watches, items made of or containing gold, silver, 
precious materials
I think its clear that Mr Ws gold chain is covered under the baggage section and that it 
qualifies as a valuable item. If Mr W had other valuable items stolen, the maximum UKI 
would have paid is £500 in total for all the valuable items. But it wont pay more than £300 for each individual item. On this basis, I think the £300 limit UKI has applied to the gold chain 
as one item is fair.
Mr W feels the terms are unclear and that UKI should pay at least £500. If the terms read 
£500 in total for any one valuable item Id agree, but this is not the case here. The terms 
make it clear the maximum payable for any one item is £300 and if theres more than one 
valuable items in a claim, this is limited to a maximum of £500 in total for all the valuable 
items combined. I haven't seen anything to suggest it wouldn't be fair to apply the limit set 
out in the policy terms.
Overall, based on everything Ive seen on this complaint, I think UKI has acted fairly in how it 
has settled the claim.
My final decision
For the reasons detailed above, I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 17 June 2020.
Peter Whiteley
Ombudsman