DRN-4061037
The complaint
Mr H, who is represented by a third party, complains that NewDay Ltd (NewDay), trading 
as Aqua, irresponsibly granted him a credit card that he couldnt afford to repay. 
What happened
Mr H entered into an agreement with NewDay to have access to credit with an Aqua  credit 
card account. The account was opened in June 2018 with a credit limit of £1,200. There 
followed five credit limit increases: in October 2018 to £2,200, in June 2019 to £3,950, in 
August 2020 to £4,950, in August 2021 to £5,700 and finally in March 2022 to £6,700. 
The account was closed in May 2022 at Mr Hs request. 
Mr H says NewDay didnt complete adequate affordability checks when it opened the  
account. He also says if it had, it would have seen that it wasnt affordable for him as he was 
already struggling financially and having the card worsened his financial position. 
Our adjudicator said that NewDay shouldnt have increased Mr Hs credit limit in 
August 2021 as by that point its likely that the account was no longer affordable for him.  
As NewDay disagrees with our adjudicators finding, the complaint has come to me for a final 
decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
NewDay needed to take reasonable steps to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In 
practice this means that it should have carried out proportionate checks to make sure Mr H  
could afford to repay what he was being lent in a sustainable manner. These checks could 
take into account a number of different things, such as how much was being lent, the 
repayment amounts and the consumers income and expenditure. With this in mind, in the 
early stages of a lending relationship, I think less thorough checks might be reasonable and 
proportionate.
But certain factors might point to the fact that NewDay should fairly and reasonably have 
done more to establish that any lending was sustainable for Mr H. These factors include:
the lower a consumers income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
make any loan repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income);
the higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more 
difficult to meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income);
the greater the frequency of borrowing, and the longer the period of time 
during which a customer has been indebted (reflecting the risk that prolonged 
indebtedness may signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, 
unsustainable).
There may even come a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly 
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable.
Account opening
The credit check NewDay completed looked into Mr Hs financial circumstances, using 
information obtained from credit reference agencies. New Day also relied on information 
Mr H gave in his application. Mr H said he had an annual income of around £22,000, which 
works out to a net income of around £1,500 per month. Ive seen that NewDay says it 
verified Mr Hs income. The checks also showed he had around £13,000 in outstanding 
unsecured credit. There was no evidence of Mr H having any recent defaults, payment 
arrangements or arrears elsewhere. However, just because it looks as if NewDay carried out 
proportionate checks, it doesnt automatically mean it made a fair lending decision. So, Ive 
thought about what the evidence and information showed. 
Ive reviewed the information and evidence NewDay gathered. Having done so Im satisfied 
that the opening checks showed that the agreement was likely to be affordable to Mr H. I say 
this because, given the available information about Mr Hs  income and debt, it was likely 
that the initial opening credit limit of £1,200 would be affordable for him. I therefore dont 
think New Day acted unfairly when approving the finance application.
First credit limit increase  October 2018
Mr H has provided us with bank statements that show his income and expenditure leading 
up to the first credit limit increase. I see that Mr H was receiving around £1,500 per month in 
net income and, alongside his regular outgoings, had other credit payments of around £400. 
Mr H tended to make monthly repayments that were above the minimum required. Ive noted 
though that by this point he had incurred two late payment fees and another fee for going 
over his credit limit. 
I therefore agree with our adjudicator that had NewDay taken further steps to check on 
Mr Hs financial situation, on balance it wouldnt have been unfair to increase Mr Hs credit 
limit given that overall he was managing his account reasonably well. 
Second and third credit limit increases  June 2019 and August 2020
In June 2019 and August 2020 Mr Hs credit limit was increased first to £3,950 and then to 
£4,950. 
For these increases, the bank statements provided by Mr H show he was receiving a slightly 
higher income whilst his level of committed expenditure appears to have reduced, to around 
£700. At the point of the third limit increase, it looks like Mr Hs committed monthly  
expenditure had gone down, to around £1,000. His monthly credit commitments appeared to 
be around £175 by then. He had though incurred three more overlimit fees before the 
second credit limit increase, but didnt incur any further fees prior to the third increase. But 
he was also still continuing to make payments well above the minimum required. So I again 
agree that Mr H still appears to have been managing his account reasonably well. 
Fourth credit limit increase  August 2021In August 2021 NewDay increased Mr Hs credit limit to £5,700. Again, I think it would have 
been proportionate for NewDay to have checked Mr Hs income and to have taken steps to 
find out more about his committed expenditure and living costs. Had it done so, its likely 
NewDay would have seen that Mr H had recently taken out further borrowing elsewhere that 
had increased his total credit, aside from NewDay, from £3,500 to around £12,500. So whilst 
Mr Hs income had increased only slightly, to £2,000, his statements show his committed 
expenditure for living costs and credit was around £1,700 per month. He was now making 
credit payments of around £530 each month. So, whilst Mr H appeared to be managing his 
NewDay account relatively well and was continuing to make payments above the minimum, I 
agree there was a concern by now about Mr Hs total level of credit repayments. Taking into 
account the increased NewDay credit limit, he would now be looking at making payments 
towards credit that totalling around 35% of his monthly income. 
This additional borrowing is something I would have expected NewDay to be aware of. I 
think there was a real risk that with the very substantial increase in Mr Hs overall level of 
financial commitment, his financial situation was likely to be at risk of deteriorating with a 
level of debt that had or would soon become unsustainable. 
Taking all of these issues into account, it follows that I agree with our adjudicator that 
NewDay ought not to have increased Mr Hs credit limit after it gave him his fourth credit limit 
increase in August 2021. 
Putting things right  what NewDay needs to do
NewDay shouldnt have increased Mr Hs credit limit from £4,950 to £5,700 in August 2021. 
NewDay therefore needs to do the following: 
Rework Mr Hs account to ensure that all interest and charges should be 
removed from the account for balances over £4,950, being the previous credit limit 
increase. All late payment and over limit fees should also be removed; and
If an outstanding balance remains on the account once these adjustments 
have been made, NewDay should contact Mr H to arrange an affordable 
repayment plan for the account. Once Mr H has repaid the outstanding balance, it 
should remove any adverse information recorded on Mr Hs credit file from 27 
August 2021 onwards. 
OR
If the effect of removing all interest, fees and charges results in there no longer 
being an outstanding balance, then any extra should be treated as overpayments 
and returned to Mr H, along with 8% simple interest per year on the overpayments 
from the date they were made (if they were) until the date of settlement. NewDay 
should also remove any adverse information from Mr Hs credit file from 27 August 
2021.
HM Revenue & Customs requires NewDay to take off tax from this interest. NewDay 
must give Mr H a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if he asks for one.
My final decision
I therefore partially uphold this complaint and require NewDay Ltd to pay compensation as 
set out above. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 21 July 2023. Michael Goldberg
Ombudsman