DRN-3142725
The complaint
Mr and Mrs S are unhappy that U K Insurance Limited (UKI) has declined their travel
insurance claim. 
What happened
Mr and Mrs S have travel insurance cover alongside their current account. The policy
included cover for worldwide trips and UKI is the underwriter of the policy.
On 24 May 2019, Mr and Mrs S booked their holiday through a travel provider (Ill call them
A, for ease). Their intention was to travel from 10 March to 23 March 2020 and to more than
one destination.
They departed to their first destination on 10 March 2020, as theyd planned.
On 15 March 2020, the Foreign and Commonwealth Office (FCO) advised all but essential
travel to the country Mr and Mrs S had travelled to. On the advice of A, Mr and Mrs S cut
their trip short (curtailed it) and paid extra for their flights in order to return to the UK on that
same day.
On their return, A confirmed to Mr and Mrs S that they werent able to provide a refund for
the losses theyd incurred in cutting their trip short. Mr and Mrs S therefore submitted a claim
with UKI under their travel insurance policy. Their claim was for the additional costs they
incurred on having to return to the UK earlier and for the unused pre-paid costs from their 
trip.
UKI agreed to cover the cost of the additional flights Mr and Mrs S had paid for their return to
the UK, minus the excess. It didnt however agree to cover the cost of the unused pre-paid
costs of their curtailed trip. UKI said because Mr and Mrs S booked a package holiday, the
costs should be recovered directly from A due to the obligations it had under The Package
Travel and Linked Travel Arrangements Regulations 2018 (PTR). UKI also said, if the claim
is for cancellation, Mr and Mrs S should approach their credit card provider to make a claim
under section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974. And finally, UKI said Mr and Mrs S
should also use the legal expenses section of their policy to try and recover their losses via 
this route.
Mr and Mrs S didnt agree and brought their complaint to this service. Our investigator
looked into what had happened and upheld it. She said she didnt think UKI had fairly
declined the claim. She further explained that:
UKI accepted the claim falls under the curtailment section, but it excluded the claim 
because it thought the expenses claimed could be recovered elsewhere. However, 
Mr and Mrs S were able to show they couldnt get a refund from A.;
There was no evidence to show that PTR applied. Mr and Mrs S therefore had no 
alternative options to recover their losses from;
She considered the guidance issued by the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA). This 
said consumers shouldnt be expected to take more than reasonable steps to pursue 
a refund;
She didnt think Mr and Mrs S would be expected to do any more in order to get their 
claim settled; and
The claim should be covered under the curtailment section of the policy as she didnt 
think UKI had acted fairly in declining the claim.
UKI didnt agree with the investigators assessment of Mr and Mrs Ss complaint. So, the
complaint has been passed to me to make a decision.
In summary, UKI said the following:
Theres no cover for any expenses that can be claimed elsewhere;
There is cover under the legal expenses section of the policy which Mr and Mrs S 
can use to make a full recovery. This route is beneficial to a customer who would 
otherwise have to pay an excess under the cancellation section of the policy;
If the claim was deemed not to have a reasonable prospect of success by the 
solicitor appointed, then Mr and Mrs Ss claim would be paid under the curtailment 
section of their travel policy subject to any applicable excess; and
Guidance from The Competition and Markets Authority (CMA) has to be taken into 
account. By ignoring this UKI would be encouraging bad practices by travel 
companies in failing to return monies to customers despite their legal obligations.
UKI is of the view that this service ought to agree that this complaint should be assessed
under the legal expenses section of the policy. If the conclusion is that there is no
reasonable prospect of success, then the claim will be paid.
I issued a provisional decision on 20 October 2021 along the following lines, which said that I 
intended to uphold the complaint: 
Our service is an alternative to the courts which settles disputes informally taking
into account what is fair and reasonable in all the circumstances. The relevant regulators
rules say that insurers must handle claims promptly and fairly. And they mustnt turn down
claims unreasonably.
Ive considered, amongst other things, UKIs submissions, their travel policy wording, the
legislative and regulatory framework, the Competition and Market Authority (CMA) guidance
and Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) guidance, in particular the FCAs April 2021 Finalised
Guidance: Cancellations and refunds: helping consumers with rights and routes to refunds
(the Guidance), and good industry practice.
The policy terms and conditions
The starting point is the policy terms.
Page 24 of the policy document states:
Section C
Cutting short your trip (after your trip has started)
What is covered
1. Curtailment
We will cover you for your:unused accommodation costs and travel costs (including car hire, excursions and 
activities) .

The Foreign and Commonwealth Office advising against All Travel or All
but essential travel to your destination, providing the advice came into force
after your departure date on your trip.
While on their trip, on 15 March 2020, the FCO advised against all but essential travel to the
country they were in, and at that point, Mr and Mrs S were advised by A to return to the UK.
As a result of this, their trip was cut short meaning they couldnt continue to the next
destination theyd planned. They were left with a loss from the unused, pre-paid costs of the
remaining part of their trip. So, based on what happened in relation to the terms and
conditions, Im satisfied there is an insured event, which would be covered by the policy.
The key issue in this complaint is whether Mr and Mrs Ss losses are recoverable from
elsewhere as the policy terms and conditions exclude recoverable expenses. Also, on page
24, this says:
What is not covered:
We will not cover:

Any expenses (including Air Passenger Duty) that you can recover from elsewhere
The exclusion says that UKI wont cover any expenses that Mr and Mrs S can recover from
elsewhere. However, the ordinary meaning of the word can as defined in the dictionary, is
to be able to.
I think the exclusion reasonably applies where there is a real, viable opportunity for
Mr and Mrs S to recover their losses from their travel provider. Otherwise the exclusion
would apply even if there was only a slim or remote chance that Mr and Mrs S may be able
to recover their losses from the provider.
Id expect Mr and Mrs S to take reasonable steps to recover their losses from their travel
provider and Im satisfied they have done so. Mr and Mrs S have shown evidence they had
to cut short their trip. Theyve shown evidence of their loss in monetary terms and
confirmation from A that it cant provide a refund or recover their losses. Ive also seen a
further letter from A explaining why a refund isnt possible. All of this shows Mr and Mrs S
have taken reasonable steps to recover their losses from A.  
Additionally, UKI refer to the fact that Mr and Mrs S paid for the holiday using their credit
card. It says Mr and Mrs S ought to approach their credit card provider and make a claim
under section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974, I dont think this is reasonable in this
case. I say this because UKI informed Mr and Mrs S on 10 July 2020 that if the claim is for
cancellation, Mr and Mrs S may be able to make a claim via this route. However, their claim
isnt based on them cancelling their holiday but in fact curtailing it (cutting it short). Based on
the guidance provided to them by UKI at the time, I wouldnt expect them to make a claim
under section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974. Also, its around 18 months since
Mr and Mrs S cut their trip short and UKIs guidance to contact their credit card provider was
on the basis that their trip was cancelled. As the trip wasnt cancelled but cut short, making a
claim via this route would be unreasonable in the circumstances here.
I think Mr and Mrs S have taken matters as far as they can against A and have reasonably
tried and failed, to get a refund. Therefore, I dont think the exclusion applies to
Mr and Mrs Ss claim and that cover is available under the policy.In reaching this conclusion, Ive taken into account the overall purpose of the policy, which is
to offer peace of mind and protect consumers like Mr and Mrs S from losses which they
cannot, or cannot reasonably, recover from another source. And Ive also taken into account
that any ambiguity in the wording of the contract of travel insurance should be construed in
Mr and Mrs Ss favour, not UKIs.
The Legal Expenses Insurance (LEI) cover
UKIs main argument is that Mr and Mrs S should utilise the legal expenses section of their 
policy to recover their losses.
It is not a requirement of the policy terms and conditions for Mr and Mrs S to utilise their 
legal expenses cover. If UKI intended to require policyholders to use their LEI cover, then it
was open to UKI to make that an explicit requirement of the policy. But, nowhere in the
policy wording does UKI state that making a claim via the LEI section of cover is a
pre-requisite for cover. So, Im not persuaded there is a contractual requirement, or any
other grounds, to imply the existence of such a requirement.
Furthermore, UKIs approach is also inconsistent with guidance from the industry regulator
which states that requiring a consumer to take court action is unreasonable.
Section 3, paras.3.5 and 3.6, the Guidance says (previously Annex 1, paras.1.6 and 1.7 of
the February 2021 Guidance consultation.):
3.5  where an insurance provider requires policyholders to demonstrate or take
reasonable steps to mitigate a financial loss under the terms of the policy, consumers
should not have to go to unreasonable lengths to do this. For example, where a
travel provider is resisting a refund, and the consumer is unlikely to have a valid
section 75 claim, a consumer should not be expected to take more than reasonable
steps to pursue the refund. What is reasonable will depend on the circumstances in
each case.
3.6 For example, a consumer might be seeking a refund after a hotel has cancelled
their booking. We think it could be reasonable to expect a consumer to have pursued
a claim up to a point where it appears from the correspondence (including the
absence of replies) that a refund is unlikely to be forthcoming, or there is insufficient
indication of when it may be expected so as to give rise to sufficient uncertainty as to
whether there may be a refund. This will depend on the facts and circumstances  
but where a consumer can demonstrate that they have made several unsuccessful
attempts to obtain refund from the hotel, it might be unreasonable to expect them to
do more. We would generally view it as unreasonable to expect that a consumer 
would need to go to court to recover their money.
UKI argues that it isnt unreasonable to expect consumers like Mr and Mrs S to pursue their 
losses via the courts. However, the General Exclusions section of the UKI policy says that:
We are entitled to take proceedings in your name to get back any money we have
paid under this policy.
Overall, I havent been persuaded UKIs arguments that claiming on the LEI section of the
policy is in Mr and Mrs Ss best interests. While UKI seem to consider it not fair or
reasonable for them to have to pursue court proceedings to recover their costs, they appear
to consider it entirely fair and reasonable to expect consumers like Mr and Mrs S to pursue
court proceedings on almost identical grounds. I dont think that would be treating them
fairly.The FCA guidance supports its consumer protection objective and was designed to reduce
consumer confusion and frustration by setting out more information to insurers and to make
the consumer journey easier. It wasnt designed to set out the order in which consumers
should make claims but to ensure policyholders should not go to unreasonable lengths to
demonstrate or mitigate financial loss. Potentially that would mean a possible lengthy and
costly means of recovering their losses through the court, which I dont think is reasonable.
Does PTR apply?
UKI has also said that Mr and Mrs S have the option to recover their losses via a travel
industry scheme. There are some circumstances in which I might think that was fair or
reasonable to do so. But, in the specific circumstances of this case, I dont think it is.
Ive considered PTR. I think its difficult to say this wasnt a package holiday as there was
more than one element making up the booking. Mr and Mrs S attempted to make a claim via
A and, as Ive said above, theyve taken reasonable steps to do so.
PTR applies in cases where the trip has been cancelled prior to departure. Mr and Mrs Ss
claim is for curtailment so the fact that UKI has asked Mr and Mrs S to pursue the recovery
of their costs isnt an option that is open to them. Ive also considered the terms and
conditions provided by A which states that it (A) isnt responsible for such refunds. Theres 
also no evidence to suggest A was a member of any other trade association or body where
Mr and Mrs S could seek to recover their costs from. Im satisfied, in the circumstances
therefore, that it isnt reasonable for Mr and Mrs S to recover their losses via this route.
Conclusion
Overall, Im satisfied Mr and Mrs S have taken reasonable steps to show their costs arent
recoverable and there are no further steps for Mr and Mrs S to take. Im satisfied therefore
theyve exhausted all avenues available to them.
So, taking all of the above into consideration, I dont think its reasonable for UKI to reject the
claim and Im not persuaded UKI has declined Mr and Mrs Ss claim fairly. Im also not
persuaded that Mr and Mrs S should approach their credit card provider or use the legal
expenses section of their policy to decide on the reasonable prospect of success on their 
claim. And if that prospect isnt likely, then for Mr and Mrs S to have to re-submit a claim with
UKI  particularly as the claim would otherwise be covered by the policy terms.
The overall test is whether theyve shown sufficiently theyve taken reasonable steps to
recover their loss elsewhere. In the circumstances here, Im satisfied Mr and Mrs S have
shown theyve done this.
Both parties have responded to my provisional decision. Both have said they have nothing 
further to add to the provisional decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As neither party provided further arguments or comments, I see no reason to depart from my 
provisional decision of 20 October 2021 to uphold Mr and Mrs Ss complaint.  
Im satisfied therefore that Mr and Mrs S have taken reasonable steps to show their costs 
arent recoverable and that there are no further steps for them to take. Taking everything into consideration, I dont think its reasonable for UKI to decline the claim as Im not persuaded it 
did this fairly. 
Putting things right
Im upholding Mr and Mrs Ss complaint and direct UKI to settle the claim, subject to the
remaining policy terms and limits, minus any applicable excess. It should also add 8%
simple interest per year from the date the claim was submitted to the date of settlement.
If UKI considers that its required by HM Revenue & Customs (HMRC) to deduct income tax 
from that interest, it should tell Mr and Mrs S how much its taken off. It should also give 
them a tax deduction certificate if they ask for one, so they can reclaim the tax from HMRC if 
appropriate. 
  
My final decision
For the reasons given, Im upholding Mr and Mrs Ss complaint against U K Insurance 
Limited and direct U K Insurance Limited to put things right as Ive outlined above. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S and Mrs S to 
accept or reject my decision before 2 December 2021.
 
Nimisha Radia
Ombudsman