DRN-2917852
The complaint
Mrs L complains about the advice she received from Phoenix Life Assurance Limited 
(Phoenix), then trading as Pearl, to transfer from her Occupational Pension Scheme (OPS) 
into a Personal Pension Plan (PPP). She says the advice was unsuitable and that when this 
was later reviewed, she wasnt appropriately compensated.
Mrs L is represented in this matter by a claims management company that Ill refer to as F.
What happened
In 1993 Mrs L received advice from Phoenix to transfer her OPS into a PPP. She accepted
the advice and transferred.
In 2000, as part of the industry wide Pension Review, Phoenix invited Mrs L to have the
advice she received reviewed. Mrs L accepted the invite and following a review, Phoenix
concluded that she shouldnt have been advised to transfer out of her OPS. Phoenix wrote to
Mrs L with an offer to put matters right. To summarise, it said:
Its calculations had been done in accordance with requirements set by the regulator.
Its offer involved enhancing Mrs Ls PPP by an amount intended to match the 
benefits she wouldve accrued if shed stayed in her OPS.
It would make a payment into Mrs Ls PPP, increasing its value by £13,975.25.
Having accepted Phoenixs offer, Mrs Ls PPP was enhanced accordingly.
F complained to Phoenix on Mrs Ls behalf in June 2020. It said that Mrs L had been poorly 
advised to transfer in 1993 and she was seeking redress in line with the Financial Conduct 
Authoritys (FCAs) more recent guidance for firms for calculating redress for unsuitable 
defined benefit (DB) transfers.
Phoenix responded and didnt uphold the complaint. It said Mrs Ls plan had been reviewed 
in line with regulatory guidance at the time and that shed been compensated accordingly. It 
explained that it wasnt obligated to review the transfer again and reminded Mrs L that shed 
accepted its compensation offer in full and final settlement of the matter. 
Unhappy with Phoenixs response, F referred Mrs Ls complaint to our service, saying the 
transfer hadnt been reviewed in line with the regulatory requirements and standards 
applicable at the time. Specifically, it didnt accept that Phoenix had properly investigated 
whether reinstatement in Mrs Ls OPS was possible, and it described assumptions used by 
Phoenix in its redress calculation for policy fees and fund management charges as 
implausible.
One of our investigators considered the matter and in summary said that:
Hed seen nothing to suggest Phoenix hadnt reviewed and redressed Mrs Ls plan in 
line with the Pension Review guidance at the time.
The evidence showed that Phoenix had considered reinstatement in Mrs Ls OPS 
first, however this wasnt possible.
There was nothing indicating that assumptions Phoenix used for Mrs Ls plan costs 
were inappropriate.
F disagreed and repeated that inadequate assumptions for Mrs Ls plan costs had been 
used by Phoenix in the Pension Review calculation.  
As no agreement could be reached, Mrs Ls complaint was passed to me for a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The advice in 1993
In its original complaint to Phoenix, F set out various reasons for why it considered the
1993 advice inappropriate. Ive noted the points F made however, I dont consider them
material to my determination of this complaint. I say this because Phoenix has already
carried out a review of the advice and completed a loss calculation. And in doing so, it has
essentially already conceded the issue regarding suitability. With this in mind, I consider the 
issue for me to determine here to be whether Phoenix reviewed the advice Mrs L received to
transfer her OPS in accordance with the regulators guidance and whether it now needs to
do anything else to put things right.
The Pension Review and the regulators updated guidance for reviewing pension transfers
The pension review was designed to be a one-off exercise and was implemented to rectify
widespread mis-selling and put customers, as much as possible, back into the position they
wouldve been in had they not received inappropriate advice.
The methodology for putting things right was set by the regulator of the time, the Securities 
and Investment Board (SIB). The financial business firstly had to determine whether it was 
possible for the customer to be reinstated into their former DB scheme. If that wasnt 
possible, the financial business needed to put the consumer back into the position they 
would have been in by way of a lump sum pension contribution. 
Several assumptions, based on what the regulator thought were fair at the time, were used 
in the redress calculations  including the expected future growth rate of the pension funds 
to produce the required benefits at retirement. Most pension reviews were done between 
1994 and 2003 and the assumptions were revised regularly during that time.
In general, the assumptions to be used for the calculation were those relevant to the time
that the calculation was done, and compensation paid. This included where mistakes were
discovered in the original calculations  a re-calculation would usually be done using the
same assumptions that applied at the date of the original calculation.
Unfortunately, in many cases the assumed growth rates used in the calculations didnt
materialise. This, combined with annuity rates falling, have had an impact on the benefits
provided by personal pensions. So, although it was thought the compensation paid following
the review plus the existing value of the pension would be high enough to match the
occupational scheme at retirement date, this hasnt been the case for many consumers.
But that alone isnt a reason to redo the pension review and recalculate compensation. Thereview was designed to provide finality to both parties and draw a line under the matter 
businesses could provide redress for mis-selling knowing that it wouldnt be liable for future
compensation and consumers could be re-assured that the mis-selling had been recognised
and put right at that point in time using what were considered to be reasonable assumptions
without the need to revisit the matter many years later. Because of this, the pension review 
was a very tightly regulated process. It required participating pension providers to undertake 
very clearly defined tasks. A sample of calculations would have been checked, both by the 
businesses and the regulator, with any systemic problems identified and corrected. There 
were regular audits by the regulator to ensure the reviews were being undertaken correctly.
In 2017 the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) issued new guidance  FG17/9. This was
designed for complaints upheld about occupational pension scheme transfers received after
3 August 2016 or for complaints received before this date that hadnt been settled in full and
final settlement already.
It was initially envisaged that any case that fell within the pension review period would be
excluded from the updated guidance. But after the consultation period, FG17/9 said some
cases could be included  where the financial business didnt review the relevant pension
transaction in accordance with the regulatory standards at the time and/or where the
particular circumstances of the case were not addressed by those standards.
Fs concern about Phoenixs redress calculations
Phoenix has provided evidence of the calculations it carried out in 2000, which it says were 
carried out in line with the regulators requirements.
F says Phoenixs calculations were based on inappropriate assumptions about plan costs. 
And it says Phoenix failed to properly investigate whether, at the time of the review, it was 
possible for Mrs L to be reinstated into her former OPS. With this in mind, Ive considered 
the available evidence, including Phoenixs Pension Review file for Mrs L. 
Based on what Ive seen, theres nothing which suggests that Phoenix failed to make 
necessary provisions in its calculation for the fees and charges associated with Mrs Ls plan. 
Phoenixs file indicates that, where relevant, these were taken into account. Ive not found 
anything which indicates that the figures relied on in this respect were unreasonable. 
Furthermore, Mrs Ls representative hasnt said what exactly it considers implausible about 
the figures Phoenix used or provided any supporting evidence. 
The available evidence shows that Phoenix appropriately accounted for relevant fees and 
charges in its calculation and theres nothing which leads me to conclude otherwise. So, Im 
not persuaded that it contravened the regulators guidance in the way F has suggested. And 
I cant use hindsight and say now, on reflection, that the assumptions are so wrong that the 
calculation should be redone.
Regarding Fs concern about enquiries Phoenix made into reinstating Mrs L into her former 
OPS, its not clear what specifically F takes issue with. Phoenix has confirmed that 
reinstatement was the preferred method of redress at the time, and it wouldve pursued this 
if it was possible. The Pension Review File shows that as well as gathering information 
about Mrs Ls former OPS, Phoenix also queried whether she could be reinstated in the 
scheme. As the scheme advised that this wasnt possible for former employees whod 
transferred out, Phoenix offered to enhance the value of Mrs Ls PPP instead. I dont think 
this was inappropriate action to take given the circumstances. 
In view of this, and in the absence of anything to show that incorrect costs assumptions were 
used, Im satisfied that Phoenix redress calculation for Mrs L was carried out in accordance with the regulatory guidance applicable at the time. I can see no fair or reasonable reason, 
nor any reason under the relevant guidance, to say that Phoenix needs to do more here. So, 
I dont uphold the complaint.
My final decision
I do not uphold this complaint and make no award. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs L to accept or 
reject my decision before 20 December 2022.
 
Chillel Bailey
Ombudsman