DRN-2938451
The complaint
  Mr B has complained that Revolut Ltd (Revolut) mis-sold him a Premium packaged 
account in January 2019 and a Metal packaged bank account in August 2019.
Amongst other things Mr B is unhappy that he was told that the travel insurance did not 
cover cancellations and that under the Metal account he feels that the lounge pass benefit 
was not described correctly.
What happened
 One of our adjudicators considered what both parties had said, and they ultimately 
concluded that the travel insurance wasnt described correctly prior to the sale of the 
Premium packaged bank account. The adjudicator also concluded that we did not have 
enough information to establish that the lounge pass benefit for the Metal account was 
described correctly either. He concluded that, on balance, from the information that was 
available that Mr B would not have taken out either account had the benefits been described 
adequately. The adjudicator therefore thought that Mr B should be refunded all the account 
fees that he had paid, with interest less any account fee that had already been refunded to 
Mr B. 
Revolut did not respond to this assessment. So this matter has been referred to an 
ombudsman to issue a decision. 
I understand that Mr B also had an issue with device insurance, but my understanding that 
this was purchased through a third party and has already been refunded. So I will not be 
addressing this aspect of Mr Bs complaint.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve explained our approach to packaged bank accounts on our website and Ive used that 
to help me decide this case. And having considered everything provided I think that this 
complaint should be upheld. Let me explain why.
In relation to the Premium account, my understanding is that one of the major benefits was 
travel insurance. I also understand that Mr B says this was one of the things that attracted 
him to the account. 
Mr B tried to make a claim under this policy for cancelation in February 2020. Looking at the 
chat logs between Mr B and the agent for Revolut, I can see Mr B was told that the policy did 
not include cancellation. 
We have asked for clarification on this, as the terms and conditions we have been provided 
with say that cancellation is covered by the travel insurance. But it is not clear when the 
terms and conditions were in effect. We have not received any clarification on what exactly 
the terms were when the account was sold. So I am proceeding on what was explained by 
the agent of Revolut and in the final response i.e. that cancellation was not covered.
As this is not a standard exclusion for travel insurance, I would expect this to be clearly 
highlighted during the application for the Premium account. We have asked for evidence to 
demonstrate how the travel insurance was described at the time the account was taken out. 
But from the screenshots provided, it seems as if the travel insurance is just described as 
free Global Travel insurance. I accept that there is a link to the more detailed terms but this 
links to the current terms and conditions not the ones from point of sale.
So without any further evidence to suggest otherwise, I am unable to conclude that the 
cancellation exclusion was highlighted to Mr B prior to the sale. I am satisfied that had Mr B 
been aware of this exclusion, I think its likely that he would not have taken out the account. 
So I think that Mr B has suffered a loss as a result of the lack of information provided at the 
time of the sale. It therefore follows that I uphold Mr Bs complaint about this sale.
In relation to the Metal account, my understanding is that Mr B took out this account as he 
wanted to benefit from the free lounge pass benefit. Again, we have asked for evidence of 
how this benefit was described during the account application process. We have been given 
a screenshot of the application process, but this only shows that this benefit is described as 
lounge key access visit over 1000 lounges worldwide. Again, this to me is not clear as to 
exactly what is being offered. Revolut says at the time the account was sold, this benefit was 
one free lounge pass a year, but I cant see where this is described. 
Mr B has been very clear that had he known that it was only one lounge pass a year he 
would not have agreed to this account. So, based on what Revolut has been able to provide, 
I think that Mr B lost out due to Revoluts description of this account.
So given this I think that both the Premium and Metal account were mis-sold to Mr B.
Putting things right
 Revolut should put Mr B back into the position he would be in, if it hadnt mis-sold the 
Premium and Metal account. So it should:
 refund and pay to Mr B all the fees he paid for the Premium and Metal account (that have 
not already been refunded); and 
 add simple interest at 8% per year on each of the above fees, from the date they were paid 
to the date of settlement.
If Revolut is able to work out any additional savings Mr B has made from holding the 
accounts and it can show these calculations to him, it may, if it wants, deduct this additional 
saving from any compensation that is paid.
HM Revenue & Customs requires Revolut to take off tax from this interest. Revolut must 
give Mr B a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if he asks for one.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, Im upholding Mr Bs complaint. I therefore require Revolut Ltd 
to put matters right, as set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or reject my decision before 22 October 2021.
 
Charlie Newton
Ombudsman