DRN-3141894
The complaint
Mr S complains about the level of support provided by Barclays Bank UK PLC trading as 
Barclaycard (Barclaycard) when he got in to financial difficulties.
What happened
What Mr S says
Mr S says that he has a Barclaycard and that over the years his credit limit and debt 
increased. He says that as a result of this and borrowing from other financial institutions he 
fell behind with his payments. Mr S believes Barclaycard should have been aware he was 
using his credit card to gamble. As his debt grew Mr S contacted Barclaycard which agreed 
to freeze the account until such time as Mr S was able to make repayments. Barclaycard 
also added a default notice. 
Some time later Barclaycard contacted Mr S and said that interest and charges were added 
to his account which shouldnt have been as Mr S was in financial difficulty when they were 
added. Barclaycard agreed to refund the interest and charges and said the removal of them 
would reduce Mr Ss outstanding balance. Barclaycard also paid Mr S £75 compensation. Mr 
S says that at the time he was struggling to pay priority bills so accepted this compensation 
figure. He now believes he should have asked Barclaycard to write off his debt or reduce it. 
Mr S also says that he later contacted Barclaycard in an attempt to set up a repayment plan. 
Hes unhappy that the repayment amount of £50 a month means he will be repaying his debt 
to Barclaycard for over seven years. 
What Barclaycard say
Barclaycard notes that the increase in credit limit aspect of Mr Ss complaint is being dealt 
with separately and wasnt raised in time for this service to consider it. The rest of his 
complaint concerns the management of his account while it was in arrears and the 
information provided to the credit reference agencies  which form part of this complaint.
Barclaycard says that Mr S let it know he was experiencing financial difficulties in January 
2018 and at that stage it suspended interest and fees on the account temporarily and asked 
Mr S to complete an income and expenditure assessment. In February 2018 it sent a default 
notice and in March 2018 Barclaycard received Mr Ss income and expenditure assessment. 
Mr S offered to pay £100 a month but Barclaycard felt this was unaffordable as his 
assessment showed a negative monthly disposable income. Given this, Barclaycard advised 
Mr S not to make any payments until he could afford to do so. In April 2018 Barclaycard told 
Mr S it had registered a default with the credit reference agencies.  
Barclaycard wrote to Mr S in January 2019 explaining that it was refunding to his account 
interest and fees amounting to £204.26. It has explained that after reviewing its procedures it 
felt it hadnt historically offered appropriate support to some customers facing financial 
difficulty. To remedy the position Barclaycard refunded interest and default fees applied to 
the account during the period it may not have provided the service it should have. In 
addition, Barclaycard made a £75 inconvenience payment to Mr S. 
In 2020 Mr S set up a repayment plan of £50 a month. Barclaycard say Mr S then 
complained to Barclaycard in October 2020 and at this stage he explained his gambling 
problems. Barclaycard has explained that it didnt monitor spending on accounts and that at 
the time it couldnt stop gambling transactions. But Barclaycard explained it can provide 
support, such as removing the cash facility from the card. To do so, Barclaycard says it 
needs to be aware of a gambling problem and Mr S only raised this around two years after it 
registered a default.   
Our investigation so far
The investigator who considered Mr Ss complaint didnt recommend that it be upheld. He 
said that the management of Mr Ss account and the fact he continued to make minimum 
payments didnt indicate a problem. The investigator also noted that Mr S only notified 
Barclaycard that he had a gambling problem in October 2020, almost two years after the 
account was defaulted. Finally, the investigator felt Barclaycard acted reasonably in 
refunding interest and charges from the point is was made aware of Mr Ss financial 
difficulties. 
Mr S didnt agree with the investigator. He said:
- Barclaycard should not have profited from his gambling problems which he considers 
were clear given the number of transactions and the manner in which the credit was 
utilised.
- He shouldnt have been offered credit limit increases.
- The fact he was able to meet minimum payments shouldnt excuse Barclaycard from 
taking advantage of the situation. 
- Hes aware the use of credit cards for gambling was banned in 2020 which clearly 
shows there was a problem before this. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I need to be clear that Im not considering in this decision the credit limit increases Mr S has 
referred to and whether they were affordable as these form part of a separate complaint. I 
am only considering whether Barclaycard has treated Mr S fairly in its management of his 
account. 
Ive considered whether Barclaycard should have done more to step in and offer Mr S help 
earlier. I have been provided with credit card statements from 2014 onwards. These show 
that Mr S paid the minimum payment each month and with the exception of a few months he 
paid on time. This continued until October 2017. After this date no further transactions were 
made, and the account was then closed. Whilst Mr S paid around £600 to gambling sites in 
December 2013. he didnt make further substantial payments after this. In the 
circumstances, I dont consider Barclaycard missed opportunities to step in and provide 
support before Mr S let it know he was experiencing difficulties in late 2017/early 2018. 
When Mr S notified Barclaycard he was experiencing difficulties, Im satisfied it took steps to 
understand the position he was in and whether he could make sustained payments. 
Although Mr S offered to pay £100 a month it was Barclaycard that said this sum was 
unaffordable and so Mr S should not make payments until he was in a position to do so 
whilst also meeting his priority payments. I consider Barclaycard acted reasonably in relying 
on the information provided in the income and expenditure assessment to reach this 
conclusion. I also consider Barclaycard treated Mr S fairly in confirming that it would not 
pass his account on to any third parties (for example debt collection agencies) and in 
ensuring his account was handled by a specialist team. Im persuaded that Barclaycard acted reasonably in contacting the credit reference agencies 
and noting Mr Ss account was in default. The Information Commissioners Office (ICO) says 
that when a customer is at least three months behind with their payments a default may be 
registered and that it expects a default to be registered by the time a customer is six months 
behind with their payments. Mr S was six months behind with his payments when 
Barclaycard registered the default. In the circumstances, I consider Barclaycard acted 
reasonably. Credit files need to accurately record a persons financial history, irrespective of 
the reason a customer has missed consecutive payments.  
Barclaycard has recognised that it didnt support Mr S as much as it might have when it 
applied interest and fees to his account after he got in to financial difficulty. Where a financial 
business has made a mistake, this service expects it to put things right by putting a customer 
in the position they would have been in had the mistake not happened. In this case this is 
what Barclaycard has done by refunding Mr S the interest and charges it added to his 
account once it knew he was experiencing financial difficulties. Barclaycard also offered an 
inconvenience payment of £75 to Mr S. In the circumstances I consider Barclaycard acted 
fairly and reasonably and so Im not asking it to do anything more.   
Mr S has referred to the £50 a month repayment plan he had in place when he brought his 
complaint to this service. I appreciate that the level of payment means Mr S will be repaying 
the debt for some years. But Im not persuaded that Barclaycard is acting unreasonably in 
requiring Mr S to repay what is owed at a rate that he can sustainably afford. 
Overall, whilst Im sorry to hear of Mr Ss circumstances Im persuaded that Barclaycard has 
acted fairly and reasonably.
My final decision
For the reasons set out I do not uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 12 January 2022.
 
Jay Hadfield
Ombudsman