DRN-3412970
The complaint
Mr H complains that Starling Bank Limited didnt do enough to prevent him losing money to 
an investment scam. 
What happened
The detailed background to this complaint is well known to both parties. So, Ill only provide 
a very brief overview of some of the key events here. 
In 2020 Mr H made a series of payment using his Starling Mastercard debit card. The 
payments took place between April and August 2020 and totalled over £3,500. Mr H says 
the payments went to a company Ill refer to as B. He says B were operating an online 
trading scam and provided a warning which was first published by the Financial Conduct 
Authority (FCA) in July 2020 to support this. 
Mr H had problems making a withdrawal from his account with B. He concluded hed been 
the victim of a scam and asked Starling to help. Starling declined to offer a refund. In 
summary they said there was no valid claim under the relevant chargeback scheme. 
Mr H complained. Starling accepted there were some service failings in relation to how they 
communicated with him. They offered £50 compensation as a gesture of goodwill for this. 
But they still declined to offer a refund and Mr H approached our service. 
One of our Investigators didnt recommend that the complaint should be upheld. In summary 
she agreed there wasnt a valid chargeback claim and didnt think there were any other 
reasons why Starling ought to do more. Mr H still disagrees and has asked for an 
Ombudsman to review his complaint. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
It isnt in dispute that Mr H authorised the payments on his debit card. But banks do have 
obligations to be alert to instances of fraud and scams and to act in their customers best 
interests. There is clearly a balance to be struck between stopping and checking payments 
and allowing customers to freely use their accounts. 
The payments Mr H made as a result of the scam were spread over several months. And the 
largest individual payment was for £2,000. Whilst this was more than he typically spent, it 
isnt unusual for people to occasionally make larger payments for one off expenses or 
investments. And having looked at the previous activity on Mr Hs account, I dont think the 
spending (either individually or collectively) was so unusual that its reasonable to have 
expected Starling to have intervened at the time. 
Ive noted that the FCA published a warning about B in July 2020 about two weeks before 
Mr Hs final payment on 4 August 2020. But none of Mr Hs payments went directly to B, they 
all went to another merchant Ill call J. 
J appear to be a legitimate cryptocurrency exchange. And it appears that Mr Hs payments 
were converted into cryptocurrency before being passed on to B. So it wouldnt have been 
apparent to Starling that there was a potential problem in relation to Mr Hs payments as 
theyd have had no way of knowing they were ultimately intended for B. 
As I dont think Starling ought to have intervened when the payments were made, Ive gone 
on to consider if they could have done more to help Mr H get his money back. The only 
option for a potential refund of these debit card payments was the chargeback scheme. 
Starling are bound by the card scheme providers rules which in this case is Mastercard. 
Whilst there is no right to a chargeback, I generally consider it to be good practice that one 
is raised, if it has a reasonable chance of succeeding. 
But a chargeback can only be made against the merchant that received the payments (which 
in this case is J). There wouldnt be an option to do so against B. And it seems that J did 
what was asked of them, that is they converted the funds and sent them on to the wallet 
address provided. As such, any chargeback was destined to fail and so I think Starlings 
decision to not take this further was a reasonable exercise of their discretion in the 
circumstances. 
For completeness, I think the £50 compensation Starling offered Mr H was fair for the impact 
of some service failings in dealing with his claim / complaint. Im satisfied the service he 
received didnt impact on whether he would have received any reimbursement of his loss. 
Im sorry to hear Mr H lost so much money as the result of a scam. But as I dont think 
Starling reasonably could have prevented this (or done more to recover the loss), I cant 
fairly tell them to do anything further to resolve this complaint. 
My final decision
For the reasons outlined above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 2 August 2022.
 
Richard Annandale
Ombudsman