DRN-2869495
The complaint
Mrs L complains that Erudio Student Loans Limited is unfairly refusing to process her 
student loan deferment application.
Mrs L wants Erudio to allow her to submit her evidence so that it can process her deferment. 
 
What happened
In the late 1990s, Mrs L took out two loans taken out via the Student Loans Company that 
are now administered by Erudio. For the purpose of my decision, I will refer to these as the 
loan. 
In May 2020, Mrs L applied online to defer the loan as she was under the earning threshold.
Mrs Ls application to defer wasnt successful as Erudio wanted to see additional evidence. 
Mrs L says she wasnt aware of the need for additional evidence as she didnt receive the 
letters that Erudio says it sent to her.
Mrs L says that she sent Erudio a letter requesting the deferral but didnt hear anything until 
mid-October 2020 when she received a termination letter. 
Erudio doesnt have any record of receiving the information from Mrs L by post. As her 
account was in arrears, Erudio took steps to default it.
The investigator didnt recommend that Mrs Ls complaint be upheld. He was satisfied that 
Erudio contacted Mrs L about the deferment and arrears on several occasions.
Mrs L is very unhappy with the outcome. She points out the impact that this is all having on 
her health. Mrs L says that given the difficulties with the mail delivery service during the 
Covid pandemic, Erudio shouldve used email to make contact rather than post  particularly 
when it doesnt use tracked services.
Mrs L doesnt think Erudio has treated her fairly and she doesnt have the money to repay 
the loan.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I can understand that this is a distressing time. Mrs L says that due to her financial situation, 
she is eligible for deferment and made her application in time.  My role is to consider 
whether Erudio has acted unfairly when terminating her account. And Im sorry to say that I 
dont consider it has  I will explain why.
When Mrs L made the deferral application online, Erudio said it needed further evidence. Im 
satisfied that Erudio contacted Mrs L about this several times. Erudio wrote to Mrs L a few 
days after she made the application, detailing what further evidence it required. Erudio sent 
two more reminders in June 2020 before notifying Mrs L that her period of deferment had 
ended.
As Erudio didnt have any record of receiving the additional evidence, Mrs Ls account went 
into arrears. Im satisfied that Erudio sent her notices of arrears in July 2020 and a reminder 
at the beginning of August 2020.
As far as I can see, everything was correctly addressed to Mrs L using the same address we 
hold for her. Although Mrs L doesnt recall receiving the letters, Erudios records show that it 
sent them. I cant blame Erudio for any failure in the postal service.  And Erudio wasnt 
obliged to send the letters in a way that wouldve required Mrs L to sign for them. 
I know Mrs L feels strongly that Erudio shouldve contacted her by email but its not this 
services role to tell a business which communication method to use. That is a commercial 
decision and Erudio says it must send certain documents by post for regulatory purposes. 
 
Erudio did receive an email from Mrs L on 19 August 2020 advising that she hadnt received 
confirmation that her deferment application had been processed. Erudio responded by email 
in early September 2020 attaching copies of the recent letters it had already sent to Mrs L. 
Erudio explained that Mrs L could complete her application online or send the form with all 
relevant income evidence via email. So, I cant find that Erudio failed to deal with Mrs Ls 
concerns about the deferment. And at this stage, Erudio couldve still processed Mrs Ls 
deferment application.
Erudio has given this service evidence to show that after Mrs L logged into the online portal 
on 19 August 2020, she didnt log on again until 29 October 2020. Given the urgent need for 
Mrs L to complete the deferment, I wouldve reasonably expected her to have logged on to 
the portal sooner than it appears she did.  
Although Mrs L says she sent information to Erudio by post, it doesnt have any record of 
receiving this. And Mrs L hasnt been able to give this service copies of what she sent. This 
makes it difficult for me to find that Erudio made a mistake.
I appreciate that Mrs L says she couldnt get through to Erudios customer service and had 
emails returned to her as undelivered. Erudio says it doesnt have any record of the 
attempted contact. It invited Mrs L to give it details of any other numbers she might have 
used which seems reasonable. 
Although Mrs L has given this service evidence that some of her emails werent delivered in 
late October 2020, it doesnt change my decision. By this time, Erudio had already 
terminated Mrs Ls account. And I consider that it had given Mrs L enough opportunity to 
complete her deferment application. 
Overall, I dont think Erudio unreasonably or unfairly defaulted Mrs Ls account. I dont 
consider Erudio needs to re-instate Mrs Ls account or return her loan to a position of 
deferment. 
I appreciate Mrs L will be unhappy with my decision as shes worried how shell be able to 
repay the loan. So I remind Erudio of its obligation to treat Mrs L fairly and with due 
consideration in respect of the outstanding balance. My final decision
My decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs L to accept or 
reject my decision before 30 August 2021.
 
Gemma Bowen
Ombudsman