DRN-1861604
The complaint
Mr Y complains that HSBC UK Bank Plc charged him an early repayment charge (ERC) 
when he moved house.
What happened
Mr Y had a mortgage with HSBC which was on a fixed rate of 1.89% until 31 January 2021. 
Hed applied for that mortgage in December 2018 on a non-advised basis; that is, he opted 
to proceed without the benefit of advice from HSBC.
In February 2019 Mr Y completed a decision in principle for a new mortgage as he was 
looking to move house.
On 5 April 2019 Mr Y applied online for a mortgage for the new property. He again 
proceeded on a non-advised basis, and he opted for a fixed rate of 2.29% running until 
31 July 2024.
A mortgage offer was issued on 17 April and Mr Ys solicitor requested a redemption 
statement on 30 April, which was issued on 2 May.
The new mortgage completed on 7 June and Mr Ys solicitor sent the funds to repay the old 
mortgage, but without the ERC being paid.
HSBC contacted the solicitor after completion to let it know the ERC was due and was 
outstanding. Following this Mr Y raised a complaint.
Our investigator said HSBC hadnt done anything wrong. Mr Y didnt agree and so the 
complaint has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Whilst Ive sympathy for the situation Mr Y found himself in, he opted to carry out this 
application online without talking to HSBC. If Mr Y wanted advice, or even just a discussion 
about what he needed to do to ensure he didnt incur the ERC, then he could either have 
gone into a branch or contacted HSBC by phone.
Porting a mortgage means taking the existing interest rate (so in Mr Ys case the 1.89% fixed 
rate) for the new mortgage. If Mr Y wanted not to incur the ERC then he would have needed 
to have applied for an identical mortgage on the new property, and then topped up any 
extra he was borrowing on a new rate of his choosing. Thats completely normal in the 
industry, apart from in a few very particular circumstances that arent relevant here.
It was explained in Mr Ys 2018 mortgage offer that hed incur an ERC if he repaid the 
mortgage before 31 January 2021. It also said:
You have the right to transfer this Loan to another property. This is subject to the 
conditions referred to below.
If you want to transfer this Loan to another property we will consider your request
If you wish to increase your borrowing when you move home, any additional funds 
may not be at the same rate as this Loan.
Mr Y applied for an entirely new mortgage on a new interest rate and over a different term, 
which cant by any stretch be taken to mean he was transferring his existing deal. As Mr Y 
didnt transfer this Loan then the ERC was due.
HSBCs website page for existing mortgage customers moving home says:
If you are an existing HSBC mortgage customer, you may be able to transfer your 
current mortgage rate from one property to another, when moving home (known as 
porting). This is subject to our standard lending criteria and full details are contained 
with your mortgage terms and conditions.
Alternatively, you might want to consider applying for a new mortgage rate with us 
from our current range. This might be more appropriate if youre on our standard 
variable rate or if your current deal is coming to an end.
HSBC says a pop-up would have been shown when Mr Y applied for the new rate online, 
warning him that hed incur an ERC. HSBC cant provide the exact pop-up that would have 
incurred as that doesnt save with the application, but it has sent us a recreated version 
which Im satisfied fairly represents what would have happened with Mr Ys application.
That pop-up says:
Information about Early Repayment Charges
If you continue to make this change before [ERC end date], an Early Repayment Charge 
(ERC) of [amount] will need to be paid. This amount will reduce the closer to the above 
date you are.
To avoid an ERC, simply make this change after the date shown above.
It gives two options to choose from; Cancel this change or Continue with change. If Mr Y 
had selected Cancel this change then his application wouldnt have proceeded as it did.
Mr Y says he didnt get a pop-up and HSBC has no evidence that he did. Whilst the 
screenshot of the pop-up that weve been sent clearly isnt the one from Mr Ys actual 
application (as HSBC would have no reason to save that as it wasnt to know hed later 
complain about the rate hed chosen) Im satisfied there would have been a similar pop-up 
when Mr Y applied.
In any event, the existence or otherwise of a pop-up warning isnt what the case turns on. As 
Ive already set out, it turns on what was in Mr Ys existing mortgage contract. 
HSBC simply processed the application Mr Y made online and having considered everything 
I cant say HSBC has done anything wrong. The ERC was fairly due and fairly charged 
because Mr Y applied for a new mortgage, rather than porting/transferring his existing one.
My final decisionI dont uphold this complaint. Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im 
required to ask Mr Y to accept or reject my decision before 15 January 2021. 
Julia Meadows
Ombudsman