DRN-4261967
The complaint
Ms B is unhappy with ReAssure Limiteds confusing and contradictory messages regarding 
the value of her pension, and their refusal to honour a minimum pension payment that she 
felt her policy entitled her to. 
Ms B has been represented by a financial advisor throughout her dealings with our Service, 
but for ease of reference Ill refer only to Ms B in this Decision.
What happened
Ms B set up a personal pension in 1988, which was eventually taken over by ReAssure in 
2016. Between 2021 and 2022, Ms B was sent various letters from ReAssure, setting out the 
value of her policy and the likely retirement income shed be able to receive. These letters 
contained different figures, causing Ms B confusion regarding what pension payments shed 
eventually be entitled to. Ms B made various enquiries with ReAssure to seek clarification 
regarding what she was properly due, only to receive responses that were either 
contradictory or subsequently found to be incorrect. She complained to ReAssure about this. 
ReAssure responded, acknowledging previous letters contained incorrect pension value 
information. They told Ms B that information contained within a letter theyd previously sent 
her on 1 March 2021 was in fact correct. They also explained her policy confirms the 
maximum benefit the scheme cannot exceed, rather than guaranteeing the total pension 
payments she would receive. ReAssure apologised for their mistakes and paid Ms B £250 
compensation for the distress theyd caused. They offered to reimburse the cost of Ms Bs 
advisor in relation to work undertaken dealing with ReAssure on this, and directly related 
matters. And they also offered to complete a loss assessment to reimburse Ms B in the 
event shed lost out as a result of the problems theyd caused  if she chose to take 
retirement benefits within 28 days of their latest retirement benefits letter (sent the day of 
their final complaint response letter). 
Ms B was unhappy with this response, as she still had unanswered questions regarding the 
value of her pension bonuses, and the widower pension deductions that were being applied, 
and so brought her complaint to this Service. However, our Investigator felt ReAssure had 
acknowledged their errors, and provided a fair offer of redress  explaining why she felt 
ReAssure had applied the terms of Ms Bs policy correctly, and why taking benefits at an age 
before her normal (scheme) retirement date (NRD) would impact the amounts shed be paid. 
Ms B didnt agree with our Investigators view  she was still unhappy with the information 
ReAssure had provided about her bonus, and when and how much would be paid. Our 
Investigator made further enquiries with ReAssure, who agreed to send Ms B a new pension 
projection (based on a single life basis). Our Investigator also provided clarity on how Ms Bs 
advisor should calculate and present their fees that ReAssure should reimburse. 
Despite further exchanges, and whilst appearing to accept ReAssure and our Investigators 
explanation relating to the policy benefit limits, Ms B remained unhappy with explanations 
shed received regarding the amount of pension shed get, and how the bonus element of 
that was calculated. She asked that an Ombudsman review this element of her complaint  
so it was passed to me to consider further and issue a Decision. 
Having considered the complaint, and whilst broadly agreeing with our Investigators 
outcome, I decided to issue a Provisional Decision (PD)  I wanted to provide greater detail 
on the way redress was calculated, and award a higher amount of compensation for 
distress. My PD said as follows:
What Ive provisionally decided  and why
Theres no dispute ReAssure have provided conflicting information in their communications 
with Ms B before she raised her complaint with us. Theyve acknowledged that. So, Im not 
going to include specific details of each communication that has taken place before then. 
Both parties are aware of the letters, and there is no need to repeat details of their contents 
here. Instead, Im going to focus on the communications between Ms B and ReAssure since 
they sent their final response letter (FRL) to Ms B in April 2022, as confusion remains. 
The FRL confirmed Ms Bs policy provided a guaranteed pension (GP) of £3,031.80 pa when 
she reached the age of 65 (her NRD), and it would attract bonuses. It also confirmed a 
widowers pension equivalent to 50% of Ms Bs GP would be paid to her surviving spouse, 
and that bonuses would also be paid (at a 50% reduction) if Ms B died on or after her NRD.  
The FRL confirmed Ms B was likely to receive a pension, at 65, of £5,214.77 - made up of 
the GP of £3,031.80 plus bonuses accrued to that date of £2,182.97. It also explained when 
Ms B reached age 65, the value of the bonuses may have increased, depending on fund 
performance and allocation. A retirement options letter was also sent to Ms B in April 2022 
(when aged 63), confirming she could receive an immediate pension income of £4,646.88. 
Subsequently, on 14 August 2022, ReAssure sent a yearly pension review letter to Ms B 
quoting an estimated retirement income, at her NRD, of £5,105.70. On 12 September 2022, 
they sent Ms B a retirement options pack quoting her pension at that date could be worth 
£4,861.68 pa. They also sent a separate letter to Ms B on that date, again confirming a GP 
of £3,031.80 at age 65, plus bonuses applied to that date which equalled £3,297.20 (giving a 
total annuity of £6,329 pa from age 65). Finally, on 19 October 2022, they wrote to Ms B to 
confirm the £4,861.68 figure quoted in their 12 September 2022 letter correctly showed the 
amount of pension shed receive if she retired at that date, and if she retired at age 65, shed 
receive a total annuity of £5,229.93 pa  made up of the GP of £3,031.80, plus bonuses to 
date of £2,198.13. They confirmed the £3,297.30 bonus previously quoted was incorrect.
Conscious of the continuing inconsistencies with the amounts contained in the above letters, 
I asked for further enquiries to be made with ReAssure.  In response, they explained the 
bonus amount included in the 12 September 2022 letter (£3,297.20) equated to the total 
coverage of Ms Bs and her spouses bonus benefit, whereas the bonus figure in the letter of  
19 October 2022 (£2,198.13) related to Ms Bs bonus benefit only. The combined benefit 
(£3,297.20) equates to the single life benefit (£2,19.13) plus the 50% spouse benefit 
(£1,099.07). That point having now been clarified, Ill address Ms Bs complaint points.
Question about the bonus
Ms B has repeatedly asked why, when ReAssure have said bonuses represent amounts 
accrued to date, she cant be paid those amounts in full if she chooses to retire early. She 
says its confusing and contradictory when ReAssure send reduced early retirement quotes. 
And, Ms B essentially wants me to be able to tell her exactly how much shell be paid if she 
retires early, or at her NRD, and what bonus shell be paid. Whilst I appreciate her continuing confusion  I think the above referenced communications 
show that ReAssure still havent provided a clear and consistent answer to her questions  I 
wont be telling her how much ReAssure should pay her when she retires. Neither I, or this 
Service, is able to calculate whether the amounts quoted in any retirement projection is 
correct or not, nor whether they are fair and reasonable. Were not a checking service, and 
we dont employ actuaries who are better qualified to undertake these types of checks. 
However, I can try and provide some explanation to Ms B here. In this case, its accepted the 
policy provides a GP of £3,031.80 per annum, payable from when Ms B reaches 65 years of 
age (her NRD). If she retired before then, that GP amount would be actuarily reduced. And 
its accepted her policy accrues bonuses each year, based on fund performance  with the 
value of this bonus pot likely increasing each year also (based on fund performance). 
The figures quoted  both in terms of the GP and the bonus amount  represent amounts 
that will be paid when Ms B reaches her NRD. The bonus applied figures represent 
amounts allocated to Ms Bs bonus pot that will become payable when she reaches her 
NRD. They give an indication of the likely minimum pension shell get at 65  bearing in mind 
further bonuses may be applied in the years up to that age, subject to fund performance, that 
could increase the final bonus pot. 
But if she retires before her NRD, and needs to take an actuarily reduced pension, this 
reduction will apply to both her GP amount, and the amounts in her bonus pot  both will 
need to be paid over a longer period than the scheme was initially set up to cover, causing 
GP and bonus elements of her pension to reduce accordingly. Which means, the as at 
bonus figures wont be due to Ms B if she retires before her NRD. 
As regards the difference in bonus figures in the 12 September and 19 October 2022 letters, 
Im satisfied ReAssure have now provided a clear explanation why those figures are 
different. Itll be for Ms B to decide, when finally applying to take her benefits, whether to 
take a single or joint life annuity, and ReAssure will need to provide updated quotes  in a 
clearly explained and unambiguous format  at that time. 
I then set out in detail my thoughts on how ReAssure should pay redress  in relation to 
paying and/or reimbursing the costs of Ms Bs advisor, and the circumstances in which 
ReAssure would need to calculate a loss assessment. I repeat the detail of these below. I 
also suggested a further compensation award for distress of £200. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
ReAssure have responded to my PD, confirming they have nothing further to add. 
Ms B has also responded, accepting the proposed outcome as set out in the PD. However, 
she asks some further questions, which I can address as follows:
Ms B confirms its her intention at this stage to take her pension when she reaches her NRD, 
on a single life basis. She asks if I (or this Service) can check it, to make sure its correct. 
More specifically, she asks what the GMP and bonus will be at age 65, and how will it 
change moving forward. 
In response, Im afraid I must echo the point I made in my PD  this service is not a checking 
service, and I (or this Service) cant check whether a quote is correct. ReAssure have 
confirmed the GP amount, at her NRD of 65, is £3,031.80. And bonuses will continue to be added to that amount up to the date of her NRD. I appreciate Ms B is now approaching her 
65th birthday and will reach her NRD in early 2024. As such, any quotes she receives now 
are likely to be very close to the amount she will receive when (and if) she retires next year 
as anticipated  but I still cant check they are correct. 
Ms B has also asked for ReAssure to provide updated retirement quotes, both at NRD and 
on an early retirement basis. Ms B asks for these so that she can decide whether to at least 
explore the early retirement option. I think this is a fair request in the circumstances, and 
means Ive provided modified requirements (compared to what Id set out in my PD) in 
relation to the issue of whether a loss calculation needs to be carried out. 
Ms B has also asked if her GMP will increase in line with RPI. In response, Id refer her to 
Part 3 (3) of her original Buy-Out Policy, which sets out the mechanism for calculating any 
increases in payment once her pension starts. If Ms B needs further clarification, thats 
something shell need to approach ReAssure for.
Putting things right
Reimbursing the costs of Ms Bs advisor
ReAssure, in acknowledging their mistakes, offered to cover the costs of Ms Bs adviser  in 
relation to work theyd undertaken that was directly attributable to helping her in dealing with 
this matter. Theres no indication ReAssure have withdrawn this offer. And in any event, 
given the repeated problems Ms B has experienced regarding conflicting information, I think 
its fair that ReAssure cover this cost. 
But I think its also fair to both parties that I provide some guidance regarding the extent of 
ReAssures liability here. So, when calculating the amounts ReAssure should pay, I think it 
should be limited to:
- The time cost of all enquiries made by Ms Bs advisor with ReAssure on her behalf  in 
relation to the issue of her retirement/early retirement options only - together with a 
reasonable amount of time to consider ReAssure responses.
- Similarly, the time cost of all exchanges between the advisor and Ms B in relation to the 
above matters.
- Where any of the above advisor/Ms B exchanges included unrelated matters, the advisor 
will need to ensure the cost of this unrelated time is removed. 
- And the advisor will need to provide ReAssure with redacted (as necessary) copy fee 
notes, should they require these, as evidence of the time spent.
- If Ms B has already paid the advisor for any of this work (as defined above) ReAssure 
will need to reimburse Ms B these amounts. And because Ms B will have effectively 
been deprived of the use of these funds, ReAssure will need to add 8% simple interest to 
any such payments  in line with our usual practice for late or delayed payments.
- ReAssure will need to make these payments, whether to Ms B or separately to her 
advisor, within 28 days of being provided with full and satisfactory evidence of these 
sums being due, as calculated above. 
For the avoidance of doubt, Im not asking ReAssure to cover the cost of her advisors 
exchanges with this service. Its relatively unusual for us to award costs where they were 
incurred for assistance in bringing a complaint to us. As a free service, with an inquisitorial 
remit to resolve complaints, we dont typically consider it necessary for customers to be 
represented in bringing complaints to us. The nature of this complaint is not particularly 
complex, and I think is one a consumer should be able to bring to us. Thats clearly not to be read as a criticism of Ms Bs decision to ask her advisor to deal with us  that is after all her 
choice. But it means I cant fairly conclude ReAssure should be liable for the costs Ms B has 
chosen to incur in this way, and so I wont be asking ReAssure to cover that element of 
those related advisor costs.  
Potential loss assessment
Again, this is something ReAssure agreed to undertake if Ms B decided to take early 
retirement within 28 days of their retirement benefits projection in April 2022. The date for 
comparison was 11 October 2021, the date ReAssure first provided conflicting information. 
However, there remained outstanding questions and inconsistencies, preventing Ms B from 
making an informed decision, which Im satisfied have only now been addressed. As such, I 
think its fair and reasonable that the offer of a loss calculation is extended. 
But, in the interests of fairness to both parties, this cant be an open-ended obligation. So in 
relation to Ms B considering taking her benefits before her NRD (and ReAssures obligation 
to undertake a loss calculation) I think a fair outcome here would be the following:
- ReAssure must provide Ms B with an updated retirement projection, on a single life 
basis, based on taking benefits at her NRD, within 14 days of being notified of her 
acceptance (assuming she does) of this Decision.
- ReAssure must also provide an early retirement projection, on a single life basis, within 
the same 14-day period. 
- Upon receipt of this new early retirement projection, Ms B has 21 days to confirm to 
ReAssure that shes chosen the early retirement option. 
- In that situation, ReAssure should then undertake a potential loss calculation, using 11 
October 2021 as the comparison date as before.
- ReAssure must undertake the early loss calculation within 14 days of receipt of Ms Bs 
signed retirement documentation. 
- And if there is a loss, ReAssure must pay that amount to Ms B  with 8% simple interest 
added as appropriate  within a further 14 days).
- If ReAssure considers that its required by HM Revenue & Customs to deduct income tax 
from that interest, it should tell Ms B how much its taken off. It should also give Ms B a 
tax deduction certificate if she asks for one, so she can reclaim the tax from HM 
Revenue & Customs if appropriate.
For the avoidance of doubt, this loss calculation only needs to be done in the event Ms B 
chooses to take early retirement benefits, within the timeframe set out above  it doesnt 
need to be calculated as a purely hypothetical exercise or to inform Ms Bs decision-making 
in this regard. Ms B is of course able to request another (or further) early retirement quote at 
a later stage, but no loss calculation would be required in these circumstances.   
Distress and Inconvenience
ReAssure have already paid Ms B £250 as compensation for the inconvenience theyd 
caused up to the date of their FRL. Whilst putting a value on distress isnt an exact science, I 
think that figure provides a fair level of compensation, and is in line with the amount Id have 
been likely to award. However, as can be seen above, there were further instances of poor 
communication after the FRL was sent, causing Ms S further inconvenience. Accordingly, I 
think ReAssure will need to pay Ms B further compensation for this  and I think an 
additional payment of £200 is a fair award here. My final decision
I uphold Ms Bs complaint against ReAssure Limited and require them to pay Ms B redress 
as set out in the Putting things right section above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms B to accept or 
reject my decision before 21 August 2023.
 
Mark Evans
Ombudsman