DRN-2947355
The complaint
Mrs B has complained that Royal & Sun Alliance Plc (RSA) caused delays when dealing with 
a claim she made under a flat property insurance policy. 
What happened
Mrs B owned a flat which shed previously rented out to tenants, but was unoccupied as she 
was in the process of selling it when it was damaged by an escape of water from the flat 
above. The damage occurred in December 2019.
In January 2020 Mrs B appointed a managing agent to deal with the claim with RSA on her 
behalf. Although RSA met the claim for repairs, Mrs B was unhappy it wouldnt consider her 
claim for other losses. Mrs B believed RSA caused delays which meant she had to pay the 
running costs of the flat for longer than necessary. Mrs B said the sale of the flat was 
delayed until the repairs were completed. 
RSA accepted that there was some delay in dealing with the claim and it paid Mrs B £125 
compensation for the inconvenience caused. RSA understood the sale had fallen through 
rather than delayed. It said it wasnt responsible for the buyers decision to withdraw. It didnt 
agree it was responsible for the losses Mrs B was claiming for. 
Mrs B remained unhappy and asked us to look at her complaint. Our investigator thought the 
main reason for delays in settling the claim was due to negotiations between Mrs Bs 
managing agent and RSA over which contractor to use and the costs for the repairs. The 
investigator thought this was an inevitable part of the claims process and so he didnt think 
RSA had caused unreasonable delays overall. He therefore thought it had done enough to 
resolve Mrs Bs complaint. 
Mrs B didnt agree. She says it isnt her fault that there was a flood. She feels RSA should 
cover her losses as due to the flood she was unable to rent the flat out or complete the sale. 
So the case has been passed to me to decide
.What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Dealing with a claim  particularly a water or fire damage claim  can be stressful and 
restoration repairs can be significant due to the level of work often required to return a claim 
of this nature.
I think its reasonable to expect a degree of inconvenience and disruption. Unfortunately I 
think this is inevitable. So Ive taken an even handed approach when looking at how RSA as 
the insurer dealt with the claim  and whether it caused inconvenience over and above what 
would be reasonably expected in these circumstances. And, if RSA acted unreasonably, 
whether it did enough to put things right. 
Mrs B says she chose to appoint her own managing agent to handle the claim with RSA on 
her behalf. Mrs B is entitled to do this  and while I understand her reasons for doing so are 
due to her experience dealing with a previous claim  I cant take that into consideration. 
Mrs Bs agent wanted to use their preferred contractor to carry out the works  but RSA said 
its preferred contractor could carry out the works for less. As the insurer, RSA is entitled to 
settle the claim on the best terms possible  which may mean its own network of contractors 
can carry out repairs at preferential rates. I cant criticise RSA for its negotiations with Mrs 
Bs agent about this. These discussions inevitably took up some time.
However, I think RSAs compensation to Mrs B of £125 for its failure to better communicate 
with Mrs B when she raised her claim for her losses  and for some delay by its claims 
handler in replying during the claims process  was fair and reasonable in this case and 
similar to awards we give for similar cases. 
I appreciate that Mrs B says the sale of the flat was delayed. But I dont think RSA caused 
unreasonable delays. I think the timing of the damage was unfortunate. But Mrs B told us 
existing tenants had left in September 2019 in preparation for the sale which was due to 
complete in January 2020. The damage inevitably meant there would be some time for the 
drying out to be done as well as the repairs. I dont think RSA is responsible for Mrs Bs 
running costs for the property during this time and her policy doesnt provide cover for such 
losses in her circumstances. 
I realise Mrs B will be very disappointed with my decision. But I think RSA dealt with her 
complaint in a reasonable way. So Im not asking it to do any more. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs B to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 September 2021.
 
Geraldine Newbold
Ombudsman