DRN-2414328
The complaint
Mr A complains that due to a systems error, Bank of Ireland (UK) Plc (BOI) gave him a 
higher loan than he wanted.
What happened
On 10 July 2020, Mr A was approved for a loan of £17,500 over 5 years. It was cancelled on 
11 July 2020 following Mr As call to BOI. A credit search was made by BOI as part of the 
approval process.
Mr A complained  he said he only wanted a loan of £7,000. He made the application for this 
amount though an aggregator website. He was redirected to the BOI website and its 
approval pages. And here, a loan application of £17,500 over five years was the default 
screen. He signed up and applied for a loan of £7,000 (not £17,500). But when he received 
the loan documents, it showed the higher amount. He called BOI. He said they told him it 
was a systems glitch as the amount defaulted to the higher amount. He therefore cancelled 
the application  but a credit search was showing on his credit file. This was affecting his 
ability to get another loan elsewhere.
BOI said their initial quotation page defaulted to £17,500 over a five-year term. If a customer 
doesnt change that, the application is then processed on those terms. Throughout the 
application process, the amount and term of the loan was shown, and Mr A was given the 
option to change those. 
Mr A brought his complaint to this service. Our investigator said he felt BOI had acted 
reasonably. He had applied for a loan of £7,000 through a comparison website, but when he 
was redirected to the BOI website it defaulted to £17,500  a higher amount. But he was 
given the chance to change this  so there wasnt an error on the part of BOI. And BOI had 
to do a credit search as part of its approval processes and had to report this as accurate 
information.
Mr A asked that his complaint be looked at by an ombudsman.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I can see where Mr A is coming from. He went through a comparison website for a quote 
and input the required amount of £7,000  but when he was directed to the BOI website, this 
changed to £17,500. He made the application for that amount and only realised when he 
received the documents that the loan was for a higher amount than he wanted. Mr A says he 
was sure he only applied for £7,000. And hed been told by BOI that this was systems glitch. 
He called BOI and cancelled the loan, but  his credit file had been marked with BOIs credit 
search, so this was hindering him from applying for another loan. Mr A managed to find a 
loan from another lender, but wants the credit search removed, and compensation for the 
time and trouble caused. He also complained about the time it took for BOI to deal with his 
complaint.
Looking at how BOI handled Mr As complaint  Im not going to look at that. This is because 
this service is governed by strict rules about what complaints we can, and cannot, look at. 
These are covered in The Financial Conduct Authoritys Handbook. This defines a complaint 
as being about a financial product or service. So, complaints specifically about a businesss 
complaint handling or processes arent included. 
Ive looked closely at what happened here. The crux of Mr As complaint is that:
there was a known systems problem in BOIs loan approval processes  and that he 
was told so by BOI.
he applied for a loan of £7,000, not £17,500.
BOI said to Mr A in their final response that the loan amount defaulted to £17,500 when a 
borrower was redirected from the comparison website. But - I dont think this amounts to a 
systems error or issue  simply that this was the starting point for the application. 
Ive then listened to the call Mr A made to BOI on 11 July 2020. The call handler didnt say 
there was a systems problem but said (the loan) may have defaulted to this way after you 
put in the amount you wanted. So  this implies the loan amount may have changed back 
to £17,500 after Mr A requested £7,000. But equally - the call handler may have been 
referring to the amount of £7,000 that Mr A input on the comparison website. Mr A, later in 
the call, states that the call handler had admitted there was a systems problem  but she 
didnt respond to that comment. My interpretation of the call in the context of the complaint is 
that it was inconclusive as to whether BOI overtly said it had a systems problem.
Ive looked at the screen sequencing of BOIs approval processes. This is important 
evidence. The first screen shows the amount applied for, and the period of repayment. 
These can be changed by using (+) or (-) arrows. It then shows a summary of the total 
repayment and monthly repayments and APR. It then says You are applying for (loan 
amount requested £XXX. Term requested YYYY). 
The second screen says we will carry out credit reference and other enquiries in 
accordance with our lending procedures It shows in the right-hand corner You are 
applying for (loan amount requested £XXX. Term requested YYYY). Change your loan value 
and / or term [click]. Customer must then click continue. 
There are then a further nine screens, and each one shows the same message in the right-
hand corner You are applying for (loan amount requested £XXX. Term requested YYYY). 
Change your loan value and / or term [click]. Customer must then click continue  each time. 
The 12th screen is a review and submit screen. This also says: You are applying for (loan 
amount requested £XXX. Term requested YYYY). Change your loan value and / or term 
[click]. Customer must then click Submit.
So  whatever was said on the call with BOI, and how that might be interpreted, Im 
persuaded that Mr A had sufficient warnings that he was applying for a loan of £17,500 (and 
not £7,000)  and had the chance to change this each time.
On the issue of the credit search that BOI carried out  they had to do this to approve the 
loan. Mr A then cancelled it, but BOI have an obligation to report accurate information to 
credit reference agencies  and thats what theyve done, as they had to do a credit search. 
So, its not fair to ask them to change that.So - I can see that Mr A will be disappointed by my decision  but I dont think that BOI have 
acted unfairly or unreasonably, and I wont be asking them to do anymore here.
My final decision
I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision before 30 June 2021.
 
Martin Lord
Ombudsman