DRN-3301284
The complaint
Mrs M complains that Amtrust Europe Limited unfairly declined a claim she made on a legal 
expenses insurance policy.
Mrs M is represented by her husband, Mr M, in this complaint. Where I refer to Mrs M within 
my decision, this includes Mr M.
Administration of Mrs Ms policy and claims is done by agents and representatives on 
Amtrusts behalf. Where I refer to Amtrust in my decision, this includes these agents and 
representatives.
What happened
Mrs M holds a legal expenses insurance policy provided by Amtrust. The policy is an add-on 
to a home insurance policy which is marketed under a well-known brand name. An 
employment dispute arose following the loss of Mr Ms job and she made a claim with 
Amtrust for the legal expenses.
Amtrust declined cover for the claim. It concluded, after obtaining legal advice, that the 
claims made by Mrs M didnt have reasonable prospects of success or werent proportionate 
to pursue. 
Mrs M complained to Amtrust, and when it rejected the claim, referred the complaint to our 
service. Our investigator thought Amtrust had acted fairly. Mrs M didnt accept this and 
asked for an ombudsmans decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In common with many legal expenses insurance policies, the policy Mrs M holds with 
Amtrust requires that, in order for a claim to be covered, it needs to have reasonable 
prospects of success and for it to be proportionate to pursue the legal action.
What this means in practice is that in order for the insurer to cover a policyholders legal 
expenses then it needs to be more likely than not that the policyholder will be successful if 
their dispute goes to court. In addition, the likely award in the event of successful legal action 
needs to be more than the policyholders anticipated legal costs.
The specific conditions in Mrs Ms policy state:
You only have cover under this policy where there is a more than 50% chance of winning 
the case and achieving a positive outcome. At any time, but only when supported by 
independent legal advice, form the view that you do not have a more than 50% chance of 
winning the case and achieving a positive outcome.
and
There is no cover where an estimate of advisers costs of acting for you is more than the 
amount in dispute.
Amtrust obtained three opinions from barristers about the prospects of success and 
proportionality of Mrs Ms claim. The first two of these were prepared by the same barrister - 
after their first opinion was queried by Mrs M and a number of comments provided, a second 
assessment was carried out. When Mrs M still didnt accept the barristers opinion, a second 
barrister was asked to provide an assessment.
These assessments concluded that a number of elements of Mrs Ms claim didnt have 
reasonable prospects of success. The first barrister did consider that one element did have a 
51% chance of success, but their assessment was that the costs of pursuing such a claim 
were likely to be more than the likely award the court would make if the claim was 
successful.
I know Mrs M strongly disagrees with the legal opinions of the barrister, but we will very 
rarely make any comment about whether the advice is correct. We also wont comment on 
the quality of the legal opinions Amtrust has relied on  complaints about legal professionals 
arent in our jurisdiction.
We will only question or comment a legal opinion where we think there is something 
obviously wrong with it which would be noted by a lay person, for example clear factual 
errors or an obvious misunderstanding of the circumstances of the case.
Having reviewed the information available to me, Im not persuaded that Mrs M has 
demonstrated that there are obvious errors in the opinions. I note that Mrs M has made 
extensive comment on the opinions but in the main these are focussed on Mrs Ms 
interpretation or account of what happened. Her comments dont mean that the advice given 
is obviously wrong. Im not persuaded that a lay person would conclude that there are 
obvious, identifiable errors which mean the legal opinions should be disregarded.
Im also persuaded that the opinions themselves are detailed and give reasons for the 
conclusions which have been reached. I think in the circumstances and given the content of 
the opinions, it was fair and reasonable for Amtrust to rely on these and conclude that the 
policy didnt provide cover for Mrs Ms claim. It had opinions from two barristers whod 
independently concluded based on the information and evidence available to them that Mrs 
Ms claim either didnt enjoy reasonable prospects of success or the costs of pursuing the 
claim were disproportionate to any likely award.
It's also apparent that Mrs M hasnt provided any competing legal advice which does 
suggest that her claims do have reasonable prospects of success and are proportionate to 
pursue. If Mrs M was to obtain such advice and provide this to Amtrust, Id expect it to 
reconsider its position and explain why this is the case if it doesnt change its decision to 
decline cover for the claim. 
Mrs M has also made comments about the general way legal expenses insurance policies 
operate, and the number of claims covered by Amtrust. Were not the regulator of these 
policies and can only comment on the merits of Amtrusts decisions regarding cover for her 
claim. Shes also asked for details of the amounts paid by Amtrust to the legal professionals 
for their services. Again, this isnt relevant to the complaint Im considering here. Those costs 
have been met by Amtrust and theres no suggestion or indication that Mrs M will be 
considered liable for those and asked to pay them.My final decision
Its my final decision not to uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs M to accept or 
reject my decision before 12 May 2022.
 
Ben Williams
Ombudsman