DRN-3648117
The complaint
Miss B has complained that Unum Ltd declined a claim she made on her group income 
protection policy. She has also complained about the service Unum provided.
What happened
Miss B had income protection cover from her employer. She submitted a claim as she was 
off work with workplace stress. Unum declined her claim as it didnt feel she met the policy 
terms for benefit to be paid.
Our investigator didnt recommend that the complaint be upheld. Miss B appealed. She 
didnt feel documentation had been provided to say what classed as an illness and what 
didnt. Additionally, she felt that there had been a lack of contact from Unum.
As no agreement has been reached the matter has been passed to me to determine.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, and whilst Im sorry to disappoint Miss B, I dont uphold this complaint. Ill 
explain why. But firstly Im aware Ive set out the background to this complaint in far less 
detail than the parties and Ive done so using my own words. Im not going to respond to 
every single point made. No discourtesy is intended by this. Instead, Ive focused on what I 
find are the key issues here. Our rules allow me to take this approach. It simply reflects the 
informal nature of our service as a free alternative to the courts. If theres something I 
havent mentioned, it isnt because Ive ignored it. I havent. Ive fully reviewed the complete 
file. 
The relevant rules and industry guidelines say that Unum has a responsibility to handle 
claims promptly and fairly. And it shouldnt reject a claim unreasonably. 
Miss B is insured under her employers group policy. This will provide benefit after 26 weeks 
if a member is still unable by reason of illness or injury to follow any occupation with any 
employer for which they are reasonably fitted by reason of training, education or experience.
The medical evidence is not in dispute. Miss B was suffering from work related stress and 
from June 2021 she was signed off work. She was not diagnosed with a mental illness or 
given any treatment. I have no doubt that this was a difficult time for her and that she was 
experiencing stress. However it is for Miss B to demonstrate that her claim is eligible and I 
find that the policy wording is clear. As she was not suffering from an illness or injury I cant 
say that Unum have treated her unfairly or unreasonably by declining her claim.
Miss B also complained about the service she received. She has said that she didnt receive 
any contact from Unum with regards to her complaint  she didnt receive an 
acknowledgment or holding letters. This service only has jurisdiction to look at regulated 
activities. As complaint handling isnt a regulated activity I cant comment on this aspect of 
her complaint.
Miss B has also complained that a letter was sent to her without a stamp  this is 
unfortunate, and I can see it added to the feeling that Miss B was not receiving the best 
service. 
We dont regulate financial businesses or tell them how to operate. And as our investigator 
explained Unums policyholder was Miss Bs employer, with whom it corresponded. 
Nevertheless Unum will take note that a letter was sent to Miss B without postage  
hopefully this wont be repeated. I see too that Miss B felt that the final response letter that 
she received was demeaning and that she was spoken to in a hostile way. Unum have 
looked for the call that Miss B refers to but there is no note of it on the file. As I havent been 
able to listen to the call Im not able to conclude that Miss B was spoken to in this way. 
However I note that Unum has apologised as Miss B found its response letter to be 
demeaning. Unum said that was not its intention  the letter was intended to provide a 
factual account of its findings. Overall I can see that Miss B felt that Unum didnt think there 
was any reason for her to be absent from work. I dont agree that this is so. Rather, I find it 
accepted that she was suffering with stress but didnt agree that this qualified for benefit 
under the policy. In the circumstances I find that Unums claim decision was fair and in 
accordance with the policy terms. And although I recognise that Miss B doesnt agree, I dont 
find that the correspondence she received was unacceptable.
My final decision
For the reasons given above I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss B to accept 
or reject my decision before 19 January 2023.
 
Lindsey Woloski
Ombudsman