DRN-4405012
The complaint
Mrs M is unhappy with Ageas Insurance Limiteds (Ageas) handling and partial decline of 
claims she made under her building insurance policy. 
Where Ive referred to Ageas, this also includes any actions and communication carried out 
by agents acting on Ageas behalf.
What happened
Mrs M has a building insurance policy underwritten by Ageas. Mrs M made a claim for water 
damage to units in her utility room and to her floor tiles.
Ageas accepted and cash settled the claim for water damage to the utility room. But they 
declined to cover the tiles under this claim, as they didnt conclude they were damaged by 
the escape of water. Ageas said a separate claim would need to be made for the tiles.
During the claim, Mrs M complained that Ageas agent damaged her door and she asked for 
it to be repaired or replaced. Ageas didnt agree their agent was responsible and issued a 
final response outlining this in June 2022. 
Ageas also declined the separate claim made for the tiles, as they said no insured event had 
occurred.
Mrs M raised further complaints with Ageas about claim delays, the decline of the tiles claim 
and that a loss adjuster wasnt appointed. Ageas addressed these in final responses letters 
in November 2022 and January 2023 and follow up communication. In this, Ageas 
maintained the tile claim decision, and that the third party they appointed was appropriate, 
but they paid £100 compensation for delays which had occurred.
As Mrs M remained unhappy, she approached this service.
One of our investigators looked into things. She said the complaint about the alleged 
damage to Mrs Ms door had been brought to this service too late, so she said she couldnt 
consider it as it fell outside our jurisdiction. 
For the parts she could consider, the delays, claim handling and the tiles, she upheld this in 
part. The investigator recognised there were delays, but she thought the compensation 
already offered was fair. She also didnt think it was unreasonable for Ageas to appoint a 
claims management company rather than a loss adjuster.
But the investigator said that whilst Ageas hadnt acted unfairly by declining the tiles in 
relation to the escape of water claim, Mrs M had accidental damage cover, but Ageas hadnt 
considered it against this insured event under the policy. So, she said Ageas should 
reconsider it against this insured peril to see if there was cover for the tiles. She also said 
Ageas should pay a further £100 compensation for not doing so earlier.
Ageas agreed with the investigators recommendations. Mrs M didnt agree. As an 
agreement couldnt be reached, the case was passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive decided I cant consider Mrs Ms complaint about the alleged door damage, and Ive 
written to both parties separately about that. This final decision relates to the complaint 
points I can consider, the claim handling and delays, and the decline of the floor tiles part of 
Mrs Ms claim, as these complaints were brought to us in time.
Broken floor tiles
Mrs M initially said the floor tiles had been broken during the escape of water which 
damaged the utility room (which Ageas accepted and settled). However, Ageas didnt 
conclude there was any damage to the tiles consistent with being caused by the escape of 
water, so they declined it under this part of Mrs Ms claim.
Having considered all the information provided, I agree with Ageas position here. This is 
because I havent seen any evidence to demonstrate the tiles were cracked solely due to the 
escape of water. So, I dont think Ageas acted unfairly by declining them under this part of 
Mrs Ms claim.
After the tiles were declined under the escape of water claim, Mrs M and Ageas later entered 
into some discussion that the tiles could have been damaged during a previous furniture 
delivery she had. But Ageas said an insured event under Mrs Ms policy hadnt occurred, 
and they said Mrs M should contact the delivery company directly about this instead.
However, our investigator noted that Mrs M had extended accidental damage cover under 
her policy. And whilst this had been mentioned during the claim, Ageas hadnt fully 
considered whether the tile damage was covered under this part of Mrs Ms policy.
Accidental damage is defined as:
An unintentional and unexpected one off incident that causes damage to your 
buildings and contents.
So, if the delivery company did cause this damage, then Mrs M may have a potential claim 
under this section of her policy, subject to the remaining policy terms and conditions. 
But this peril and policy coverage hasnt been considered properly by Ageas yet. Therefore, 
our investigator said Ageas should reconsider the broken tiles under this part of the policy 
and the remaining terms to establish if the claim is covered. I think thats fair and reasonable 
in the circumstances, so Ill be directing Ageas to do this.I also agree with the investigator that Ageas should have done this much sooner. And I also 
think the additional £100 compensation they recommended (and Ageas agreed to) is 
reasonable for the inconvenience caused to Mrs M by not considering her claim for the 
damaged tiles against all potential policy coverage sooner.
Claim handling and delays
Ageas accepted that there had been some delays in Mrs Ms claim. Ageas outlined that 
whilst they were responsible for some of the delays, at some points, they were also awaiting 
information from Mrs M. But they recognise there were also occasions where the information 
provided by Mrs M wasnt reviewed which caused delays. Ageas offered £100 compensation 
for the shortfalls in the service they provided.
Having considered what happened during the claim, and that Ageas isnt solely responsible 
for all of the delays that occurred, I think the amount theyve already offered for this is 
reasonable. Therefore, I wont be directing them to increase this for those delays, but as 
outlined above, I will be directing Ageas to pay a further £100 compensation for not 
considering whether there was any other cover for the tiles under Mrs Ms policy sooner.
Mrs M says that Ageas should have provided a loss adjuster, rather than appointing a claims 
management company to manage the claim on their behalf. Mrs M says that shes been told 
by a third party that there is a requirement for a loss adjuster to be appointed in claims such 
as hers. 
Whilst I note what Mrs M says, as explained by our investigator, it isnt unusual for an insurer 
to appoint claims managing companies, or other third parties who arent loss adjusters, to 
validate a claim. A loss adjuster isnt a requirement, and it is down to the individual insurer 
who they appoint to validate and handle a claim on their behalf. Therefore, I dont agree with 
Mrs M that Ageas has failed requirements by not appointing a loss adjuster.
My final decision
Its my final decision that I uphold this complaint in part and direct Ageas Insurance Limited 
to:
Reconsider the claim for the broken tiles under the accidental damage section of 
Mrs Ms policy, and in line with the remaining terms
Increase the compensation from £100 to £200
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs M to accept or 
reject my decision before 14 November 2023.
 
Callum Milne
Ombudsman