DRN-4175904
The complaint
Mr C is unhappy that Great Lakes Insurance SE (Great Lakes) declined his travel insurance 
claim. 
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here. The facts are not in dispute, so Ill focus on giving my reasons for my decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the conclusions reached by the investigator for these reasons:
The insurance industry regulator, the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA), has set out 
rules and guidance for insurers in the Insurance: Conduct of Business Sourcebook 
(ICOBS). ICOBS says that insurers should act honestly, fairly and professionally in 
accordance with the best interests of their customers, and that they should handle 
claims promptly and fairly and shouldnt unreasonably reject a claim.
Page 22, Section 6c Personal Money & Passport of Mr Cs policy wording sets out 
whats covered under this section. And special conditions relating to claims under this 
section states the loss or theft of money must be reported to the local police and 
written confirmation obtained within 24 hours of discovery of the incident.
Mr C returned from his trip on 1 July 2022. He says he attempted to call the 
British Transport Police on 2 July 2022 but there were long wait times and was 
unable to speak to anyone. So Mr C sent an email to the same on 3 July 2022 and I 
can see he received a reply a few days later. 
Theres evidence of the response from the British Transport Police but theres no 
evidence of calls Mr C says he made on 2 July 2022. While I appreciate Mr C might 
have attempted to make the calls on 2 July 2022, theres no evidence to show this. 
The policy wording states that the incident must have been reported within 24 hours 
of discovery and I cant see that this happened. Im sorry to disappoint Mr C but, Im 
not persuaded that Great Lakes has declined Mr Cs claim for the loss or theft of 
money, unfairly or unreasonably. 
I understand Great Lakes offered Mr C compensation of £150 for the delays caused 
in dealing with the claim. Great Lakes should now ensure that this payment has been 
made to Mr C if it hasnt already done so. 
For the above reasons, I do not uphold Mr Cs complaint. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint about Great Lakes Insurance SE. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 2 August 2023.
 
Nimisha Radia
Ombudsman