DRN-2979913
The complaint
Mr and Mrs C complain that U K Insurance Limited (UKI) declined their travel insurance 
claim. 
What happened
Mr and Mrs C have a travel insurance policy as part of their bank current account.  
On 12 February 2020, they booked their holiday to Europe and made a full payment on the 
same date. Their intended date of travel was from 24 April 2020 to 1 May 2020. 
Mr and Mrs C say they were receiving regular travel updates to their intended destination 
and around 9-13 March 2020, they were warned against all but essential travel.
They contacted their travel agent on 26 March 2020 to discuss cancellation but as they 
couldnt offer a refund, Mr and Mrs C cancelled their holiday and received written 
confirmation from the travel agent on the same day. 
Mr and Mrs C then submitted a claim to UKI who assessed it. It declined the claim and said 
the holiday wasnt cancelled within 28 days of the due departure date. UKI paid 
compensation of £50 because of the delays caused in the claims process. 
Unhappy with UKIs response, Mr and Mrs Cs brought their complaint to this service. They 
say the claim decision was unreasonable. The advice against all but essential travel 
remained the same for weeks after they had cancelled their holiday. The claim was declined 
on a technicality. 
Our investigator looked into the complaint and said FCO guidance against all, but essential 
travel was in place on 26 March 2020. So, under the terms and conditions of the policy, 
cover is available for cancellation because of the FCO advice that was in place. But only if 
the holiday was cancelled within 28 days of the departure date. As Mr and Mrs C cancelled 
more than 28 days of the departure date, cover wasnt available. 
Additionally, the investigator said the policy terms also state that if expenses are recoverable 
elsewhere, cover wont be provided. Mr and Mrs C booked a package holiday and the 
booking was covered by the Package Travel and Linked Travel Arrangements Regulations 
2018 (PTR). Under the regulations, the package travel provider would have been required to 
provide a full refund had Mr and Mrs C not cancelled their holiday. Our investigator didnt 
therefore uphold the complaint and said she thought the claim was declined fairly. She said 
costs would have been recoverable elsewhere.
Mr and Mrs C asked for the complaint to be passed to an ombudsman. So, its been passed 
to me. In summary, they say:
They made an insurance claim in good faith. They are not experts in holiday contract 
law and thought they were doing the right thing having discussed the matter with the 
holiday company;
They feel a valid claim was being refused by a big company hiding behind contract 
small print which isnt reasonable business practice;
They took the decision to cancel their holiday on the grounds of the government 
advice at that time. The travel provider didnt cancel it, the trains were running, and 
the hotels were open. Their travel destination was one of the worst affected and by 
26 March 2020, it was clear that it wasnt safe to go. The advice remained in place on 
their due date of travel;
We seem to agree that they were reasonable in deciding that travelling would not 
have been safe;
They were never advised by the insurer to claim from the travel company.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The relevant industry guidelines require UKI to deal with claims fairly and promptly. And, not 
to decline a claim unreasonably. 
The key issue I need to therefore decide is whether UKI has dealt with the claim in line with 
the terms and conditions of the policy and in doing so, dealt with it fairly.
Ive looked at the relevant sections of the policy. Page 16 of the policy document states that 
cover is provided in the case of cancellation and in the event of:
The Foreign and Commonwealth Office advising against All Travel or All but 
essential travel to your intended destination, providing the advice came into force 
after you opened your account or booked your trip (whichever was the later) and was 
in the 28 days before your departure on your trip.
Mr and Mrs C cancelled on 26 March 2020 and their intended departure date was 24 April 
2020. Although they cancelled more than 28 days of their departure date, the advice against 
all travel remained in place at the time Mr and Mrs C were due to travel. So I dont think it 
would be fair or reasonable to say cover wasnt available in a case such as this. But Ive 
gone on to consider whether there are any further applicable conditions or exclusions.
Under the same section of the policy, sub-headed, What is not covered, no cover is 
available for any expenses (including Air Passenger Duty) that can be recovered from 
elsewhere. 
Mr and Mrs C booked a package holiday. This means under PTR 2018; the travel provider 
would have been required to either provide a full refund or a refund voucher for the cost of 
Mr and Mrs Cs holiday in the event that the holiday was cancelled by the same provider. I 
can see the travel restrictions and government advice remained in place on the date of the 
intended travel of 24 April 2020. Its very likely therefore that had Mr and Mrs C not cancelled 
their holiday themselves, the travel provider would have done so. And, had that happened, 
the cost of the holiday would have been most likely refunded either in cash or voucher due to 
it being a package holiday they had booked. 
The travel provider has said Mr and Mrs Cs booking was non-refundable. As Mr and Mrs Cs 
trip was a package holiday, the travel provider has an obligation to provide a full refund in certain circumstances. This is usually where the travel provider has cancelled the booking. 
But in this case, Mr and Mrs C cancelled their trip first.
Under the PTR 2018, there is a provision for a refund to be provided where a package 
holiday is cancelled due to unavoidable and extraordinary circumstances occurring at the 
destination which significantly affect the performance of the package. As the advice not to 
travel was still in place when Mr and Mrs C were due to travel, its likely Mr and Mrs C would 
have been unable to start their trip as planned. 
Given the above, I think its reasonably possible that Mr and Mrs C may be able to recover 
their costs from the travel provider under the PTR. So, Mr and Mrs C need to pursue the 
matter further with their travel provider first. And if the travel provider refuses to provide a 
refund, they may be able to complain to the Travel Trust Association. If having done so, Mr 
and Mrs C are still unable to recover their outstanding losses, its open to them to get back in 
touch with UKI so it can consider whether their losses are irrecoverable at that point. If they 
remain unhappy with any decision by UKI about that, they may wish to consider bringing a 
new complaint to our service.
While I appreciate and have every sympathy that Mr and Mrs C felt they did the right thing, 
that doesnt however mean UKI should pay the claim in this instance. 
Ive looked at the travel providers website. Financial protection is offered by them as they 
are members of the Travel Trust Association. There is advice on their website about holiday 
cancellations and also a question and answer section. Mr and Mrs C may still have the 
option to explain to the travel provider whats happened and may possibly be able to get the 
cost of the holiday refunded. Mr and Mrs C will however have to contact the provider directly 
to see if thats possible.  
Overall, in the circumstances of this complaint, Im satisfied that UKI hasnt declined the 
claim unfairly and dealt with the claim in line with whats expected. I can see there were 
delays in the handling of the claim and UKI offered £50 compensation in recognition of this. 
UKI doesnt need to do anything further.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I dont uphold Mr and Mrs Cs complaint against U K Insurance 
Limited.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C and Mrs C to 
accept or reject my decision before 23 September 2021.
 
Nimisha Radia
Ombudsman