DRN-1614737
The complaint
Mr M complains about the service he received from Real Time Claims Limited (RTC) during 
his claim for mis-sold payment protection insurance (PPI).
What happened
Mr M instructed RTC to submit a claim for mis-sold PPI on his behalf. It sent the claim to Mr 
Ms lender and a final response was sent to it in July 2015. RTC says it then sent the claim 
to the Financial Ombudsman Service in December 2015.
RTC chased the Financial Ombudsman Service in 2017 for an update and was told it hadnt 
received anything for this complaint. RTC asked Mr M to complete forms and then submitted 
these to the Financial Ombudsman Service. It chased again in 2018 and was informed that 
the forms werent received. It resubmitted the forms. Mr M was then told his complaint had 
been referred too late to the Financial Ombudsman Service.
In 2019, RTC decided not to continue being regulated to operate as a claims management 
company. Mr M was told this after he chased up progress with his claim. Mr M complained to 
the Claims Management Ombudsman  a Financial Ombudsman service as he felt he 
wasnt kept up to date properly.
Our investigator upheld Mr Ms complaint. He explained that RTC didnt receive an 
acknowledgement from the Financial Ombudsman Service and should have checked the 
claim was submitted. He also felt that it hadnt done a good job at keeping Mr M updated. 
For the loss of opportunity and the poor communication the investigator recommended RTC 
pay Mr M £350 compensation. RTC didnt respond to our investigator so the complaint was 
passed to me to reach a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im upholding this complaint. Ill explain why.
Loss of opportunity
RTC has sent me its communication log to consider. I can see that it says it sent the 
complaint to the Financial Ombudsman Service on 2 December 2015. It also set a task 
saying awaiting FOS acknowledgement. From this I think its likely RTC knew that when 
the Financial Ombudsman Service receive correspondence for a new complaint it 
acknowledges this  and gives a case reference number. So when no acknowledgement or 
reference number was received, I think its reasonable to expect RTC to chase. I cant see 
that it did this.
RTC didnt make contact with the Financial Ombudsman Service until 2017 and was told 
then that it hadnt received anything. RTC then asked Mr M to sign more forms, submitted it to the Financial Ombudsman Service but didnt receive an acknowledgement. It waited over 
a year to check and was told that the forms hadnt been received. I dont think RTC has 
acted reasonably here. It was aware that the Financial Ombudsman Service sends 
acknowledgements when it receives information and it didnt take any action when these 
werent received. This has led to Mr Ms complaint being referred to the Financial 
Ombudsman Service too late. So, his complaint wasnt considered. Whilst I cant determine 
whether his complaint wouldve been upheld, I think that RTCs lack of service has cost him 
the opportunity of having his complaint considered by the Financial Ombudsman Service. 
So, I think RTC needs to compensate Mr M for this loss of opportunity.
Communication
Ive looked at the communication between RTC and Mr M. I can see that RTC sent multiple 
updates to Mr M to inform him that the Financial Ombudsman Service was considering his 
complaint despite the fact it hadnt checked this. And, in fact, RTC hadnt sent enough 
information for the complaint to be investigated. So these updates were misleading. When 
Mr M found out that the Financial Ombudsman Service couldnt consider his complaint as it 
was referred too late he wouldve been frustrated and shocked, because RTC had sent him 
misleading updates.
In addition to this, Mr M continued to contact RTC to then be told that it had chosen to no 
longer be regulated, telling Mr M that hed have to speak directly to his lender or the 
Financial Ombudsman Service. I think RTC couldve done more to communicate with Mr M, 
both throughout his claim and when it decided to no longer be regulated. And I think the lack 
of communication, and the misleading updates wouldve caused Mr M some frustration and 
shock.
Putting things right
RTC needs to compensate Mr M for the loss of opportunity of having his complaint 
considered by the Financial Ombudsman Service. It also needs to compensate Mr M for the 
poor communication. So it should pay Mr M £350 compensation for the trouble and upset it 
caused.
My final decision
I uphold this complaint. Real Time Claims Limited must pay Mr M £350 compensation.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 8 April 2020.
Charlotte Wilson
Ombudsman