DRN-2384220
The complaint
Mr A complains about DAS Legal Expenses Insurance Company Limiteds handling of a 
claim hes made on a legal expenses insurance policy.
What happened
Mr A holds a legal expenses insurance provided by DAS. Hes made claims on the policy in 
relation to a legal dispute, which DAS has accepted. Hes made a number of complaints on 
the policy, but this particular complaint is that DAS hasnt refunded interim payments hes 
made to legal representatives for their services. He also says that 
DAS rejected his complaint about the interim payments. It said that when the appointed 
solicitors had been appointed, they had agreed that DAS wouldnt be liable for such 
payments, and that no approach to the policyholder should be made for these. It did say that 
the communication around the claim should have been better and offered to pay £200 
compensation to recognise this.
As Mr A remained dissatisfied, he approached our service. Our investigator didnt think DAS 
should do any more than it already had done. He thought the terms agreed to by the 
solicitors were clear and that the compensation offered was appropriate. Mr A didnt accept 
this and asked for an ombudsmans decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
DAS accepted cover for the current claim and agreed that Mr As preferred solicitors (who Ill 
refer to as M) could represent him. M agreed to DAS standard Terms of Appointment. One 
of the sections of this agreement states:
Where we are responsible for your costs and expenses these will be considered by DAS on 
conclusion of the claim and in no circumstances shall we make any interim payments. No 
approach should be made to the customer for payment of your costs and expenses unless 
we direct you otherwise and any such undirected approach shall be a material breach of this 
agreement.
After entering into this agreement with DAS, M asked Mr A to pay costs it had incurred in 
pursuing the case. Mr A sought to recover what he paid from DAS. It declined to reimburse 
these, relying on the section of the agreement Ive referenced above.
I can see that when DAS agreed to Ms appointment, it sent a copy of the Terms of 
Appointment to Mr A. This copy included the section Ive referred to. The letter sent to Mr A 
said that the Terms of Appointment outlined what was expected of M in their dealings with 
DAS and Mr A, and recommended that he read these. Im satisfied that DAS had provided 
information to Mr A which indicated that interim payments wouldnt be made.
I think that DAS position here is fair. The agreement, which based on DAS standard terms, 
is clear that DAS will only consider costs at the conclusion of the claim and that interim 
payments wont be made. 
The reason for this would seem to be that, in the event that legal proceedings are 
successful, the first option for seeking recovery of legal expenses would be for them to be 
paid by the other party, as part of a costs application. DAS would then be liable for any 
remaining costs (where such remaining costs are covered by the policy terms and 
conditions). Its therefore unreasonable to ask DAS to cover costs while the claim is ongoing 
as it may that they arent liable for these at the conclusion of the claim.
I know Mr A wants me to make a decision which says that DAS should be liable for 100% of 
the legal costs incurred. I cant do this, in part for the reasons Ive outlined above that the 
other party may be liable for these at the appropriate time, but also because that isnt the 
complaint that Im considering here. Im looking at whether DAS could fairly decline to cover 
interim payments. From what Ive seen, DAS hasnt said that such costs will never be 
covered, just that while the claim is ongoing, it wont make a payment for these.
Turning to the claim handling, DAS has admitted that this should have been better. There 
have been occasions on which Mr A and M were in contact asking for updates or 
information, but these havent been responded to in a timely fashion. I agree that this would 
have caused inconvenience to Mr A by needing to follow up queries which hadnt been 
responded to, and hed have been rightly frustrated at the lack of contact from DAS about 
the claim. But Im satisfied that the £200 offered by DAS as compensation adequately 
recognises this. 
My final decision
Its my final decision not to uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision before 17 June 2021.
 
Ben Williams
Ombudsman