DRN-3879835
The complaint
Mrs M complains about how Red Sands Insurance Company (Europe) Limited (Red Sands) 
applied excess deductions to claims under her pet insurance policy for treatment of her cat.
References to Red Sands include their agents who administer the policy.
What happened
In July 2022 Mrs M took her cat to a vet as it had issues with a sore foot. The vet examined 
the cat and treated it. Mrs M submitted a claim (for £192.05) which Red Sands accepted. 
They deducted the policy excess of £99 which meant they settled the claim for £93.05.  
The cat subsequently visited the vet later in July (two visits, resulting in claims of £39.00 and 
£68.88). Red Sands accepted both claims but applied a £39 excess to the first claim 
(meaning no payment was made) and a £60 excess to the second claim (leaving a net figure 
of £8.88). Red Sands also applied a co-payment deduction of 20% to the second claim 
(£1.78) meaning they paid Mrs M £7.10.  
Two further claims were submitted for treatment (£90.11 and £39 respectively). Red Sands 
accepted both claims but applied a 20% co-payment deduction to each claim, meaning they 
paid £72.09 and £31.20 respectively).
Mrs M was unhappy at what she considered to be unfair deductions for two excess figures 
and the 20% co-payment. She thought the claims were one continuous claim, so Red Sands 
had treated her unfairly.
Red Sands treated her challenge as a complaint but didnt uphold it. In their final response 
they said the policy documentation included specific reference to one excess per policy year 
for each condition claimed for. Further claims for the same condition (in the same policy 
year) wouldnt attract an additional excess. A new claim for a new condition would attract an 
additional excess. The policy documentation also included co-payments for pets over a 
certain age (8 years for dogs and 10 years for cats). Based on these policy terms, Red 
Sands concluded theyd applied the excess and co-payment deductions correctly.
Mrs M then complained to this service. She said Red Sands had unfairly applied the policy 
terms to make deductions from her claim. She felt Red Sands had taken advantage of her 
disability and vulnerability to take advantage of her, so shed lost money (from the 
deductions applied). This had caused her distress, particularly as her medical conditions 
meant she was unable to work. She also found their communication with her unhelpful and 
stressful. She wanted Red Sands to refund the deductions theyd made from her claims and 
to treat her claims as one claim. She thought it unfair to deduct a second excess as well as 
the 20% co-payment deduction.
Our investigator didnt uphold the complaint, concluding Red Sands had correctly applied the 
excess deductions from the cost of treatment in the claims. Under the terms of the policy, the 
£99 excess was applied to the first treatment (£192.05 for a sore paw) leaving a new 
payment of £93.05. The policy then renewed later in July. The policy terms provided for one 
excess to be applied in each policy year for the same condition. Mrs Ms cat received further 
treatment for the same condition, but as the treatment fell into a new policy year, the £99 
excess was applied. As the treatment cost £39, then applying the £99 excess meant no net 
payment was made. But as £60 of the excess figure couldnt be applied, it was held over to 
be applied against the cost of the next treatment (for the same condition). As the next 
treatment cost £68.88 this left a net figure of £8.88. 
However, as the policy provided for a co-payment of 20% from Mrs M (as the cat had 
reached 10 years of age) the net payment was calculated correctly at £7.10. The investigator 
thought the policy terms were clear on both the way excess deductions were to be applied, 
as well as the co-payment deduction when the cat reached ten years of age. So Red Sands 
hadnt acted unfairly in the way theyd applied the excess and co-payment deductions to the 
claims made by Mrs M.
The investigator also considered the policy documentation provided at each renewal since 
the policy was taken out. He concluded the way the policy excess would be deducted (a 
separate excess, for each condition, for each policy year) was clear. As was the co-payment 
deduction once the cat reached ten years old.
Mrs M disagreed with the investigators conclusions, and requested an ombudsman review 
the complaint. In disagreeing, she said her cats condition was ongoing so the claims should 
have been considered under the policy terms and conditions when the condition being 
claimed for first arose  otherwise it was an unfair contract.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Id first want to assure Mrs M Ive carefully considered the nature of the vulnerability shes 
told us about. I recognise this means she feels particularly close to her cat and how much 
her cat means to her wellbeing. Ive borne this in mind, given my role here is to decide 
whether Red Sands have acted fairly towards Mrs M. 
The key issues in Mrs Ms complaint are, firstly, whether Red Sands acted fairly in applying 
the excess deductions to five claims (one in the policy year to 20th July 2022 and four in the 
policy year starting on 21st July 2022). And, secondly, in applying the 20.00% co-payment 
deduction from three of the latter four claims. Mrs M says Red Sands applied them unfairly 
and have taken advantage of her disability and vulnerability. Red Sands say they have 
applied the excess and co-payment deductions in line with the policy terms and conditions, 
which were clearly communicated to Mrs M in the policy documentation (including the 
renewal invitations and subsequent policy documentation issued with the renewals).
On the issue of the way the excess deductions were applied, Ive first looked at what the 
policy documentation says. The policy schedule issued as part of the renewal documentation 
in July 2022 sets out the [vet fee] excess of £99. The Schedule also includes the following 
detail about the excess:
Your Excess Information
Vet fees excess: £99.00 is payable by per condition per policy year.
Similar wording is also in the detailed policy terms and conditions (and the policy schedules 
for previous years). Taken together, I think this makes it clear one excess will be applied to 
claims for the same condition in each policy year. So, looking at the claims made, the first fell into the policy year that ended on 20th July 2022. As the claim was for £192.05 then 
application of the £99 excess left a net payment of £93.05. The subsequent claims (for the 
same condition) fell into the next policy year, beginning on 21st July 2022. 
The first claim was for £39.00, so less than the £99 excess. But it wouldnt be fair or 
reasonable to apply the full £99 excess to the claim  which would imply Mrs M owed Red 
Sands £60. So, it was reasonable to apply £39 of the £99 excess, leaving a net figure of £0 
(and a £60 balance of excess to be applied to any subsequent claims for the same condition 
in the same year). The next claim for the same condition was for £68.88 which meant a net 
payment of £8.88 after deduction of the remaining excess balance of £60. 
On the issue of the application of the co-payment deduction, Ive noted the 2022 Policy 
schedule records the cats date of birth as 13th July 2012 (although the cats clinical history 
records it as 7th February 2012). Given the policy renewal date was 21st July 2022, this 
means the cat had reached 10 years of age at the renewal date (on either of the two dates of 
birth noted above). Accordingly, having reached the ten years of age threshold for 
application of a co-payment deduction, the schedule clearly records a co-payment figure of 
20% as follows:
Sharing the cost of the vet bill
As your pet is now over the age of 10, youll also have to start paying a percentage of 
the vet fees when you make a claim. This is known as a co-payment. On this policy 
you will need to make a 20.00% contribution to the cost of every claim in addition to 
any excess that you may have to pay. The co-payment is deducted from your vet fee 
benefit limit.
Similar wording about the ten years of age threshold and 20.00% co-payment is also 
contained in the Know your cover document and the detailed policy terms and conditions. 
The renewal covering letter issued in June 2022 also sets out the co-payment deduction as 
Mrs Ms cat would have reached the ten years of age threshold at the renewal date the 
following month.
The application of a co-payment deduction is also common to many pet insurance policies, 
reflecting the increased likelihood of conditions arising as a pet grows older. This means an 
increased risk of claims, which is reflected in both the premiums charged (which tend to 
increase with the age of the pet) and the application of a co-payment deduction. 
So, Red Sands application of a co-payment deduction is in line with industry practice and 
clearly set out in the policy documentation.
Turning to the specifics of this case, the co-payment of 20% would be applicable to the 
second claim made in the policy year that began on 21st July 2022 (the £8.88 set out above). 
Applying the 20% figure to £8.88 means a (after rounding) deduction of £1.78  leaving a net 
payment of £7.10. As this is what Red Sands did, then Ive concluded theyve correctly 
applied the 20% co-payment deduction. Similarly, for the further two claims (£90.11 and £39) 
Red Sands applied the 20% co-payment deduction (but not any excess, as that had been 
applied to the first two claims in the new policy year). That meant deductions of £1.02 and 
£7.80 respectively, so payments of £72.09 and £31.20 respectively. So, theyve acted fairly 
and reasonably in line with the policy terms and conditions.
Having reached these conclusions, Ive also considered what Mrs M has said about her 
disability and vulnerability, including what she feels was Red Sands taking advantage of her. 
However, Ive seen nothing to indicate Red Sands treated Mrs M any differently from any other policyholder when applying the excess and co-payment deductions. So, Ive concluded 
Red Sands havent treated Mrs M unfairly or unreasonably.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, my final decision is that I dont uphold Mrs Ms complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs M to accept or 
reject my decision before 2 June 2023.
 
Paul King
Ombudsman