The complaint
Mr C says The Royal Bank of Scotland Plc (BOS) mis-sold him a regular payment protection 
insurance (PPI) policy to cover his credit card repayments. 
What happened
Mr C applied for a credit card by post in 2004. At the same time he took out a PPI policy to 
cover his credit card repayments. The policy cost around £0.79 per £100 of the balance on 
Mr Cs credit card. A successful claim on the policy wouldve paid 10% of the outstanding 
balance for up to 12 months per claim if Mr C was unable to work due to accident or 
sickness or lost his job.
Our adjudicator didnt think Mr Cs complaint should be upheld because she thought Mr C 
wouldve understood he had a choice in taking the policy and thought it wouldve provided a 
useful benefit.
Mr C disagrees. He says the policy terms and conditions werent made clear because he 
would never have closed down his business just to claim on a PPI policy. If this had been 
properly explained he wouldnt have taken it out.
So the complaint has come to me for a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Weve set out our general approach to 
complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
Mr Cs complaint.
Ive decided not to uphold Mr Cs complaint.
The PPI was applied for by post when Mr C completed a postal application for a credit card. 
BOS have given us a copy of the application form Mr C completed. 
I can see that theres a separate section on the application form that deals with PPI and that 
there is a tick next to the words YES, please protect my payments now. I think there is 
enough there for Mr C to understand he didnt need to take PPI because he couldve just left 
the section blank. So I think Mr C selected to take PPI with a tick because he wanted the 
cover. 
Because the PPI was taken out through the post I dont think BOS advised Mr C to take PPI. 
What this means is that BOS didnt recommend PPI to Mr C, it just gave him information 
DRN-1872504about PPI. This information needed to be given in a way that was clear, fair and not 
misleading so he could make an informed choice about buying PPI.
I dont know if BOS did give all the proper information that was needed. But even if BOS did 
give all the information Mr C needed to make an informed choice on taking out the policy, 
I think he wouldve still taken the policy because at the time of sale:
He was eligible for the PPI.
 
Mr C says he was self-employed at the time he took out the policy but the terms and 
conditions of the policy didnt make it any harder to claim on the policy than an 
employed person. And it doesnt look like he wouldve been caught by any of the 
other main exclusions in the terms and conditions of the policy which couldve made it 
difficult to make a successful claim.
 
At the time of the sale Mr C says he had no other means of making his credit card 
payments if he couldnt work. A successful claim on the policy wouldve covered his 
credit card payments for up to 12 months if his business stopped trading or he 
couldnt work due to accident or sickness. So I cant see how knowing this information 
wouldve put him off buying it.
 
Theres nothing to suggest the policy wasnt affordable to Mr C and he could cancel 
the policy if he no longer wanted it.
 
So I dont think it wouldve made a difference in how the information was given to Mr C on 
the PPI. I think he wouldve still taken out the PPI policy as it was of value to him.
Which means BOS doesnt have to pay back all of the cost of the PPI to Mr C.
But BOS has paid back some of the cost of the PPI to Mr C because: 
 
When the policy was sold, BOS expected to get a high level of commission and profit 
share (more than 50% of the PPI premium) - so it should have told Mr C about that. 
Because BOS didnt tell Mr C, that was unfair. 
 
To put that right, BOS has paid back the amount of commission and profit share that 
was above 50% of the PPI premium - and I think that is fair in this case.
 
My final decision
The PPI policy wasnt mis-sold  so The Royal Bank of Scotland Plc does not have to pay 
back all of the cost of the PPI to Mr C.
But The Royal Bank of Scotland Plc does have to pay back to Mr C any commission and 
profit share it got that was more than 50% of the PPI premium. I understand it has already 
done this, so I dont award any further compensation. Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 14 July 2020.
Caroline Davies
Ombudsman