DRN-4051124
The complaint
Miss Gs representatives, Mr G and Miss S, complain on her behalf about the administration 
of her investment bond (the bond) by Strategic Financial Solutions Limited, referred to as 
SFS or the business.
What happened
In December 2014, the business advised Miss G to take out a £265,000 mortgage, with a 
third-party mortgage provider. In February 2015, the business advised her to use £200,000  
that shed released from her mortgage  to invest in the bond. 
I understand that in August 2021 Mr G and Miss S complained about the sale of the bond, as 
well as the sale of the mortgage. In December 2022 the matter was considered by an 
ombudsman and found to be out of jurisdiction. I note it was decided that we could consider 
the following:
 
The action taken to manage Miss Gs affairs between the receipt of her complaint on 
1 August 2021, and the sending of the businesss response to her complaint. 
The impact of any mistake resulting from the letter dated November 2019.   
The administration of the bond (and the mortgage) since 1 August 2015. 
Whilst I note that Mr G and Miss S still think that the decision rendering certain elements of 
the complaint out of jurisdiction is an abuse of process, in light of the jurisdiction decision Im 
only going to consider the complaint in relation to the administration of the bond. I note that 
the complaint relating to the mortgage has either been, or will be, considered by another 
ombudsman. 
One of our investigators considered the complaint but in relation to the bond didnt think it 
should be upheld. In summary, he said:
Mr G first complained to the business in August 2020. Shortly thereafter, Miss G 
contacted the business and withdrew the complaint stating that Mr G didnt have 
authority to complain on her behalf. 
In August 2021, Mr G complained again, but in September 2021, Miss G (again) said 
that he didnt have authority to complain on her behalf. 
The first time SFS knew that Miss G wanted to complain was on 13 October 2021, 
when Mr G supplied it with a copy of the Letter of Authority (LOA) signed by Miss G, 
containing instructions to reopen the (August 2021) complaint. In the circumstances 
the business did what it was asked to do. 
The letter dated November 2019 couldve been clearer. The wording wouldve given 
Miss G the wrong impression about the total value of her assets, and what the 
beneficiaries wouldve been entitled to. 
The letter gave the impression that the total value of Miss Gs assets was a 
combination of the outstanding mortgage balance of £393,530, plus the value of the 
bond at £226,350, totalling roughly £620,000. 
Instead, the letter shouldve explained that if Miss Gs property sold for £600,000 the 
outstanding mortgage balance would be deducted from this figure, and the remainder 
would be combined with the value of the investment   this wouldve shown a net 
asset figure of roughly £430,000. 
Notwithstanding the issues above, and that it wouldve been disappointing, Miss G 
hasnt suffered a financial loss, and its unlikely that her actions wouldve been 
different even if the business made the position clearer in its November 2019 letter. 
The above notwithstanding, the correspondence about the bond wasnt misleading. 
Hes satisfied that Miss G received annual statements from the bond, and these 
documents set out the position regarding the investment. 
The business hasnt behaved unreasonably in terms of its administration of the bond 
since 2015. 
Miss G has been in contact with the business several times since 2015, as shes 
made withdrawals from the bond. Its only since September 2021, after she 
complained, Miss Gs started to receive monthly payments  but shes been in 
contact with the business despite this. 
Given Miss Gs contact with the business, its not unreasonable that the business 
didnt proactively review the arrangement as set up by her since 2015. 
When the bond was set up, Miss G agreed to the business receiving a 0.5% annual 
fee, based on the value of the initial investment. Theres no basis to ask for that 
money to be paid back, because it has managed the withdrawals since 2015. 
Going forward, the business has said that if Miss G no longer wants it involved, it can 
cancel this arrangement  and itll no longer receive the 0.5% annual fee  which is 
reasonable.      
Hes seen nothing that would lead him to conclude that SFS took £10,000 of the 
money that Miss G thought the business was investing. On the face of the evidence, 
hes satisfied that Miss G wrote a cheque for £205,000  of which £5,000 was 
deducted as a one off set up cost and £200,000 was invested in the bond. The 
documentation provided in 2014/2015 to Miss G made this clear. 
His findings were based on what the business did once it had confirmed that Miss G 
wished to complain. After October 2021, the business received the LOA and provided 
Miss G with all the information requested. Despite her having to reiterate what she 
wanted, the business complied with the request. 
Mr G and Miss S disagreed with the investigators view and asked for an ombudsmans 
decision. In summary, Mr G said:
He doesnt think it satisfactory that the business received £1,000 a year and provided 
no advice other than the mistakes in the November 2019 letter.  
Miss G shouldve received annual advice, by phone if not in person. It wouldve been 
easy to find that she wasnt using the £200,000 invested, so a drawdown facility 
wouldve been more appropriate, possibly using a redemption of the existing equity 
release loan. In the circumstances, at the least the annual fees should be refunded to 
Miss G.  
SFSs failure to conduct a review has meant that the value of £600,000 on Miss Gs 
property has been wiped off by way of interest payments, such that she will only be 
left with the value of the bond  approximately £200,000  in only a few very few 
years. 
Miss G wasnt making use of the money from the outset. 
How can it be right to say that Miss G wouldve seen what was happening from her 
statements when she had a hoarding issue. It doesnt absolve the business after it 
was charging her £1,000 each year from the bond.
Its wholly untrue that Mr G is pursuing this complaint on behalf of his family member 
for his own financial gain, as suggested by the business. He also has two sisters 
listed as beneficiaries, and after all the charities have been paid out from the will he stands to gain peanuts. In any case, the three of them are independently wealthy 
and hes only doing this for Miss Gs benefit. 
How can there be no sanction for time wasting? The business was pretending to be 
investigating the complaint when it wasnt. 
The investigator having considered the additional points, wasnt persuaded to change his 
mind. In summary, he said:
His interpretation of the agreement isnt that the annual fees were agreed on the 
basis that the business would continuously review Miss Gs situation. 
Theres no basis for suggesting that the business was supposed to proactively do a 
yearly review of Miss Gs situation. Whilst Mr G suggests that Miss G wasnt using 
the bond, she was in fact taking withdrawals from the profits generated. 
Hes sorry to hear about Miss Gs hoarding issue as described by Mr G, but the 
business isnt at fault if she didnt open her correspondence.
Mr G acknowledged that Miss G withdrew the complaints raised. However, he hasnt 
taken into consideration what impact this would have on a business receiving a 
complaint. 
The compliant only became valid when a signed LOA was sent on 13 October 2021, 
asking for the complaint to be reopened. Hes seen no evidence that the business 
tried to close or delay the complaint after this point. It issued a final response letter 
on 21 October 2021. 
A statement from Miss Gs brother confirmed that he was present when the equity release 
was set up. He confirmed that he had no idea that the interest payments would be so high. 
As no agreement has been reached, the matter has been passed to me for review. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the investigators conclusion for much the same reasons. Im 
not going to uphold this complaint. On the face of the evidence, and on balance, despite 
what Mr G and Miss S say, I cant safely say that the business behaved unreasonably in 
regard to the administration of the bond. 
But before I explain why Im not upholding this complaint I think its important for me to 
recognise Miss Gs strength of feeling about this matter. I also apologise for the length of 
time taken to deal with his complaint. 
Mr G and Miss S have provided detailed submissions to support the complaint, which Ive 
read and considered carefully. However, I hope they wont take the fact my findings focus on 
what I consider to be the central issues, and not in as much detail, as a discourtesy. 
The purpose of my decision isnt to address every single point raised. My role is to consider 
the evidence presented by them and the business, and reach what I think is an independent, 
fair and reasonable decision based on the facts of the case. In deciding whats fair and reasonable, I must consider the relevant law, regulation and best 
industry practice, but Im not bound by this. Its for me to decide, based on the information 
Ive been given, whats more likely than not to have happened. 
As I explained above, in this case Im only considering the complaint in relation to the 
administration of the bond. In summary, I dont uphold this complaint for the following key 
reasons:
On balance I agree with the investigators comments regarding the November 2019 
letter, I think that the information couldve been clearer, along with the figure that 
Miss G was likely to receive, however, I dont think this resulted in any financial loss 
to her.
Like the investigator, I accept that this is likely to have been disappointing for Miss G 
that she wasnt getting the money she thought she might get. However, it was only a 
minor oversight and one that was resolved reasonably shortly thereafter. Ive seen no 
evidence that Miss G took any action as a result of the information provided, 
therefore on balance I dont think this warrants any compensation. 
The above notwithstanding, on the face of the evidence and on balance, despite 
what Mr G and Miss S say, I cant safely say that the correspondence relating to the 
bond was misleading. Im satisfied its more likely than not Miss G received 
statements relating to bond setting out the key information about her investment. Im 
unable to say that any of the key information on it was inaccurate or incorrect. If Miss 
G had an issue or didnt understand something, or wanted more information, she 
couldve got in touch with the business either herself or through a family member. Ive 
seen nothing to suggest that Miss G shouldnt have been sent these documents 
because she couldnt understand or process them. I note at the initial meeting Miss 
Gs brother insisted that all documentation/paperwork go to her.  
In the circumstances, and on balance, I dont think the business was obliged to 
proactively seek to challenge or amend the way that Miss G had set up the bond. On 
the face of the evidence, I cant say that it was obliged to proactively provide advice 
over and above the assistance it was providing. Im aware that Miss G was in touch 
with the business about making withdrawals, therefore she couldve set up the bond 
so as to receive regular withdrawals sooner if thats what she wanted.   
I note Mr Gs comments about applying alternative strategies. Whilst I cant consider 
the initial sale of the bond  and the question that Mr G is most concerned about in 
terms of whether or not the investment was worth it given the interest payment on the 
loan  because its deemed out of jurisdiction, I dont think that the business by 
subsequently not suggesting an alternative strategy has done anything wrong or that 
it hasnt administered the bond correctly in line with Miss Gs wishes. In my opinion 
the thrust of the points/challenges made in respect of this are done so with the 
benefit of hindsight.     
A business is entitled, in the reasonable exercise of its legitimate commercial 
judgement, to set its own fees, as long it has made this clear to the investor which on 
balance, I believe it has in this case by way of correspondence including the 
Illustration and key facts document. If Miss G had an issue, she or her brother 
couldve called the business. The level of fees dont always determine what the 
business will and wont do, therefore I cant conclude that the business shouldve 
done more for the fees charged. 
On the face of the evidence, and on balance, Im satisfied that Miss G agreed, in 
addition to the initial (one off) set up cost, for the business to receive from the bond 
provider a 0.5% annual fee based on the value of the initial investment  which is a 
concept broadly in line with industry practice. Therefore, in the circumstances I cant 
say that it would be fair or reasonable for the business to return the fees charged. 
And certainly not because it didnt subsequently advise Miss G (of its own volition) of a different strategy. 
Based on what the business says, I understand the annual fees are paid to allow the 
business to continue to advise Miss G and assisting her with ad hoc services such as 
payments and withdrawals from the bond. Im also mindful that Miss G previously 
held bonds, and therefore was or ought reasonably to have been familiar with, the 
concept of fees/costs. 
I appreciate what Mr G and Miss S say about Miss Gs vulnerabilities, but despite 
what they say, I cant say the business has done anything wrong in this instance in 
relation to the administration of the bond, notwithstanding any issues that she might 
have. Aside from the October 2021 LOA, Ive seen nothing in place that would 
suggest that Miss G  notwithstanding any issues she was experiencing  shouldve 
been dealt with differently or that she was incapable of managing her financial affairs. 
Im aware Miss G had her brother  who is/was an existing long-term client of the 
business  were both present when the initial advice was given. I understand that in 
these circumstances Miss G was entitled to have another person of her choosing 
present, its not a requirement that they be acting on her behalf in a legal capacity 
and isnt proof as such that shes incapable of dealing with matters. In other words, I 
cant say that Miss Gs brother was legally acting on her behalf because she was 
incapable of doing so herself, and I cant blame the business if Miss G didnt open 
her mail.  
On balance, Im satisfied the business has (more or less) done everything, that Miss 
Gs asked of it, for example in relation to the withdrawals and setting up the regular 
withdrawals and so on.  
I appreciate Mr G and Miss S are unhappy that on a previous occasion, the 
business advised Miss G to invest in an offshore bond  but thats not the subject of 
this complaint and doesnt relate to the administration of this bond. 
I appreciate Mr G and Miss S are also unhappy about the way that the complaint has 
been dealt with by the business. But complaint handling isnt a regulated activity, 
therefore its not something I can consider in this case. That said, I note that the 
business was only aware that Miss G wanted to complain, and that Mr G had 
authority to do so on her behalf, in October 2021, when it was supplied with the LOA. 
Prior to that I cant blame the business for questioning the authenticity of the 
complaint. Whilst Mr G thinks its a delaying tactic, according to the business it wasnt 
in the usual style of correspondence form Miss G. Nevertheless, Im aware that the 
business provided a final response shortly thereafter. 
Despite what Mr G and Miss S say, on balance I cant safely say that the business 
took £10,000 away from the bond. In other words, despite what they say, theres no 
persuasive evidence that the business appropriated the money in question. On 
balance, Im satisfied that  less the one-off cost  the remainder of the money was 
(more likely than not) invested in line with what the business said.  
I dont doubt Mr Gs and Miss Ss sincerity in trying to help Miss G. I dont think 
theres any issue about their motivation for bringing this complaint. If I wanted to 
award some compensation for their trouble and upset, I wouldnt be able to do so 
because as representatives of Miss G theyre not entitled to any compensation for 
distress and inconvenience they may have suffered.   
I appreciate Miss G  as well as Mr G and Miss S on her behalf  will be unhappy Ive 
reached the same conclusion as the investigator. Furthermore, I realise my decision isn't 
what they want to hear. But on the face of the available evidence, and on balance, Im 
unable to give Miss G whats being asked. 
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold this complaint. Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss G to accept 
or reject my decision before 15 June 2023.
 
Dara Islam
Ombudsman