DRN-1951921
The complaint
Mr and Mrs W, who are represented by a third party, have complained that Bank of 
Scotland plc, trading as Halifax (Halifax), mis-sold them payment protection insurance 
(PPI) policy in or around May 1991, alongside a secured personal loan theyd taken out 
to help buy a car.
What happened
Mr and Mrs W took out the loan but only Mr W was covered by the PPI. The policy was due 
to run for 36 months alongside the loan  although it was paid off early - included cover for 
accident, sickness and unemployment. It also included life cover.
Mr and Mrs W say they dont remember buying the policy and they didnt need it.
Our adjudicator didnt think the policy was mis-sold. Because Mr and Mrs W disagree, their 
complaint has been passed to me for a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of payment protection 
insurance on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding Mr and Mrs Ws 
complaint.
Ive decided not to uphold this complaint. Ill explain why.
Mr and Mrs W and Halifax agree that they bought the policy at a meeting. Mr and Mrs W 
also say that Halifax didnt make a recommendation about buying it, but Halifax says it did. 
That means Halifax had to ensure that the policy was suitable for their circumstances as 
well as giving them clear information about it.
Unfortunately, most of the sale paperwork, including the agreement that Mr W signed 
when he took out the is no longer available. Thats not unusual given that the sale 
happened so many years ago. But we know from looking at similar sales from around the 
same time what the paperwork used in the sale wouldve looked like. From that, I think its 
likely that Mr W wouldve had to sign a box on the loan application form to show he wanted 
to buy the cover. It wouldve been just as open to him to sign a box to show he didnt want 
to buy it. These boxes were separate to signing the application to for taking out the loan. I 
also think that Mr W wouldve been asked to sign a separate loan agreement. 
Taking all this into account, and having thought about the sales process carefully, I think 
Mr and Mrs W ought to have known they had a choice about buying the policy. So I think 
they went ahead and decided to buy it. 
Ive also looked to see if theres other ways that the policy might have been mis-sold to 
Mr W. 
It seems to me that Mr W was eligible for the cover and I cant see that he was 
disadvantaged by any of the main conditions or exclusions in the policy.
Mr W told us he was entitled to good benefits from his employer if he couldnt work. If Mr W 
made a successful claim the policy would cover him for up to 24 months if he couldnt work 
due to accident or sickness or if he lost his job. So it would also have paid out alongside 
any other resources he and Mrs W may have had at the time. So I think it was a useful 
benefit for Mr and Mrs W to have.
Ive seen that the cost of the policy was £6.59 a monthly benefit of £128.53. I would have 
expected this to be set out in the personal loan agreement, which Mr and Mrs W needed to 
sign to get the loan. So I think they most likely knew about the cost of the policy by then, 
even if they werent given details when they filled out the initial PPI paperwork.
Its possible there may have been some shortcomings in the way this policy was sold but, 
having looked at the sale carefully, I think Mr and Mrs W would still have decided to buy 
the policy if theyd been better advised and informed.
It follows that I dont think their PPI was mis-sold. Im sorry to have to disappoint 
Mr and Mrs W.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given I am not upholding Mr and Mrs Ws complaint 
against Bank of Scotland plc.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs W and Mr W 
to accept or reject my decision before 3 September 2020.
 
Michael Goldberg
Ombudsman