DRN-3627327
The complaint
Mr H brings a complaint on behalf of the estate of his late wife, Mrs H, regarding her group 
scheme life assurance cover. He says that HSBC Life (UK) Limited (HSBC) led Mrs H to 
believe that the policy would pay out six times (6x) her salary upon payment of any death 
benefit  but instead it only agreed to pay out only four times (4x) her salary.  
Mr H says HSBC did not make the lower sum assured clear to Mrs H and it prevented her 
seeking alternative cover elsewhere, which has caused a shortfall in life cover of £113,509.  
What happened
Since 1999, Mrs H had been a member of a group death in service benefit scheme operated 
by her employer. This provided a number of benefits in the event that Mrs H passed away 
including life assurance with a sum assured chosen using a nominated multiple of her 
annual salary, pensions for a dependant spouse and children, and the return of defined 
contribution pension payments. The policy was held in trust and operated by an Independent 
Trustee Service (ITS). 
The default position for salary multiples under the scheme was 4x salary. It was increased 
by Mrs H in November 2016 to 6x her salary. The change took effect on 1 January 2017, 
giving a total sum assured at that time of £318,930. 
In May 2016, Mrs H was diagnosed with a form of breast cancer. This sadly progressed to a 
secondary, incurable type of cancer in 2018. In December 2016, a claim began under Mrs 
Hs employers group income protection benefits scheme, also operated by HSBC. 
In 2019, Mrs H asked HSBC about her cover. It confirmed that the current level of benefit 
was 6x her salary. 
In February 2021, Mrs H sadly passed away. By this time, her salary had increased in the 
intervening years. The following month, Mr H pursued a claim with HSBC. It thereafter 
released a payment based on 4x salary for the late Mrs H (£227,018.08) to ITS in May 2021. 
ITS then explained to Mr H that HSBC was unable to meet his claim at 6x salary, but instead 
this should be 4x salary. This was because Mrs H had not been actively at work at the time 
she elected to increase the salary multiple in November 2016; and this was a provision of 
the terms and conditions to permit a change to the benefit.  
Mr H complained. On 30 September 2021, HSBC rejected the complaint. It reiterated how it 
had made the 4x salary payment promptly to the Trustees. However, it had been right to pay 
the claim at that level of salary and not at 6x salary. The change to the cover had been 
requested at a time when Mrs H was off sick from work. And the group scheme policy terms 
made clear that if an employee is absent it is not possible to increase the level of life cover.  
HSBC also explained that since 2016, employees electing to amend their level of cover 
within their annual benefits window would be alerted by a pop up message which asked 
them to confirm they were actively at work before electing any increase in cover. It told Mr H 
that unfortunately, Mrs H was never actively at work after electing an increase in the life 
cover, so HSBC was unable to pay the claim for the increased amount.
Mr H then sought legal advice. In December 2021, an appointed solicitor wrote to HSBC 
asking for further evidence of the events of 2016. It also reiterated how Mrs H placed 
considerable and reasonable reliance on HSBC's conduct, representations and advice to 
satisfy herself that her beneficiaries would be paid £340,527.12 in the event of her death.
It said that HSBC owed a duty of care to Mrs H. The solicitor said its view was that HSBC 
had a duty to ensure that the financial information provided to Mrs H was accurate so far as 
it related to her entitlement, as she would rely on it. As a result, Mr H has suffered financial 
detriment of £113,509.04. Had Mrs H been advised of the situation, she would have been in 
a position to explore alternative funding options to avoid that shortfall.  
In 2022, Mr H referred the complaint to this service. He explained how to find out at such a 
late stage that the provisions Mrs H had put in place were not being honoured by HSBC has 
been upsetting; it has caused him considerable stress and anxiety. He also said Mrs H 
would have been devastated if she had known the impact on her familys financial future. 
Mr H also noted that though his solicitor asked similar questions and sought evidence from 
HSBC it didnt provide any substantive reply. 
He explained that the complaint, in summary, covered six points:
1. Mrs H had a senior management role in the financial services industry  if she had 
been properly informed that she wasnt eligible to increase her salary multiple, she 
wouldnt have gone ahead.
2. The eligibility section of the policy wording doesnt make it clear that she wouldnt 
have been covered until page 16. Though HSBC has said a pop up warning would 
have appeared at the time Mrs H made the selection, it provided no evidence of that.
3. It may be the case that Mrs H wasnt at work in November 2016, since she might 
have been undergoing surgery or chemotherapy. But, she would not have ignored a 
clear warning about the level of cover either way.
4. If the application had given Mrs H any doubts, shed have sought advice at that time.   
5. Mrs H sought confirmation of her benefits from HSBC in January 2019 and this was 
confirmed as £340,527.19 (6x salary). The same figure was given on benefits 
statements dated 27 September 2019 and 30 June 2020. Premiums were paid for 
this higher sum assured so in both Mr H and the solicitors view, HSBC must have 
waived or impliedly agreed to disregard the actively at work clause. They also take 
the view that it was HSBCs duty to ensure that the financial information provided 
was accurate so far as it related to Mrs Hs entitlement.
6. HSBC has failed to provide details pertaining to the acceptance of the 6x salary 
increase by Mrs H and her authorising deduction of the increased premiums.   
   
Finally, Mr H confirmed that, to date, he hadnt accepted payment of the lower sum assured 
as he held concerns that it would unduly influence his complaint. ITS confirmed to one of our 
investigators that this was not the case and Mr H was able to accept the lower £227,018.08 
payment without prejudice to his complaint concerning the additional £113,509.04. 
An investigator reviewed the complaint, but he did not think it should succeed. He noted that 
Mrs H had made the request to increase the level of cover in November 2016. However, she 
had ceased working in June 2016. And the terms of the policy were such that HSBC couldnt 
increase the cover unless Mrs H was working. So, no increase could have taken place.  
He also said he understood how Mr H was unhappy that Mrs H had been denied the opportunity to seek cover elsewhere. However, he did not feel that this would be the case  
personal insurance would be underwritten from the outset, and Mrs H had sadly been 
diagnosed with cancer by the time she sought to increase her benefits.  
Mr H disagreed. He said that on behalf of the estate of Mrs H, the complaint ought to be 
passed to an ombudsman. He made a number of further detailed comments. I havent set 
these all out here, though I have read them in full. In summary, he said:
either HSBC failed to alert Mrs H to her ineligibility to increase the salary multiple, or 
Mrs H was actively at work when she made the application;
either way, HSBC has caused Mrs Hs dependants financial distress because they 
had anticipated receiving a higher salary multiple than they did;
HSBC was reasonably asked to evidence Mrs Hs attendance record, prove that it 
provided her with the policy terms and prove that she would have read a pop up 
warning when making the amendment, yet none of this has been provided;
his view is that if the evidence of clear warnings regarding eligibility had taken place 
why has HSBC not produced it?
if the warnings had been in place, Mrs H wouldnt have carried on applying for 
something that she wasnt eligible for  shed have sought cover elsewhere;
it is unfair that since 2016, HSBC told Mrs H that she was insured for 6x salary when 
this wasnt the case;
it does not feel reasonable that in the event of a claim HSBC can now simply insist 
that the payment was in fact 4x salary;
surely HSBC must be forced to abide with the value it has repeatedly given since 
2016, as Mrs H and her family had placed reliance on this;
HSBC must have a responsibility to provide accurate information  otherwise a 
customer cannot reasonably place any faith in the word of a financial institution;
he is not seeking to set out that the terms and conditions applying to the cover were 
wrong instead he is arguing that HSBC either misled Mrs H into believing she was 
eligible or it failed to provide clear information to show that she wasnt;
HSBC was fully aware of Mrs Hs health throughout the relevant period;
that being said, he does believe the policy terms and conditions are unclear, since 
the actively at work clause being relied on only features at page 16 of the terms;
HSBC has gone on to make this clause clearer, so this must indicate it wasnt overly 
clear in the first place;
the industry wide mis-selling scandal with payment protection insurance proved that 
businesses had a duty to provide clear information about suitable products;
he feels this same level of obligation ought to apply to this situation;
HSBC has not treated its customer fairly;
our investigator has merely accepted HSBCs position without consideration for all of 
the reasonable points put forward as part of the complaint;
he remains steadfast in his view that Mrs H sought her cover in good faith and she 
would only have proceeded if she believed the 6x salary multiple applied to her.   
HSBC did not make any additional comments. The complaint has now been passed to me.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Id like to thank the parties for their patience whilst this matter has awaited an ombudsmans 
decision. Id also like to extend my condolences to Mr H and his family, as I can see from his 
correspondence that his circumstances have been particularly challenging. This services role is to investigate disputes and resolve complaints informally, whilst taking 
into account relevant laws, regulations and best practice. In reaching my decision, Ill focus 
on what I believe to be the key issues, in order to decide what is fair and reasonable in all of 
the circumstances.
I know Mr H feels strongly that HSBC should be compelled to provide proof of the pop up 
that it says would have appeared when Mrs H made her benefit selection in 2016. He 
contends that without evidence of the same, I ought to draw an inference that Mrs H was 
unaware of the terms of the group life assurance scheme.  However, the rules that apply to 
this service as set out by the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) do permit me to reach a 
decision on the basis of what has been supplied; and for the reasons Ill go on to explain, I 
do not believe that verification of the benefit selection is central to the complaint.
Having reviewed everything carefully, I am also of the view that this complaint cannot 
succeed. I do not believe HSBC has acted unfairly, so I wont ask it to pay the additional 
salary multiple to the estate of the late Mrs H. Ill explain why Ive reached this view below.  
Discovering that the sum assured multiple was lower than expected is understandably 
distressing for Mr H and his family, and I do not underestimate this. However, I cannot 
propose any payment of the upset caused to Mr H directly. That is not to say I dont 
recognise how worrying this matter has been, but I do not have a free hand to make an 
award of that type directly to Mr H. I know this seems confusing, but our rules do not allow it. 
We are bound by the Dispute Resolution (DISP) rules which apply to this service as set out 
in the FCA Handbook. An ombudsman is not able to avoid the rules or apply discretion to 
certain rules. Complaints that are made to this service must be pursued by an eligible 
complainant (for example, a consumer or a micro-enterprise) and those complaints must be 
about acts or omissions by businesses when carrying out certain regulated activities  in 
this case, HSBCs claim payment under the protection policy for which the late Mrs H was 
the member of the group life assurance scheme. 
DISP rule 2.7.2 R allows a third party to bring a complaint on behalf of an eligible 
complainant (such as a policyholder or scheme member) to this service, for example from a 
representative or an executor of an estate for an eligible complainant that has since passed 
away. But that doesnt mean the representative is an eligible complainant in their own right.  
Though this service can make further awards for the distress a business has caused in 
relation to a complaint (DISP 3.7.2 R), and whilst a complaint can be made to this service by 
a representative on behalf of the eligible complainant (or the estate of a complainant that has 
passed away), that does not confer the right to receive a money award to the representative. 
That means I cannot make an award for upset, distress or anguish caused to Mr H.
Group critical illness schemes allow set numbers of members to join (or make some 
changes to their provisions at defined periods during any particular policy year, in this case 
every November) without prior underwriting. An insurer will review the policys terms and 
conditions in relation to exclusions and applicable terms when a claim is made. 
That is what has happened here. Mrs Hs policy says how this is normally provided by the 
separate HSBC UK Life Assurance Scheme and is generally four times your benefit salary. 
However, youve got the option of choosing any multiple of between two and ten times your 
benefit salary once a year through [the benefits portal]. Mrs H increased her benefit to 6x 
salary and having looked at the policy terms, this should not have happened.  I understand why Mr H is frustrated because he has seen no evidence of the pop up warning 
that HSBC says would have appeared during the benefits selection window. Nonetheless, 
the employment group scheme website did permit the amendment to the sum assured at the 
benefit window, because this was later confirmed to Mrs H on summaries in 2019 and 2020.  
I cannot give Mr H a conclusive answer to what happened during the benefit window with the 
online portal. However, HSBC is correct in establishing that it couldnt have provided an 
increase to Mrs Hs cover in any of the annual enrolment windows from 2016 onwards.  
At the time of the benefit renewal, Mrs H would have been issued a Life Assurance for Me
Employee Guide dated November 2016 which contained the policy terms and conditions. 
That wording from November 2016 sets out Important Information on the first page of the 
terms and conditions. It says:
Life Assurance for Me provides a lump sum benefit on your death. It is an important 
benefit for your family and/or estate in the event of your untimely death therefore it is 
important that you select the right level of cover.
The benefit
The death benefit is insured with HSBC Life (UK) Limited (the insurer) and 
cover commences on 1 January (or when you joined [the employer] or the 
month following a life event, if later) and ends on 31 December.
The cost of the standard benefit cover of 4x benefit salary is paid by [the 
employer]. The cost of any benefit cover in excess of the standard cover is 
met by you. This cost is determined using age-related rates and is reviewed 
annually.
You are able to change your benefit cover at each annual enrolment. 
Remember, if you are increasing your cover, you need to be actively at work 
at the time you increase your cover.
Page 16 of the terms then gives the glossary definition of actively at work as:
An employee shall be actively at work if that person is present at their place of work 
and is mentally and physically capable of performing their normal duties required by 
the job for which they are employed and has not received medical advice to refrain 
from work and is working their normal number of required hours by their contract of 
employment.
So, I disagree that the terms were unclear. The warning was given at the very start of the 
policy terms. 
I know Mr H has questioned whether Mrs H was off sick at the time she applied to increase 
her benefit level. But HSBC has been able to provide confirmation that she was absent from 
work from 28 June 2016, because that date was used as the start date for the purposes of 
the income protection policy. That policy had a deferred period of 26 weeks, meaning it 
would pay the benefit from the 27th week (when company sick pay was exhausted). Mrs H 
began to receive income protection benefit via her employer from 27 December 2016. 
Mrs H remained off sick until a phased attempt at work was pursued from mid-2018. At that 
time, six weeks of annual leave were paid to Mrs H and she then underwent two hours of 
work per day for five days  but thereafter ceased working due to the recurrence of her 
condition. Unfortunately, she did not return at any time before she sadly passed away.  So, it is clear that at each annual enrolment (every November) from the date of the request 
in 2016 and thereafter, Mrs H couldnt have increased her salary multiple for the death 
benefit calculation, because she was not actively at work for any of those enrolment periods 
due to ill health. The policy terms did not permit it, and no increase should have taken place.  
Mr H also says that if Mrs H had been aware of her inability to increase the salary multiple 
under the benefit scheme, she would have taken alternative action to ensure that she held 
an additional £113,509.04 of cover. However, I do not believe this would have likely been the 
case or that Mrs H was in a position to have sought affordable life assurance elsewhere.
I have not seen any suggestion that Mrs H had access to any other group schemes, and so 
Mr H and his representative indicate that Mrs H could have sought a personal life assurance 
policy alongside her employment benefits. 
Furthermore, if Mrs H had been applying for a standalone life assurance policy - with 
underwriting at the outset - shed have been required to disclose her recent cancer 
diagnosis. An insurer in those circumstances may refuse cover, apply an exclusion on the 
policy relating to the existing condition or significantly increase the premium. Insurers will 
only accept a prescribed amount of risk for the cost of providing insurance, and they are not 
obliged to accept applications. I believe most likely that Mrs H would not have been in a 
position to obtain additional life cover affordably in 2016. 
Notwithstanding any upset an eligible complainant has been placed under, the correct 
response to a businesss mistake is to put a consumer in the position they would have been 
in, but for that mistake. As Ive set out above, the policy terms do not permit an increase to 
life assurance unless the scheme member is actively at work; Mrs H had not been at work 
continuously from before the increase was sought, and during no subsequent benefit window 
before the cover ended. I therefore cannot ask HSBC to meet the payment Mr H has asked 
for. I cant require it to pay a claim based on an incorrect sum assured, where the correct 
circumstances are that the policy member was not eligible for the increase in the first place.  
Finally, I note the policy terms explain how if a member does increase their benefit beyond 
4x salary, they will make up the cost of that cover through salary sacrifice. The cover up to 
4x salary was paid by Mrs Hs employer. That means Mrs H will have paid additional 
premiums for cover when it should not have commenced, had it been identified on the 
benefits portal that she was not actively at work in November 2016. I am pleased to note that 
HSBC told Mr H in its final response to the complaint of 30 September 2021 that these 
premiums would be returned to the estate of Mrs H, and trust that this has since taken place. 
My final decision
I know my decision wont be what Mr H has hoped for, but I am not able to uphold his 
complaint or make any award.  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H on behalf of 
the estate of Mrs H to accept or reject my decision before 28 March 2023.
 
Jo Storey
Ombudsman