DRN-2380710
The complaint
Mr and Mrs R complained that they werent offered a loyalty discount when they were due to 
renew their buildings and contents policy with Lloyds Bank General insurance Limited 
(Lloyds) and they were unhappy with how their policy had increased in price.
What happened
Mr and Mrs R had used Lloyds to provide their buildings and contents insurance for many 
years as well as using them for the provision of other services. In 2019, they were unhappy 
with the service they received from Lloyds and decided not to renew their insurance policy 
with them. They said:
They had received no response from Lloyds to discuss their issues
No consideration had been given for the exorbitant premium increase
Lloyds had arbitrarily withdrawn their loyalty discount
Mr and Mrs R said: this entire episode for [the] renewal process has greatly upset both of us 
and given us much unwarranted stress, uncertainty and caused a lack of sleep as the cut-off 
date approached.
Following a formal complaint, Lloyds paid £75 compensation for incorrect documentation 
that had been sent out and a further £25 was later paid as a goodwill gesture as Lloyds 
apologised for not responding promptly to some comments from Mr and Mrs R.
However, Lloyds said the premiums they offered were correct and explained the factors that 
can cause a premium to change from year to year. Lloyds said the renewal documents 
provided an invite to renew only; customers do not have to accept this offer if they do not 
feel the premium reflects the cover and service provided.
Lloyds said that if a customer is unhappy with the premiums offered they would expect their 
customers to contact them and sometimes discounts are offered to customers, but this is not 
always guaranteed.
Our investigator reviewed the case and her view was not to uphold it. She thought the use of 
the terminology loyalty discount on policy documents was confusing. She thought Mr and 
Mrs R had taken this very literally, but she had reviewed the case and could see that Lloyds 
had applied discounts differently each year depending on the circumstances of the policy. 
The loyalty discount was just one term used when offering inducements to the customer to 
renew their policy. Mr and Mrs R didnt accept this view and asked for the case to be 
referred to an ombudsman.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I can see that Mr and Mrs R have been customers of Lloyds for many years and they are 
disappointed. They dont think their loyalty as a customer has been rewarded.
Mr and Mrs R have complained as they said there has been an exorbitant premium 
increase when they came to renew their policy in 2019. They subsequently left Lloyds and 
took out policy with a different insurer. I am going to look at how much Mr and Mrs R have 
historically been paying for their policy, to see if the 2019 price offered was unfair.
When a consumer takes out or renews an insurance policy, the insurer will decide how much 
to charge them for it. This policy is 'underwritten' based on information gathered about the 
consumer and their circumstances. Underwriters will weigh up the risk factors and decide 
whether to offer a policy and at what price.
Theres lots of different ways of making that assessment. Theres no 'correct' way of doing it. 
Lloyds summarised their approach when writing to Mr and Mrs R:
The cost of your policy has been calculated according to the level of cover you require. 
The premium also includes Insurance Premium Tax (IPT). The premiums charged are in 
line with changes to our general rates and changes in rates relating to specific postcode 
areas. If our records show a problem with flooding, or subsidence, or an
increasing incidence of burglary in the immediate area, premiums will be priced to reflect 
the additional risk. We are unable to provide an exact explanation for the increase in 
premiums, only factors that contribute towards it. The way in which the prices are 
calculated are private and confidential to Lloyds Banking Group.
I can see that Mr and Mrs Rs premium in their 2019 renewal offer was c60% higher than the 
previous year, so this on the face of it does look like an excessive price increase. However, I 
have noticed when delving deeper that the price offered in 2018 included a 40% introductory 
offer as they combined their buildings and contents into a single policy for the first time. 
Lloyds chose not to offer this discount in 2019, so the headline increase is possibly 
misleading. Therefore, I have looked at what Mr and Mrs R have been paying for the past 
five or six years. The premium they paid in 2018 was by far the lowest premium they paid in 
that period, which does suggest it was at a special discount. I can also see that the premium 
that Lloyds offered in 2019 was at a similar level to what Mr and Mrs R paid in 2017, so 
again the 2019 offer doesnt seem unreasonable, especially given that Mr and Mrs R made a 
claim on their policy in 2018/19 which is likely to have created an upward pressure on their 
premium.
I have decided not to uphold this part of the complaint. The premium offered in 2019 seems 
fair, its like previous years and the increase in the last year can be justified by the loss of the 
introductory offer and recent claim history, in addition to normal movements in price when 
risk factors are re-considered. 
Mr and Mrs R were also unhappy that a loyalty discount had been removed from their 
premium. I understand why they would feel aggrieved. They were not given a loyalty 
discount even though they had used Lloyds services for several years. They have also seen 
loyalty discounts added to some of their previous premiums, so it would have been 
frustrating to not have a loyalty discount offered in 2019. However, I am not able to uphold 
this part of the complaint either. Lloyds offered Mr and Mrs R a renewal to their policy in 
2019, a policy they recently combined in the year before. Its up to Lloyds whether they wish 
to offer long standing customers with additional incentives and rewards for staying loyal to 
them, there is no legal or contractual need for them to do this.
Finally, Mr and Mrs R complained about the service they received during the renewal 
process and for the issues they encountered with their complaint. Lloyds have been quick to 
accept these and apologise for them and they have made two separate amounts of 
compensation amounting to £100. So, whilst, I appreciate these were real frustrations for Mr 
and Mrs R, I do think the compensation that has already been paid is fair given the 
inconvenience and circumstances.In summary, I dont uphold this complaint. Whilst I appreciate Mr and Mrs R dont feel like 
they have been treated like loyal customers and I do have some empathy with that view, 
Lloyds have not done anything unfair in the pricing of the policy for Mr and Mrs R.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. I dont require Lloyds Bank General 
Insurance Limited to do anything.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr R and Mrs R to 
accept or reject my decision before 12 April 2021.
 
Pete Averill
Ombudsman