DRN-3238933
The complaint
Mr S, trading as S, complains that Lloyds Bank PLC would not allow him to sell a property 
over which it holds security and reduce the amount he owed to it.
What happened
Mr S operates a business, which Ill refer to as S, as a sole trader, through which he owns 
and rents out a number of properties.
Three of the properties S owns have borrowing from Lloyds secured against them. The 
security Lloyds holds means that all of the borrowing, although owed under three separate 
loans, is secured across all three of the properties.
In September 2020, Mr S told Lloyds that he wanted to sell one of the properties covered 
under the security. The amount of outstanding borrowing on the loan that was attributed to 
that property was to be repaid in full. So, he asked Lloyds to confirm that it was happy for 
him to go ahead.
Lloyds said it would not agree to the sale or to release its security. It said it had concerns 
about how the remaining borrowing would be serviced.
Mr S complained to Lloyds. He said its decision was unfair  particularly as he was intending 
to repay the borrowing related to that property. He added that the sale had been arranged 
privately, and he was going to make a profit, which wouldve been useful given the uncertain 
climate following the pandemic. He said the property to be sold had a structural issue. The 
buyer was aware of this and was happy to proceed. But if he sold the property on the open 
market, he may have difficulty achieving a similar price or finding a buyer at all. So, he said 
Lloyds decision had cost him a significant profit, as the sale had fallen through, and had 
meant he was likely now going to be in financial difficulties.
Lloyds didnt think it had made an error, so the complaint was referred to our service. 
I issued a provisional decision in January 2022 explaining that I intended to partially uphold 
S complaint. Below are extracts from those provisional findings, explaining why, which also 
form part of my final decision.
Lloyds has said it exercised its commercial judgement when deciding not to allow the sale of 
the property and reduction in the outstanding balance here. And Ive taken what it has said 
on board  that it has made a judgement here not to allow the sale, when considering its 
attitude to risk. But Im looking at whether it treated Mr S, and S, fairly or reasonably when 
declining his request. And based on what Ive seen, I dont think it has.
The information Lloyds has provided indicates that the reason it refused to sanction the sale 
was that it was concerned that S might have difficulty making the repayments to the 
remaining loans. And the reason it came to that conclusion seems to have been that, at the 
start of the pandemic, Mr S was honest with Lloyds that, because of the uncertainty, he 
wasnt sure S tenants would still be in a position to pay rent. Which would impact S ability to 
make payments. So, he requested a payment holiday and S also took a business support 
loan.
The guidance around payment holidays and support loans from the Financial Conduct 
Authority (FCA) was put into place quickly, at a time of great uncertainty. The measures it 
outlined were aimed at supporting consumers. Customers were entitled to up to six months 
of payment holidays under the FCA guidance. And the guidance made it clear that the credit 
records of consumers that made use of these measures should not be adversely impacted 
and be considered as granted in exceptional circumstances. However, it seems in this 
instance that, whilst not necessarily recording anything on Mr S credit file, Lloyds is using its 
internal knowledge of S use of a payment holiday to decline the release of a property. This 
doesnt seem to me in keeping with the spirit of the FCA guidance.
In addition, there were many people that used some of these forbearance measures 
because, given the uncertainty, they were worried that they might struggle with repayments. 
But it turned out that they were not impacted in the way they thought they might be. Mr S has 
explained he, and S, was in such a position  that he worried about not being able to make 
repayments if tenants couldnt pay rent. But he has in fact, continued to receive rent. And S 
has been able to make the required repayments. This is reflected in the transaction histories 
Lloyds has provided. So, Id argue that using this reasoning to decline his request in 
September 2020  which appears to be based on him asking for help several months earlier 
at a time of uncertainty  doesnt show consideration being given to his actual 
circumstances.
That notwithstanding though, the underlying reason given, that Lloyds thought there was a 
risk that the loans might not be maintained, was made no smaller by refusing to sanction the 
sale.
At the time of the request, S owed Lloyds approximately £66,000 spread across the three 
loans used to purchase the three properties on which it held security. S also owed £11,400 
on the business support loan it took in May 2020, to assist with the impact of the pandemic. 
So, in total S owed Lloyds approximately £77,400.
Lloyds held security over three properties. Its notes estimated their total value at 
approximately £165,000.
The property which Mr S was looking to sell was valued by Lloyds at £45,000 and the loan 
that wouldve been repaid stood at £17,700. Meaning after the sale, Mr S wouldve owed 
approximately £59,400 and the value of the remaining security wouldve been £120,000. So, 
the loan to value ratio of the debt to the securities wouldve stayed at roughly the same level 
 below 50%.
And the mortgages were already in place. Monthly repayments were already required 
towards all of the loans. Lloyds says it was concerned that Mr S mightve struggled to make 
payments towards the three loans that wouldve remained. But by declining the application, it 
has left him needing to in fact support four loans. Which would seem to create greater risk.
Taking all of this into account, I dont think Lloyds denying S permission to sell one of the 
properties was fair and reasonable in the circumstances. So, Ive thought about what a fair 
way would be to address this error.
If Mr S looked to proceed with a sale of the property again now, Id expect Lloyds to fairly 
reconsider that taking into account everything Ive said.
Mr S has said he has lost out on a significant amount of profit through not being able to complete the sale hed agreed in September 2020. But there are other reasons that the sale 
might not have progressed. And Mr S still owns the property. And although he thinks it is 
unlikely he will achieve the same price if he looks to sell this now, this isnt guaranteed  he 
could still achieve the same price or even more. So, this isnt an actual loss incurred as a 
result of what Lloyds did.
Mr S has said that Lloyds decision has caused him significant personal distress. Im 
conscious though that S is the customer of Lloyds, so his interactions with it in respect of this 
were in a professional, rather than personal capacity. I dont doubt though that he, while 
trading as S, has incurred inconvenience as a result of what has happened  not least 
through the aborted sale. I think itd be fair for Lloyds to make a payment to address the 
inconvenience caused. And, based on what Ive seen so far, I think a payment of £300 would 
be fair.
The notes Lloyds has provided indicate that Mr S had appointed solicitors to act for S in the 
sale of the property  as a solicitors firm appears to have contacted Lloyds on its behalf. I 
think its likely S incurred some costs from those solicitors, even though the sale didnt go 
ahead. If Mr S looked to sell the property again now, those solicitors costs would likely be 
duplicated as part of a further sale. Which wouldnt have happened if the original request to 
sell hadnt been unfairly rejected. So, Im also currently of the view that, if Mr S provides 
evidence of the costs S incurred from solicitors in respect of the aborted sale, by way of 
invoices, Lloyds should refund these costs.
Responses to my provisional decision
I gave both parties an opportunity to make further comments or send further information 
before I reached a final decision.
Lloyds said it was willing to accept my recommendations.
Mr S explained that his decision to sell the property was because of the defect and the buyer 
at the time being willing to proceed despite this. He said the sale had been progressing well 
until Lloyds blocked it. And he reiterated he felt, as that sale had fallen through, Lloyds had 
caused S to lose out on a profit and it was unlikely hed be able to achieve a similar sale 
price now.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having thought about the matter again and considered everything both parties have said, Im 
not inclined to depart from the conclusions in my provisional decision.
As I explained in my provisional decision, I think Lloyds has made an error. And my view on 
this is unchanged. So, Im satisfied it should do something to put matters right.
Ive taken on board what Mr S has said about the sale falling through. But as I explained in 
my provisional decision, while he has said that the sale was progressing well prior to Lloyds 
declining the request to sell the property, there couldve been other reasons that later came 
to cause the sale not to progress. So, the profit he has referred to as having been lost by S 
wasnt guaranteed.
On top of that, he still owns the property. So, he still holds an asset that could be sold. And 
the price that might be ultimately achieved is unknown. I understand Mr S is sceptical about what price he will be able to agree with a buyer, even if he pays to fix the defect. But again, 
this isnt something that is certain. 
With all of this in mind, there isnt an actual loss in respect of the property price that was 
caused by the sale having fallen through. There is a theoretical one. But I cant reasonably 
require Lloyds to compensate for this, when there is the possibility that the loss will not 
materialise.
With that in mind, I still think the redress I previously suggested is a fair way to settle 
matters.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained I uphold S complaint in part.
To put things right I require Lloyds Bank PLC to;
Pay S £300 for the inconvenience caused by it unfairly rejecting its request to sell 
one of the properties.
On receipt of invoices evidencing solicitors costs incurred by S in respect of the 
aborted sale, pay S an amount to cover these costs in full.
In the event S still wishes to sell one of the properties Lloyds holds security over, it 
should fairly reconsider the request to do so, taking into account my findings about its 
previous decision being unfair.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask S to accept or 
reject my decision before 8 March 2022.
 
Ben Stoker
Ombudsman