DRN-3638536
Complaint
Mr P is unhappy that Santander UK Plc (Santander) closed his account and recorded a 
fraud prevention marker against him. 
Background
In May 2020, Mr Ps Santander account received a transfer of £362 from a third-party. On 
the day the funds arrived, there were a number of failed attempts to withdraw funds at a 
cash machine. However, £100 was withdrawn and £260 was transferred to a third-party. 
Shortly afterwards, Santander received a notification from the bank which sent the payment 
stating that the payer of the funds had reported being a victim of fraud. Santander reviewed 
Mr Ps account, decided to close it and also record a fraud prevention marker against Mr P.
Mr P was unhappy with Santanders actions and made a complaint. Santander looked at        
Mr Ps complaint and didnt uphold it. As Mr P remained dissatisfied he referred the matter to 
our service.
One of our adjudicators looked into Mr Ps concerns. She didnt think that Santander had 
done anything wrong or treated Mr P unfairly and so didnt recommend the complaint be 
upheld. Mr P disagreed and so the complaint was passed to an ombudsman for a final 
decision.  
My findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The marker that Santander has filed is intended to record that theres been a misuse of 
facility  relating to using the account to receive fraudulent funds. In order to file such a 
marker, it isnt required to prove beyond reasonable doubt that Mr P is guilty of fraud or a 
financial crime, but it must show that there are grounds for more than mere suspicion or 
concern. The relevant guidance says: 
There must be reasonable grounds to believe that an identified fraud or financial 
crime has been committed or attempted; [and]
The evidence must be clear, relevant and rigorous such that the member could 
confidently report the conduct of the subject to the police.
What this means in practice is that Santander must first be able to show that fraudulent 
funds entered Mr Ps account, whether they were retained or merely passed through. 
Secondly, Santander also needs to have strong evidence to show that Mr P was deliberately 
dishonest in receiving the fraudulent payment and knew it was, or might be, an illegitimate 
payment. This can include Mr P allowing someone else to use his account in order to receive 
an illegitimate payment. But a marker shouldnt be registered against someone who was 
unwitting; there should be enough evidence to show complicity. 
To meet the standard of proof required to register a fraud marker, the bank must carry out 
checks of sufficient depth and retain records of these checks. This should include giving the 
account holder the opportunity to explain the activity on their account in order to understand 
their level of knowledge and intention. 
In order to determine Mr Ps complaint, I need to decide whether I think Santander had 
enough evidence to show fraudulent funds entered Mr Ps account and that his actions 
suggest he was complicit in this. And having considered everything, I find that Santander 
has done this here. Id like to explain why in a little more detail. 
Santander initially placed a restriction on Mr Ps account on 15 February 2021, after it 
received a notification from a third-party bank that its customer had reported being tricked 
into depositing funds into Mr Ps account. By this stage the funds in question had already left 
Mr Ps account through a transfer and a cash machine withdrawal. 
Santander got in contact with Mr P to him in an effort to give him the opportunity to explain 
how the funds came to arrive in his account. Mr P told Santander that his car had been 
damaged by someone else and the funds were to pay for the repairs to his car without 
involving insurance. Santander asked for evidence of the damage and an invoice for the 
repairs carried out. However, Mr P didnt provide this. 
When Mr P referred his complaint to us, he provided a similar explanation for the funds. He 
said he wasnt able to provide Santander with an invoice for the repairs because his 
mechanic was away at the time. And despite being provided with additional time to do so,  
Mr P was still unable to provide anything at all to substantiate that this payment was for 
repairs caused by the payee of the funds, or even that his car was damaged at the time.
Ive thought about what Mr P has said. But Im afraid that the available evidence simply 
doesnt support his version of events. I say this because any car repairs dont explain why 
there were so many failed attempts at withdrawing cash from his account. Similarly, I cant 
see why he would have transferred £260, to a third-party, under the reference of hair, if 
these funds were to repair his car. Im also satisfied that Mr P has had more than enough 
time to provide sufficient evidence of the repairs to his car too. Indeed, Im mindful that hes 
had more than two years to provide this and hasnt done so, or provided a valid explanation 
on why.   
So overall and having considered everything, Im satisfied that Santander did have sufficient 
evidence to show that fraudulent funds entered Mr Ps account. And it was also reasonably 
entitled to conclude that it was more likely than not Mr P was complicit in this. As this is the 
case, I dont think that it was unfair for Santander to record a fraud prevention marker in the 
circumstances that it did. 
I now turn to the closure of Mr Ps account. The terms and conditions of Mr Ps account 
permitted Santander to close it where it was used in any way to give rise to reasonable 
suspicion of fraud or other criminal activities. Ive already explained why I think Santander 
was reasonably entitled to conclude that Mr Ps account had been used for fraudulent 
purposes when explaining why it didnt act unfairly in recording the fraud prevention marker. 
As this is the case, Im also satisfied that, for much the same reasons, the terms and 
conditions permitted Santander to close Mr Ps account. And Im therefore not upholding    
Mr Ps complaint on this basis either.
I appreciate this will be very disappointing for Mr P  especially in light of the ongoing impact 
hes said the fraud marker is having on him. But I hope hell understand the reasons for my 
decision and that hell at least feel his concerns have been listened to. Furthermore, Mr P might find that hes able to open an account with another bank as long as he applies for a 
Basic Bank Account, rather than a full Current Account or any such equivalent. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, Im not upholding Mr Ps complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision before 9 September 2022.
 
Jeshen Narayanan
Ombudsman