DRN-2848916
The complaint
Mrs W complains that Aioi Nissay Dowa Insurance Company of Europe SE sent her motor 
insurance policy documents to the wrong address breaching her data protection. Shes also 
unhappy that Aioi Nissay asked her to refund £170 that it paid her in error. 
What happened
Aioi Nissay refunded Mrs W £170 and told her she could keep this amount. It later told her to 
refund it as it had been paid in error. But it changed its mind after Mrs W complained and 
said she could keep this sum. 
Mrs Ws address details had been changed on her online account and her policy documents 
were sent to the wrong address. Aioi Nissay apologised for the error and reported the data 
breach to the Information Commissioners Office (ICO). It offered Mrs W £100 compensation 
for the trouble and upset caused her, but Mrs W declined this. And Aioi Nissay asked Mrs W 
to provide any proof that the error had had a financial impact on her. 
Our investigator didnt recommend that the complaint should be upheld. He thought Aioi 
Nissay had fairly honoured its response telling Mrs W that she could keep the £170. He 
thought £100 compensation was fair for the impact the data breach had on Mrs W. He didnt 
see clear persuasive evidence that the breach had led to any fraud or had any financial 
impact on Mrs W. 
Mrs W replied that she didnt feel that £100 compensation was sufficient for the effect the 
error had on her mental health. She asked for her complaint to be reviewed by an 
ombudsman, so the complaints come to me for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I was sorry to hear that this matter has had an effect on Mrs Ws health. I can see that shes 
sought medical advice about her conditions, and I hope they improve soon. 
When a business makes a mistake, as Aioi Nissay accepts it has done here, we expect it to 
restore the consumers position, as far as its able to do so. And we also consider the impact 
the error had on the consumer. 
Aioi Nissay agreed that an incorrect address had been added to Mrs Ws account by 
mistake. But this then led to policy documents being sent to that address causing a data 
breach. I think once Aioi Nissay realised this, it correctly reported the breach to the ICO. And 
I think it took action to prevent such an error recurring. 
The effect on Mrs W was that another party had her details and she was fearful that this 
would lead to fraud. Aioi Nissay told Mrs W how to check that any fraud had taken place and 
how to deal with this. It also offered to consider any evidence of a financial impact caused by 
the breach and to reimburse Mrs W for any expenses she incurred. 
Mrs W provided evidence from her bank that there were recent credit searches on her credit 
file, but she said she hadnt applied for anything. I can see that one search was made after 
Mrs Ws husband applied for a joint account. And the bank said the other two searches 
related to applications for online accounts that werent completed. 
The bank didnt say that the applications were fraudulent. The bank said it would remove 
these two searches from Mrs Ws credit record. So there was no financial impact on Mrs W. 
And I cant see persuasive evidence that fraud occurred. 
Aioi Nissay offered Mrs W £100 compensation for the trouble and upset its error had caused. 
Mrs W hasnt provided any further evidence that would show that the data breach had led to 
fraud or any financial losses. So I think £100 compensation is fair and reasonable for the 
impact the error had on Mrs W. I think its in keeping with what Id award in similar situations. 
So I dont require Aioi Nissay to increase this. 
Aioi Nissay also made good its offer that Mrs W could retain the £170 it had credited her in 
error. I think it had unfairly asked her to refund this. And so I think this restores Mrs Ws 
position as it had previously told her she could keep this amount for the distress it had 
caused her. I dont require Aioi Nissay to do anything further.
My final decision
For reasons given above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs W to accept or 
reject my decision before 8 September 2021.
 
Phillip Berechree
Ombudsman