DRN-3389122
The complaint
Mr M complains that Loans 2 Go Limited provided him with loans he was unable to afford to
repay.
What happened
Mr M took out the following loans with Loans 2 Go:
Date Amount Term Monthly 
repaymentAmount 
paidDate 
repaid
Loan 1 19/2/2019 £250 18 Months £57 £743 20/11/2019
Loan 2 10/12/2019 £300 18 Months £69 £300 11/12/2019
Loan 3 27/12/2019 £250 18 Months £57 £270 10/1/2020
Loan 4 2/10/2020 £400 18 Months £91 £577 23/11/2020
He complained that he was unable to afford the loans and that when he asked for Loans 
2 Go to freeze interest and charges it failed to deal with him sympathetically.
On referral to this service our adjudicator found that Loans 2 Go shouldnt have lent in 
respect of loans 1,2 and 4, but that in respect of loan 3 it made a reasonable lending 
decision. She said that Loans 2 Go should refund all interest and charges in respect of the 
three loans.
Loans 2 Go pointed out that, in respect of loan 2, Mr M had repaid this within the 14 days 
cooling off period and hadnt been charged any interest and that there was no adverse credit 
information recorded in respect of that loan. In respect of loan 1 it accepted our adjudicators 
view, but in respect of loan 4 it said that it had made a reasonable lending decision and that 
it had assessed that Mr M was able to afford that loan.
I issued a provisional decision. In it I said that in respect of loan 2 as Mr M had repaid this 
within the cooling off period and hadnt been charged any interest I didnt propose to take 
any further action. I said Loans 2 Go had made a fair lending decision in respect of loan 4, 
but that it hadnt done so in respect of loans 1 and 3. So I said it should refund all interest 
and charges in respect of those loans.
Neither party has responded to my provisional findings.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I made the following provisional findings:
I have to consider whether Loans 2 Go completed reasonable and proportionate checks to
satisfy itself that Mr M would be able to repay the loan in a sustainable way and/or without
experiencing significant adverse consequences. Then taking that into account I have to
consider whether in the circumstances Loans 2 Go made a fair lending decision.
In respect of all the loans Mr M completed a detailed application setting out his income and
outgoings. Loans 2 Go carried out a credit check and independently verified Mr Ms income.
In respect of his outgoings it relied on Office for National Statistics (ONS) figures and where
this produced a higher figure than Mr M declared, it used the higher figure.
loan 1
Mr M had clearly been relying on short term loans. At the time of taking out this loan, he had
six such loans that were current. He also had three credit cards with balances on them and
had had numerous short term loans in the two years prior to taking out this loan. His credit
commitments were high  over £1,100 out of a monthly income of £2,095. Its clear from the
way the loan account was run that Mr M kept missing payments.
Whilst I think Loans 2 Go carried out reasonable and proportionate checks, I think those
checks disclosed that it was unlikely that Mr M was going to be able to afford the loan
despite its relatively low monthly repayments. I think that Loans 2 Go didnt make a fair
lending decision here.
loan 2
I note that Mr M repaid this loan within 14 days and didnt incur interest or any other charges.
I also note that no adverse information was recorded on Mr Ms credit file so I wont consider
this matter further.
loan 3
Although Mr M didnt proceed with loan 2, he took out this loan just 16 days after paying
back loan 2.
The evidence from the credit check carried out for this loan, showed that Mr M had two
loans, three credit cards, with balances respectively of £1,257, 768 and 55. The first two
were close to their limit. He had a mail order debt that was substantially in arrears and over
limit, and had been since loan 1. Since taking out loan 1 Mr M had taken out seven short
term loans, including one that didnt appear on the loan 1 credit check as it had been taken
out 20 days before it (and hadnt been declared by Mr M in the loan 1 application). Although
that loan had been settled there had been arrears of payments, and in respect of another
loan (again settled) an arrangement to pay. His bank account was overdrawn, although the
check showed hed been up to date with his payments.
The affordability assessment shows that Mr Ms then current credit commitments, taking into 
account credit card repayments, to be about 24% of his income. In my view Loans 2 Go had
carried out reasonable and proportionate checks. But those checks should have flagged
concerns about whether the loan was sustainable given Mr Ms continued dependence on
short term loans, his conduct of loan 1 and of other credit. I think this should have prompted
Loans 2 Go to carry out more checks. So I think that Loans 2 Go didnt make a fair lending
decision here.
loan 4
This loan was taken out in October 2020, ten months after loan 3. Although Mr M had taken
out short term loans since loan 3 the latest one was in December 2019, and paid off. He had
taken out a loan in April 2020 the payments for which formed the bulk of his credit
commitments (£87 per week equivalent to £377 per month), with only £257 outstanding.
Even taking that into account Mr Ms credit commitments had gone down to about 19% of hisincome.
Mr M hasnt been able to show us his bank statements so I dont know if they would have
shown any problems he would have had affording this loan. But in my view the checks
carried out were reasonable and proportionate. The checks appear to show Mr M getting on
top of his debt problems, and didnt in my view flag any need to do further checks. I think
Loans 2 Go made a fair lending decision in respect of this loan.
As neither party has made any comments on these findings, they are now final and form part 
of this final decision.
Putting things right
Loans 2 Go should:
Add up the total amount of money Mr M received as a result of being given loan 1
and loan 3.
Deduct all repayments Mr M made from this amount.
If reworking Mr Ms loan accounts results in him having effectively made payments
above the original capital borrowed, then Loans 2 Go should refund these
overpayments with 8% simple interest* calculated on the overpayments, from the dates
the overpayments would have arisen, to the date of settlement.
Remove any adverse information recorded on Mr Ms credit file in relation to loans 1 and
3.
*HM Revenue & Customs requires Loans 2 Go Limited to take off tax from this interest. It
must give Mr M a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if he asks for one.
My final decision
I uphold the complaint and require Loans 2 Go Limited to provide the remedy set out under 
Putting things right above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 20 April 2022.
 
Ray Lawley
Ombudsman