DRN-3378049
The complaint
Mr D has complained about Tesco Personal Finance PLC registering a marker against him 
at CIFAS, the national fraud database.
What happened
Both sides are most familiar with what happened, so Ill summarise things in brief.
In January 2020, Tesco registered a marker against Mr D at CIFAS.
In December 2020, Mr D was told his personal credit card would be closed, and he was 
turned down for a corporate credit card. He also faced trouble passing a security check at 
work. He found out about the CIFAS marker and complained. 
In January 2021, Tesco agreed they hadnt had enough conclusive evidence to add the 
marker, so they removed it with immediate effect. They apologised and offered Mr D £500 
compensation.
Following this, Mr D was able to pass the security check and successfully reapply for the 
corporate card, and his personal credit card was reinstated. 
Mr D felt the offer of compensation was not sufficient, and came to our service.
Our investigator looked into things independently and felt the offer was fair. Mr D didnt 
agree, so the complaints been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
It seems both sides accept that Tesco got things wrong in adding this CIFAS marker, so Ive 
considered how they should put things right.
In doing so, Ive carefully considered the impact this all had for Mr D. I understand hes found 
the matter very stressful indeed, and Im grateful for his candid and open testimony in 
explaining his side of things.
First, I understand that Mr D was caused some real embarrassment at work when he was 
unable to pass a security check. And I can certainly understand his stress there. From what 
I understand, that should now have been resolved as the marker was removed. But Ive 
taken the stress and embarrassment of the situation into account.
I also understand it was inconvenient for Mr D to be without his personal credit card, not 
least as it was over the holiday period. Similarly, I understand that he was only able to get 
the corporate card once this marker was removed. So Ive taken that into account too.
With that said, I have also taken into account that once Mr D disputed the marker with 
Tesco, they looked into things and removed it really rather quickly  in just a handful of 
working days. So Mr D was only left without access to those credit cards for a few weeks. 
Thats certainly a real inconvenience, but not something Id consider a serious disruption to 
life nor a sustained period. And Ive not seen any evidence that the marker affected Mr Ds 
credit in any other ways.
Lastly, I appreciate that Mr D had to put effort into sorting things out, like speaking to his 
card provider, Tesco, and CIFAS. So Tesco needed to put that right, too. Though Ive also 
kept in mind that Tesco acted quickly to sort the marker out, which meant Mr D had to go to 
significantly less trouble than he wouldve had things dragged on.
In terms of putting things right, I do understand why Mr D would like an apology from Tesco. 
The problem is that if I were to tell Tesco to apologise, their apology would seem forced 
rather than genuine  theyd be saying sorry because I told them to. Further, I can see that 
Tesco already apologised, and that clearly has not repaired the relationship between Tesco 
and Mr D. So I dont think another apology is likely to help here.
Instead, we often tell businesses to pay compensation, to recognise what they got wrong 
and the impact it had. When it comes to the amounts, its worth bearing in mind that were 
here to resolve complaints informally, and not to fine or punish businesses. We also only 
consider things that happened, rather than what couldve happened. And I can only consider 
what impact this all had on Mr D, and not any impact it might have had on anyone else.
We have guidelines about what levels of compensation to award, and I need to be consistent 
with that. Ive taken into account the considerable trouble and upset Mr D was caused and 
the efforts he made to fix things; but also the relatively short period it happened over, 
Tescos promptness in apologising and sorting things out, and that Mr D was ultimately able 
to pass the check and have both cards. With everything in mind, I agree with our investigator 
that £500 compensation is fair. Tesco should pay this to Mr D if they havent done so 
already.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I think Tesco Personal Finance PLC have already made a 
fair offer to resolve the complaint. I dont award anything further in this case.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision before 4 May 2022.
 
Adam Charles
Ombudsman