DRN-3475913
The complaint
Mr A complains the advice St. James's Place Wealth Management Plc (SJP) gave him to 
invest in an ISA was unsuitable, the fees were high and not properly explained and it wasnt 
made clear he was receiving restricted advice. He has said he lost out because the advice 
persuaded him not to invest his ISA in a low-cost tracker fund that performed better.
Mr A has been represented in his complaint by a relative. When referring below to things 
said by Mr A, I refer to things said by him or on his behalf by his representative.
What happened
Mr As complaint was considered by one of our investigators. In brief, our investigator 
concluded there was nothing impermissible about the charges made on the ISA and that the 
information SJP gave to Mr A outlined these sufficiently. Also it adequately outlined that 
SJPs advice was restricted advice  meaning products it recommended would come from a 
limited number of providers rather than from across the whole market.
But our investigator concluded SJPs advice was unsuitable because SJP recommended 
Mr A invest in funds that invested too heavily in shares. Our investigator thought the ISA 
should have been invested instead so as to have less exposure to shares. Our investigator 
said Mr A wanted capital growth but with only a small risk to capital.
In reaching that view our investigator noted Mr A was a student in his mid-twenties who 
would start a job in two years. Also he had no food or accommodation expenses and had 
spare income (from a bursary) of around £850 per month, so he had some scope to make up 
investment losses. But Mr A had said he might use the invested funds towards a house 
deposit in future. So our investigator thought Mr A wouldve wanted some security with it and 
wouldnt have wanted to gamble. Also Mr A had no investment experience. Our investigator 
thought Mr As objectives could have been met without investing so much in shares and this 
is what he ought to have been advised to do given his lack of investment experience.
So our investigator thought SJP should compare what Mr A got when he cashed in his ISA 
with what he wouldve got on the same date if hed invested in less risky investments as 
represented by a benchmark half made up of the FTSE UK Private Investors Income Total 
Return Index return and half made up of a fixed rate bonds return.
SJP responded to say that our investigator had accepted that Mr A had no specific aim for 
his investment and an agreed timeframe of 5 to 15 years, but appeared to have incorrectly 
concluded that Mr As decision to cash in the ISA after two years was something SJP knew 
would happen or supported. This wasnt the case so it shouldnt affect the case outcome. 
SJP noted that the invested funds were a gift from relatives and so would have no immediate 
impact on Mr As financial circumstances. Also he had a job lined up in two years and in the 
meantime had annual earnings leaving him with net disposable income. 
SJP noted the investigator had concluded that Mr A wanted growth to beat cash returns and 
keep pace with inflation and the potential to achieve better longer-term returns and that Mr A 
was comfortable with most of his monies being invested in equities and property, with some 
overseas and was seeking to expose his monies to equities and for diversification to 
achieve as much growth as possible over the medium term and understood there may be 
significant falls in the value of his investment. In view of this, and given the investigator had 
concluded Mr A was a medium risk investor, it wasnt clear to SJP why the investigator 
thought the recommended funds were too risky for Mr A or had too much in shares  given 
also both funds were medium risk, as classified and ratified by the FCA according to SJP.
SJP said Mr As lack of investment experience didnt in itself make a recommendation to 
invest for medium to long term growth in a medium risk portfolio inappropriate. Also the 
investigator had agreed the recommended investment wouldve helped Mr A achieve his 
objective of more capital growth and was in line with how he wished to diversify his 
investment portfolio. The fact the investigator felt Mr As aims couldve been satisfied by an 
investment holding less in shares, doesnt mean the recommended investment carried too 
much risk for Mr A  the recommendation was still suitable even if other recommendations 
might also have been suitable. The funds were reputable and recognised medium risk funds 
and SJP didnt accept they held too much in shares or were a gamble for Mr A.
Mr A responded to say it still wasnt clear what charges he had paid. He said what SJP had 
given wasnt adequate to explain these, or the restricted advice service, to an inexperienced 
investor like him. He said the £16,842 he had invested had lost money and wouldve done 
much better had he invested it where hed initially planned. He also said SJP was to blame 
for him cashing in the SJP investment, due to the relationship with SJP breaking down after 
he complained, and he shouldnt be blamed for cashing in the investment early. 
Mr A also made and referred back to a number of other points hed previously made and 
asked that all this be referred to and considered by an ombudsman.
Our investigators view remained unchanged, so our investigator invited the parties to make 
any final points they wanted to make before a final decision was made. SJP had indicated 
earlier that it might make more comments relating to redress. We didnt in fact receive any 
more points from either party. As the complaint couldnt be resolved informally, it has been 
passed to me for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive arrived at the same conclusion as our investigator and for broadly the 
same reasons. 
Id mention the investigators point about Mr A not seeing the investments full potential due 
to cashing it in after two years, wasnt a criticism of SJPs advice but an observation to give 
Mr A some context to the return he was complaining about. It wasnt, as I understood it, a 
reason being given for the advice being unsuitable. The decision to cash in the ISA appears 
to have been brought about as a result of what followed from Mr As complaint issues being 
raised with SJP. So it was related to his dissatisfaction with how the investment was going 
rather than to any specifics of Mr As circumstances that SJP might have anticipated.
SJP has told us the investment advice was initially requested with a view to beating a cash 
ISA return of 2.3% a year over a period of around five years. That same exchange said Mr A 
may want to buy a property at some time with the funds but we have no idea when. But it 
contrasted Mr As funds with other funds that can stay where they are for the long term. Similarly the August 2018 advice letter said the investment term was over the medium term 
(minimum 5 years). When giving reasons as to why it was appropriate for Mr A to invest his 
funds, it referred to Mr A having no short-term requirement for the funds. The July 2018 
adviser notes said Mr As funds were likely to be used to fund property purchase with this 
happening once Mr A had finished his studies and settled into his career. His studies had 
only two years to go, so again this doesnt suggest much more than that the term would be 
more than two years and perhaps medium term, meaning five or approaching five years.
The August 2018 advice letter said Mr A may wish to use the fund for a deposit on a house 
at some point in the future. It went on to suggest this meant an investment term of up to 
fifteen years, saying you dont anticipate requiring the funds while you finish your studies. 
But Mr As studies had only two years to run so the idea that he wouldnt need the funds 
while he was studying clearly doesnt support anything like a fifteen year investment term. 
There are various other references in the notes and advice letter to the investment being 
potentially long term. But in my view where Mr As actual situation and circumstances are 
referred to, what is said rather supports a shorter investment term as Ive outlined above.
The notes and letter refer to Mr A having no specific purpose for the funds, but it was clear 
they might be used for property purchase. So there was a particular purpose for the funds, 
and this needed to be borne in mind. The exact timing was not known. But not knowing the 
term exactly is not the same as having an open-ended or long investment term. Rather the 
letter and notes suggest Mr A had no plans to use the funds in the very short term, until he 
stopped his studies and started work, so there was a reasonable expectation that a five-year 
investment horizon might be achieved before the funds came to used.
So potentially the available investment term was at the shorter end of what would be suitable 
for risk investments like the funds Mr A was recommended. Also the timing of access would 
be driven by the timing of Mr As property purchase rather than by investment conditions and 
funds would likely be withdrawn as a lump sum. So flexibility to postpone access to the funds 
if markets were negative could be limited by these factors  as opposed to an open ended or 
long-term situation where access could be varied in response to market conditions. 
With all this in mind, I agree with our investigator that all other things being equal this would 
mean Mr A would want the investment to provide a degree of security that was absent from 
the selected funds due in particular to the relatively high exposure to shares. I note that their 
August 2018 factsheets said the funds may not be appropriate for investors who may wish 
to withdraw their money in the short to medium term and the funds invested around 70% in 
assets other than cash or bonds and mainly in shares. 
This isnt to say that the funds were not in keeping with a medium risk approach as defined 
in the description. Rather Im not satisfied that approach was suitable for Mr As objectives 
and circumstances  or that the risks to Mr As objectives in his circumstances were properly 
considered and discussed. For example the advice letter notes a fall in the investment value 
in the short term wouldnt significantly impact Mr As standard of living. But theres no 
mention of what impact that - or the significant falls in the value the medium risk description 
said were possible with the investments  would have on his objective of property purchase. 
I accept the advice letter says Mr A wanted as much growth as possible but in my view it is 
implicit that what was wanted was the highest growth consistent with what was suitable for 
his risk attitude, objectives, experience and investment timeframe.
I say this bearing in mind that the advice letter says the investment was made with no 
specific growth target in mind. So the level of risk recommended wasnt dictated by a need 
for a particular and high growth figure that needed to be achieved by a certain point. The specific growth objectives that are mention in the letter and notes are that Mr A wanted 
his capital to keep up with inflation and he wanted to better cash returns. Trying to beat cash 
returns and keep up with inflation requires exposure to risk assets. But it does not require as 
much exposure as the funds SJP recommended to Mr A had.
The advisers July 2018 notes had said Mr A has no experience investing in anything other 
than cash. The advice letter noted Mr As lack of prior investment experience but said Mr A 
fully understood the nature of equity investments and the balance between risk and 
reward. It didnt detail how hed gained this full understanding. In my view Mr As lack of 
experience was rather another factor lending itself towards a lower risk approach than the 
one recommended to him by SJP.
With all Ive said above in mind, I conclude that the degree of risk posed by the funds SJP 
recommended to Mr A was unsuitably high for him in his circumstances and taking into 
account his objectives.
I appreciate the recommended funds were not dissimilar to the 80% equity tracker fund Mr A 
says he was considering investing in as an alternative. But the advisers role was to consider 
the suitability of the investment risks for Mr As circumstances and objectives, rather than to 
go along with a particular path that he may have had in mind to start with. I say this bearing 
in mind that Mr A had no previous investment experience so if, as he claims but SJPs 
adviser disputes, he had a particular investment in mind at the start, this doesnt mean that 
investment or approach was suitable for him or that he understood its risks properly.
I approach the advice letters comment that Mr A felt a medium risk investment like SJP 
was recommending is the most suitable setting for the potential of growth over that which 
could be currently achieved in cash accounts with that in mind. Likewise the advisers notes 
said: Mr A feels that a stocks and shares investment would give his funds the best chance 
of significant growth above inflation. That may have been so, but for the reasons Ive given 
Im not persuaded that approach was suitable for Mr A in his circumstances or that its 
implications and risks were sufficiently explored or explained. 
In light of all Ive said above, my view is the benchmark proposed by our investigator 
represents a suitable asset mix for Mr A in his circumstances. I think using a benchmark to 
assess what loss if any Mr A has suffered, in accordance with our standard approach, is 
appropriate here. Ive not seen enough to identify a particular alternative suitable fund or 
funds that Mr A more likely than not wouldve invested in had he received suitable advice.
Mr A thinks SJP fell short in the information it provided about the status of its advice and 
charges. Ive already decided the investment advice was unsuitable and that the result 
should be compared with the performance of a suitable benchmark. If Mr As investment 
decision was also adversely affected by a fault on SJPs part as regards its disclosure of 
charges or of its status, the remedy would still be to compare the resulting unsuitable 
investment with a suitable benchmark  so my conclusion and award would still be the 
same. So I wont discuss these matters in detail here. But I think it likely SJP gave Mr A 
paperwork that included the necessary detail. Im not sure how far this was discussed with 
Mr A, although he couldve raised it if anything in the paperwork was of concern to him.
In line with the guidance flagged by our investigator, the fair value in the loss calculation is to 
be calculated from the £16,842 Mr A invested with SJP, rather than a net of charges figure. 
No separate calculation is needed for the fees SJP charged for the unsuitable investment. 
If Mr A wishes any redress amounts to benefit from ISA tax treatment or to be held within his 
ISA, he can pay it to his ISA. Doing so would use part of his ISA allowance but given his 
circumstances I cant see that this would be an issue for him or that he is likely to lose out significantly in tax terms as a result of the redress being outside the ISA in the meantime. 
With this in mind and in light of the necessarily broad-brush approach taken overall  and 
bearing in mind neither party has raised any points or claims relating to this specifically - Ive 
not discussed this further here or made a separate allowance for it.
Our investigator didnt suggest that SJP pay Mr A anything for distress or inconvenience its 
error may have caused him. So Ive considered this. I note his complaint was raised by his 
representative. I note that Mr A did decide to cash in his investment. I note what he was said 
about being caused anguish, but Im not persuaded he suffered distress or much in the way 
of material inconvenience as a result of SJPs error. So on balance I conclude an award for 
this isnt warranted here.
Putting things right
Fair compensation
In assessing what would be fair compensation, I consider that my aim should be to put 
Mr A as close to the position he would probably now be in if he had not been given 
unsuitable advice.
I take the view that Mr A would have invested differently. It is not possible to say precisely 
what he would have done differently. But I am satisfied that what I have set out below is 
fair and reasonable given Mr A's circumstances and objectives when he invested.
What must St James's Place Wealth Management Plc do?
To compensate Mr A fairly, St James's Place Wealth Management Plc must:
Compare the performance of Mr A's investment with that of the benchmark shown 
below and pay the difference between the fair value and the actual value of the 
investments. If the actual value is greater than the fair value, no compensation is 
payable.
St James's Place Wealth Management Plc should also pay interest as set out 
below.
Income tax may be payable on any interest awarded.
Portfolio 
nameStatus Benchmark From ("start 
date")To ("end 
date")Additional 
interest
ISA 
investmentNo longer in 
forceFor half the 
investment: 
FTSE UK 
Private 
Investors 
Income Total 
Return Index; 
for the other 
half: average 
rate from fixed 
rate bondsDate of 
investmentDate 
ceased to 
be held8% simple per 
year on any 
loss from the 
end date to the 
date of 
settlement
Actual valueThis means the actual amount paid from the investment at the end date.
Fair value
This is what the investment would have been worth at the end date had it produced a 
return using the benchmark. This should be based on the actual investment amount, as 
Ive stated above, and not a net of charges figure.
To arrive at the fair value when using the fixed rate bonds as the benchmark, SJP should 
use the monthly average rate for one-year fixed-rate bonds as published by the Bank of 
England. The rate for each month is that shown as at the end of the previous month. 
Those rates should be applied to the investment on an annually compounded basis.
Why is this remedy suitable?
I have decided on this method of compensation because:
Mr A wanted Capital growth with a small risk to his capital.
The average rate for the fixed rate bonds would be a fair measure for someone who 
wanted to achieve a reasonable return without risk to his capital.
The FTSE UK Private Investors Income total return index (prior to 1 March 2017, the 
FTSE WMA Stock Market Income total return index) is a mix of diversified indices 
representing different asset classes, mainly UK equities and government bonds. It 
would be a fair measure for someone who was prepared to take some risk to get a 
higher return.
I consider that Mr A's risk profile was in between, in the sense that he was prepared to 
take a small level of risk to attain his investment objectives. So, the 50/50 combination 
would reasonably put Mr A into that position. It does not mean that Mr A would have 
invested 50% of his money in a fixed rate bond and 50% in some kind of index tracker 
fund. Rather, I consider this a reasonable compromise that broadly reflects the sort of 
return Mr A could have obtained from investments suited to his objective and risk 
attitude.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above, I uphold Mr As complaint. 
My decision is that St James's Place Wealth Management Plc should put things right by 
paying the amount calculated as set out above. 
St James's Place Wealth Management Plc should provide details of its calculation to Mr A in 
a clear, simple format.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision before 5 December 2022.
 
Richard Sheridan
Ombudsman