DRN-4016060
The complaint
Mr M complains that his credit card application with HSBC UK Bank Plc was unfairly 
declined. 
What happened
In August 2022 Mr M applied online for a credit card with HSBC. The application was 
reviewed by HSBCs underwriting system and declined. Mr Ms told us he was told by HSBC 
that the application was declined because it had found a missed loan payment on his credit 
file. But Mr Ms advised thats not correct and he hasnt missed a loan payment. 
During the weeks that followed Mr M spoke with HSBC on the phone and visited a branch. In 
September 2022 the application was manually reviewed by underwriters at HSBC but wasnt 
approved. Mr M complained and HSBC sent him a final response. HSBC said it had correctly 
declined Mr Ms application as it didnt meet the lending criteria and that he was welcome to 
apply again in the future. 
Mr M referred his complaint to this service and it was passed to an investigator. We asked 
HSBC to supply its complaint file. Within HSBCs submission it said it wanted to offer Mr M 
£50 to apologise for delays in calling him back during the application and complaint process. 
But HSBC remained of the view Mr Ms credit card application had been correctly declined. 
Our investigator thought HSBC had dealt with Mr Ms complaint fairly and didnt ask it to take 
further action. 
Mr M asked to appeal and reiterated that hed originally been advised the application was 
declined due to a missed loan payment which wasnt right. Mr M has told us he feels HSBC 
hasnt given us genuine reasons to show why it didnt proceed with his application. As Mr M 
asked to appeal, his complaint has been passed to me to make a decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im aware Ive summarised the events surrounding this complaint in less detail than the 
parties involved. No discourtesy is intended by my approach which reflects the informal 
nature of this service. I want to assure all parties Ive read and considered everything on file. 
Im satisfied I dont need to comment on every point raised to fairly reach my decision. And if 
I dont comment on something, its not because I havent considered it. Its because Ive 
focused on what I think are the key issues. My approach is in line with the rules we operate 
under. 
Mr Ms response to the investigator made it clear hed been told by a member of staff in 
August 2022 that his application had been declined due to a missed loan payment on his 
credit file. But HSBC has since told us thats not the reason why the application was turned 
down. Ive looked at the information HSBC used when assessing Mr Ms application, 
including the details it found when completing a credit search. The credit search results dont 
show any missed payments were found when HSBC looked at Mr Ms credit file. 
With that being said, I accept Mr M could have been given the wrong information when he 
discussed the August 2022 application. And its possible there was a genuine 
misunderstanding between HSBC and Mr M whereby it gave him the impression a missed 
payment was the reason his application didnt proceed. Whilst I understand Mr M may not 
have been given a clear explanation as to why his application was declined, I havent seen 
anything that shows HSBC tried to deliberately mislead him. 
Ive looked at the August 2022 application process and HSBCs internal notes and evidence. 
Whilst we are able to share the specific reasons why Mr Ms application didnt proceed, Im 
satisfied HSBC fairly applied its normal lending criteria when reaching its decision. I havent 
seen anything that shows HSBC made a mistake in August 2022 when declining the 
application. 
Mr Ms application was manually reviewed by HSBCs underwriters in September 2022. A 
more in depth approach was taken but the application was still declined as it didnt meet 
HSBCs lending criteria. Id like to assure Mr M as an impartial party to this case that Ive 
reviewed all the available evidence and havent found anything that sows his application was 
unfairly declined or that HSBC failed to apply its normal lending criteria. As a result, Im 
unable to tell HSBC to take any further action in terms of his application. 
HSBC has offered Mr M £50 to apologise for delays in contacting him. I appreciate this isnt 
the main focus of Mr Ms complaint. But Im satisfied HSBCs offer is fair and reasonable in 
all the circumstances of Mr Ms complaint and recognises the inconvenience caused. So Im 
going to proceed on that basis and award Mr M £50. 
My final decision
My decision is that HSBC UK Bank Plc should pay Mr M £50. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 18 May 2023.
 
Marco Manente
Ombudsman