DRN-3076678
The complaint
Mr J has complained about the handling of his subsidence claim by UK Insurance Limited 
(UKI) trading as Direct Line Insurance under a landlord insurance policy.
What happened
Which parts of this complaint I can consider
Mr Js insurance claim was initially made in 2016, and remains on-going.
On 31 August 2021, I issued a decision to the parties that confirmed which elements of Mr 
Js complaint I have the powers to consider.
To briefly summarise, Mr J first complained to UKI about its handling of the claim in 2018. 
UKI provided two responses, the second of these being on 23 November 2018. Mr J did not 
bring a complaint to this service at that time.
In October 2020, Mr J complained to UKI again about its handling of his claim. He received a 
response to the complaint on 5 November 2020. Mr J then brought a complaint to this 
service, asking us to consider the handling of the insurance claim since 2016.
My decision in August 2021 explained that I do not have the power to consider the elements 
of Mr Js complaint that relate to UKIs handling of his claim up to November 2018. Thats 
because these were referred outside the relevant time limits. However, I confirmed that I am 
able to consider the elements of Mr Js complaint that relate to UKIs claim handling from 
November 2018 to November 2020.
This final decision therefore assesses the concerns raised by Mr J about how UKI has dealt 
with his claim between November 2018 and November 2020. But in order to do this, I 
consider it is necessary to provide some detail about the events that occurred prior to 
November 2018.
Summary of the claim events from 2016 to November 2018
Mr Js claim for subsidence in 2016 was initially declined by UKI, but after he provided 
further evidence, it was reopened in late 2017. Monitoring of the property took place, and by 
early 2018, UKI had accepted this was a valid claim for subsidence damage. The damage 
was considered to be due to clay shrinkage, exacerbated by nearby vegetation owned by the 
local authority.
In March 2018, the loss adjuster that UKI was using at this time (who I will refer to as loss 
adjuster A) proposed that certain nearby local authority trees should be removed. It wrote to 
the local authority to ask whether it would agree to this action. In September 2018, Mr J 
complained to UKI about unreasonable delays with the progression of his claim and a lack of 
contact.
UKI paid Mr J £75 compensation, and then in November 2018, it confirmed it was appointing 
a new loss adjuster (who I will refer to as loss adjuster B) to handle the claim.
Summary of the claim events from November 2018 to November 2020
Loss adjuster B continued contact with the local authority regarding removing the nearby 
trees. At the same time, monitoring of the movement of the building also continued. Mr J 
arranged for temporary repairs to be carried out to walls and window frames that had been 
affected by the movement in the building.
In the spring of 2019, although the local authority had agreed to carry out works on the trees 
to try and prevent further subsidence movement, loss adjuster B was concerned whether the 
extent of these works was sufficient. It wanted the trees to be removed rather than cut back. 
Loss adjuster B visited the property in July 2019 and reported that the trees had not been 
felled, but instead had had their crown reduced. It noted that there appeared to be new 
growth on the trees, and it contacted the local authority for its comments. In September 
2019, the local authority reported that the trees had been felled, and that it would retreat the 
stumps.
In October 2019 Mr J told loss adjuster B that trees adjacent to the property were growing 
back. However, loss adjuster B confirmed that its monitoring results showed the building was 
now stable. It confirmed it was planning to repair the subsidence damage in early 2020 
following further soil rehydration. Mr J considered using his own contractor to carry out this 
work, but ultimately agreed to UKIs repairer doing so. He also told UKI that he considered 
his tenants would need to move out whilst repairs took place.
There was some discussion between UKI and loss adjuster B about the alternative 
accommodation (AA) cover the policy provided for tenants. UKI agreed that it was liable to 
pay these costs, and that it was necessary for the tenants to move out of the property during 
some of the repairs. In February 2020, Mr J chased loss adjuster B to confirm the position re 
AA for the tenants. He explained that his tenants were distressed that this had not yet been 
arranged.
Mr J paid the relevant policy excess in late February 2020. This amount had been reduced 
to reflect the cost of repairs Mr J had already incurred for the earlier temporary repairs. The 
repairs were scheduled for late March/early April 2020, but these were then postponed due 
to the nationwide restrictions which were put in place as a result of the Covid-19 pandemic. 
When these restrictions started to be lifted, it was confirmed by loss adjuster B in June 2020 
that it was again seeking to arrange a start date for repairs.
On behalf of UKI, an accommodation specialist had been appointed to arrange AA for the 
tenants. For several months, correspondence took place between the various parties in an 
attempt to find suitable AA, but it was not until September 2020 that this was resolved. Mr J 
expressed his dissatisfaction with the manner in which this had been arranged, and the 
communication that had taken place around the AA.
The subsidence repairs took place in October 2020. Mr J was concerned that initially the 
front and rear walls were painted but the side elevation was not. However, I understand that 
loss adjuster B later arranged for this to be done. When the tenants returned to the property 
after the repairs, they said that it had not been left in a clean state. They also said that they 
had spent £100 storing their camper van on the understanding that the property was being 
underpinned, and they questioned whether this had actually taken place. The tenants said 
that as a result of the subsidence repairs, they had spent an additional £800.Mr J complained to UKI about the handling of the claim, and it responded in November 2020, 
covering the events from November 2018 to November 2020. UKI stated that loss adjuster B 
had had to get approval from the local authority to remove the relevant trees, and had also 
needed to monitor the subsidence movement to ensure the property was stable. It 
commented that claims similar to Mr Js can take a long time to resolve due to their 
complexity. However, it accepted that the communication from both loss adjuster B and the 
accommodation specialist had on occasions been poor, and that this had delayed matters.
UKI also accepted that the property had not been cleaned adequately following the repairs. It 
stated that Mr Js estimate for a re-clean had been agreed. UKI offered Mr J £200 
compensation to reflect the issues raised regarding the handling of the claim from November 
2018 to November 2020.
In responding, and referring his complaint to this service, Mr J said that trees had not been 
removed by the local authority. He commented upon claim events going back to 2016. Mr J 
stated that he had had to chase and manage the claim, and he highlighted UKIs repairers 
initial actions when only painting two of the three external walls. Mr J also referred to the 
cost incurred by his tenants when storing their camper van, and their allegations that this 
had been requested by UKIs repairers.
This services investigation of the merits of the complaint
Our investigator upheld this complaint in part. She accepted that claims for subsidence can 
take time to resolve, and that UKI encountered delays when interacting with the local 
authority to remove the cause of the damage. However, her view was that UKIs agents 
could have moved the claim along more quickly. The investigator also noted that Mr J had to 
chase UKI for updates, and that arranging the AA had caused delays. She proposed that 
UKI pay Mr J a further £350 compensation, in addition to the sums already paid, to reflect 
the difficulties its handling of the claim had caused him.
UKI did not confirm whether it agreed to pay Mr J an additional £350 compensation.
Mr J disagreed with the investigators findings. He has stated that an additional £350 
compensation inadequately reflects the level of intervention that he had to undertake to 
ensure the claim was being progressed. Mr J says that he was unable to increase rent due 
to the ongoing claim, and he estimates this lost him around £500. In addition, both he and 
his tenants suffered inconvenience throughout the claim. He has commented that he 
arranged general maintenance due to the subsidence, and he considers it was unreasonable 
that he had to pay the policy excess in order for the claim to be dealt with.
Mr J has said that the quality of the claim handling by loss adjuster B was worse than that of 
loss adjuster A. He says it was only due to his inspection in 2019 of his property and the 
nearby trees that it became clear the local authority had not carried out the work on the 
vegetation that was required. Mr J has explained that he then spoke to the local authority 
about the trees. He has questioned why loss adjuster B had not carried out its own 
inspection. Mr J has also clarified that he did not suggest his own contractor should repair 
the subsidence damage, and instead it was loss adjuster B who raised this possibility with 
him.
Mr J says that UKIs lack of action on his claim was unacceptable. He has commented that 
UKIs accommodation specialist was searching for the wrong type of AA for his tenant, and 
that it was him who found a variety of suitable options. He says that finding appropriate AA 
took UKI three months. In terms of the repairs carried out in October 2020, Mr J highlights 
that UKIs contractor had to return to clean the property, and he also says that it had to 
correct errors it had made with the schedule of works. His view is that he and his tenants had to manage UKIs contractor. He has also highlighted that the contractor had to 
compensate the tenant for food that was lost as a result of the freezer defrosting.
Mr J has said that UKI and loss adjuster B failed to communicate with him regarding 
progress on the claim, and he was left to chase and manage the third parties involved. 
Without his intervention, Mr J believes the insurance claim would not have been dealt with at 
all.
Responding to the investigators assessment, Mr J also provided some comments relating to 
the claim events prior to November 2018.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
At outset, I note that in responding to the investigators assessment, Mr J has provided some 
comments about UKIs handling of his claim prior to November 2018. As I have explained, I 
have already issued a decision relating to this services jurisdiction that confirmed I am only 
able to consider Mr Js complaint relating to the handling of his insurance claim from 
November 2018 to November 2020. I will therefore not be commenting on the events that 
occurred before November 2018.
Mr J has also raised concerns about how the claim has continued to be handled by UKI 
since it issued its complaint response in November 2020. This included comments regarding 
completion certificates that Mr J was chasing UKIs contractor to provide. If Mr J remains 
unhappy with UKIs handling of the claim since November 2020, he will need to raise his 
concerns directly with UKI in the first instance. If he remains unhappy following UKIs 
response, he may be able to bring a further, new complaint to this service.
In terms of the events that I am able to consider under this complaint, when loss adjuster B 
was appointed by UKI to handle the subsidence claim in November 2018, contact had 
already taken place with the local authority. This related to removing trees that it owned and 
that had been identified as causes of the damage. In December 2018, the local authority told 
loss adjuster B that its intention was to complete tree removal works in early Spring 2019. 
At this time, Mr J expressed his frustration to loss adjuster B that the local authority had not 
as yet removed the trees.
Whilst I appreciate why Mr J was concerned about the time it was taking for the work on the 
trees to occur, I am mindful that UKI could only force the local authority to remove the trees 
by taking legal action. This itself is likely to have taken time (and additional expense), and so 
it seems reasonable to me that UKI was working with the local authority to get the mitigation 
work on the trees completed. And this led to an extension in the time taken for the claim to 
move towards resolution.
In April 2019, Mr J told loss adjuster B that the trees had been lopped. The loss adjuster 
responded to say that it had expected the trees to be removed, and that it would contact the 
local authority. However, from its file it appears that loss adjuster B did not challenge the 
local authority about this until July 2019, following a visit to the property. In addition, Mr J has 
said that it was only due to his own inspection of the property around this time that it became 
clear the local authority had not carried out the required work on the trees. In my view this is 
clearly an example, as Mr J suggests, where he was the one taking steps to progress the 
claim, rather than UKI and its agents doing so.By late October 2019, loss adjuster B was satisfied that the building was stable. When he 
referred his complaint to this service, Mr J stated that trees had not been removed by the 
local authority. Whilst I note his comments, taking into account that UKI carried out 
monitoring of the building, I am satisfied that movement had indeed ceased when UKI 
confirmed that it was now able to progress to repairing the subsidence damage. If such 
damage were again to be found in the future, Mr J will need to raise this with UKI.
UKIs plan was for repairs for subsidence damage to take place in early 2020. Mr J looked 
into using his own contractor, but I acknowledge his comments that it was loss adjuster B 
who actually raised this possibility with him. In January 2020, Mr J confirmed that he wanted 
UKI to appoint its own contractor for the repair works. There was then some discussion 
about payment of the policy excess. Mr J paid this in late February 2020.
Mr J has questioned whether it was reasonable for UKI to charge him the policy excess, 
bearing in mind the quality of its handling of the claim. The excess on the policy for a 
subsidence claim was £1,000. Because Mr J had already spent £250 on temporary 
subsidence related repairs, UKI agreed that he only needed to pay a further £750 of the 
excess. I have carefully considered Mr Js comments about the fairness of requiring him to 
pay the excess. However, taking into account the terms of the policy, I consider it was 
reasonable for UKI to require this sum to be covered by Mr J.
The delay in repairs starting due to Covid-19 restrictions being in place was outside the 
control of UKI. But once these began to be lifted, I would agree with Mr J that it took too long 
for the AA for the tenants to be arranged. Although I can see that initially there was a 
requirement for AA that could also accommodate dogs, it is not clear why the search for a 
suitable temporary property took the length of time that it did. I acknowledge Mr Js 
comments that he had to become involved with this process in order for a solution to be 
found. In my view, the handling of the AA caused unnecessary difficulties to Mr J.
Mr J has mentioned the difficulties that UKIs handling of the claim caused his tenants, and 
he has also mentioned financial losses that they suffered. I should clarify that the powers I 
have allow me to award compensation to the customer of the business complained about. In 
this complaint, Mr J is the customer of UKI, as its policyholder. I can award compensation to 
Mr J, but I cannot award compensation to others who might also have been impacted by 
UKIs failings, as they are not customers of UKI.
I therefore cannot award compensation for any distress experienced by Mr Js tenants. That 
said, I have taken into account that the problems the tenants encountered with the handling 
of the claim may have caused difficulties directly to Mr J, as their landlord. Equally, I am not 
able to award compensation for any financial losses that the tenants may have been caused 
by UKI. I note that the tenants referred to losses of £800 in their correspondence with UKI. 
Mr J has highlighted that the tenants incurred storage costs for their camper van. He has 
also mentioned that UKI did compensate the tenants for damaged food that had defrosted. 
But because these losses were not incurred by Mr J, and he is the customer of UKI, I am not 
able to award any compensation to his tenants in respect of any losses they may have 
suffered.
With regard to a fair level of compensation for Mr J, I am mindful that a subsidence claim can 
sometimes take a significant length of time for an insurer to resolve, for justifiable reasons. It 
must first be established that a property is indeed suffering from damage caused by 
subsidence. That damage is likely to be gradual, and it might be seasonal if due to nearby 
vegetation. Once the cause of any damage is identified, removing that cause can take time, 
particularly if it is not the responsibility of the policyholder, as was the case here. The insured 
damage will then need to be repaired by the insurer, once its established that the movement 
in the property is no longer occurring.I have taken these factors into account when considering UKIs handling of this claim from 
November 2018 to November 2020. I have also borne in mind that unfortunately any 
insurance claim is likely to cause a policyholder some element of inconvenience, and 
potentially distress. When considering awards for compensation, I must therefore determine 
whether a business handling of a claim has caused additional and unnecessary distress and 
inconvenience, over and above that which is likely to have arisen due to the insured event 
itself.
Having considered the evidence provided, I would agree with Mr J that there were occasions 
where the claim only seems to have progressed because he was proactively contacting UKI 
or its agents, or the local authority, to move it forward. I consider this caused Mr J 
unnecessary inconvenience, and concern. The time taken for UKI to arrange AA for the 
tenants was also unnecessarily lengthy, and this clearly caused Mr J difficulties. My view is 
that there were failings where Mr J was not kept up to date with the situation on the claim. I 
can also see that there were delays in reimbursing Mr J for the cost of a surveyors report 
that he had paid for, and there were delays confirming to Mr J how much he needed to pay 
in respect of the policy excess.
I can understand why Mr J feels that without his involvement moving the claim forward, it 
may never have been resolved. I dont consider that in fact would have been the case  
ultimately an insurer is obliged to finalise a claim, and its in an insurers interests to do so, 
for various reasons including on-going costs. But I agree that the claim took longer than it 
should have done, aspects of it were handled poorly, and communication with Mr J should 
have been better.
In its complaint response to Mr J in November 2020, UKI accepted that there had been 
failings in its handling of the claim, and it offered him £200 compensation. Overall, my view 
is that the investigators proposal that UKI pay Mr J a further £350 for the unnecessary 
distress and inconvenience caused to him over the period from November 2018 to 
November 2020 is a fair one.
Finally, I note that Mr J has said the length of time that UKI took dealing with his claim 
impacted upon his ability to increase rent at his property. I appreciate that the level of rent Mr 
J was able to charge may have been affected by the fact that the property was suffering from 
subsidence. However, my view is that it has not been shown that failings in UKIs handling of 
the claim affected the rent levels Mr J was able to charge. I therefore do not consider it 
would be reasonable to require UKI to compensate Mr J in this respect.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint in part, and require UK Insurance Limited to 
pay Mr J a sum of £350 in respect of distress and inconvenience caused to him.
UK Insurance Limited should also pay Mr J the £200 offered in its letter to him dated 5 
November 2020, if it has not already done so.
I make no other award.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr J to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 October 2021.
 
John Swain
Ombudsman