DRN-4438287
The complaint
Mr M complains about the cash settlement offered by Society of Lloyd's following a claim on 
his commercial buildings insurance policy.
What happened
Mr M owns the freehold of a property which is converted into two flats. He uses the upper 
floor flat as a holiday home. The ground floor flat is owned on a long term lease by someone 
else, who also uses their flat as a holiday home. 
As the freeholder, Mr M has insurance to cover the whole building with Society of Lloyds.
In November 2019 the leaseholder of the downstairs flat discovered extensive water damage 
to his home caused by a pipe that had been leaking. Mr M made a claim on the policy to 
cover the cost of repairs. 
In January 2020 Society of Lloyds appointed a company to carry out drying out works. After 
some initial stripping out work, the contractor installed dryers and dehumidifiers in March 
2020. After they told Society of Lloyds that the drying out had been completed, repair works 
were then carried out. 
On completion of the work, Mr Ms representative provided a scope of works to Society of 
Lloyds loss adjusters and asked it to pay the costs. Discussions followed about making a 
cash settlement. Society of Lloyds said additional redecorating and refurbishment work had 
been done and not all of it was related to the damage caused by the escape of water. It 
appointed a surveyor to review the works and after discussions made a final offer of 
£105,000.
Mr M complained that this was far below the cost of the work carried out but Society of 
Lloyds said the offer was fair and wouldnt be increased. 
When Mr M referred the complaint to this Service, our investigator said Society of Lloyds 
should pay for the replacement of electrical fittings and radiators, and the installation of a 
solid floor, in addition to the sum of £105,000 offered.
Society of Lloyds doesnt agree that paying the full cost of installing a solid floor would be 
fair. It says:
the investigator said it was recommended in a report that the floor be replaced, but 
the report only recommended that this be considered and said if retained, the floors 
should be treated against damp;
some of the damage relating to the floor was not caused by the escape of water; 
the independent surveyors it instructed recommended a contribution of £4,000 
towards the cost of the floor, which it agreed to; 
it wouldnt be reasonable to have to pay a further sum of around £26,000.
Mr Ms representative also made further comments following the investigators view, saying 
all of the claim is genuine and should be included, and in particular: 
the pre-existing damp in the property only affected a small part of the building;
the contractors appointed by Society of Lloyds to carry out the initial stripping out 
works and drying didnt remove all of the ceilings and flooring and this resulted in 
damp under the floor being trapped;
the sanitaryware is a genuine part of the claim and should be included;
if the concrete floor is included then the studwork walls should be too.
The investigator considered all the additional points but didnt change his view. 
As no agreement has been reached, the complaint has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The relevant industry rules and guidance say insurers must deal with claims promptly and 
fairly; provide reasonable guidance to help a policyholder make a claim and appropriate 
information on its progress; and not unreasonably reject a claim. They should settle claims 
promptly once settlement terms are agreed.
The policy provides cover for this type of claim and Society of Lloyds is not saying the claim 
should not be covered. But it says Mr M made it difficult for it to assess the work because it 
was carried out without its knowledge or consent, and the offer of a cash settlement it put 
forward is reasonable on the basis of the information it has. So I need to decide whether that 
offer is reasonable or should be increased.
When considering this, Ive taken into account that its for the policyholder to prove their 
claim. So the onus is on Mr M to show that what hes claiming for is work needed as a result 
of the escape of water, not for other reasons, and that the amounts are reasonable.
The investigators view was that most of the offer was fair but he asked Society of Lloyds to 
increase it by including two additional items. Ive considered all the evidence carefully and I 
agree this is fair.
Mr M says the property wasnt dried out properly by Society of Lloyds contractor. But the 
work went ahead without this being pursued further at the time. So Society of Lloyds wasnt 
able to consider this further. If the problem were that obvious Id have expected Mr M to deal 
with that first rather than pressing ahead with the works.
I agree with Society of Lloyds that its position was made more difficult because all the work 
was carried out without its involvement. So it wasnt able to approve the work in advance or 
check what was being done. It appointed loss adjusters to deal with the claim and an 
independent surveyor to review the work, and relied on their advice when making its offer. 
That was a reasonable approach to take. 
The surveyor carried out a site visit and spoke to Mr Ms representative as well as reviewing 
all of the available information before providing a detailed report. A spreadsheet was 
completed with all of the items claimed for and comments added with recommendations as 
to how much Society of Lloyds should pay. Looking at things in the round, I think overall it 
was reasonable for Society of Lloyds to offer a cash sum in line with the recommendations 
given to it, subject to the two additional items recommended by the investigator. 
There isnt any dispute that the property suffered with damp problems due to issues not 
related to the escape of water. There is a dispute about the extent of that damp. But Im satisfied from the evidence there were structural issues, as confirmed in a report Mr M 
obtained, including the lack of sub-floor ventilation and high ground levels.
The loss adjuster said costs relating to stud walls hadnt been included because these hadnt 
been damaged by the water leak. They said the damage was due to ongoing damp at the 
property. As damp has been confirmed at the property I think it was reasonable not to 
include these. 
I also agree it was reasonable not to include the cost of replacing all the sanitary ware; I 
dont think Mr M has shown that was all necessary as a result of the escape of water.
But I think the evidence does show that radiators and electrical fittings were removed, should 
have been reinstated, and were not. Mr M shouldnt have to cover the cost of that. So I 
agree its fair for Society of Lloyds to cover the cost of that.
With regard to the floor, I appreciate the report Mr M relies on didnt say the only option was 
to replace the old floor with a new concrete floor. But it did say this might be the more 
economical way to put things right. 
Society of Lloyds says not all of the flooring problems were related to the escape of water. 
But the evidence does show there were extensive problems with the floor. Even though 
other methods might have been possible, I dont think it was unreasonable for the floor to be 
replaced, to provide a solution that was likely to be more permanent and, on the information 
Mr M had at the time, likely to be cost effective. 
The comment from the experts advising Society of Lloyds was that new timber flooring 
would have cost £17,000 to £19,000. So the cost would have been considerably higher than 
£4,000. 
While the cost of the concrete floor was higher, I can see why Mr M dealt with it in that way. 
Taking all of these circumstances into account, I think it would be fair for Society of Lloyds to 
cover the cost of the floor.
Putting things right
For these reasons I think a fair way to resolve the complaint is for Society of Lloyds to pay
the cash sum of £105,000 offered;
an additional sum of £26,614 for the floor; and
subject to Mr M providing evidence of the amount, the cost of replacing the radiators 
and electrical fittings.
My final decision
I uphold the complaint and direct Society of Lloyd's to pay the compensation set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 18 December 2023.
 
Peter Whiteley
Ombudsman