DRN-3713567
The complaint
Mr and Mrs S are unhappy with the service theyve received from Santander UK Plc, 
including the length of time they had to wait before calls to Santander were answered.
What happened
Mr and Mrs Ss current account was restricted by Santander following an attempted transfer 
from the account. Mr S called Santanders help line twice but without success, having held 
for approximately 30 minutes on both occasions without being connected to an agent. Mr S 
called the helpline for a third time earlier in the day, and after a 25-minute wait was able to 
speak with an agent who transferred him to another department. Mr S was waiting for a 
further twenty minutes before the other department answered his call, at which time he was 
able to have the account restrictions removed. Mr and Mrs S werent happy with the service 
theyd received from Santander, including the long hold times, so they raised a complaint.
Santander looked at Mr Ss complaint. They apologised for the inconvenience Mr and Mrs S 
had experienced, but explained they felt the account restriction hadnt been unfair and also 
that they have no control over the number of people who attempt to contact Santander at 
any time or the hold times that customers may experience as a result. Mr and Mrs S werent 
satisfied with Santanders response, so they referred their complaint to this service. 
One of our investigators looked at this complaint. They felt Santanders response to Mr and 
Mrs ss complaint was reasonable, and they didnt feel Santander should be asked to pay 
any compensation to Mr and Mrs for the long hold times theyd experienced. Mr and Mrs S 
remained dissatisfied, so the matter was escalated to an ombudsman for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In their correspondence with this service, Mr and Mrs S have made it clear that the primary 
aspect of their complaint is the unreasonable lengths of time they had to wait on hold when 
calling Santander before their calls were answered. 
Before I move to address that point, Ill confirm that I dont feel Santander acted unfairly by 
restricting Mr and Mrs Ss account as they did. Santander have explained the movements on 
the account were flagged by their automated fraud prevention system. Banks such as 
Santander have an obligation to try to protect their customers money, and the use of such 
fraud prevention systems is a commonly used method to try to meet this obligation. 
It can be the case that legitimate transactions are flagged by such systems. This appears to 
be what happened in this instance. But while the restricting of the account was inconvenient 
for Mr and Mrs S, I feel that such inconveniences are unfortunately necessary on occasion, 
given the purpose of fraud prevention systems as described previously, and as such I dont 
feel that Santander acted unfairly be restricting the account as they did.
Im aware that Mr and Mrs S would like Santander to explain why the movements on their 
account were flagged by their automated system. But it wouldnt generally be expected that 
a bank would provide detailed information about their automated systems as Mr and Mrs S 
would like here, and this is because if such information were released into the public domain 
it may increase the risk that the information would be used by individuals seeking to 
circumnavigate the fraud prevention system, thus potentially reducing its effectiveness. 
In regard to the long waiting times Mr and Mrs S experienced, I feel the explanation 
Santander have already provided about this point  which is that they cant control the 
number of people that attempt to contact them by telephone at any one time  is reasonable.
Mr and Mrs S have said theyd like Santander to compensate them for the long time they 
had to spend waiting before being able to speak with a Santander agent. But it must be 
remembered that this service isnt a regulatory body, and so it isnt within the remit of this 
service to punish a business. Rather, the remit of this service is based on fairness of 
outcome. And I dont feel that Santander have acted unfairly towards Mr and Mrs S here. 
One reason for this is that Mr and Mrs Ss experience was the same as all other individuals 
who attempted to contact Santander at that time. Mr and Mrs S were held in queue whereby 
calls were answered in order as when they made. This seems fair to me. And while Mr and 
Mrs S did have to wait a long time before their call was answered, so did everybody else. 
Ultimately, the time a person has to wait until their call is answered by a business is 
determined by the number of people who are also attempting to contact the business at that 
time and also the number of staff that the business have available to answer those calls. 
A business has no control over how many people attempt to call it at any one time. And its 
not within the remit of this service to punish a business for not having a set number of staff 
available to answer calls at a given time. This is because its for a business to choose how to 
staff its operations (which can be a complex decision given that higher staff numbers can 
mean higher costs, which often must be passed on to customers) and because events such 
as illness can lead to temporary shortages of the staff that the business has employed.
This isnt to say that Mr and Mrs S werent or shouldnt have been frustrated by the lengthy 
hold times they experienced here, and I can understand completely how they would have 
been. But in circumstances such as this, it can be the case that some inconvenience and 
frustration is unfortunately necessary. And while I can understand Mr and Mrs Ss 
dissatisfaction here, it doesnt follow necessarily from that dissatisfaction that Santander 
have treated them unfairly or that any form of compensation should be warranted, especially 
as Im satisfied that Santander answered their calls as quickly as they able to at that time.
I realise this wont be the outcome Mr and Mrs S were wanting, but it follows from the above 
that I wont be upholding this complaint or instructing Santander to take any further action. I 
hope Mr and Mrs S will understand, given what Ive explained, why Ive made the final 
decision that I have.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S and Mrs S to 
accept or reject my decision before 22 December 2022.
 
Paul CooperOmbudsman