DRN-2767618
The complaint
Miss S complains about an error she kept encountering when trying to apply for a credit card 
on HSBC UK Bank Plcs website.
What happened
Miss S previously held a credit card with HSBC. As it was unused for quite some time, the 
bank didnt issue a new card when the existing one expired. It sent Miss S a letter explaining 
this via her online banking in 2017. The letter explained that if HSBC didnt hear from Miss S 
within two months, her credit card account would be closed. Miss S didnt see the letter, as 
she wasnt actively using online banking at the time.
In September 2020, she visited a branch and had her details updated, so she could start 
using online banking again. When she went online, she saw the letter from 2017 and called 
the bank to discuss her credit card account. The call handler explained that the account had 
been closed and she would need to apply for a new credit card online.
When Miss S did this, she encountered an error message, which said Theres a technical 
problem, so you cant apply for a credit card at the moment.
Miss S went into the branch to see why this was happening. She was advised that an 
application couldnt be made for her in branch, due to covid-19 restrictions. However, she 
was asked to use the computer in branch and make the application again. When she did so, 
she encountered the same error message. 
As a result, a complaint was raised for her on 7 December 2021.
She sent an email to HSBC on 4 January 2021 asking for an update and explained that she 
may have to apply for a credit card elsewhere if HSBC couldnt help.
HSBC issued its response to her complaint on 8 January 2021. It said it still couldnt explain 
why the applications were giving her an error message. It said it would raise this with 
HSBCs IT department. Miss S was paid £50 on the same day, in recognition of the 
inconvenience caused.
Miss S was unhappy with this outcome, so she referred her complaint to our service. She 
thought a fair way of resolving the complaint was for HSBC to pay her £1,200 in 
compensation, as this was the credit limit she was attempting to apply for.
Since bringing her complaint to this service, HSBC reviewed the case again and identified 
that the reason for the error when applying was because Miss Ss tax residency information 
needed updating. It acknowledged that each of the agents she dealt with shouldve noticed 
this, as there was a prompt showing on its system. It therefore offered £150 in addition to 
what it had paid her already.
The investigator didnt think it was unfair of HSBC to close Miss Ss credit card account 
when it became dormant as it had given notice to Miss S. So, he didnt think the fact Miss S 
was initially without a credit card was due to HSBC acting unfairly.
The investigator thought it must have been frustrating to keep getting an error message 
when applying for a new credit card account. He thought HSBC staff shouldve noticed that 
all her details needed updating, including her tax residency information. 
He thought £200 compensation was in line with what he would have suggested. He didnt 
think awarding her the amount of the credit limit she was applying for was appropriate given 
there was no guarantee the application for this would have been successful.
He understood being without a credit card caused issues with managing Miss Ss cash flow, 
but he noted that in her email to HSBC dated 15 December 2020 she said she would apply 
elsewhere if the issue wasnt resolved. He therefore thought Miss S was aware there were 
other cards available.
Miss S disagreed she said HSBC gave her the impression the issue would be resolved 
quickly and given it was a technical issue she wanted to make sure is was resolved before 
taking any other steps. Also, that if she had applied for another card, she could have earned 
thousands of points since December was her highest spending month.
The investigator issued a second view where he said he thought the £150 offered on top of 
the £50 paid was fair. He said he hadnt seen anything to suggest the problem with Miss Ss 
application was anything other than technical. And he couldnt be certain an application for 
another card would have been successful.
Miss S feels she was left in limbo by the bank and that given her credit history and having 
previously had a credit card with the bank theres nothing to suggest her application wouldnt 
have been successful. She feels the compensation is inadequate. She wants me to 
consider:
The emotional stress and amount of time HSBC kept her waiting after being a 
customer of its for 15+ years
How this incident made her have to use a debit card the entire time, missing out on 
months of rewards that she would have received with any credit card and also having 
to keep refilling her debit card, having to wait for outside funds to arrive before 
making purchases because she could not go overdrawn
HSBC never gave her the green light to go elsewhere and she asked them this 
question many times and she feels she followed the bank's lead on this since the 
issue was in its hands
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I appreciate Miss Ss strength of feeling. But, like the investigator I think the compensation 
the bank has agreed to pay is fair. 
I appreciate also that Miss S says she didnt apply for a card elsewhere because she wanted 
the issue with this card resolved. I can understand her taking this position, but I cant see 
that HSBC gave her the impression the problem was anything other than technical. I also 
dont think it was HSBCs role to suggest she apply for a different card. Miss S seems like an 
intelligent, careful and considered consumer and I think she was able to come to her own conclusion regarding applying for another card and indeed suggested to the bank she might 
do this. 
The investigator has said he doesnt know if Miss Ss application for a credit card would have 
been successful. Miss S disagrees. But she did tell us that: I had a small job in London that 
was paying me sporadically. So, I dont think any of us can be certain that she would have 
met the criteria for the limited number of cards which awards points.
Taking all the above into account. Im not satisfied I can say Miss S lost out financially as a 
result of the delays to her application. 
Putting things right
I understand that Miss S feels HSBC caused her emotional stress and lost time. I can see 
that her time was wasted and that it was frustrating for her feeling as she did that she was in 
limbo and having to manage her money differently to ensure she had sufficient cash flow. I 
feel, however, that the £200 offered by HSBC is fair compensation for this and in line with 
what I would expect to see in a case such as this.
My final decision
I uphold this complaint and order that HSBC UK Bank Plc pay Miss S the additional £150 it 
has offered to pay on top of the £50 it has already paid.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss S to accept 
or reject my decision before 18 June 2021.
 
Nicola Wood
Ombudsman