DRN-3403664
The complaint
Mr S complains that LeasePlan UK Limited (LeasePlan) havent honoured a quote they 
provided for him to buy a car he had been leasing through a finance agreement with them.
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here. Instead Ill focus on giving my reasons for my decision.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I know it will disappoint Mr S, but I agree with the investigators opinion. Please let me 
explain why.
Where the information Ive got is incomplete, unclear, or contradictory, as some of it is here I 
have to base my decision on the balance of probabilities.
Ive read and considered the whole file, but Ill concentrate my comments on what I think is 
relevant. If I dont comment on any specific point its not because Ive failed to take it on 
board and think about it but because I dont think I need to comment on it in order to reach 
what I think is the right outcome.
Mr S acquired his car under a hire agreement. This is a regulated consumer credit 
agreement and as a result our service is able to look into complaints about it. 
The quotation to purchase the car was dated 7 May 2021 and was valid for 28 days. Im 
persuaded that the 7 May 2021 was the first day of validity as thats the date on the quote 
from the finance company who owned the car. Whilst I understand that the broker didnt 
forward the quotation until later I dont think that changes the date the quotation would 
expire.
The quotation would therefore expire on 4 June 2021 but in the phone call Ive listened to 
that took place at 3.42pm on 4 June 2021 its clear that Mr S hadnt accepted the quote and 
was still negotiating the price. I dont think the representative Mr S talked to in that call ever 
accepted the offer Mr S made during that call. He explained that he would put the offer to his 
boss and promised to call Mr S back in 45 minutes. But he also explained that he very much 
doubted the offer would be accepted. Mr S says that there was a further call with the 
business on that day in which he agreed to buy the car for the quoted amount but I havent 
been provided with those records and Im not persuaded there is enough evidence in Mr Ss 
subsequent actions to persuade me the agreement was in place. On the evidence available I 
dont think there was therefore an agreement in place to accept the quotation before it 
expired and in those circumstances I dont think LeasePlans actions have been unfair.
I can see that a mistake was subsequently made, and the quotation was resent and returned 
by Mr S. But I dont think it would be fair to suggest that moved the expiry date as I think that 
was always the 4 June 2021 and, as Ive explained, I dont think it was accepted in time. I 
can also see that Mr S is upset the business didnt get back to him in June 2021 when he 
was chasing a response. But I dont think that changed the fact that the quotation had still 
expired.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 9 June 2022.
 
Phillip McMahon
Ombudsman