DRN-2479226
The complaint
In summary, Mr C has complained about the lack of contact and information from Clydesdale 
Bank Plc (trading as Virgin Money), regarding the expiry of his fixed term mortgage and the 
time it would take to set up a new mortgage. 
What happened
In 2018 Mr C took out a fixed rate mortgage with Clydesdale for a period of two years. The 
loan offer document for this mortgage said the fixed rate would apply until 1 July 2020, which 
would be followed by its standard variable rate (SVR). Mr C signed a document which 
confirmed that Clydesdale hadnt provided him with any advice in respect of the mortgage he 
had applied for.
In March 2020 Clydesdale wrote to Mr C informing him that the fixed rate ran until 1 July 
2020. After that its SVR would apply. 
Its records also showed that Mr C contacted it on 21 May 2020 to ask for details about his 
mortgage including when it expired. 
Clydesdale wrote to Mr C again on 5 June 2020 informing him that his special interest rate 
was ending, and that from 1 July he would be moving onto its SVR.
On 25 June 2020 a mortgage application was received from Mr C and an offer was sent to 
him the next day. 
Mr Cs new mortgage wasnt set up until after his existing fixed rate deal expired on 1 July 
2020. Mr C was unhappy that he had to pay an SVR until the new product came into force, 
so he complained to Clydesdale. It didnt uphold his complaint. 
Mr Cs concerns were looked into by one of our investigators. She explained to Mr C why 
she wasnt upholding his complaint.  As Mr C didnt agree with what she said, the case has 
been passed to me for review. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided not to uphold Mr Cs complaint. Ill explain why.
It seems to me that the key issue I need to decide in this case, is whether Clydesdale 
provided Mr C with the information it needed to about his mortgage. So, Ive considered 
carefully the information supplied by Clydesdale and Mr C.
When Mr C first took out his mortgage in 2018, Clydesdale provided him with a loan offer. 
This document set out that the mortgage was based on a fixed interest rate of 1.48% until 1 
July 2020. After that Clydesdales SVR would apply. 
In March 2020 Clydesdale wrote to Mr C in advance of his fixed rate mortgage coming to an 
end. The letter was titled in large font Heads up. Your mortgage is coming to an end. The 
letter went on to inform Mr C that his current deal ended on 1 July 2020 which meant that his 
interest rate would change to Clydesdales SVR which at that time was 4.99%.
Clydesdale wrote to Mr C again on 5 June 2020. The letter was titled Important information 
about your mortgage  your interest rate is changing. The letter went onto explain the 
mortgage rate was changing from 1 July 2020, why it was changing and what the new 
monthly payment would be from 1 July 2020. 
So, Im satisfied that the documents provided by Clydesdale to Mr C, the contents of which 
Ive summarised above, fully explained to him when his mortgage would change, why it 
would change and that its SVR would apply from 1 July 2020. 
Mr C has argued that Clydesdale didnt provide him with enough information, and it didnt 
make clear the cut-off point from when he would need to apply for a new mortgage. 
I dont agree with what Mr C has said. This is because what Clydesdale needed to ensure, 
was that Mr C was informed about that his mortgage interest rate would change to its SVR, 
when his fixed interest rate ended.  
I accept that Mr C believes Clydesdale should have done more. But Im satisfied for the 
reasons Ive set out above, it provided enough information in an appropriate format which 
informed Mr C his mortgage was coming to an end and the change in the interest rate to its 
SVR. I think therefore Mr C had sufficient time to make alternative arrangements for a new 
mortgage if that was what he wanted to do. 
Clydesdale only received Mr Cs mortgage application on 25 June 2020. And given the 
limited time available before his fixed interest rate ended, I dont think it was surprising that 
Clydesdale wasnt able to complete Mr Cs mortgage before 1 July 2020.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive set out above, my decision is not to uphold Mr Cs complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 23 February 2021.
 
Simon Dibble
Ombudsman