DRN-2496198
The complaint
This complaint is about a regular premium payment protection (PPI) insurance policy. 
Ms J took out the cover in May 2008 to be used alongside a mortgage. 
She says St Andrews Insurance Plc (St Andrews) was wrong not to allow her to cancel 
the unemployment element of her cover when she contacted them in 2015. 
What happened
Ms J took out a type of insurance protection know as a Total Mortgage Protection Plan 
(TMPP). This was a standalone policy that offered a wider range of benefits than PPI
only. As well as providing mortgage repayments cover in the form of cover for accident, 
sickness and unemployment, the TMPP also provided life insurance and critical illness 
cover.
The cost of the accident, sickness and unemployment element of the policy was £14.12.
Ms J says she wanted to remove the unemployment element of her cover but 
St Andrews told her this couldnt be done as her mortgage repayments cover was 
bought as a total package. 
Our adjudicator in this case said the complaint shouldnt be upheld but Ms J disagreed 
and its been passed to me for an ombudsmans decision.
We have already looked into the question of whether the PPI was mis-sold under a separate 
reference. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website 
and Ive taken this into account in deciding this case.
Having done this, Ive decided not to uphold Ms Js complaint.
Ive seen that Ms J called St Andrews on 17 April 2015 to see if she could cancel the 
unemployment part of her cover. 
Ive also seen the call note from that call. It says that Ms J had called in to query if she could 
remove the unemployment cover element. But she was told it wasnt possible to do that. She 
was also told that she could reduce the level of life and critical illness cover if she wanted to. 
I see that Ms J told the representative she spoke to that she was happy with the information 
shed been given. 
Ive seen from the records of the sale that St Andrews have given us that the accident, 
sickness and unemployment elements were all sold together to Ms J as a package called 
mortgage repayments cover. Whilst its possible to cancel the whole package  that is the 
accident, sickness and unemployment cover together - St Andrews has told us its not 
possible to later cancel or remove one of the individual elements. It therefore seems to me 
that the information Ms J was given by St Andrews when she was told she couldnt cancel 
the unemployment element of the cover alone was accurate and reflected the way that part 
of the policy worked.
So to summarise, Ms J made an enquiry about the policy terms and from what Ive seen was  
given correct information that enabled her to make a choice as to whether or not she wished 
to take any further action. In this case, it looks as if she left things as they are. And Ive kept 
in mind that weve already looked into what happened when the lender sold Ms J the policy. 
It follows that, everything Ive seen into account, I dont think St Andrews has done anything 
wrong. 
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold Ms Js complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms J to accept or 
reject my decision before 29 April 2021. 
Michael Goldberg
Ombudsman