DRN-2298745
The complaint
Ms G complains about the service she received from Bank of Scotland plc (BOS) and that 
a member of its staff accessed her account unnecessarily.
What happened
Earlier this year, Ms G visited a branch of BOS but was told by the branch manager that she 
couldnt go in because it was before 9:00am and the branch hadnt opened yet. Ms G says 
that the manager was rude. Once the branch had opened, Ms G went inside and was served 
at the counter by another member of staff. She asked for the managers name so that she 
could complain. She says the manager then appeared next to her and told her to go into a 
room with her if she wanted to complain. Ms G says she didnt want to do that because the 
manager was behaving in a threatening way. She says the manager was extremely rude and 
aggressive and that she had to ask her twice to step away. Ms G says that the incident left 
her feeling angry and upset. 
Ms G says she called BOS later to make a complaint and got the impression that the 
manager had accessed her account. She says this is a breach of data protection rules 
because the manager had no reason to access her account. She wanted to know for certain 
whether the manager had accessed her account but says that no-one at BOS could tell her. 
Ms G made a subject access request (SAR) to find out who had accessed her account. 
She says that BOS took too long to provide the information and Ms G is unhappy about this.
BOS didnt uphold Ms Gs complaint. Ms G wasnt happy with its response, so she asked 
this service to look into it. She wants to know whether BOSs system records a footprint 
when someone accesses her account and whether the manager accessed her account 
following her visit to the branch. She also wants compensation for the data protection breach 
which she says has occurred, the aggression she says she experienced in the branch and 
also loss of her job.
 
Our investigator thought that BOS had dealt with the complaint fairly and didnt ask it to do 
anything. But Ms G didnt agree and asked for her complaint to be reviewed by an 
ombudsman.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided not to uphold this complaint. Ill explain why.
BOS says that, for security and insurance reasons, members of the public arent allowed into 
its branches until after the scheduled opening time. I think thats reasonable. So I dont think 
BOS did anything wrong by declining Ms G access to the branch before it was open. 
I understand from Ms Gs account that the time had reached 9:00am and the branch still 
hadnt opened  she says the branch was late opening. On the other hand, BOS says that 
Ms G attempted to enter the branch before 9:00am, while staff were entering the building. 
Due to the differing evidence on this point and the lack of other evidence as to the exact time 
the branch opened, I cant conclude whether it opened on time or not. But, either way, the 
branch opened within a few minutes and Ms G was able to go in and complete her 
transaction. So I dont find that any delay caused Ms G any significant detriment. 
As to the interaction between Ms G and the branch manager, Ms G feels very strongly about 
this and shes explained in some detail what happened. But I have to be impartial, so Ive 
also considered what BOS has said about the interaction. There is no CCTV evidence 
available. And, due to the amount of time which has passed, the staff who were present are 
not all available and cannot clearly recall the events now. Although they were aware at the 
time that Ms G was unhappy, I havent seen anything which confirms there was a problem 
with the managers behaviour. As Ms G and BOSs accounts differ, I cant be sure what took 
place. I realise Ms G found the interaction extremely upsetting. But, on balance, I havent 
seen anything compelling which means I can safely conclude that BOS treated her unfairly. 
In relation to accessing Ms Gs account, BOS has confirmed that any access leaves a 
footprint. It says that the manager did access Ms Gs account on the day of her visit to the 
branch. This was to write a note regarding the interaction at the door. I think that was 
reasonable, particularly as Ms G had made it clear she was unhappy and was likely to raise 
a complaint.
 
Ms G is concerned that this is a breach of data protection rules. Its not the role of this 
service to decide whether a data protection breach has taken place, so I wont be making a 
finding about that here. I can see that our investigator has already directed Ms G to the 
Information Commissioners Office, and they are the correct body to deal with any ongoing 
concerns Ms G has should she wish to pursue this issue further.
In relation to Ms Gs SAR, this was made in March 2020, during the COVID-19 pandemic. 
BOS has explained that, due to the pandemic, it made the decision to pause SAR 
processing in order to focus on providing essential services to customers at that time. It told 
the Information Commissioners Office about this approach. I think that, in the 
circumstances, this approach was reasonable. BOS has since provided the SAR information.
 
In relation to Ms G losing her job, Im sorry to hear of that. But I havent seen anything which 
suggests its related to anything BOS did. Im sorry to disappoint Ms G, but I dont think BOS 
has treated her unfairly, so I wont be asking it to do anything here.
My final decision
For the reasons above, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms G to accept or 
reject my decision before 8 December 2020.
 
Katy Kidd
Ombudsman