DRN-4462202
The complaint
Miss M is unhappy that Nationwide Building Society wont refund her money that she lost as 
a result of falling victim to a fraud.
What happened
As both parties are familiar with the circumstances of this complaint, Ive summarised them 
briefly below. 
Miss M saw an investment opportunity on a social media platform which offered to double 
her money. She contacted the person claiming to carry out the investment and agreed to 
make payments to them. Unfortunately, it later transpired that the person she was speaking 
with was in fact a fraudster. 
Miss M made several payments to the fraudster as instructed through her Nationwide 
account. But Miss M says that, without her authority, further payments were made from her 
account and a loan was taken out in her name. 
Miss M eventually realised shed been a victim of fraud and reported the matter to 
Nationwide. After an investigation of Miss Ms claim, Nationwide decided to refund Miss M in 
part. It found that a new device had been used to carry out some of the transactions and 
reimbursed Miss M £15,938.63 to reflect this. It also paid £100 for the distress and 
inconvenience caused by some service errors. 
However, it wouldnt refund the remaining payments, or the loan provided, as these were 
carried out on a genuine device associated with the account. 
Miss M was unhappy Nationwide wouldnt reimburse her in full, so she made a complaint to 
our service where it was looked at by an Investigator. After consideration of the evidence 
and testimony, they didnt recommend that the complaint be upheld as they concluded 
Miss M didnt hold a reasonable basis of belief that she was dealing with a genuine 
investment opportunity. And they also concluded that the disputed transactions and loan 
were likely authorised by Miss M. 
Miss Mthrough her representativedisagreed with the Investigators assessment. She felt 
that the bank failed in its duty to protect her as the transactions were out of character for her 
account. And had it blocked the payment and questioned it, it likely would have prevented 
the fraud. Miss M also admitted to authorising more of transactions shed disputed than she 
had previously. But maintained that the loan and some of the transactions were not 
authorised. 
As Miss M disagreed with the Investigators assessment, the matter was passed to me for a 
decision. 
On 2 November 2023 I set out my provisional findings to both parties. These were as 
follows:
In deciding whats fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of a complaint, Im required 
to take into account relevant: law and regulations; regulators rules, guidance and standards; 
codes of practice; and, where appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry 
practice at the time. Ive also thought about the Contingency Reimbursement Model (the 
CRM Code), which Nationwide is signed up to and was in force at the time Miss M made 
these payments. 
The CRM Code sets out that that a firm should reimburse its customer any funds lost as a 
result of an authorised push payment (APP) fraud unless it can demonstrate exceptions to 
reimbursementset out in the Codeapply. The exceptions relevant to this complaint are:
the customer made the payment(s) without a reasonable basis for believing that the 
payment was for genuine goods or services; 
the customer ignored an effective warning, given by the firm, by failing to take 
appropriate action in response to that warning.
Did Miss M authorise the payments in dispute? 
In broad terms, the starting position at law is that a firm is expected to process payments 
and withdrawals that its customer authorises, in accordance with the Payment Services 
Regulations and the terms and conditions of the customers account. 
There is a dispute here about whether Miss M authorised the transactions in part or not. 
Miss M has changed her testimony to both Nationwide and our service about which 
transactions she authorised and which she didnt. However, from reviewing the evidence 
provided by both parties, I find it more likely than not that she authorised all of the payments 
in dispute, and the loan applied for in her name. 
As part of our services investigation, Miss M was asked a series of questions to establish a 
point of compromise for her account. But Miss M told our service that shed not provided her 
security credentials for her online banking or one-time passcodes sent to set up a new 
device on her account. She also told our service that no third-party applications or software 
were downloaded to her device as part of the fraud. Therefore, I cannot see a feasible way 
in which an unknown third-party could have accessed her online banking and taken control 
of her account. 
Having said that, I can see a new device was registered to her account successfully and was 
used to make some of the transactions in dispute. 
Taking the above information into account, I find it more likely than not that either Miss M 
authorised the transactions in dispute or provided the relevant security credentials or one-
time passcodes to the fraudster to access her account. 
Should Miss M be held liable for the disputed loan taken out in her name? 
Prior to the disputed transactions, a personal loan to the value of £5,000 was taken out in 
Miss Ms name through Nationwide and paid into her current account. 
Miss M says she didnt authorise this loan and received none of the paperwork or 
agreements associated with it. However, Nationwide has provided evidence that the loan 
was applied for using the device Miss M usually used to operate her online banking account 
and was accessed with biometric security. The application was also made using the genuine 
personal details of Miss M, including her address, email and telephone number. 
I therefore find it more likely than not that Miss M applied for this loan and received the information and agreements associated with it. 
Did Miss M hold a reasonable basis of belief that she was paying a legitimate business?
Miss M found the investment opportunity on a social media platform which is not specifically 
designed to deal with financial markets and accounts. While the fraudster had what looked 
like a business account, there was no way of knowing from the profile that this was a 
legitimate firm. 
Miss M, who was young and inexperienced in matters of investment at the time, didnt carry 
out any research on the business. She merely took the business at face value and on the 
information presented within the profile and by the fraudster. 
The information that was presented by the fraudster in conversations ought to have caused 
Miss M some concern. She was also told that she could double her money: and fast. Basic 
online checks would have revealed that this was not realistic with legitimate investments. 
Miss M was also coached extensively regarding how to lie to the bank and get her money 
through the system  this isnt something Id expect to see a legitimate business do.
Furthermore, Miss M wasnt even aware of how her money was being doubled and held no 
legitimate contracts or agreements with the business. 
Overall, Im satisfied Miss M didnt hold a reasonable basis of belief that the business she 
was dealing with was legitimate. And so it follows that Nationwide can rely upon this 
exception for reimbursement. I also find that this should be taken into consideration when 
thinking about Miss Ms role in contributing to her losses. 
Could Nationwide have done more to prevent Miss M falling victim to the fraud? 
When Miss M was first instructed to make payments, she set up four new payees on her 
account and made four separate transactions: 
26 Jul 2021 - £10, £10, £10 and £40 
While four new payees being set up in quick succession may be of concern in isolation, the 
amounts being paid were of such low value that I dont find Nationwide ought to have been 
concerned and carry out any intervention of the payments; it also wasnt required to deliver a 
warning in line with the CRM Code. 
Following the above payments, Miss M made a follow up payment to one of the new payees 
for £3,500 on the same day. When considering this payment against Miss Ms account 
history, I find this to have been out of character and unusual in comparison. Shed not made 
payments from her account to this value before and to a new payee that had been set up 
that day. 
Nationwide ought to have been concerned about this and, at the very least, deliver a warning 
to Miss M based on these risk indicators. However, when authorising the payment, Miss M 
chose the option paying a friend or relative rather than disclosing it was for an investment, 
and was therefore delivered a warning relevant to this payment choice. The warning did 
however state only criminals tell youwhat to tell Nationwide about the reason for your 
payment, and this was relevant to Miss Ms circumstances as shed been coached on what 
to disclose to the bank. However, Miss M decided to proceed with the payment regardless of 
this. 
Following on from this payment, Miss M made another for £3,000 to a different payee on the same day. At this point I think Nationwide ought to have been more concerned. Miss M had 
set up four new payees and made payments to the value of £6,500 in quick succession. This 
is highly uncharacteristic when considering her regular account activity and taking into 
account the considerations above, I think it would have been fair and reasonable for 
Nationwide to have contacted Miss M and probe the payments being made to ensure she 
wasnt at risk of financial harm. 
Having said this, Im not persuaded by the evidence that this would have made a difference 
in the circumstances of this complaint. Having read the messages between Miss M and the 
fraudsters, she was coached by them on what to do when processing the payment and if the 
bank were to contact her to question the payments. And it appears Miss M was following 
these instructions as she was putting the reasons for the payments as what shed been 
instructed to do. I therefore find it more likely than not that shed have told the bank what 
shed been instructed to. And this likely would have impeded Nationwides attempts to 
identify the fraud and deliver the appropriate warnings. 
Looking at the subsequent payments from the account, I find there were likely other points 
Nationwide ought to have intervened: for example, where Miss M made a payment for 
£10,000 on 26 July 2021. But again, Im not persuaded this would have made a difference 
here. Miss M was coached in what she was to say to the bank when it contacted her. And 
while her reasons for making the payments may have become less believable the later they 
were made, I find it likely Miss M would have continued to mislead the bank about why she 
was making the payments. This is supported by the changing testimony we have seen as 
part of the claim process and when bringing the complaint to our service. 
Miss M has maintained throughout that shed not made some of the transactions in dispute 
when its likely from the evidence that she did. And I must take this into consideration when 
reaching my findings. This isnt to say that there is malicious intent on Miss Ms part; I 
genuinely believe shes fallen victim to a cruel fraud. I find it likely shes not been 
forthcoming with information as shes worried about the repercussions. But I cant 
reasonably hold Nationwide liable for the transactions she disputes where the reliability of 
her testimony is in question. 
Nationwide took the decision to refund Miss M £15,938.63 of the circa £42,000 she lost as it 
felt these were carried out by a third-party. Having considered the evidence, Im not 
persuaded that this is the case. So, I find this reimbursement to have been fair and 
reasonable considering the circumstances.
Both parties were allowed until 16 November to provide any further comment or evidence in 
relation to the complaint before reaching my final decision.
As that deadline has now passed, Im in a position to deliver those findings.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Both Nationwide and Miss Mthrough her representativehavent provided any further 
comment or evidence for me to consider. I therefore see no reason to depart from the 
provision findings Ive given above.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given, I dont uphold this complaint.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss M to accept 
or reject my decision before 15 December 2023.
 
Stephen Westlake
Ombudsman