DRN-4153346
The complaint
Mr B complains that Madison CF UK Limited trading as 118118 Money was irresponsible in 
its lending to him.
What happened
Mr B was provided with a credit card account by 118118 Money in November 2020. The 
credit limit is currently £1,000. Mr B says that at the time of the lending he had other loans 
outstanding, he had a poor credit score and his income was only £100 a week excluding 
benefits. 
118118 Money issued its final response to Mr Bs complaint in February 2023. It said that 
when Mr B applied for the credit card, he would have been asked a number of different 
questions around his income and expenditure and employment details. It then used industry 
standard verification checks to validate the information provided on the application.
Our investigator didnt uphold Mr Bs complaint. She noted the benefits were a legitimate 
source of income and included them in her assessment. She reviewed Mr Bs bank 
statements for the months leading up to his credit card application and didnt find that these 
showed the lending to be unaffordable. 
Mr B didnt agree with our investigators view. He said his minimum payments on the credit 
card were higher than our investigator had noted and that transfers into his account were 
from loans and some used to fund his business. He said his earnings were £100 a week and 
he received tax credits of £156 which he didnt think should be included.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Our approach to considering complaints about unaffordable and irresponsible lending is set 
out on our website. Ive had this approach in mind when considering whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Before providing credit, lenders need to complete reasonable and proportionate affordability 
checks. There isnt a set list of checks a lender is required to carry out, it just needs to 
ensure the checks are proportionate when considering things like: the type and amount of 
credit being provided, the size of the regular repayments, the total cost of the credit and the 
consumers circumstances.
Based on the information contained in a recent credit report provided by Mr B, it appears that 
Mr B was provided with a credit card account in November 2020 with an initial credit limit of 
£500 and this was increased to a credit limit of £1,000 in October 2021. 
Before providing the credit card account, 118118 Money carried out a credit check and 
asked Mr B about his employment and income. Mr Bs application details show that he was 
employed with a monthly income of £936. He was a council tenant, and zero amounts were 
noted in regard to all housing, utility, insurances and other living costs. Mr Bs credit report 
showed he had loans outstanding of £584 and revolving credit, spread over four credit cards 
of £1,268. Mr Bs total credit limit across his four credit cards was £1,400 and he was 
utilising around 90% of this. It also showed he had been making use of short-term borrowing.
While I do not find that the results of Mr Bs credit check suggested he was struggling to 
manage his accounts at the time, given his low monthly income and that he already had four 
credit cards which were close to their limits as well as a loan outstanding, I think it would 
have been reasonable for 118188 Money to have carried out further check of Mr Bs income 
and expenses to ensure providing additional lending at this time was affordable for him.
I have looked at the bank statements Mr B has provided for the months leading up to his 
credit card application. These contain lots of transactions and personal transfers. Based on 
the information I have received and Mr Bs comments about certain transactions, I have tried 
to establish what is likely to have been identified in regard to his income and expenses had 
further checks been undertaken. 
Mr Bs bank statements show he was receiving weekly wages of £100. He has explained 
that transfers from another account (of £173 a week) were child benefit and tax credits, and 
he was also receiving around £84 a month for child benefit. This gives total monthly income 
of around £1,175 and so I cannot say that had further checks been undertaken the income 
amount included in 118118 Moneys assessment of £936 was unreasonable. While I note 
Mr Bs comment about the inclusion of his benefit income it is reasonable that this would be 
considered as part of his overall income. 
Mr Bs application didnt record any amounts for utilities and other living costs, and I think 
verification of his expenses would have been reasonable. Mr Bs credit report showed he 
had £1,400 of available credit card lending before his application, and he was utilising 
around 90%. I have looked at the payments towards these accounts in Mr Bs bank 
statements and considered how much he would need to pay based on a 5% repayment of 
the total combined credit limit and I think a reasonable amount to include in the assessment 
would be around £80. Additional to this Mr B was making payments towards a loan of 
around £40 a month and had interest charges on his overdraft. This gives total monthly 
credit commitments (before the 118118 Money credit card) of around £125. 
Mr Bs bank statements show he was paying an average of around £125 for other regular 
costs including media/communications services. He was also making payments to an 
individual which he has explained was for housing costs and bills. These payments varied 
but taking an average from the information I have seen this gave Mr B total expenses of 
around £525. Adding his credit commitments to this amount and taking into account the 
amount that he would need to repay on the 118118 Money credit card, I do not find that I 
have enough to say that this lending should have been considered unaffordable.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 27 July 2023.
 
Jane Archer
Ombudsman