DRN-1735013
The complaint
Mr C complains that Clydesdale Financial Services Limited trading as Barclays Partner 
Finance (BPF) delayed releasing his car following an accident.
What happened
In March 2019 Mr C was supplied with a car and entered into a conditional sale agreement 
with BPF.
In July 2019 Mr C was involved in an accident and was taken to hospital. The car was taken 
to a compound by the police.
BPF collected the car from the compound and placed it in storage. Mr C says there were 
delays in releasing the car to his insurance company for assessment of the damage.
BPF says it was contacted by Mr C and his insurance company in August 2019. It says it 
was initially told that the car was a write off but subsequently the insurance company said it 
could be repaired. BPF says the insurance company caused a delay by taking a long time to 
confirm whether it would reimburse BPF for the compound fee. BPF acknowledged that 
further delay was caused because its agent hadnt been provided with the correct 
documents to confirm that a third party would be collecting the car.
BPF refunded Mr C two monthly payments to reflect the time hed been without the car 
together with £300 for distress and inconvenience. It also paid a further £250 in 
acknowledgement of the delay in releasing the car together with a refund of a further 
monthly payment.
Mr C remained unhappy and complained to this service.
Our investigator didnt uphold the complaint. She didnt think the delay was entirely the fault 
of BPF and felt that the offer made was fair and reasonable.
Mr C didnt agree. He said hed been left without a car for several weeks and had incurred 
costs on alternative transport. He said his insurers had passed all of the necessary 
information to BPF and that hed had to chase BPF for several weeks to get his car released. 
Mr C didnt think he compensation offered reflected the inconvenience and financial loss 
hed suffered.
 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive reviewed the system notes provided by BPF. These show that Mr Cs insurance 
company contacted them in August 2019 to request the release of the car. I can see that 
there was some delay in BPF obtaining confirmation that the pound fee would be reimbursed 
by the insurance company. I can also see that there was further delay because BPFs 
agents werent provided with the correct paperwork.
Having reviewed everything, I think its fair to  say that BPF was responsible for some  but 
not all  of the delay.
Ive also thought about the time Mr C spent chasing BPF and not receiving calls back. Mr C 
has said that both he and the insurance company called BPF numerous times to try and find 
out where the car was being stored. Ive no reason to doubt what Mr C says about this and I 
understand how time consuming and frustrating this mustve been for him.
Whilst Im not persuaded that the delay was entirely down to BPF, I do think BPF couldve 
provided better customer service here. So, Ive looked at the offer made by BPF and Ive 
thought about whether it is fair, taking into account the impact on Mr C.
Mr C has said that he was left without a car for several months and incurred alternative 
transport costs. I dont think its fair to hold BPF responsible for this, because Mr Cs 
insurance company couldve arranged for a courtesy car to be made available. Further, Mr C 
hasnt provided any evidence of the costs he incurred, so I cant take these into account. 
I understand that Mr C was left without a car and I appreciate that this wouldve caused him 
inconvenience. However, on balance, I think BPFs offer to refund a total of 3 monthly 
instalments and pay £550 compensation is fair and reasonable in all the circumstances, and 
in line with what this service would award, so I wont be asking it to do anything further.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold the complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 1 October 2020.
 
Emma Davy
Ombudsman