DRN-2716921
The complaint
 Mr W complained about the way HSBC UK Bank Plc dealt with his complaint about a 
transaction he didnt authorise. He wants more compensation than HSBC offered.
 
What happened
  On 12 December 2020, Mr W rang HSBC and made a credit card payment. 
Two days later, on 14 December, he checked his account and saw that £616 had also been 
debited to his account, which he hadnt authorised.
Mr W rang HSBC straightaway to report it. He said he was treated like a criminal and the 
bank thought he must have made the transaction himself. Mr W was at work, so it was 
inconvenient that the call lasted 90 minutes, before he was told it would be investigated.
Mr W said he rang every day. He said that at one point HSBC told him that the money would 
be refunded in 20 days, and on another occasion that it could be six to eight weeks before 
he got the refund.
On 19 December, HSBC rang Mr W and said it was the banks mistake. It said that the call 
handler who had taken Mr Ws payment on 12 December had left Mr Ws account open at 
the end of the transaction. So the payment which the next caller had wanted to make had 
wrongly been debited to Mr Ws account instead. 
HSBC returned Mr Ws money on 19 December, and also paid Mr W £250 compensation for 
the distress and inconvenience it had caused him, and the time hed spent on it.
Mr W told HSBC that he wanted more compensation. He said hed had to leave his client for 
over 90 minutes, and had been treated as a criminal by HSBC. He explained that his client 
had initially understood the importance of Mr W ringing HSBC but hadnt been impressed 
when it had taken so long. He said he could lose the client, so he asked HSBC to pay him 
£1,565 more compensation. 
HSBC refused, so Mr W contacted this service. 
Our investigator didnt uphold Mr Ws complaint. He explained that if Mr W felt his data had 
been breached, he should complain to the Information Commissioners Office. He said that it 
didnt appear that Mr Ws data had been compromised but this service couldnt make a 
finding about that. The investigator said its nearly impossible to account for loss of potential 
business, which could be affected by many different factors. He agreed the error would have 
caused Mr W stress and anxiety but considered £250 was fair.
Mr W wasnt satisfied and asked for an ombudsman decision.
My provisional decision 
I issued a provisional decision on this complaint. Before doing so, I considered all the 
available evidence and arguments to decide what would be fair and reasonable in the 
circumstances of this complaint. Before doing so, I requested further information from HSBC 
including the phone call recordings.
In the provisional decision I explained that here, it wasnt in dispute that the cause of the 
disputed transaction was that HSBC  made a mistake, and debited Mr Ws account with 
someone elses transaction. So the issue for me to consider was how much compensation 
would be fair and reasonable. I took several factors into account when assessing the impact 
of HSBCs mistake and actions.
Timescales for returning Mr Ws money
I considered whether the time HSBC took to deal with the disputed transaction was fair. 
Section 14 of HSBCs terms and conditions says:
What will we do when you tell us about an incorrect payment or unauthorised payment?
Well normally refund the money before the end of the next working day after you tell us. 
Well do it sooner if we can.
Mr W reported the problem on 12 December and HSBC didnt refund Mr W until 19 
December. This was well outside the limits in the terms and conditions. I recognised that the 
terms and conditions say normally for the refund date, but this wasnt a complex issue 
about whether or not there had been a fraud. So in the circumstances of this case I could 
see no valid reason why HSBC shouldnt have refunded Mr W in line with the timescales in 
the terms and conditions of the account. 
Phone calls
First, I listened to the 14 December calls when Mr W reported the problem. Mr W said he 
was treated like a criminal on the calls and that it took 90 minutes, which was particularly 
stressful and inconvenient because he was at work. 
Mr W spoke to HSBCs initial call handler for just under ten minutes and was then put 
through to another call handler. 
The second part of the call took just under an hour, for much the majority of which Mr W was 
kept waiting on hold. It was clear from the recording that Mr W was at work, and that he had 
to apologise to a colleague several times while he was on hold. Mr W was put on hold for a 
very long time, was asked one more question and put on hold again, and was then put on 
hold a third time.  After that, the call handler told Mr W that hed have to ring Mr W back.
I asked HSBC for further call recordings. From these, it turned out that HSBC hadnt rung 
back as the second call handler promised on 14th.. There were also some chat messages, 
which I dont have, but it appears that during these HSBC told Mr W that its agent had made 
a mistake in debiting someone elses payment to his account.
As HSBC didnt ring Mr W back as it had promised, Mr W rang again the next day. He told 
the adviser they money hadnt come back into his account, which hed expected to have 
happened the previous day. On this call, HSBCs adviser said several times that Mr W 
couldnt  be refunded until HSBC had got the money back from the other customer. I found 
that this was far from helpful or fair in the circumstances where it had been HSBCs mistake. 
The adviser wasnt able to answer Mr Ws main question about when hed get his money 
back, or which of his personal details might have been compromised under data protection. 
She said it was all being dealt with by another team, and asked to put Mr W on hold. By then, Mr W had spent another quarter of an hour on this phone call, and he  was at work and 
couldnt wait longer. He was promised another call back.
This call back did happen, but it didnt resolve the problem. The new adviser repeatedly said 
Trust me, the team is working on it and just give it some time. Mr W said HSBC should 
be reimbursing him first, and then getting the money back from the other customer, not the 
other way round. He was also concerned about his data, in relation to the other customer. Mr 
W said he needed his money back and he just needed it sorted. I considered it was 
understandable that Mr W was upset and frustrated.
Mr W told us, and I accepted, that he rang every day until the refund and final response on 
19 December.
Considering the calls, I heard nothing on the four call recordings on 14 and 15 December 
which indicate that HSBC treated Mr W like a criminal as he alleges. But there was also 
nothing in those calls to reassure Mr W that the issue would be competently and promptly 
resolved. I considered that the manner of these calls would only have increased his 
frustration and concern:
- It would be understandable for Mr W to have concerns about what he was told after 
the second call on 14 December.  As Ive set out above, the call handler put Mr W on 
hold multiple times, for a long time even though he knew Mr W was at work and it 
was inconvenient. And the call handler never did resolve things and just promised a 
call back which didnt happen.
- When Mr W rang again on 15 December, the customer service was again very poor. 
By that time it was known that it was a mistake by HSBC, but the implications of that 
dont appear to have been taken on board by the call handler. She repeatedly told Mr 
W he wouldnt get his refund until HSBC had got the money back from the other 
person. This isnt what the relevant rules say should happen, and it isnt in line with 
HSBCs own terms and conditions. In the circumstances of a mistake by HSBC, I 
found that these comments were unhelpful and misleading. And this call handler too 
didnt provide Mr W with any reassurance, or prospect of a prompt resolution either 
about the refund or his worries about whether his data had been passed to the other 
customer.
- As Ive set out above, the second call on 15 December also achieved nothing.  After 
Mr W had been on the phone for an hour and a half to various HSBC call handlers, it 
wasnt helpful to have kept repeating Trust me, the team is working on it without 
giving any information on timescales or outcome.  
So I found the advice and service that Mr W received during these calls was very poor. They 
didnt appear to understand the impact of the loss of a significant sum of money, the worry 
about data compromise, or the inconvenience to Mr W of having to chase when at work. Nor 
were they sympathetic when it was already known that it was HSBC which was responsible 
for the error.
Amount of compensation
I found that HSBC breached its own terms and conditions in not refunding Mr W within the 
timescales set out. It refunded him after a week instead of by the end of the next working 
day after he raised the complaint. Here, HSBC knew quickly that the problem was the banks 
error, not a fraud, and certainly not Mr Ws fault. So I considered there was no valid reason 
for HSBC not to have refunded Mr W in line with its terms and conditions.The relevant rules say that financial institutions have up to eight weeks to issue a final 
response to a complaint, so I dont find that HSBC took too long to reply. But I noted that the 
final response letter didnt deal with Mr Ws concerns about the protection of his data in 
regard to the other customer. In practice, I thought it unlikely that Mr Ws details were 
passed to the other customer. It was more likely to have been the other way round, because 
her payment details were put onto Mr Ws account for a while. Data protection issues are 
dealt with by the Information Commissioner, and Mr W could contact them if hes concerned. 
But I did find that HSBC should have dealt with this point in its final response.
It was clear from the calls that there was considerable inconvenience to Mr W in the length 
of time he had to spend on the phone when he was at work. Mr W wants compensation 
based on the potential loss of business. In my provisional decision, I explained that I was 
sympathetic to Mr Ws upset, but when this service considers how much compensation 
should be paid, we dont assess it on the basis of potential loss. Nor do we usually assess 
compensation on the basis of the amount of time which a customer has had to spend. 
Instead, we look at compensation for each case, and Mr W can see some examples by 
looking at our website. From these, he can see that the figure hes seeking isnt in line with 
what we normally award.
Where I considered HSBC particularly let Mr W down was in the poor quality of its call 
handlers. Ive set this out in detail above, and this is a key element in my consideration of the 
impact on Mr W of how HSBC dealt with Mr W in its handling of its own mistake.
Taking these factors into consideration, I found that it would be fair and reasonable to 
increase the compensation for the distress, inconvenience and upset which HSBC caused 
Mr W by its mistake, failure to refund him in line with the terms and conditions of his account, 
and the poor way in which multiple call handlers dealt with Mr W.  I considered a total of 
£350 would be fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. 
. 
Responses to my provisional decision
Mr W said that it would have cost the bank more to follow this up than hed be compensated. 
He said he found it unacceptable that his time and loss of trade was so undervalued. He felt 
that HSBC just had no idea of customer service and customer relations. He said he 
appreciated his complaint being upheld, but the amount of compensation wasnt acceptable.
HSBC accepted my provisional decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In particular, Ive considered Mr Ws further comments.
I recognise that Mr W feels strongly about what happened. And I do understand why he was 
upset about HSBCs poor customer service, which I identified in the provisional decision. 
But the £350 compensation which I set out in the provisional decision is in line with similar 
cases. Ive seen no evidence to show that Mr W suffered an actual, quantifiable, financial 
loss. Its understandable that, at the time, hed have been concerned that there might be 
such a loss. Ive taken that worry into account in the compensation for distress and 
inconvenience caused by HSBCs poor service. But we dont compensate for potential 
financial loss in the same way as we would compensate for actual proven financial loss. 
Similarly, we dont calculate a customers time in the way Mr W would like. So, having reconsidered the available evidence and arguments, I consider that £350 compensation is 
fair and reasonable for HSBCs poor service in the circumstances of Mr Ws case.
My final decision
 My final decision is that I uphold this complaint and I order HSBC Bank UK PLC to pay Mr 
W a total of £350 compensation. As it has already paid him £250, this leaves £100 still to 
pay. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 23 April 2021.
 
Belinda Knight
Ombudsman