DRN-3746622
The complaint
Mrs B complains that American Express Services Europe Limited wont refund to her the 
money that she paid for a suitcase. Her husband is also involved in her complaint.
What happened
Mrs B used her American Express credit card in July 2021 to pay £328 for two suitcases. A 
fault developed with the zip on one suitcase so she contacted the supplier. She says that it 
told her that she would need to send the suitcase to a third party for a repair and would need 
to pay a £15 fee which it would refund to her. That wasnt acceptable to Mrs B so she made 
a claim to American Express under section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974. 
It said that the supplier had offered a remedy which was fair and reasonable so it didnt have 
any liability under section 75 and it hadnt made an error. Mrs B wasnt satisfied with its 
response so complained to this service.
Our investigator didnt recommend that her complaint should be upheld. He was satisfied 
that the proposed resolution was suitable and that American Express didnt need to do 
anything further to resolve Mrs Bs complaint. 
Mrs Bs husband, on her behalf, has asked for this complaint to be considered by an 
ombudsman. He says, in summary, that:
Mrs B offered to return the suitcase to the store from which shed collected it;
its inconvenient to be expected to be at home for the suitcase to be collected;
Mrs B no longer has the box to return to the suitcase so will have the inconvenience 
of obtaining packaging to return it;
Mrs B offered the supplier the opportunity for it to arrange a collection and pay the 
fee but it refused, the fee is an interest free loan which isnt compliant with the 
Consumer Rights Act 2015 and the administration of reclaiming the money will be an 
inconvenience;
Mrs B exercised her right to reject the suitcase and sought a full refund of £164 but 
the supplier failed to refund the money so she made a section 75 claim; and
Mrs B has been extremely reasonable with the supplier but it has caused her several 
inconveniences.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the outcome recommended by our investigator for these 
reasons:
in certain circumstances, section 75 gives a consumer an equal right to claim against 
the supplier of goods or services or the provider of credit if theres been a breach of 
contract or misrepresentation by the supplier;
to be able to uphold Mrs Bs complaint about American Express, I must be satisfied 
that theres been a breach of contract or misrepresentation by the supplier of the 
suitcase and that American Express response to her claim under section 75 wasnt 
fair or reasonable  but Im not determining the outcome of Mrs Bs claim under 
section 75 as only a court would be able to do that;
Mrs B contacted the supplier about the fault with the suitcase and said that she was 
unable to return it to one of the suppliers stores - the supplier said that she could 
post the suitcase to an address that it provided for a repair or she could arrange a 
collection for a repair on a specified web-site and that it would cover any postage or 
collection costs that were incurred but it said that it was unable to send her any 
packaging so she should package it as best she could;
I consider that to have been a fair and reasonable response by the supplier to the 
issue with the suitcase and Im not persuaded that it would be fair or reasonable to 
expect it to have done any more than it had offered;
I consider that the suppliers offer to repair the suitcase was consistent with the 
requirements of the Consumer Rights Act and Im not persuaded that Mrs B was 
entitled to a refund in these circumstances;
I consider that American Express response to Mrs Bs section 75 was fair and 
reasonable and I dont consider that it has acted incorrectly;
I acknowledge that the fault with the suitcase and returning it for a repair will cause 
some inconvenience for Mrs B but Im not persuaded that the inconvenience is 
enough to justify an award of compensation; and 
I sympathise with Mrs B for the issues that shes had with the suitcase but I find that 
it wouldnt be fair or reasonable for me to require American Express to arrange or 
pay for it to be repaired, to refund to her the cost of the suitcase, to pay her any 
compensation or to take any other action in response to her complaint.
My final decision
My decision is that I dont uphold Mrs Bs complaint.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs B to accept or 
reject my decision before 22 December 2022.
 
Jarrod Hastings
Ombudsman