DRN-3679194
The complaint
Mr M is unhappy that Bank of Scotland (trading as Halifax) deducted funds from his account 
illegally and without authority.
What happened
On 17 February 2022, the Child Maintenance Service (CMS) sent Halifax a regular 
deduction order to collect child maintenance of £60 from Mr Ms account on the Monday of 
each week from 28 February 2022. 
Mr M filed an appeal against the deduction order and provided copies of the relevant 
documents to Halifax. He asked Halifax to stop deductions until the court determined the 
outcome of his appeal. 
CMS discharged the deduction order on 23 March 2022. But Halifax still made the first and 
only deduction of £60 from Mr Ms account on 4 April 2022. Mr M believes that Halifax didnt 
have any authority to make this deduction as it was taken after the deduction order was 
discharged. Mr M raised a complaint and asked Halifax to refund him.
Halifax explained they were legally bound to comply with the deduction order which they 
received from CMS. They said they couldnt refund Mr M or stop the deductions from his 
account until they receive a discharge order from CMS. Unhappy with this, Mr M referred his 
complaint to our service.
Our investigator didnt uphold Mr Ms complaint. He didnt think Halifax received any 
correspondence from Mr M or CMS about the deduction order being discharged until after 
the deduction on 4 April 2022 had been made. And since Halifax hadnt been told, he didnt 
think they were at fault for the £60 deduction from Mr Ms account. He suggested Mr M 
contacts CMS to request a refund. Mr M disagreed and asked for an ombudsman to 
consider his complaint.
In summary, Mr M said he didnt think Halifax had received a deduction order from CMS. He 
believes Halifax were acting on the documents he sent them when requesting they stop 
deductions pending his appeal. He says this explains why Halifax didnt make any 
deductions from 17 February to 4 April 2022. 
Mr M also says that he spoke to Halifax on 4 April 2022 and informed them that CMS had 
discharged the deduction order on 23 March 2022. He offered to send them a copy of the 
letter immediately, so he doesnt think the deduction shouldve been made from his account 
He says the funds hadnt debited his account before this call, and he was promised by the 
adviser that Halifax would pause any deductions from his account until hed provided them 
with a copy of the letter dated 23 March 2022 from CMS. 
He feels Halifax failed in their duty of care towards him by making the deduction after hed 
put them on notice that the deduction order was discharged. He doesnt feel that he should 
be asking CMS for a refund when Halifax have deducted his money illegally and wrongly 
without authorisation. He also said he couldnt be sure Halifax even remitted the funds to 
CMS.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive looked at the email from CMS, a copy of the deduction order and Halifaxs system notes. 
Having done so, Im satisfied Halifax received the deduction order of 17 February 2022. I 
hope Mr M is also reassured, as our service provided him with a copy of this letter.
While Mr M was appealing the deduction order, it doesnt mean Halifax had to agree to his 
request to place a hold on deductions from his account. The deduction order was made 
under Section 32A of the Child Support Act 1991. It set out instructions for how Halifax 
should set up and maintain the order. It clearly tells Halifax to keep taking regular deductions 
until CMS tells them otherwise. It also explains the consequences to Halifax for non-
compliance.
So, Im satisfied Halifax didnt treat Mr M unfairly by continuing to maintain the order, despite 
his request to place the deductions on hold  they were required to do so by law unless 
instructed otherwise by CMS.
Halifax deducted £60 from Mr Ms account on 4 April 2022  this was after the deduction 
order was discharged on 23 March 2022. However, I can only say Halifax did something 
wrong if, they failed to act on instructions they received from CMS to stop making 
deductions.
Our service contacted CMS to request evidence that they sent Halifax the letter of 23 March 
2022 to confirm the deduction order was discharged. Although a copy of the letter is 
available, CMS couldnt provide evidence to demonstrate that they sent it to Halifax. 
Halifax have told us they didnt receive this letter and provided a screenshot of their system 
notes. This doesnt show any correspondence received from, or sent to CMS between 17 
February and 8 April 2022. Based on this, and on balance, Im satisfied Halifax didnt receive 
the letter of 23 March 2022. 
It follows, Halifax didnt act incorrectly by continuing to maintain the deduction order at the 
time of making the deduction of 4 April 2022. Halifax received confirmation from CMS on      
8 April 2022 that the deduction order had been discharged. They rightly stopped any further 
deductions from Mr Ms account after this date.
Mr M has raised the point that Halifax didnt deduct any payments from his account from 28 
February 2022 until 4 April 2022. The deduction order explains Halifax must not take a 
deduction if there wasnt enough credit in the account to make the deduction (less than the 
total of £10) and their administration fee.
Ive looked at Mr Ms bank statements from 28 February to 4 April 2022. During this period 
(excluding the deduction of 4 April 2022), weekly deductions were due on 28 February,        
7 March, 14 March, 21 March and 28 March 2022. Im satisfied there wasnt enough balance 
in the account to make deductions except on 21 March and 28 March 2022. On 21 March and 28 March 2022, there were credits into the account which left enough 
available balance to make the deductions. Halifax have explained that they arent able to 
monitor accounts all day as credits can be applied at any time. They said that there wasnt 
enough money in the account when they attempted to make the deductions. For instance, 
when they tried to take money out on 21 March 2022 there was a negative balance. 
I dont think this is unreasonable and ultimately, Mr M wanted Halifax to stop any deductions 
whilst his appeal was ongoing, so I think this worked in his favour in any event.
I appreciate Mr M says he spoke to Halifax regarding his complaint on 4 April 2022 before 
the deduction of £60 was made. However, Halifaxs complaint notes show the call took place 
on 5 April 2022 and not on 4 April 2022. So, Im satisfied the call was after the deduction of 
£60 had already been made the previous day  meaning it was too late to stop the 
deduction.
Our service has provided Mr M with a summary of what was said by both parties during this 
call. Having listened to it, I dont agree the adviser promised Mr M that Halifax would pause 
deductions from his account until hed provided them with a copy of the letter dated 23 
March 2022. 
Instead, the adviser explained that Halifax can only cancel payments when they receive 
notification from CMS that the deduction order had been placed on hold or cancelled. The 
adviser mentioned again that CMS needs to contact them to confirm the deduction order had 
been withdrawn. 
CMS have confirmed the £60 Halifax deducted on 4 April 2022 has been paid to the 
receiving parent. Since CMS havent returned the funds to Halifax following the discharge of 
the deduction order, Halifax cant reasonably be expected to return the funds to Mr Ms 
account. 
I know Mr M feels very strongly about his complaint, but all things considered, I dont think 
Halifax have treated him unfairly. So, I wont be asking them to reimburse him. Mr M may 
wish to contact CMS directly for a refund. 
My final decision
For the reasons explained above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 9 March 2023.
 
Ash Weedon
Ombudsman