DRN-2353778
The complaint
Mrs B and Mr B complain that there was a one-hour queue for a member of staff to carry out 
a transaction in their local National Westminster Bank Plc branch in January 2020 and say it 
was understaffed. 
The details of this complaint are well-known to all the parties, so I will not repeat them again 
here. Instead, I will focus on giving the reasons for my decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the conclusions reached by the investigator for these reasons:
NatWest has explained that it has seen a change in customer behaviour which 
means that there is less need for customers to visit branches due to technological 
advances. As a result, it has reduced counter services in branches, introduced 
automated services and reduced its staffing levels.  
I note Mrs B and Mr B have chosen not to use internet banking or automated 
technology as they are entitled to decide not to do. But NatWest has ensured they 
can still see a person in branch. It is unfortunate if this may take a little longer than 
they are used to, but a personal interaction is still available.
NatWest has said it tries to serve customers as quickly and efficiently as possible 
and it was not its intention to cause Mrs B and Mr B any upset. It has apologised for 
the inconvenience caused.  
Mrs B and Mr B would like NatWest to confirm there will no further redundancies in 
the branch and that it will not be closed in the future. But these are commercial 
decisions for NatWest which I cannot interfere with. We also are not a regulator and 
cannot require NatWest to change its practices or procedures. We can also only 
consider what happened to Mrs B and Mr B on this occasion and not how NatWest 
treats wider groups of customers generally. 
Taking everything into account, although I recognise Mrs B and Mr Bs strength of 
feeling and frustration, I do not think NatWest has acted unfairly or done anything 
wrong. And I cannot require it to do anything more or differently. 
For these reasons I do not uphold this complaint. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint about National Westminster Bank Plc.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs B and Mr B to 
accept or reject my decision before 7 May 2021.
 
Stephen Cooper
Ombudsman