DRN-3677562
The complaint
Mr M is unhappy that a car supplied to him under a hire purchase agreement with RCI 
Financial Services Limited trading as Nissan Financial Services was of an unsatisfactory 
quality.
What happened
In November 2019, Mr M was supplied with a new car through a hire purchase agreement 
with RCI. He paid a deposit and the agreement was for £24,255 over 49 months; with 48 
monthly repayments of £324.98 and a final payment of £11,378.40. 
Shortly after being supplied with the car, Mr M discovered that the suspension was broken, 
and he was told that the car wasnt safe to drive. RCI say that Mr M was also told he was 
able to reject the car at this point. On 5 December 2019, Mr M was offered a replacement 
car by the manufacturer, which he accepted. And he was supplied with a courtesy car while 
he was waiting for this. Mr M went into dispute with the manufacturer over the replacement 
car, and he instructed a solicitor to deal with this for him.
Mr M cancelled his direct debit, and the agreement went into arrears. RCI were unable to 
contact Mr M about the arrears, and he didnt respond to their requests even after being 
offered a payment deferral because of the coronavirus (Covid-19) pandemic. The agreement 
was terminated and defaulted in October 2020. But Mr M repaid the arrears a few days 
afterwards, and RCI reinstated the agreement.
Mr M was advised in October 2020 that, due to the time thatd passed since the original 
offer, he was no longer able to reject the car. And, while the car had gone in for repair in 
December 2019, these repairs were delayed due to the parts shortage caused by the 
pandemic. And the repairs werent completed until December 2020. 
Mr M didnt collect the car and attempts to contact him about this werent successful. So, in 
May 2021, RCI gave the dealership permission to buy back the car. Which they did. The 
agreement was then cleared, and Mr M was paid the £342.98 difference between what the 
car had been sold for and what was outstanding on the agreement with RCI.
Mr M complained to RCI on 3 March 2022. RCI said that Mr M had been offered a 
replacement car, followed by a full refund, which hed declined. And, when the original car 
had been sold, the agreement had been settled, with the overpayments refunded to him. So, 
they didnt think they needed to do anything more.
Mr M wasnt happy with RCIs response and brought his complaint to us for investigation. He 
also asked for a full refund of the payments hed made to RCI.
Our investigator said it wasnt disputed the car Mr M was supplied with was faulty. But the 
situation had been complicated by Mr M dealing with the manufacturer, and also by his 
refusal to accept the original car back once itd been repaired. And, despite efforts to do so, 
an agreement to resolve matters couldnt be reached.
The investigator said it would be fair and reasonable, given the circumstances, for the 
deposit Mr M paid to be refunded to him, with interest, as it wouldve been if hed been able 
to reject the car. However, because Mr M had been offered a replacement car in December 
2019, which he refused; because the original car had been repaired and was available for Mr 
M to collect, which he also refused; and because Mr M had been supplied with a courtesy 
car for a considerable period of time; the investigator didnt think RCI should refund either 
the payments Mr M had made or any alternative transport costs he may have occurred. 
Finally, as it was Mr Ms choice to obtain legal representation, and not something necessary 
given the circumstances; the investigator didnt think that Mr Ms legal costs should be paid 
by RCI.
Mr M didnt agree with the investigator. He said that the replacement car wasnt available in 
December 2019, and he was told it wouldnt be available until 2021. And, while they gave 
him a courtesy car, it wasnt the one he was paying for.
RCI said theyd reviewed the evidence and there was no rejection, or buy back, of the 
vehicle offered at the time [December 2019]. [Mr M] had actually sold the vehicle to the 
dealership. This was initially a part-exchange and then the dealership simply purchased the 
vehicle from the customer when the new vehicle was cancelled. As such, they no longer 
agreed that rejection could be considered, and they didnt think that a refund of the deposit 
was appropriate because Mr M has already benefitted from the deposit amount in the 
settlement figure.
Because neither Mr M nor RCI agreed with the investigator, this matter has been passed to 
me to make a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive reached the same overall conclusions as the investigator, and for 
broadly the same reasons. If I havent commented on any specific point, its because I dont 
believe its affected what I think is the right outcome.
In considering this complaint Ive had regard to the relevant law and regulations; any 
regulators rules, guidance and standards, codes of practice, and (if appropriate) what I 
consider was good industry practice at the time. Mr M was supplied with a car under a hire 
purchase agreement. This is a regulated consumer credit agreement which means were 
able to investigate complaints about it. 
The Consumer Rights Act 2015 (CRA) says, amongst other things, that the car shouldve 
been of a satisfactory quality when supplied. And if it wasnt, as the supplier of goods, RCI 
are responsible. Whats satisfactory is determined by things such as what a reasonable 
person would consider satisfactory given the price, description, and other relevant 
circumstances. In a case like this, this would include things like the age and mileage at the 
time of sale, and the vehicles history and its durability. Durability means that the 
components of the car must last a reasonable amount of time.
The CRA also implies that goods must confirm to contract within the first six months. So, 
where a fault is identified within the first six months, its assumed the fault was present when 
the car was supplied, unless RCI can show otherwise. But, where a fault is identified after 
the first six months, the CRA implies that its for Mr M to show it was present when the car 
was supplied. So, if I thought the car was faulty when Mr M took possession of it, and this made the car not 
of a satisfactory quality, itd be fair and reasonable to ask RCI to put this right.
Its not disputed that the car supplied to Mr M was of an unsatisfactory quality. As such, my 
decision wont address the faults with the car, but instead concentrate on what is a fair and 
reasonable remedy.
There is still a dispute, but it relates to Mr Ms dealings with the manufacturer. The 
manufacturer say that Mr M asked for the replacement car to be delayed until March 2020, 
so he could benefit from the change in registration. And, after this had been agreed, he 
asked for the specification to be changed from diesel to petrol, which wasnt agreed. They 
also say that Mr M rejected the replacement car and, when he asked for a refund of what 
hed paid, they said this wasnt possible as the original car had by then gone in for repair.
However, Mr M doesnt agree with this version of events, and says he was always told that a 
replacement car wouldnt be available until 2021.
While Ive noted this dispute, I dont think its relevant to the complaint Im considering. Im 
saying this because, for whatever reason, its clear that Mr M wasnt supplied with a 
replacement car before the original car had gone in for repair. And, once this had happened, 
it was reasonable that the manufacturer refused to allow rejection at this point. Whats more, 
this was a dispute between Mr M and the manufacturer  RCI werent involved in this, and 
Ive seen no evidence that Mr M made them aware of what was happening, or asked them to 
allow him to reject the car. And I cant fairly hold RCI responsible for not taking action on a 
situation they were unaware of.
Mr M was provided with a courtesy car in 2020, covering the period between the fault 
occurring on the car, and the repair taking place. I appreciate that he was stuck abroad for 
part of 2020, due to the pandemic, and couldnt make use of the courtesy car. But this would 
also have been the case had the original car not had a fault  he would still have had a car 
he was paying for but not able to use due to circumstances outside of everyones control. 
So, I dont think its reasonable to ask RCI to refund any payments to Mr M.
However, Im also satisfied that, by Mr M asking for a replacement car in December 2019, 
and the manufacturer agreeing to this, he was exercising his short-term right to reject under 
the CRA. And, given the undisputed fault with the car, it was his right to do this.
Putting things right
While RCI have said that Mr M sold or part-exchanged the car with the dealership, this isnt 
the case  they agreed for the dealership to purchase the car after Mr M failed to collect it. 
And, had Mr M come to them in December 2019, instead of going to the manufacturer, the 
car wouldve been rejected, and the agreement unwound.
So, to put Mr M as far as possible back into the situation he wouldve been had the short-
term right to reject been actioned in December 2019, this agreement should be treated as 
being rejected and not settled in some other way.
For the reasons given above, Im satisfied that Mr M shouldnt be refunded with any payment 
hes made. However, Mr M made use of a hire car in early 2021, once the courtesy car had 
been returned. And he thinks RCI should cover the payments for this.The original car had been repaired and Mr M chose not to collect this. While I accept that 
this also goes to Mr Ms rejection of the car, the repaired car was available to him as an 
alternative to the courtesy car. And collecting it wouldnt have stopped him from pursuing his 
complaint against RCI. So, because Mr M chose not to collect the car and he put himself in a 
position where he was without transportation, I wont be asking RCI to refund these costs.
However, had the rejection been dealt with in December 2019, then Mr M wouldve received 
his deposit back. And, given the circumstances, Im satisfied hes still entitled to this. So, RCI 
should:
refund the deposit Mr M paid;
apply 8% simple yearly interest on the deposit refund, calculated from the date Mr M 
made the payment to the date of the refund ; and
remove any adverse information relating to this agreement from Mr Ms credit file. 
HM Revenue & Customs requires RCI to take off tax from this interest. RCI must give Mr M 
a certificate showing how much tax theyve taken off if he asks for one.
My final decision
For the reasons explained, I uphold Mr Ms complaint and RCI Financial Services Limited 
trading as Nissan Financial Services should follow my directions above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 10 November 2022.
 
Andrew Burford
Ombudsman