DRN-3674051
The complaint
Mr D complains that American Express Services Europe Limited wont refund him for 
payments made on his credit card to training provider.
What happened
Mr D paid three instalments, each being over £1500, to a training provider in 2020 using his 
American Express Services Europe Limited (Amex for short) card to pay for it.  The training 
provider (the Provider) were to provide E-learning and tutorial videos on digital marketing to 
Mr D. After using the service for some time Mr D says he realised it wasnt what he thought 
he was buying and sought to get out of the agreement with the Provider and get his money 
back. Unable to come to a suitable agreement with the Provider he took his issue to Amex.
Amex raised a Chargeback with the Provider, who responded by defending the transactions 
and pointing to communications between Mr D and it, which it says show that Mr D only 
raised the dispute because he was in debt, rather than anything being wrong with the service 
provided. Amex responded to Mr D that it could not establish that the required relationship 
was in place for it to consider a Section 75 claim under the Consumer Credit Act 1974. So it 
said it couldnt proceed with Mr Ds claim. And it didnt think it should carry on with the 
chargeback. So Amex concluded it didnt think it could help. 
Mr D didnt think this was fair, so he brought him complaint to our service. Our investigator 
looked into the matter. Overall, she didnt think Amex had acted unfairly by declining Mr Ds 
request for a refund. Mr D didnt agree. So the complaint has been passed to me to decide.
 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I should make very clear that this decision is not about the Provider, which isnt a financial 
services firm and so doesnt fall within my remit.  Whatever the issues there may be with 
Provider or the service it provided and just because Mr D feels hes lost money, it doesnt 
necessarily follow that Amex has treated Mr D unfairly. 
Amexs role in the matter is to be considered in two ways. Firstly under its obligations the 
Chargeback rules in place and secondly with regard to its consideration of Mr Ds S75 claim 
to it and whether it considered the claim appropriately. 
could Amex challenge the transaction through a chargeback? 
The Chargeback rules are under a voluntary scheme run by the card network and 
consumers do not have a right to a chargeback being raised. It is however the case that this 
Service considers raising a chargeback to be good practice where it has a reasonable 
prospect of success. I dont think Amex couldve challenged the payment on the basis Mr D 
didnt properly authorise the transaction, given that Mr D freely accepts he made these 
payments as theyre described.
Amex is required to consider whether there is a reasonable prospect of success when it is 
considering whether to go through the chargeback process or not. In Mr Ds case it 
considered this and did raise a chargeback on the basis of what Mr D described as the 
goods/services not being as described. In so doing it provided Mr D with a temporary credit 
whilst it dealt with the matter.
The Provider responded by saying that it had provided the service required and 
demonstrating that Mr D had logged into the service repeatedly. It also pointed to its no 
refund policy and a message from Mr D to it which it suggests shows that Mr D only disputed 
the transaction due to being in debt.
Amex considered this evidence from the Provider and decided not to pursue the Chargeback 
any further. Accordingly it then re-debited the transaction from Mr Ds account. Ive 
considered this and the evidence the Provider pointed to is significantly more persuasive 
than that put forward by Mr D. Mr D hasnt provided any persuasive evidence to support his 
claim he was guaranteed success in relation to his business if he went on the course. And 
the Provider has shown that Mr D used the service repeatedly. So Im not persuaded Amex 
treated Mr D unfairly by no longer pursuing the Chargeback.
What about Section 75?
The Consumer Credit Act 1974 (CCA for short) sets out the requirements for a successful 
section 75 claim to a creditor. This includes conditions regarding financial limits of the claim 
and that the required Debtor Creditor Supplier (DCS for short) relationship is in place. When 
considering a section 75 claim Amex has to satisfy itself that the financial limits and DCS 
conditions are met and then it needs to consider whether the Provider has breached the 
contract or misrepresented the contract. Here Amex has argued that DCS is not in place 
because of the presence of a Payment Facilitator within the transactions. And thus hasnt 
considered whether there is breach or misrepresentation of contract here.
I dont think I have to decide on financial limits or DCS because I dont think it makes a 
difference to my decision. This is because Im not persuaded the Provider has breached or 
misrepresented the contract. I say this because of the following reasons.
Mr D says the Provider guaranteed results from the training it provided. Mr D points to an 
email of an unrelated persons discussions with the Provider. However I dont consider this 
email persuasive, firstly because the email makes clear this assurance he points to was 
made after that person had been using the services for some time and wasnt an inducement 
or guarantee prior to purchase. Secondly even if the Provider did offer such a guarantee to 
this unrelated person it doesnt mean Mr D received such a guarantee. And I note Mr D 
hasnt provided any persuasive evidence of such a guarantee being made to him such as 
advertisements, contractual guarantees or similar. It is also the case that the assurance 
given is regarding the feeling the representative has regarding the service provided and 
doesnt articulate any measurable level of success to be guaranteed. Im also unclear how 
any such guarantee could be reasonably relied upon considering it in essence would mean 
that the Provider (a company in the USA) would be guaranteeing (and hence underwriting) 
that totally unrelated UK based people and companies would substantially increase 
purchases of what Mr D sells solely based on Mr D marketing (in line with the Providers 
suggestions as to how it markets) rather than purchasing from Mr D based on the quality, 
costs and benefits of what Mr D sells in itself. Ive seen no persuasive evidence of the 
Provider doing any analysis of what Mr D sells, rather it seems to solely provide training on 
how to market businesses. So Im not persuaded Amex has done anything wrong by not 
refunding Mr D on this basis.Mr D says he was never provided terms and conditions, however when Amex contacted the 
business the Provider said Mr D agreed to them during the process of entering into the 
contract. I can see the 2020 terms and conditions on the Providers website. And having 
considered these and what Mr D has said Im not persuaded Amex has treated Mr D unfairly 
by not refunding him as Im not persuaded there is any breach of contract or material 
misrepresentation here. 
Mr D says that since his purchase the Provider has changed its terms, and I take it from his 
inference that he thinks this change is at his expense rather than benefiting him. Yet hes not 
pointed to which terms have changed and how hes lost out. And Mr Ds comments about 
businesses not being able to change their terms arent persuasive. It depends on what was 
agreed, and I note the Providers terms here state currently We reserve the right to change 
or modify these Terms of Use at our sole discretion at any time which is a common contract 
term that parties agree to as it reflects the commercial offering Firms provide. So Im not 
persuade that any such change here makes a difference to Amexs position on this matter.
Mr D says hes awaiting a Court date to contend these matters with the Provider-presumably 
in the USA as that is the governing jurisdiction according to the terms Ive seen. Mr D 
doesnt have to accept this decision if he doesnt want to, but this final decision does bring to 
an end the involvement of this service in this dispute Mr D has with Amex.
Mr D says that he wasnt provided with the refund policy. But I note the Provider says Mr D 
agreed to its terms including refunds when he agreed to buy. And I note the Provider says 
that once its services were used it wouldnt provide a refund. Its clear Mr D did access the 
services that the Provider provided on a number of occasions. So Im not sure that this 
makes a difference because Mr D wouldnt have been entitled to a refund in any event, so 
Im not persuaded Amex has treated him unfairly in this regard. I should add that the refund 
policy now, allows (in certain circumstances and supported by evidence) that refunds may 
be payable within 30 days of purchase. But the evidence here shows that it was some time 
after that 30-day point Mr D became unhappy with the Provider. So Im not persuaded this 
makes a difference here either.
I should also reiterate what I said earlier, this decision considers the dispute between Mr D 
and Amex and is with regard to how Amex dealt with his dispute with the Provider with 
regard to Amexs responsibilities with regard to Chargeback and S75. This is not a decision 
with regard to what the Provider did or didnt do.
So although Ive not decided on whether the conditions of financial limits or DCS are 
satisfied here, I am satisfied on balance that Amex hasnt treated the consumer unfairly by 
not refunding these transactions. This is because Im not persuaded the Provider breached 
or misrepresented the contract for the reasons given above. And consequently it is my 
decision that a like claim under section 75 against Amex shouldnt be successful. And Im 
satisfied that Amex hasnt done anything wrong in not taking the chargeback here any 
further.
I appreciate that Mr D feels strongly that hes lost out here. But the simplicity of the matter is 
Mr D has provided very little persuasive evidence to support that his S75 claim should be 
successful or that Amex treated him unfairly in relation to his Chargeback. And Amex has 
rightly pointed to persuasive evidence from the Provider. So Im satisfied that Amex hasnt 
treated him unfairly by not refunding him. So his complaint here is unsuccessful.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I do not uphold the complaint against American Express 
Services Europe Limited.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision before 7 February 2023.
 
Rod Glyn-Thomas
Ombudsman