DRN-1692813
The complaint
Mr B complained because the Co-operative Bank Plc ("Co-op") sent him a bank card and a 
Personal Identification Number ("PIN") for the card, and he received them in the same post.
What happened
Mr B opened a new account at a Co-op branch. He later received a card for the account and 
the PIN in the same batch of post. He complained to Co-op about this because while they 
were in separate envelopes both envelopes had Co-op's name on them and the plastic card 
could be felt inside. He wasn't expecting the card - as he hadn't asked for one - and he said 
if the post had been lost or intercepted the card could have been used fraudulently.
Co-op looked into the matter. It told Mr B the branch should have told him that a card would 
automatically be sent; and it apologised that this wasn't explained. It also said the card and 
PIN would normally arrive at separate times, but it couldn't control the post. Co-op 
offered £35 compensation for the trouble caused.
Mr B didn't accept Co-op's response so he brought a complaint to us. He was concerned 
that the processes Co-op had in place were insecure. He also felt the £35 is offered was an 
arbitrary figure.
Our investigator didn't think the complaint should be upheld. In summary, she felt Co-op 
acted reasonably in sending Mr B the card and PIN. Mr B asked for an ombudsman to 
review his complaint as he'd identified weaknesses with Co-op's security and in the issuing 
of cards/PINs.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Many of Mr B's comments and concerns have been over Co-op's day-to-day processes and 
procedures. It's not my role to interfere with how a financial business chooses to conduct the 
day-to-day running of its business, or the processes and procedures it chooses to 
implement. My role is more to consider whether in adopting certain processes or procedures 
a business treated a customer unfairly, and if they now need to do anything in the individual 
circumstances of the complaint to put matters right. I will not therefore comment on what Co-
op should or shouldn't do in respect of it sending cards and PINs to its customers.
For me to uphold a complaint like this and make a business do something, two things need 
to be present:
1. the business needs to have treated the customer unfairly; and
2. the customer needs to have needlessly suffered as a result.
One without the other isn't enough. And in respect of the first point, I don't necessarily need 
to know why something happened which led to the customer being treated unfairly. Using this complaint as an example to illustrate the point, I don't need to know why Mr B received 
the card and PIN on the same day; I just need to know that he did receive them on the same 
day.
Whatever I might conclude on the first point, Mr B's complaint fails in my opinion on the 
second point. In essence, I'm not persuaded that Mr B suffered as a result of receiving the 
card and PIN in the same post to the extent that Co-op needs to do anything to put things 
right. The card and PIN arriving together didn't lead to Mr B suffering a financial loss. And I'm 
not persuaded that it led to him suffering any distress and inconvenience that warrants 
compensation. Mr B mentioned that the money in the account was from an Estate that he 
was the Executor of, and that it was stressful being an Executor, particularly if money went 
missing. But no money went missing. And as Mr B received both the card and the PIN he 
would have known that no money would/could have gone missing through them being 
intercepted. I accept things might have been different had the card and PIN been 
intercepted. But that didn't happen. And I can only decide a case base on what actually 
happened.
So, in summary, even if Co-op treated Mr B unfairly as a result of him receiving the card and 
PIN in the same post (for the avoidance of doubt, I've made no judgement on that), I 
conclude that didn't adversely affect him to the extent that any compensation is warranted. 
My final decision
I don't uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 14 May 2020.
Paul Daniel
Ombudsman