DRN-4439218
The complaint
Mr H is unhappy about the service he received from Santander UK Plc when trying to 
unblock his online accounts.
What happened
Mr H opened an Investment Hub with Santander in December 2022. In January 2023 he 
called the investment contact centre after being temporarily blocked from his online 
investment hub account. While on the call Mr H also tried to log into to his online banking but 
he entered incorrect information and his access was blocked from this as well. 
Mr H failed the security checks on the phone to Santander and they advised him to call back 
and try again or visit a Santander branch with his ID to regain access. So, Mr H decided to 
go to a Santander branch. 
While in the branch Mr H says his phone was taken away from him and new online 
credentials were ordered using his phone. He is unhappy he wasnt advised to do this when 
he was on the phone to Santander; or shown how to do this on his own phone while he was 
in branch. Mr H says it was inconvenient for him to go into branch, especially when he 
couldve done this himself at home. 
Santander say that the advisor had to terminate the call as Mr H had failed to pass security. 
They had given him the option to call back and speak to someone else, but he chose to go 
into a branch. Santander say that the Branch Director ordered new online banking 
credentials for Mr H to assist him, and they do not think they have not made any errors here.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I considered everything both parties have said, and Ive also listened to the calls Mr H had 
with Santander in relation to this complaint. Based on what Ive seen and heard I dont think 
Santander have done anything wrong and Ill explain why. 
Mr H was responsible for blocking both his investment hub and his online banking account. 
He was also not able to pass security on the phone. The Santander representative tried to 
access Mr Hs account by asking for numbers from his 5-digit security code, but he didnt 
give her the correct numbers. Then she tried to access his account using a manual security 
check which required Mr H to confirm a recent transaction on his account. But Mr H couldnt 
provide up to date, correct details. So, I think it was reasonable for the Santander 
representative to terminate the call to keep Mr Hs account safe.
Mr H says the representative shouldve told him he could order new online credentials 
instead of directing him to the branch. But as he had not passed security Santander were not 
able to deal with his instructions. And I dont think they have done anything wrong in 
directing him to a branch or advising him to call back again to try to pass the security 
questions before taking matter further. 
Ive thought about what Mr H has said about the Santander representative taking his phone 
and ordering new online banking credentials without showing him what he was doing. I 
agree the representative couldve provided Mr H with better customer service by showing 
him how to do this himself, but I dont think Mr H has suffered any loss as a result. And while 
I appreciate Mr H was unhappy that he had to go into a branch, I do not think visiting a 
branch to get his account unlocked required an unreasonable amount of inconvenience to 
Mr H. 
My final decision
Because of the reasons given above, I do not uphold Mr Hs complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 12 December 2023.
 
Sienna Mahboobani
Ombudsman