DRN-3067451
The complaint
Mr Y complains that Countrywide Assured Plc mis-sold him an income replacement plan as 
it led him to believe this was life insurance and was needed for him get a mortgage. 
What happened
In 2000, Mr Y took out a mortgage through a representative of Countrywide. This was for 
£60,000 with 50% on a repayment basis and 50% on an interest only basis. He also started 
a Lifetime Protection Plan which he believed was life insurance.
But Mr Y later found that his Lifetime Protection Plan was an income replacement plan, 
which he felt duplicated cover hed gone on to take out with his mortgage lender. Mr Y 
complained that the plan had been mis-sold to him. He said that its name was mis-leading. 
He asked for a refund of the premiums hed paid.
Countrywide said that its representative had recommended the Lifetime Protection Plan, a 
flexible whole-of-life policy, to provide Mr Y with income protection benefit of £845 a month 
after a deferred period of 13 weeks, and a premium protection benefit. The premiums and 
benefits were indexed annually in line with the Retail Price Index. It said that a discussion of 
the benefits and costs took place, and the benefits were tailored to Mr Ys requirements. 
Countrywide said that Mr Y was under no obligation to accept the recommendation and had 
the opportunity to change his mind when hed been provided with the policy documents. 
One of our investigators looked into the complaint and didnt think it should be upheld. He 
said he was unable to fairly say that Countrywide told Mr Y that taking out this policy was a 
condition of his mortgage. And the investigator said that the policy acceptance terms and 
illustration showed it to provide an income replacement to the age of 65. He didnt think this 
was an unreasonable recommendation for Mr Y as he would have received a monthly 
benefit if he was unable to work through sickness which was in line with his expenditure at 
that time. The investigator also said that there was an investment element to the plan and 
the documentation said that the surrender value may be less than the amount paid in. 
Mr Y didnt accept the investigators findings. He said it wasnt surprising that Countrywides 
records didnt show that it had told him his lender required him to take out this policy.  He 
said that the investigator hadnt addressed the mis-leading name of the plan, which he felt 
indicated it was life insurance. Mr Y felt that the adviser was aware that he wouldve been 
under pressure when moving home and not able to fully go through the paperwork, so this 
was used to conceal the mis-selling. 
He calculated the difference between the plans surrender value and the full amount hed 
paid in premiums and said he would be prepared to accept half of this to settle his complaint. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done this, I find Ive reached the same conclusion as the investigator, for much the 
same reasons. 
At the time of the advice about his mortgage arrangements, Countrywide recommended that 
Mr Y start this Lifetime Protection Plan, as well as a Home Purchase Plan, an endowment 
policy with a target amount of £30,000 for the interest-only part of his mortgage. Whilst I 
appreciate that Mr Y has told us that his complaint isnt about the Home Purchase Plan, I 
think this shows what factors that were taken into account in the advisers overall 
recommendation to him.
I say this because the Home Purchase Plan provided Mr Y with life and critical illness cover 
to protect his ability to repay his mortgage. Whereas the Lifetime Protection Plan provided a 
monthly income replacement benefit to age 65 which would pay out after a deferred period 
of 13 weeks. 
I can see from the digital copy of the fact find that the 13-week period was the time he would 
receive full pay from his employer if he was off of work due to illness. Mr Ys requirements 
were noted as: £60,000 of life cover, £102,000 of critical illness cover and £845 a month 
income replacement. So it seems that these requirements were met through the 
recommendation of the Home Purchase Plan and the Lifetime Protection Plan. Overall, I 
think this suggests that Mr Ys needs and requirements were taken into account.
 
Considering Mr Ys circumstances at the time of the advice, I think this was a reasonable 
recommendation for him as it would provide a monthly amount, increasing over time in line 
with the Retail Price Index, that he could use to replace his income in the event he was 
unable to work through illness or injury. Although I appreciate that he recalls being told that 
he had to take out the plan for his mortgage, I havent seen any documentation to show this 
was the case. And the conditions of his borrowing would have been set out in his mortgage 
offer. 
Ive considered the illustration of costs and the acceptance terms of the policy, and both of 
these show the death benefit level was £50, and the income replacement was £845 a month.
While I acknowledge Mr Y may feel that the plan name added to his belief that it was for life 
cover and I appreciate his point that moving home can been a stressful and busy time, and 
may have meant he didnt have the time or opportunity to fully consider the documentation 
for his Lifetime Protection Plan; I dont think this means that the plan was mis-sold to him 
when he was provided with sufficient information to let him know the details of the cover it 
gave. 
Taking everything into account, I dont consider that Mr Y was mis-sold this plan as I think it 
matched his requirements from the advice he received, and he was provided with sufficient 
information about the benefits it provided. 
My final decision
My decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr Y to accept or 
reject my decision before 19 November 2021.
 
Cathy Bovan
Ombudsman