DRN-3898486
The complaint
Mr R complains about the way in which Clydesdale Bank Plc, trading as Virgin Money, 
administered his credit card account. Hes also unhappy that his account defaulted.
What happened
The circumstances of this complaint are well known to both parties, so Ill only include a brief 
overview of the key events that have led to Mr Rs complaint:
Mr R opened a credit card account with Virgin in June 2019. His credit card fell into 
arrears and, in September 2020, Virgin discovered that he no longer lived at the 
address it thought he did. So, a temporary block was applied to his account. 
Shortly afterwards, in October, Mr R phoned Virgin but he failed to pass its security 
checks. From then on, Mr R continued to fail security checks each time he phoned 
Virgin. He was still able to make repayments towards his credit card as third-party 
payments but because the temporary block hadnt been lifted, Virgin wouldnt 
disclose any specific account details with him  such as his balance. 
Virgin asked Mr R to send it some documentation for identification purposes. As part 
of this, it asked for proof of his address. Mr R did send some documents, but Virgin 
didnt accept what hed sent. Specifically, it said it couldnt accept copies of its own 
letters  which, among other things, is what Mr R had sent. 
In October 2021, Mr Rs account defaulted because he hadnt made any payments 
for some time. Finally, in November 2021, Mr Rs account and associated debt was 
sold to a third party. 
Mr R contacted our service in November 2021. He was unhappy that Virgin hadnt accepted 
the documents hed sent and that it hadnt shown any flexibility to help him unblock his 
account.
 
An investigator here looked at what had happened. Overall, she thought Virgin couldve 
done more to assist Mr R. She said, in summary, that Virgin couldve been clearer  earlier  
about what Mr R would need to do to unblock his account. That being, send it specific 
documents to show his old and new addresses. So, she recommended it pay Mr R £100 in 
compensation to recognise that failing.
Generally, though, the investigator didnt think Virgin had been wrong to apply a temporary 
block to the account. Nor was it wrong not to remove the block, or disclose specific account 
details, given Mr R hadnt provided the requested documentation and couldnt pass its 
security checks.
 
Moreover, the investigator didnt think Virgin had acted unreasonably in defaulting Mr Rs 
account. She noted that Mr R had decided not to make any repayments because of the 
address issue. While she understood the position Mr R was in, she thought that Mr R still 
knew repayments could be made. And if hed continued to make them, his account likely 
wouldnt have defaulted.
 
Virgin accepted our investigators findings, but Mr R disagreed. He reiterated that he had no 
way of obtaining information about his balance and didnt know how much to pay. Mr R 
questioned whether he shouldve simply continued to blindly pay towards his debt, a 
situation he deemed absurd.
 
As no agreement has been reached, the complaint has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
At the outset, Ill say that I have empathy with Mr R for the position that he found himself in. 
Hes explained the impact this matter had on him and his family and Im truly sorry to hear 
about that. I can surely understand that this protracted situation wouldve been frustrating.
Having said that, I agree with the findings of our investigator. 
Thats to say I think Mr Rs complaint should be upheld  in part  because Im satisfied 
Virgin couldve done more to be clearer, much earlier, about changing his address. I dont, 
though, think that Virgin acted unreasonably when it applied a temporary block to Mr Rs 
account or when it ultimately defaulted the account.
 
Ill explain why.
Mr Rs address 
Under the terms of his agreement with Virgin, Mr R needed to let it know as soon as possible 
if he changed address. From what Ive seen, though, he didnt. As a result, when Virgin 
found out (around a year after hed moved) that Mr R no longer lived at the address it held 
on record; I dont think it was unreasonable for it to apply a temporary block to his account.
I say that because, while Im sure Mr R is aware of this, fraud and scams are very serious 
issues. The fact is that firms have a duty to protect their customers from the ever-increasing 
threat of such activity. And applying a temporary block to Mr Rs account, then requiring him 
to provide documentation for identification purposes, was one way of Virgin doing that. 
Here, though, because he hadnt told Virgin that hed moved, Mr R ended up in a position 
where he needed to provide proof of his old address  the address Virgin held for him  as 
well as giving it his new details, so his card could be unblocked and his contact information 
updated.
 
Mr R did provide some documentation to Virgin - he sent it copies of utility bills with his new 
address and a copy of a Virgin bill with his old address. But Virgin said that it doesnt accept 
copies of its own letters as proof of address. Rather, it needed something from a third party. 
And until it had that, it couldnt unblock his card nor change his contact details.
 
Ill say here that Virgin is entitled to determine its own processes and procedures. It isnt the 
role of our service to tell a business to alter those. So, although Mr R might not agree with 
Virgins stance, if Virgins position for such matters is that it wont accept copies of its own letters as proof of address then thats a decision its entitled to make.
 
Ive seen that Virgin did tell Mr R what it would and wouldnt accept in its final response 
letter. But having reviewed a copy of that letter, its quite possible that Mr R never received it 
because it was sent to the address Virgin held on file for him. Which, of course, he was no 
longer residing at. 
Even so, Ive also seen that Virgin explained what was required on some of the occasions 
that Mr R called. So, I think its reasonable to say that Mr R was aware he needed to provide 
some documentation  and that he couldve clarified exactly what was required if he was 
unsure. I havent seen, though, that Mr R did clarify anything with Virgin. Nor that he ever 
provided it with anything else  like a utility bill from a third party  which showed his old 
address.
 
Rather, after Virgin didnt accept what hed provided, Ive not seen anything to show that 
Mr R sent it any further documentation at all. Nor have I seen anything to show that he tried 
to obtain something else, but that he was prevented from doing so. So, while I certainly 
empathise with Mr R, it seems he didnt provide  or further attempt to provide  the correct 
documents. 
If he had and Virgin hadnt accepted them, or if I had conclusive evidence of his efforts to 
obtain third-party letters which Virgin hadnt then taken into account  then I may have found 
that it shouldve acted differently. But that isnt what happened. From the information I have, 
it seems that Mr R simply didnt send Virgin what it required or contact it to explain why he 
couldnt.
It follows that I cant reasonably conclude that Virgin did something wrong in not removing 
the block on Mr Rs account if he didnt provide it with the necessary documents, or at least 
show that hed made reasonable attempts to do so.
 
In conclusion, while I understand the immense frustration that he mustve felt at such a 
prolonged situation, I cant fairly determine that it came about  or wasnt ultimately resolved 
 because of something that Virgin did wrong.
 
That said, I agree with our investigator who determined that Virgin couldve offered more 
assistance upfront. Its provided recordings of some telephone calls and, having listened to 
them, I think Virgin had early opportunity in those calls to clarify exactly what Mr R needed to 
send it and why  as well as stressing the importance of doing so, and the consequences of 
not. To that end, I think the £100 compensation Virgin has now agreed to pay is enough to 
reflect that things couldve been better. 
Virgins decision to default Mr Rs account
Mr R has said that he stopped payments because Virgin failed to offer him a solution for the 
problems with his address. Hes questioned whether he shouldve simply continued to blindly 
pay towards his debt.
 
I appreciate Mr Rs point, its certainly fair to say this situation was unusual and far from 
ideal. But even so, he had previously been making repayments towards his account while it 
was temporarily blocked. If hed continued to do so, however troublesome that was, it likely 
wouldve avoided the position he eventually found himself in.
 
Essentially, Mr R knew he could make repayments  he simply chose not to do so. But Mr R 
had a responsibility to mitigate any losses or consequence that he might suffer. And I must 
keep in mind that by making repayments, even in the absence of all the information hed ideally have available to him, he always had the ability to lessen any potential 
consequences. And while I certainly accept that having to manually work things out in terms 
of what to pay wouldve been inconvenient, its surely better than not paying at all and 
eventually defaulting.
 
Virgin has a duty to accurately record the status of a credit card account, its obliged to do 
so. And Im satisfied thats what it did. So, with all of that in mind, given Mr R eventually took 
the decision not to make any repayments at all towards his debt, I dont think Virgin did 
something wrong when it began to record adverse information and ultimately defaulted his 
credit card account.
 
Overall
I know what Ive set out here will come as a considerable disappointment to Mr R and Ive no 
doubt that this whole situation was most difficult for him. Im very sorry to hear of the impact 
hes said the matter had on him and his family, and I do genuinely hope that things have 
since improved. 
Even so, for all the reasons Ive explained, I dont think Virgin wrongly applied a temporary 
block to Mr Rs account when it discovered hed changed address without telling it. Nor do I 
think it was wrong not to remove that block when he didnt provide the documentation it 
needed to satisfy its security processes. Additionally, I think Virgin reasonably decided to 
default Mr Rs account after he didnt make any payments towards his debt.
 
In all the circumstances, I uphold Mr Rs complaint in part. Virgin should pay Mr R £100 in 
compensation to reflect the inconvenience it caused in not assisting him sooner with the 
issue surrounding his address. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint in part. I now require Clydesdale Bank Plc, 
trading as Virgin Money, to arrange to pay Mr R £100 compensation.
 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision before 29 March 2023.
 
Simon Louth
Ombudsman