DRN-3130915
The complaint
Mr K has complained through his representative, who Ill refer to as Mr D, about the amount 
Soteria Insurance Limited has paid in settlement of his claim under his motor insurance 
policy following the theft of his vehicle.  
What happened
Mr Ks Range Rover Sport was stolen from his drive on 23 May 2020 and he put in a 
claim under the motor insurance policy hed taken out with Soteria, which started on 30 
May 2019. Soteria accepted the claim and offered to settle it by paying what it said was 
the market value of Mr Ks vehicle on the date it was stolen. It eventually said, with the 
optional extras on the vehicle, this was £45,960 and it paid this less the £500 policy 
excess as an interim payment. It also paid interest on this amount, as it accepted it could 
have handled some things more efficiently. Mr K bought a replacement vehicle about 
three weeks after the loss and used a significant amount from his savings towards this.
Mr K wasnt happy with the amount Soteria had paid and complained to it with the help of Mr 
D. Mr K argued the replacement cost of his vehicle was £60-65,000 and he sent adverts of 
10 similar vehicles for sale a few months after his vehicle had been stolen to support his 
view.
Soteria wouldnt increase its settlement and issued a final response letter rejecting Mr Ks 
complaint on this issue. Mr D asked us to consider Mr Ks complaint. He said that he 
didnt think Soteria had properly indemnified Mr K, as it had paid less than the correct 
replacement cost of his vehicle.
One of our investigators considered Mr Ks complaint. She spotted that Soteria had 
valued Mr Ks vehicle as a Range Rover Sport 5.0 V8 Autobiography Dynamic, when the 
policy details suggested it was a Range Rover Sport 5.0 V8 SVR. Mr K provided evidence 
from the dealership he bought the vehicle from to show it was an SVR. And our 
investigator suggested Soteria should re-value the vehicle and pay any additional amount 
due to Mr K.
Soteria wouldnt agree to a revised valuation on this basis. However, eventually the 
Police recovered the vehicle and it was clear it was an SVR. And Soteria then offered to 
pay a further amount using a revised valuation of £58,833, based on what the trade 
guides it uses showed and allowing for the optional extras. Our investigator thought this 
was a fair and
reasonable outcome and explained this to Mr D. But he doesnt agree and has asked for an 
ombudsmans decision. He still thinks the replacement cost of Mr Ks vehicle when Soteria 
settled his claim was higher than £58,833. And  I presume from what hes said  that he 
thinks the fact that similar vehicles were advertised as more than £58,833 shows the 
valuations given by the trade guides are too low. Ive also noted that Mr K has mentioned in 
an email that he thinks Soteria should also pay Mr Ds fee, which I presume he has charged 
or will be charging for representing Mr K.
I issued a provisional decision on 20 October 2021 and set out what Id provisionally decided 
and why as follows:
When Im considering a case where a consumer is disputing what an insurer has paid in 
settlement of a claim following the theft of a car, my starting point is always the policy 
terms. So Ive checked the terms of Mr Ks policy and they say that if the insured vehicle 
is lost Soteria will pay the market value. Market value is defined as The cost of replacing 
the car with another of the same make, specification, model, age, mileage and condition 
as the car immediately before the loss or damage happened. The car being the insured 
vehicle, ie Mr Ks Range Rover Sport SVR. The policy also says Soteria will not pay the 
excess shown in the policy schedule, which is £500.
This means I need to consider whether the amount of £58,833 on which Soteria has 
based its revised settlement offer was the correct replacement cost of Mr Ks vehicle at the 
time of the loss or damage. And I think the best way to check this is by looking at the trade 
guides used by car dealers and insurance companies to price cars for sale and to work out 
the replacement cost of insured vehicles. These guides use adverts across the market to 
work out what the likely selling prices of vehicles will be based on their make, model, 
specification, age, mileage and condition. The guides are not based on the actual selling 
prices, but the companies involved work out the likely selling price based on research. And 
I think they are very accurate indeed. I do also take into account adverts for vehicles 
similar to the insured vehicle from around the time of the loss or damage. This is because 
sometimes adverts can show the guide figures are slightly too high or slightly too low. This 
isnt usually the case, but its always a consideration.
In this case Ive checked two of the trade guides we use, as I think theyre the most 
appropriate ones so far as Mr Ks vehicle is concerned. They give the likely selling price of 
a vehicle the same specification as Mr Ks Range Rover SVR, with the same optional 
extras and mileage, as between £58,014 and £60,690. This allows for the fact that the 
optional extras will not add as much to the selling price as they cost to add to the vehicle 
when it was originally sold. Soterias revised valuation of £58,833 is in this range, so Im 
satisfied it is fair and reasonable.
Ive looked at the adverts Mr D has provided, but these dont persuade me that the guide 
valuations are wrong. They are not for like for like vehicles in terms of the age and 
mileage. And they also seem to be from around three months after Mr Ks vehicle was 
stolen. And due to the market its possible the price of similar vehicles went up in this 
period. In addition, as Ive already mentioned, the optional extras Mr K added to his 
vehicle do not have anywhere near the same impact to the re-sale value of the vehicle as 
they did originally.
This all means I am satisfied Soteria should pay Mr K a further £13,373, ie £58,833 less the
£45,460 its already paid.
Ive also considered the fact that Mr K was not paid enough originally because Soteria 
valued the wrong make and model. This was due to the registration number being used 
to
provide the guide prices. And the fact that the vehicle was incorrectly registered with 
DVLA, as Mr K hadnt notified DVLA that the V5 was wrong. However, I still think it should 
have been clear to Soteria from the policy documentation that there was a discrepancy. 
After all, it picked up Mr K hadnt declared the optional extras and checked this, but failed 
to notice the issue with the make and model. And I think if Soteria had done this, Mr K 
would have got the dealer to confirm the correct make and model. And I think this should 
have been enough to convince Soteria Mr Ks vehicle was an SVR.But, because Soteria didnt query the make and model, its settlement was wrong and this 
only came to light when our investigator got involved. This means Mr K was without funds 
he should have had, so I think as part of the fair and reasonable outcome to this 
complaint, Soteria should pay interest at 8% per annum simple on the extra amount due to 
Mr K from the date it made the interim payment on his claim to the date it actually pays 
this extra amount. This interest rate is the one we normally use to compensate consumers 
who have been without funds due to an error by a business. I appreciate Soteria paid 
interest on the amount it offered in its final response in August 2020 from the date Mr K 
made his claim
.
But I think it was always going to be difficult and take some time for Soteria to establish 
the correct model of Mr Ks vehicle, as he hadnt changed the V5 to reflect this. So I think 
interest on the extra amount due from the date Soteria made the interim payment of 
£45,460 is fair and reasonable.
Ive also considered whether Soteria should have to pay Mr Ds fee and I dont think it 
should. Mr K chose to use Mr D because he wasnt happy with the way Soteria had 
handled his claim and it was Mr D who referred the complaint to us on his behalf. 
However, we are a free service and Im satisfied if Mr K had dealt with Soteria and 
referred the complaint to us himself he would have ended up with the same outcome. So, 
I dont think it is appropriate for me to make Soteria pay Mr Ds fee.
I gave both parties until 3 November to come back with further comments and evidence. 
Mr K has come back to say Soteria has now revlaued his vehicle at £60,548 and he thinks 
he should get interest on the difference between this and its valuation of £45,460. Hes 
also said he thinks Soteria should pay Mr Ds fee. He thinks without Mr Ds help and 
professional guidance he wouldnt have got as far as he has. And if Soteria had made a 
sensible pay-out there wouldnt have been any need for him to involve Mr D as an expert 
and he wouldnbt have got Soterias improved offer on his own. 
Soteria has responded to say it doesnt think it should have to pay interest on the 
difference between its valuation of £45,460 and its revised valuation. Its said that its 
egineer wouldn;t have checked the make and model of vehicle on Mr Ks policy 
documentation. And was entilted to value it on the basis of what was on the V5C and an 
HPI check. The HPI check would have returned what was on the V5C. It said the reason 
the V5 was wrong was that Mr K hadnt changed it with DVLA and they could only vlaue 
the vehicle on the information they had, as they couldnt inspect it prior to it being 
recovered. And  in view of all this  it doesnt think it is appropriate for me to make it pay 
interest. 
Its also come to light that Soteria has considred further representations from Mr D as a 
new complaint and revised its valuation of Mr Ks vehicle to £60,548.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive noted what Mr K has said about Mr D. But  as I explained in my provisional decision, I 
am satisfied hed have got a fair and reasonable outcome to his complaint with us without Mr 
Ds involvement. I cant comment on whether this would have been the case with Soteria, 
but Mr D was able to bring his complaint to us. So  even if Soteria had not increased its 
valuation, hed still have ended up with the right amount, as I would always have required 
Soteria to base its settlement on the correct market value. In view of this, I still dont think its appropriate for me to make Soteria pay Mr Ds fee. I appreciate Soteria has now increased 
its valuation further, but this doesnt alter my view that £58,833 was an appropriate valuation 
for the reasons I gave in my provisional decision. 
Ive also noted what Soteria has said, but I still think it should pay interest on the difference 
between its valuation of  £45,460 and its final valuation. I appreciate its engineer wouldnt 
have checked the policy documentation, but I think this should have happened as part of the 
claims process. And  if it had  I think Soteria would have queried the make and model of 
Mr Ks vehicle and then  subject to him providing an explanation and evidence from the 
dealership he bought the car from  it should have worked out the market value based on 
the vehicle being an SVR and paid this amount less the excess. It didnt check and this 
meant Mr K has been without funds he should have had since the time Soteria made the 
interim payment. It therefore follows that I think it is fair and reasonable for Soteria to pay 
interest on the difference between its earlier valuation of £45,460 and its final valuation of 
£60,548 from the date it made its interim payment to Mr K. The reason I require Soteria to 
pay interest on the difference between £45,460 and £60,548 is that Soterias revised 
valuation means it is now clear Mr K has been deprived of more than I thought would be the 
case when I issued my provisional decision.
It also follows that I will require Soteria to pay the difference between £45,460 and its final 
valuation of £60,548, ie £15,088 if it has not done so already.
Putting things right
It remains my view that the fair and reasonable outcome to this complaint is for Soteria to 
pay Mr K the difference between its interim payment of £45,460 and its revised offer of 
£60,548, ie £15,088, if it has not done so already, plus interest at 8% per annum simple on 
this amount from the date it made its interim payment.  
My final decision
 My final decision is that I uphold Mr Ks complaint and require Soteria to do the following:
Pay Mr K a further £15,088 in settlement of his claim, if it hasnt done so already. 
Pay interest on this amount at 8% per annum simple from the date it made its interim 
payment to the date it makes the payment.1  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr K to accept or 
reject my decision before 01 December 2021.
 
Robert Short
Ombudsman
1 Soteria Insurance Limited must tell Mr K if it has made a deduction for income tax. 
And, if it has, how much its taken off. It must also provide a tax deduction certificate for 
Mr K if asked to do so. This will allow Mr K to reclaim the tax from  Her Majestys 
Revenue & Customs (HMRC) if appropriate.