DRN-2422075
The complaint
Mr B took out an original mortgage with Nationwide Building Society (Nationwide) in 2004 
and he complains he was mis-sold a mortgage payment protection insurance (PPI) policy in 
2006, with a further advance application. 
What happened
I can see Mr Bs complaint journey has been a difficult one and hes had to persist in getting 
the right information from Nationwide. I can understand how frustrating this will have been 
and I thank him for all his patience.
Nevertheless, one of our adjudicators has now assessed this case and told Mr B its unlikely 
to be upheld. Hes already been offered back some money, for elements of the commission 
Nationwide got from selling him the policy.
But Mr B isnt happy with this. He still thinks the policy was wholly mis-sold and hes asked 
for his mis-sale complaint to be passed for an ombudsmans final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding this case. Having done this, Ive decided not to 
uphold the mis-sale complaint. 
Id like to place on record that I certainly dont doubt Mr Bs recollections about this are 
anything other than genuine ones, which he considers to be accurate. But Im afraid I do 
find his points of complaint somewhat contradictory. And I also think theres solid evidence 
from the time, pointing against what he is saying about what happened during the sale.
Hes implied, for example, that he either didnt have knowledge of the PPI even existing on 
his mortgage account, or that he never agreed to it. And to part-demonstrate this Mr B says 
he would have had just cause to make a successful claim on the PPI policy in 2012 but that 
he didnt do so. He implies this shows that it was something he never asked for and / or 
wasnt aware of it. 
His second main point of complaint is that PPI was something he simply didnt need. He 
says his job-related benefits were such that he would never have wanted or needed the 
type of protection the PPI policy offered.
Ive looked at all aspects of the case with great care in order to cover all the issues Mr B 
raises.
However, Ive seen quite a bit of evidence, both from Mr B himself and from Nationwide 
which shows this PPI cover was a free offer at the time. Mr B was given free PPI cover 
protecting him in the event of losing his job or becoming too ill to work. In the event of a 
successful claim, the PPI would have paid out around £550 per month. In common with 
some other policies Ive seen like this, theres also evidence Mr B was fully aware of this 
because he was written to at the end of the free 3 month offer period telling him hed have 
to start paying.
So, I think Mr B was aware of the existence of the PPI and there is documentary evidence 
from July 2006 supporting this. Ive also seen a number of his mortgage annual statements 
and insurance schedules all showing the PPI being featured on his mortgage account over 
the years that followed. I therefore find the evidence that Mr B agreed to this cover, and that 
he was continuing to pay for it in the subsequent years, both comprehensive and 
compelling.
Ill move on to his second main point now; this is about him not needing the cover. 
However, the major part of his submission on this relates to his financial situation after the 
PPI sale, and for obvious reasons, this isnt relevant to what happened at the point of sale.
This was also a non-advised sale, so the decision about whether or not to have PPI was 
for Mr B himself to make. Obviously, I cant say after such a long time that Mr B was told 
everything he ought to have been told. But as Ive said, he did know about the policy, he 
was told about the free period, and he knew the costs involved because theres good 
documentary evidence to show this. He also met the basic eligibility criteria and wasnt 
caught by any of the major exclusions we tend to see in these policies.
In fact, the disclosures Ive seen in this case do also look quite comprehensive (although 
due the age of the sale there are some documents no longer available). I therefore think its 
reasonable for me to say Mr B would have had an original policy schedule and information 
showing who was covered, what for, and how much he stood to get if he made a claim.
I cant say why Mr B took out the cover, but Nationwides responsibility was not to ensure it 
was suitable for his individual circumstances  it was only to give him enough information 
for him to decide this for himself. 
I do think Mr B had that information. 
I accept the points Mr B makes about his financial stability and the job-related benefits he 
enjoyed at the time, and I also see how it might have been possible for Nationwide to have 
done a better job at explaining things. But I think the mortgage was a substantial and long-
term financial commitment for Mr B. The evidence Ive seen shows - quite strongly in my 
view - that he wanted the cover and was comfortable with it in the years after the sale. Im 
afraid I cant say why he failed to make a claim on the policy in 2012 when he says he 
would have potentially qualified for a pay-out. 
Im very sorry to have to disappoint Mr B and Id like to thank him for the effort hes put into 
bringing his complaint.
My final decision
I dont uphold Mr Bs complaint. 
I dont direct Nationwide Building Society to do anything more. My understanding is that it 
has already paid Mr B the monies in respect of some of the commission I mentioned at the 
beginning. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or reject my decision before 4 February 2021.
 
Michael Campbell
Ombudsman