DRN-2835601
The complaint
Ms D complained about the way Abbey Insurance Brokers Ltd (trading as AbbeyAutoline) 
treated her when she tried to renew her car insurance.
What happened
Ms D said shed been a long term and loyal customer. When she came to renew her car 
insurance cover, she didnt think anything significant had changed from the previous year. 
However once Abbey had completed asking her their questions, a change was identified. 
This was in relation to the occupation given for Ms D. There was some discussion around 
this. It led to a change in the quote available for Ms D to renew her car insurance. Ms D 
wasnt happy and declined the quote, saying she would go elsewhere and hung up on the 
phone call. 
Ms D complained to Abbey. She went on to complain to this service. In summary Ms D is 
unhappy because:
Shed left a company shed been loyal to over many years
She thinks an occupation is different to a job
She thinks the roles referred to involve different amounts of driving and so the role 
she initially provided in the renewal conversation ought to have reduced the premium
Ms D thinks the representative was rude to her. She also said shed been harangued about 
whether she received state benefits and the nature of them. She didnt think things had been 
done properly and said this had caused her a lot of distress.
Abbey dont accept the complaint. They have provided various things to this service 
including a recording of the phone calls from the autumn of 2020 with their representative 
and information on Ms Ds previous cover details.
An investigator at this service didnt uphold Ms Ds complaint. They didnt think Abbey had 
done anything wrong and they didnt accept the representative had been rude to Ms D.
Ms D doesnt agree and she has gone on to tell us she doesnt think a call centre worker has 
statutory authority to ask her questions about her financial affairs.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I agree with the investigator. I dont think Abbey did anything wrong here. I 
think Ms D was treated fairly and in-line with our expectations about what needs to take 
place at renewal and where a broker is being used.
Ive listened to the two calls that took place around the renewal with care. I think the Abbey 
representative asked questions they were obliged to ask and did so pleasantly and 
professionally. Id characterize the tone of the first conversation when the questions are 
asked as friendly.
There are duties upon those entering a contract of insurance in relation to the information 
they provide and a duty upon a consumer to take reasonable care around this and 
misrepresentation. Although here Abbey were acting in the role of obtaining quotes for 
renewal, rather than insurer, the information requested was the usual that is required in this 
way. If an offer of cover by way of a quote had been accepted, it would have been based on 
the information provided. As was explained in the call, if there came to be a claim, the call 
providing the material personal information could form part of the picture of any 
considerations. For example around misrepresentation. 
Ms D agreed she understood this in the call and referred to the previous year when shed 
discovered her car was still registered at her parents, which she appeared to say might not 
have been accurate, as she refers to having accepted the increased cost of her own address 
being used.
During the call Ms D provides the description of her occupation when asked by Abbey. 
Abbey then let her know this was a change from the previous year. Ms D told Abbey this 
previous description was something she hadnt done for a number of years. Once Abbey told 
Ms D they needed to see if the change would impact the quote, Ms D explained she didnt 
consider the answer she gave to be an occupation and said its more of a hobby.
Abbey then asked Ms D to let them know what she said her occupation was and Ms D 
suggested it might best be described as unemployed. The representative asked whether that 
meant she received any state benefit and Ms D provided the name of the one she receives. 
This was a short exchange and cant be described accurately as Ms D being harangued in 
any way. When Abbey repeated they would need to check if the change in occupation would 
mean a change in the price for the annual quote, Ms D asked whether she needed to have 
an occupation. Abbey explained this detail was whats called a material fact for the insurer 
involved. Ms D also suggested she could be accurately described as being of independent 
means.
In summary the Abbey representative again explained the original renewal quote couldnt be 
used, shed need to check what renewal quote was available and if the update had changed 
the price. I accept this was accurate information, the representative went on to do what shed 
said shed do (which was in-line with what wed expect to see) and I think Ms D was 
provided with the information professionally and pleasantly.
Ms D was disappointed that when the representative called her back, the cheapest quote 
available was more expensive than what shed paid before. It appears price was a important 
factor in her insurance cover, which isnt unusual. This doesnt mean Abbey did anything 
wrong. 
During the call Ms D accepted she understood information needed to be accurate and 
updated. Ive seen this is something that was also set out in the information she received in 
the previous year in relation to her cover. I consider this to be a usual.
When a car insurance quote is being sought information is required to enable an insurer to 
decide, based on the information whether they wish to offer to provide cover (i.e. take on the 
risk of providing cover) and what the cost will be if they are willing to provide this. The 
insurance cover forms a contract between the consumer and the insurer, and the information 
provided at the start, will have been material to the offer and formation of the contract. I consider questions about an applicants occupation to be one of the usual questions asked 
in these circumstances. There was no pressure or prompting applied to Ms D, she chose 
which answers provide. Ms D has told us she thinks an occupation is different to a job. I 
dont think thats an issue I need to address here as Ms D was asked her occupation and 
she gave the answers she provided. 
Im sorry Ms D was unhappy with the quote she received, however such decisions around 
the price and calculations applied to different roles arent a matter for me here. It remained 
Ms Ds decision as to whether she accepted a quote provided, or chose to look elsewhere as 
she did here.
Ms D suggested the representative was reluctant to provide her name. Thats not right. The 
representative gave it at the start of the call, albeit the quality isnt very good, but when she 
is asked for it later in the call, she provides it immediately. As Ive explained it is also 
incorrect to suggest the representative was rude in any way, and there is nothing to suggest 
Ms D was harangued at any time. The representative was polite, respectful and provided 
accurate information throughout the call. She explained why the initial quote no longer 
applied and what she would do next. I havent heard anything in the call to suggest the 
representative failed to do anything wed expect of her in such calls.
For completeness Ive seen Ms D has gone on to ask us to provide further information and 
directed us to make enquiries with the regulator and referred to other professional bodies. 
She also sent us some guidance shed found on US insurance practices, which she believes 
are internationally applicable. It is a matter for me to consider what is required to reach my 
decision and to assess relevance. I hope Ms D will be assisted by what Ive set out in my 
decision. I am satisfied I have enough to reach my decision. If Ms D has wider concerns 
about the practices of brokers and insurers, she may wish to contact the various bodies she 
has referred to. My role was to consider her complaint on its individual merits.
My final decision
So for the reasons given I dont uphold Ms Ds complaint about Abbey Insurance Brokers Ltd 
(trading as AbbeyAutoline). Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im 
required to ask Ms D to accept or reject my decision before 14 July 2021.
 
Louise Wilson
Ombudsman