DRN-1079704
The complaint 
Mr and Mrs Rs complaint is about National Westminster Bank Plc (NatWest). They say 
that they had an agreement in principle with Nat West for a mortgage at 75% loan to value 
ratio (LTV). Mr and Mrs R paid for a valuation to support their application, but werent 
happy with the valuation placed on the property as they felt it was too low. As theyve now 
bought the property through another lender, they want NatWest to refund the valuation fee 
and the early redemption charge.
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties so I wont repeat them again 
here. Instead Ill focus on giving my reasons for my decision. 
My findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Having done so, I agree with the 
conclusions reached by the investigator for these reasons:
Lenders arent professional valuers of properties. Theyre entitled to rely on 
professional advice received about the value of a property. The valuation in this case 
was obtained for the use of the lender only in order to value the property for 
mortgage purposes; it wasn't produced to be relied upon by Mr and Mrs R. The 
valuation paid for by Mr and Mrs R was carried out, so the work was done  it isnt 
fair or reasonable for the fee to be refunded.
But its good practice to allow valuations to be appealed. Lenders can have a formal 
process for this to ensure all customers are treated equally, and NatWest does have 
such a process. Its fair and reasonable to have a process and NatWests only allows 
appeals in specific circumstances, such as when theres a factual error.
Mr and Mrs Rs appeal didnt meet the appeal criteria. As the valuer had set out why 
he didnt agree with the valuation they wanted, I cant say that it was unfair or 
unreasonable for NatWest to allow an appeal outside of its procedure or to rely on 
the professional advice it received. I appreciate that later another lender got a 
valuation which matched the value Mr and Mrs R wanted, but that doesnt mean 
NatWest was at fault  it had a reasoned valuation from an independent professional 
and applied its appeal procedure fairly and reasonably; a later valuation obtained by 
another lender doesnt change the position facing NatWest at the time it made its 
decision.
Mr and Mrs R complain that they paid an early repayment charge as NatWest 
wouldnt lend the amount they wanted. But the charge was clearly set out in the 
mortgage offer they accepted, and it was made clear that any later applications had 
to meet NatWests lending policies  Mr and Mrs Rs new property didnt fulfil the 
lending policies due to the valuation carried out by an independent professional. It 
was Mr and Mrs Rs choice to go to another lender. I cant say that NatWest acted 
unfairly or unreasonably in claiming the early repayment charge in all the 
circumstances.
 
For these reasons, I do not uphold this complaint. My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint about National Westminster Bank Plc. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr and Mrs R to 
accept or reject my decision before 21 July 2020.
Claire Sharp
Ombudsman