DRN-3770791
The complaint
Mrs R has complained about how Acasta European Insurance Company Limited (Acasta 
Europe) handled a claim she made against her furniture warranty.
What happened
Mrs R purchased a sofa in November 2018, and at the same time took out a five-year 
warranty which provided cover for defects to the structure of the sofa.
In January 2022, the structure of Mrs Rs sofa failed so she made a claim against her 
warranty with Acasta Europe. 
On 11 February 2022, Acasta Europe sent an engineer to Mrs Rs property to inspect the 
sofa. He confirmed that the seating area had collapsed inwards due to a damaged foam 
interior that was completely worn through. The engineer said that new parts were required to 
repair the sofa, including a full new seat foam interior and elastic webbing. 
On 16 February 2022, Acasta Europe wrote to Mrs R to confirm that her claim had been 
accepted, and the best option to resolve the claim would be to order replacement parts and 
carry out a repair. Mrs R was informed that she would be updated with information regarding 
lead times once the availability of the parts had been established.
On 24 February 2022, Acasta Europe asked the supplier to send the parts and provide an 
expected dispatch date.
On 1 March 2022, Acasta Europe wrote to Mrs R to say the manufacturer had confirmed the 
parts required to resolve the service have an estimated dispatch date of approximately 8-10 
weeks. Mrs R was asked to contact them once the parts had arrived so they could arrange 
for a technician to attend and fit the parts to the sofa.
On 27 April 2022, the supplier was chased by Acasta Europe to confirm that the order had 
been dispatched. They were told it hadnt been dispatched but should be dispatched the 
following week. 
The order was chased again on 6 May 2022, and Acasta Europe were told the order had left 
on Friday so should be with them on 17 May 2022. It was recorded as being delivered on 
18 May 2022, to Acasta Europe, however, the parts werent received.
On 7 June 2022, Acasta Europe followed up with the supplier of the parts to request 
photographic evidence to show that the parts had been delivered. As it turned out, the parts 
were sent to a wrong address and were thrown away by the occupier of that property.
On 30 June 2022, Mrs R contacted Acasta Europe to say that the damage was worsening 
and the wood was starting to protrude through the cushions and cover. She said it needed 
repairing or replacing imminently.
On 1 July 2022, Acasta Europe informed Mrs R that new parts had to be ordered, with a 12-
 week lead time. They said theyd investigate whether an interim repair could be carried out 
so that the sofa would be usable until the parts arrived.
On 5 July 2022, Acasta Europe informed Mrs R that the new parts had been ordered and 
had a 2-4-week lead time.
On 26 July 2022, Acasta Europe asked the supplier to advise whether the parts had been 
sent. Mrs R contacted Acasta Europe to say that she wasnt happy that the claim had gone 
on for six months and she said they werent able to sit on the couch as wood was now 
protruding from the sofa.
On 29 July 2022, Acasta Europe emailed Mrs R to say the manufacturer had confirmed the 
parts would be dispatched in the next 2-4 weeks.
In August 2022, Mrs R brought her complaint to our service. She also contacted Acasta 
Europe to say the repair avenue was obviously not the quickest avenue for resolving her 
claim, and she would like the money to purchase a new sofa as her current sofa wasnt fit for 
purpose and was in an unusable state.
On 7 September 2022, Acasta Europe emailed Mrs R to say that the parts should be 
dispatched in the next two weeks.
On 13 September 2022, Acasta Europe issued its final response letter to say that it wouldnt 
be fair for the insurer to provide compensation for delays that were out of its control and 
caused by the manufacturer. It also said that while the complaint was being upheld in part, 
Mrs R still needed to wait for the parts to arrive, and if the repair wasnt successful because 
the damage had become worse as a result of the delays, then an alternative settlement 
would be offered in-line with the terms and conditions of the extended warranty. Acasta 
Europe offered Mrs R £75 as an apology for the upset shed been caused by the delays.
After looking into Mrs Rs complaint, our investigator issued her view upholding the 
complaint on 14 October 2022. In summary, she said while the policy terms provide if a 
repair can be made, it must be considered prior to a replacement being considered, given 
the time thats passed, with no progress being made with the proposed repair, it was fair for 
B to replace Mrs Rs sofa. 
Acasta Europe didnt accept our investigators view. It said that new furniture would take 
longer to arrive, for Mrs R, than the parts, so if a replacement were to be offered, Mrs R 
would be left with the damaged furniture for longer. It also offered a further £25 
compensation to Mrs R for the delays and inconvenience shed suffered. 
Acasta Europe later told our investigator that the manufacturer had explained the delays in 
providing the parts for the repair were due to a worldwide shortage of foam. And when the 
foam had recently arrived, it had been rejected as it was unsuitable. The manufacturer 
wasnt able to provide an update as to when new parts might be available, so Acasta Europe 
proposed to give Mrs R a credit note for £2,972.14.
Our investigator put this proposal to Mrs R, however, as the credit note was for the original 
retailer from where the furniture was purchased, she declined the offer, on the basis that the 
furniture sold there was obviously not of a good standard. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.The claim has been accepted by Acasta Europe, so the outstanding issue to be decided is 
how the claim ought to be fairly and reasonably settled, given Mrs Rs circumstances.
I appreciate that some of the delays Mrs R has suffered, have been due to third party actions 
and events outside of Acasta Europes control, such as the shortage of foam. However, the 
claim was first reported in February 2022 and the replacement part wasnt delivered until 
18 May 2022, and then, to the wrong address. It took approximately six weeks for the part to 
be re-ordered on 1 July 2022, and now, in January 2023, the part still hasnt been sourced. 
Given the period of time Mrs R has been without a sofa, I dont think Acasta Europes offer of 
£100 goes far enough to compensate her for that inconvenience. So, Im awarding Mrs R an 
addition £100 compensation for the distress and inconvenience shes suffered as a result of 
the way Acasta Europe have handled her claim.
Ive next considered Acasta Europes proposals to settle Mrs Rs claim.
Paragraph 6 of the policy terms and conditions sets out how a claim will be settled by Acasta 
Europe. It says:
HOW WE WILL SETTLE CLAIMS: Valid claims will be settled by cleaning, repairing 
or replacing the damaged product. If a repair can be made, it must be considered 
prior to a replacement being considered. Neither the value of repairs or replacement 
shall exceed the maximum liability.
Later in the paragraph, with regard to issuing a credit note, it says:
Where we are not able to clean, repair or replace the damaged product satisfactorily 
we will issue a credit note for use at the same retailer from which you originally 
purchased the product. If the retailer has ceased to trade or has moved, we will issue 
a credit note for use at a similar retailer of our choice that is local to you. The value of 
the credit note will be the amount you paid for the product less any previous claim 
costs, subject to the maximum liability.
We may choose to provide an offer of cash settlement instead of a credit note, this 
will be lower than the value of the credit note and takes into account any discounts 
we may have received by issuing a credit note. The damaged product will remain 
your property in its current condition.
As Acasta Europe havent said its not possible to replace the damaged product, I agree with 
our investigator, that to settle Mrs Rs claim, it should replace the damaged sofa. 
However, if Mrs R would prefer to accept the credit note offered by Acasta Europe, she can 
contact it directly to see whether the offer is still available.
I note that Mrs Rs objection to accepting the credit note was on the basis that it would be 
issued for use at the same retailer who sold the sofa to her. However, it may be helpful if I 
explain to Mrs R that the terms and conditions state that the credit note will be for the same 
retailer, and I think is fair in the circumstances. If Mrs R would prefer a cash settlement, so 
she can purchase a different sofa from a different retailer, then she can request that from 
Acasta Europe, instead of the replacement sofa. However, as detailed in the terms and 
conditions, the cash offer is likely to be for a reduced amount as it takes account of any 
discounts Acasta Europe may have received on issuing a credit note. 
Putting things right
For the reasons given, I uphold this complaint and require Acasta European Insurance Company Limited to:
provide Mrs R with a replacement sofa in settlement of her claim. Given the time that 
Mrs R has been without a sofa, due to delays in arranging a repair, I would expect 
Acasta European Insurance Company Limited to arrange the provision of the 
replacement sofa without any further delay; and 
pay Mrs R £200 compensation for the inconvenience shes been caused by the way 
its handled her claim. If Acasta Europe has paid Mrs R any part of the £100 
previously offered then it may deduct that amount from the £200 compensation 
awarded here.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint and require Acasta European Insurance 
Company Limited to pay the awards detailed in the section above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs R to accept or 
reject my decision before 23 February 2023.
 
Carolyn Harwood
Ombudsman