DRN-4004774
The complaint
Mrs B has complained about the delay and poor service she received from Admiral 
Insurance (Gibraltar) Limited when she made acclaim under her home and buildings 
insurance policy. 
Mr B is a shared policyholder and is the lead complainant, so for ease Ill refer to Mr B in my 
decision. 
All reference to Admiral in my decision includes its agents acting on Admirals behalf. 
What happened
In March 2022 Mrs B reported a leak in their kitchen to their insurer, Admiral. After identifying 
the leak and getting it repaired, Mrs B made a claim in April 2022. 
In October 2022 Mr and Mrs B complained to Admiral as the claim hadnt been progressed 
in six months. They had long wait times in calls to Admiral and its agents. They were living in 
their home which was damp and dusty. Part of the living room carpet had been removed 
because of water damage and there were hot exposed pipes in the living room. 
Mr and Mrs B had instructed a Loss Adjuster (LA). Admirals LA said Mr and Mrs Bs LA was 
responsible for delays. But they had shown that they had been chasing Admirals LA for 
updates without success. 
Mr and Mrs B raised further complaints about the timeframe given by a new LA appointed by 
Admiral for the works to be done. They were unhappy with ongoing wait times during calls 
and the lack of progress with the claim. 
Admiral upheld the complaints. It said its appointed LA had experienced technology issues 
for two months which meant it hadnt dealt with emails. It therefore accepted it had caused 
delays and acknowledged the poor service Mr and Mrs B received during calls to Admiral. It 
appointed a new LA.
Admiral paid Mr and Mrs B a total compensation sum of £420. This was £45 for calls Mr and 
Mrs B had made and £375 for the distress and inconvenience caused.  
In December 2022 Mr B brought their complaint to us. He said the compensation Admiral 
had paid didnt reflect the impact of the delay and the distress caused. 
Our Investigator asked Admiral to consider her initial thoughts that the compensation should 
be increased to £600. Admiral asked the Investigator to issue a view before it could consider 
this. 
On full review the Investigator issued a view recommending Admiral increase the 
compensation it paid to £800, so an increase of £380. She thought this was a fair sum to 
reflect the length of time for the delay and the impact on Mr and Mrs B by having no 
progress on their claim for over six months. 
Admiral didnt agree and offered to increase the compensation sum to £600 in line with the 
Investigators preliminary view. It said this was within the range of the examples we give on 
our website for compensation. 
The Investigator put Admirals offer to Mr B which he rejected. So the case has been passed 
to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Theres no dispute that Admiral and its agents caused significant delays and provided a very 
poor service to Mr and Mrs B in the handling of their claim. Its clear that despite regular 
chasing by Mr and Mrs B, no meaningful work was done to have their home dried and 
repaired between April and October 2022. Having to deal with a claim , particularly a water 
damage or fire damage claim, can mean significant upheaval and disruption, even when a 
claim is dealt with promptly. I think the failure to act by Admiral and its agents for such a 
significant period of time - in addition to the upset and disruption of the damage to their 
home - was unreasonable. 
Mr and Mrs B explained that their living room had hot exposed pipes during this period, and 
half of the living room carpet was removed as water damaged in March 2022. 
When they raised their complaint, they explained that their daughter has asthma, the home 
was damp due to the length of time that had passed without being dried out, and because 
the living room carpet had been removed in part, there was more dust in the home. These 
conditions were not ideal and I can understand their frustration and worry.  
Admiral disagrees with the recommended compensation award of £800 and has quoted from 
our website for awards up to £750. However, where we award compensation over £750, Im 
satisfied that in this case Mr and Mrs Bs circumstances fit. I think the impact of Admirals 
delay and poor service has caused substantial distress, upset and worry  with considerable 
disruption to daily life over a period of six months. I understand drying equipment was 
necessary, kitchen units require replacing and Mr and Mrs Bs daughter was moved to 
alternative accommodation due to the conditions in the home, which they had all been living 
with for a considerable period of time. 
So I think Admiral should increase the compensation it paid to £800 in line with the 
Investigators recommendations. I think this is fair. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint. I require Admiral Insurance (Gibraltar) 
Limited to pay Mrs B a further £380, bringing the total compensation sum to £800, for the 
distress and inconvenience caused. 
Admiral Insurance (Gibraltar) Limited must pay the compensation within 28 days of the date 
on which we tell it Mrs B accepts my final decision. If it pays later than this it must also pay 
interest on the compensation from the date of my final decision to the date of payment at a 
simple rate of 8% a year.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs B to accept or 
reject my decision before 2 May 2023.
 
Geraldine Newbold
Ombudsman