DRN-1706047
 
The complaint
Ms S says she was mis-sold a store card payment protection insurance (PPI) policy in 1996. 
AXA France IARDs (AXA) taken responsibility for the sale for the purposes of this complaint.
What happened
The adjudicator recommended the complaint be upheld. They found that Ms S wasnt 
working 16 hours or more a week when she was sold the policy and so wasnt eligible for the 
cover under the policy terms. The adjudicator essentially asked AXA to return her to the 
position shed be in had she not taken the PPI.
AXA didnt accept the adjudicators findings, so the case was passed to me to review afresh. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Weve set out our general approach to 
complaints about the sale of PPI on our website. And Ive taken this into account in deciding 
Ms S case. 
Having done so, Im upholding the complaint. Ill explain why.
According to the policy terms Ms S, among other things, had to be in paid employment for at 
least 16 hours a week to be eligible for the cover. In her submissions to us, Ms S says she 
was working 14 hours a week when she took the policy out  she couldnt recall exactly 
when that was, but she believed it to be around January 1997.
AXA says it needs clarification of Ms S job role and employer before it can assess whether 
she was eligible for the PPI. Given the details shes provided us already, however, Im 
satisfied she wasnt eligible for it.
And although Ms S couldnt recall exactly when the PPI was sold, shes told us shed been in 
her role since around mid-1995. And that her only subsequent role was in a similar 
occupation but working even fewer hours than before.
Overall, I see no reason to doubt what Ms S has said about her work situation or that she 
wasnt working enough hours to be eligible for the cover. So, I believe AXA mis-sold the 
policy to Ms S and that it should put things right for her.
Putting things right
AXA should put Ms S in the financial position shed be in now if she hadnt taken out PPI.
A. AXA should find out how much Ms S would have owed when she closed her store card 
account if the policy hadnt been added.So, it should remove the PPI premiums added, as well as any interest charged on those 
premiums. It should also remove any charges that were caused by the mis-sale of the PPI  
as well as any interest added to those charges. 
AXA should then refund the difference between what Ms S owed when she closed her 
account and what she would have owed if she hadnt had PPI.
If Ms S made a successful claim under the PPI policy, AXA can take off what she got for the 
claim from the amount it owes her. 
B. AXA should add simple interest on the difference between what Ms S would have owed 
when she closed her account from when she closed it until she gets the refund. The interest 
rate should be 8% a year.
C. If  when AXA works out what Ms S would have owed each month without PPI  Ms S 
paid more than enough to clear her balance, AXA should also pay simple interest on the 
extra Ms S paid. And it should carry on paying interest until the point when Ms S would have 
owed AXA something on her store card. The interest rate should be 8% a year.
D. AXA should tell Ms S what its done to work out A, B and C.
 HM Revenue & Customs requires AXA to take off tax from this interest. AXA must give 
Ms S a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if she asks for one.
My final decision
For the reasons given, Im upholding the complaint. I require AXA France IARD to put things 
right for Ms S as explained above.  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms S to accept or 
reject my decision before 21 May 2020.
Nimish Patel
Ombudsman