DRN-3719346
The complaint
Mr and Mrs R are unhappy with how HSBC UK Bank Plc, trading as first direct (first direct) 
handled their request to port their mortgage.
What happened
Mr and Mrs R held a fixed rate repayment mortgage with first direct, which they were tied 
into until September 2023. 
Mr and Mrs R approached first direct in September 2021 to arrange porting their mortgage in 
order to purchase a new home. Mr and Mrs R informed first direct they had found a property 
in October 2021 and a valuation report was instructed in November 2021.
Mr and Mrs R were told, later the same month, that the property had not been deemed 
suitable and so first direct was unable to port their mortgage to this property. Mr and Mrs R 
complained about the decision and were informed that it was because the property was 
uninhabitable.
Mr and Mrs R ultimately decided to take a new mortgage elsewhere and complained to 
first direct that the while some work was required, there was no reason for it to say the 
property unsuitable. They said their new lender did not have an issue with it and so they felt 
the early repayment charge of £6,944 should be waived. 
Mr and Mrs Rs concerns were looked into, but first direct said it had to rely on the opinion of 
the surveyor and Mr and Mrs R were aware they would need to pay an early repayment 
charge if they chose to end their fixed rate mortgage early. 
Our investigator looked into Mr and Mrs Rs concerns, but they didnt think first direct had 
done anything wrong. As Mr and Mrs R disagreed, the complaint was passed to me to 
decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I dont think Mr and Mrs Rs complaint should be upheld, and Ill explain 
why.
The mortgage offer Mr and Mrs R signed clearly sets out that an early repayment charge 
would be payable if the mortgage was redeemed early. It also said first direct would consider 
transferring the mortgage to a new property subject to its normal assessment criteria  this 
would include getting a valuation of the property. 
A surveyor that was registered with The Royal Institution of Chartered Surveyors was asked 
to value the property Mr and Mrs R wanted to port their mortgage to. Ive seen the report the 
surveyor produced, and it says the property was not suitable for mortgage purposes 
because it was inhabitable. 
Mr and Mrs R say that the property could be lived in, but they were choosing not to while 
they refurbished the property. While this may be the case, each lender has its own criteria 
when deciding whether to offer a mortgage or not. And as first direct are not specialists, they 
relied on the recommendations from the registered surveyor, which they are entitled to do. 
I understand Mr and Mrs R say their new lender didnt have an issue with the report 
completed by the surveyor and they thought this was particularly relevant because it was 
conducted by the same surveyor. But I dont think what theyve said changes anything. I say 
this because the surveyor would have been assessing the property in line with first directs 
own lending criteria and in this case the surveyor deemed the property unsuitable for first 
direct to offer a mortgage on. 
Mr and Mrs R say first direct should have been upfront about having a stricter lending 
criteria. Ive thought about what theyve said, but lending criteria is commercially sensitive 
information, so first direct is not obliged to share it. And first direct wouldnt be party to other 
lenders criteria in order to offer a comparison.  
If Mr and Mrs R wanted to avoid paying an early repayment charge they also had choices 
available to them. They could have chosen to remain in their existing home until the fixed 
rate ended around two years later. Or, they could have looked for a different property. They 
decided not to do so and that was their choice, just as it is the lenders choice whether to 
offer a mortgage or not.
Considering everything, I dont think first direct did anything wrong. Mr and Mrs R were 
aware they would have to pay an early repayment charge if they didnt port their mortgage. 
Its up to each lender to decide when its prepared to lend to a consumer or not and 
ultimately, Mr and Mrs R decided to proceed with the purchase through alternative means. 
So, I havent seen any reason first direct should refund the charge.
My final decision
For the reasons explained above, I do not uphold Mr and Mrs Rs complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr and Mrs R to 
accept or reject my decision before 8 November 2022.
 
Hanna Johnson
Ombudsman