DRN-2512047
The complaint
Mr B has complained to Zopa Bank Limited about the repeated failure of his attempts to 
repay his outstanding loan with them.
What happened
In May 2020, Mr B tried to make a payment of £1,000 to a loan he had with Zopa using their 
online service. But his attempt resulted in the entire balance of £5,100 being repaid. This 
meant that his bank account would be overdrawn as there wasnt enough to cover this 
amount.
 
Mr B emailed Zopa to explain his problem and received an automated response. He also 
decided to apply online for a new loan from Zopa in case the problem wasnt resolved 
quickly. He then contacted his main bank to explain what had happened. The bank arranged 
for the payment to be reversed and put the money back into his current account.
Mr B later called Zopa, as they hadnt replied to his email. Zopa agreed to cancel his new 
loan application and confirmed that his existing loan repayments would resume as normal.
In June 2020, Mr B saw that his monthly loan repayment hadnt be claimed by direct debit as 
normal. He checked with Zopa online. This showed that his loan had been repaid and 
closed, even though hed received the money back. So, he called Zopa again and they said 
that his loan had been repaid in full.
 
Mr B spoke to a manager who apologised and explained that there was a system problem. 
He said that the loan had been closed in Zopas system which meant that repayments 
couldnt be made by direct debit. He suggested setting up a new standing order. He gave Mr 
B the account details and a reference to quote. He also said that hed email Mr B each 
month to confirm receipt of each payment and the remaining balance.
Mr B set up the standing order from a different bank account to avoid possible future 
confusion. The first payment was sent to Zopa on 27 June 2020. But this was returned and 
sent to his main bank account on 1 July 2020. So, Mr B emailed Zopa again but he didnt 
receive a response.
After several attempts to contact Zopa, Mr B spoke to a manager on 16 July who apologised 
and said that the payment was automatically returned because his loan had been closed. Mr 
B felt that compensation was appropriate, so he raised a formal complaint.
Zopa emailed their response to Mr Bs complaint on 21 July 2020 with an apology and 
offered £100 as a gesture of goodwill. Mr B accepted the compensation offered.
Mr B sent another payment of £289.95 to Zopa. He also decided to approach another bank 
for a loan to repay the balance owed to Zopa. This loan was agreed, so he contacted Zopa 
for a settlement figure. But Zopa didnt know about the repayment hed just made and gave 
him a figure of £5,105.77. After some discussion, Zopa agreed a final settlement figure of 
£4,815.82. Mr B sent a payment to repay the loan as agreed.
 
On 29 July, Mr Bs payment of £289.95 was returned to his bank account. On 30 July 2020, 
the payment of £4,815.82 was returned to his bank account. So, Mr B spoke to Zopa again 
to complain. Zopa said that they had given him the wrong reference. So, they gave him a 
new one. They apologised for their mistake and offered a settlement figure of £4,815.82 
effectively waiving one months payment as further compensation.
 
Mr B was unhappy with Zopas offer and decided to bring his complaint to this service. One 
of our investigators has looked into his complaint. She didnt think that Zopa need to 
anything more here. So, Mr B has asked for his case to be referred to an ombudsman for a 
final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr Bs problems stem from his original attempt to make a one-off large repayment to his loan 
with Zopa in May 2020. It isnt clear what happened and why, but I do think that Zopa 
couldve handled the situation better.
Mr B experienced problems when trying to contact Zopa. It is fortunate that his main bank 
could claim back the payment of £5,100. This meant that Mr B didnt suffer financially as a 
result of the problem he experienced.
Zopa agreed to cancel the new loan application that Mr B had made with them. They also 
confirmed that they would make sure that this wasnt recorded on his credit file. I think this is 
the right response to ensure that Mr B wasnt adversely impacted. They told him that his 
repayments would then continue as normal. It seems that Zopa got this wrong because the 
direct debit for his next loan repayment didnt go through.
When Mr B contacted Zopa, it appears that they werent very helpful at first. But a manager 
did apologise and address the problem. They said that the loan record at Zopa had been 
closed so suggested setting up a standing order. I can see how this should have provided a 
solution. They also offered to pay Mr B £100 as a gesture of goodwill  which he accepted. 
In the circumstances, this was the fair and right thing to do, assuming that there were no 
further problems.
Zopas solution relied upon them emailing Mr B each month to confirm receipt of his 
repayment and the remaining balance. But it also meant that Mr B could no longer see his 
loan online.
 
Unfortunately, Zopas suggested solution didnt work and further payments were returned 
causing more distress and inconvenience to Mr B. Despite attempts by him to resolve these 
problems with Zopa, they continued to make mistakes including giving him an incorrect 
reference number to quote.
 
Zopa have accepted that they made these mistakes and have apologised to Mr B again. 
Theyve also agreed a reduced settlement figure for the loan of £4,815.22. This means that 
theyve waived one months repayment  a total of £289.95. They had also offered £100 for 
the distress and inconvenience caused. Overall, I believe that this is a fair offer in the 
circumstances.
Mr B has said that that he works in a very stressful environment and that the whole 
experience has added to that stress. He believes that the compensation offered is inadequate and does not reflect this. He thinks that Zopa should write off the amount that he 
owes.
 
Mr B has had the benefit of the money owed to Zopa so, it is important that it is repaid in line 
with any agreement with them. The circumstances of Mr Bs complaint wouldnt lead me to 
instructing Zopa to write off the debt owed as this wouldnt be proportionate or fair.
I think that the mistakes made by Zopa were clear and avoidable. So, I agree that 
compensation should be paid here. Although I realise that Mr B will be disappointed, I think 
the amount offered is fair given the circumstances and reflects the distress and 
inconvenience that Zopa have caused. My decision can only be based upon that. So, I wont 
be recommending that Zopa pay any more.
My final decision
Zopa Bank Limited has already offered to waive one months repayment of £289.95 to Mr 
Bs loan and I think this is fair in the circumstances here. So, my decision is that Zopa Bank 
Limited should waive that repayment.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 1 April 2021.
 
Dave Morgan
Ombudsman