DRN-3613096
The complaint
Mr G and Ms M complain because Inter Partner Assistance SA (IPA) hasnt paid a claim 
under their travel insurance policy. 
All references to IPA include the agents it has appointed to handle claims on its behalf. 
What happened
Mr G and Ms M held an annual travel insurance policy, provided by IPA. The policy renewed
on 6 April 2020, through an independent broker which Ill call C.
In August 2020, Mr G and Ms M travelled abroad on a trip which had been booked in
January 2020. While Mr G and Ms M were away, the UKs Foreign, Commonwealth &
Development Office (FCDO) announced that their destination country would be removed
from the list of countries which were exempt from advice against all but essential travel
(commonly referred to as the travel corridors list). This meant that travellers returning from
Mr G and Ms Ms destination would need to self-isolate for two weeks.
Mr G and Ms M would have been unable to quarantine on their return to the UK and,
therefore, cut their trip short. They made a claim under their policy with IPA for their
associated costs.
IPA initially said Mr G and Ms Ms claim wasnt covered under their policy because the
government at their destination wasnt advising people to return to their home country. IPA
subsequently said the FCDO wasnt advising travellers to return to the UK, and that having
to quarantine wasnt an insured reason which was covered under Mr G and Ms Ms policy.
IPA later said that the cancellation section of its Enhanced Cover for Covid-19 didnt cover
Mr G and Ms Ms claim.
Unhappy, Mr G and Ms M brought the matter to the attention of our service. In addition to
IPAs decision to decline the claim, theyve also complained about how IPA handled their 
claim and their complaint.
One of our investigators looked into what had happened and issued several opinions saying
he didnt think IPA had acted unfairly in the circumstances. Mr G and Ms M didnt agree with
our investigators opinions, so their complaint was referred to me.
During our investigators correspondence with IPA, IPA offered to pay Mr G and Ms M £50
compensation in recognition of the fact that some of their correspondence hadnt been
responded to. However, upon further review of the timeline involved, IPA has since
withdrawn this offer.
I made my provisional decision about Mr G and Ms Ms complaint earlier this month. In it, I 
said:
The broker through which this policy was renewed, C, is an independent business which is
separate and distinct from IPA and which is regulated by the Financial Conduct Authority in
its own right. IPA isnt responsible for Cs actions, and vice versa.
The Financial Ombudsman Service can only consider a complaint about one financial
business under each complaint reference number. This complaint is about IPA so, when
making my provisional decision, Im only considering the regulated activities which IPA is
responsible for. This is the decision to decline Mr G and Ms Ms claim, and the handling of
Mr G and Ms Ms claim and complaint.
I cant comment here on the information which Mr G was given on the phone by C, or on any
failure by C to provide Mr G and Ms M with full details of the Enhanced Cover for Covid-19.
IPA isnt responsible for these issues. If Mr G and Ms M wish to pursue a complaint about
Cs actions, then theyll need to complain directly to C in the first instance before bringing a
new complaint to our service under a separate complaint reference number if they wish.
Ive read and considered everything which Mr G and Ms M have said about IPAs actions in
this case, but I dont intend to respond to every complaint point raised  nor am I obliged to.
Instead, I intend to address what I think are the key issues.
Rules set out by the regulator (the Financial Conduct Authority) say that insurers must
handle claims promptly and fairly and shouldnt unreasonably reject a claim. The rules also
say that an insurer must provide reasonable guidance to help a policyholder make a claim
and provide appropriate information on its progress. Ive taken these rules into account when
making my provisional decision about Mr G and Ms Ms complaint.
I understand that Mr G and Ms M found themselves in an unexpected situation and that it
wasnt a choice of personal preference to return from their holiday early. Instead, Mr G and
Ms M say their circumstances  including their sons medical condition which is covered
under their policy  meant theyd have been unable to self-isolate on their return home.
However, it doesnt automatically follow that their claim must be covered under their policy.
No insurance policy covers every situation and an insurer is entitled to decide what level of
risk it is prepared to accept in return for the premium paid for a policy. The terms and
conditions of Mr G and Ms Ms contract with IPA outline IPAs obligations to them.
The standard cover provided under Mr G and Ms Ms policy says that IPA will pay for
certain costs if a holiday is cut short due to one of the following reasons;
1. The death, bodily injury, illness, disease, or complications of pregnancy of:
a) you
b) any person who you are travelling or have arranged to travel with
c) any person who you have arranged to stay with
d) your close relative
e) your close business associate.
2. You or any person who you are travelling or have arranged to travel with, are a
member of the Armed Forces, Territorial Army, Police, Fire, Nursing or Ambulance
Services or employees of a Government Department and have your/their authorised
leave cancelled or are called up for operational reasons, provided that the curtailment
could not reasonably have been expected at the time when you purchased this
insurance or at the time of booking any trip or one-way trip.
3. The Police or other authorities requesting you to stay at or return to your home due
to serious damage to your home caused by fire, aircraft, explosion, storm, flood,
subsidence, fallen trees, collision by road vehicles, malicious people or theft.These terms differ slightly from the cover quoted by both IPA in its final response letter and
by our investigator, but Ive referred to the cover set out in the policy terms and conditions
referenced V1-02/19. This version of the terms and conditions post-dates those quoted by
IPA and by our investigator and the reference matches the Insurance Product Information
document provided to Mr G and Ms M so Im satisfied that the above terms and conditions
are the ones which apply to their claim.
Mr G and Ms Ms trip wasnt cut short for any of these reasons. I understand their son has a
medical condition, insured under their policy with IPA, which meant self-isolation would have
been extremely difficult  if not impossible. But Mr G and Ms Ms sons illness wasnt the
reason why their trip was cut short. So, this means I dont think their claim is covered under
the standard curtailment cover provided by IPA.
IPA also provided Enhanced Cover for Covid-19 at the time Mr G and Ms M cut short their
trip, for any trips booked before 17 March 2020. The terms and conditions of Mr G and Ms
Ms contract dont refer to this cover. Instead, the details of the Enhanced Cover for Covid-
19 were set out on Cs website. This said, in relation to curtailment:
A: Your policy will cover you, subject to the normal terms, when it is necessary to
curtail (cut short) your trip because:
1. The Ministry of Foreign Affairs or local authorities impose restrictions during your
trip and you are asked to return home due to COVID-19 or another Infectious disease
or pandemic Illness.
2. You have been denied boarding at your UK departure airport due to detected
symptoms of COVID-19 or another Infectious disease.
3. A close relative becomes ill with COVID-19 or another Infectious disease while you
are travelling.
Ive carefully considered whether I think section A.1 quoted above applies to Mr G and Ms
Ms claim, but I dont think it does.
When Mr G and Ms M cut short their trip, the FCDO advice was as follows;
At this time, we are not advising those already here  to leave - so you do not need
to cut your trip short. However, if you wish to avoid quarantine measures, you will
need to return to the UK before 0400 hrs (UK time) on Saturday 15 August.
I dont think the policy cover under section A.1 is ambiguous or unclear. Cover is provided if
a policyholder is advised to return to the UK. The FCDO wasnt advising travellers to leave
Mr G and Ms Ms destination and the guidance issued specifically said that travellers did not
need to cut their trip short.
I dont dispute that the guidance also said that travellers who wished to avoid quarantine
should return to the UK  and that Mr G and Ms M needed to avoid quarantine - but this isnt
the same thing as being asked or directed to return home by the FCDO.
Ive considered the spirit and intention of the Enhanced Cover for Covid-19 wording, which I
think is intended to apply to situations where the FCDO has specifically advised travellers to
leave their destination country. Ive also taken into account that, when this policy renewed,
travel corridor lists hadnt yet been announced. Travel corridors didnt come into effect until
July 2020 and, based on my experience of dealing with complaints of this type, Im not
aware of any travel insurance policy on the market at the time Mr G and Ms M cut short their
trip which would have provided cover because a policyholder couldnt quarantine on their
return to the UK.This means I dont think that Mr G and Ms Ms claim is covered under the terms and
conditions of their Enhanced Cover for Covid-19 with IPA, and I dont think there are any
reasonable grounds upon which I could fairly ask IPA to accept their claim regardless.
Ive thought about what Mr G and Ms M have said about IPAs handling of their claim and
their complaint. When making a decision about claims handling, wed usually consider the
insurers actions overall  we dont generally comment on the actions of specific named
individuals employed by an insurer, and I dont intend to do so here.
I agree that IPA initially incorrectly referred to the government at Mr G and Ms Ms
destination not having issued advice to return home when this wasnt wholly relevant to their
claim. I also agree that IPA, in its letter of 29 March 2021, referred to the cancellation section
of the Enhanced Cover for Covid-19 which didnt apply to the circumstances of Mr G and
Ms Ms claim.
Furthermore, I appreciate that IPA didnt seem to understand that Mr G and Ms M held
Enhanced Cover for Covid-19 when their claim was first made or when providing Mr G and
Ms M with a final response letter in relation to their complaint. But IPA subsequently
accepted that it wasnt disputing that Mr G and Ms M held this cover. And, Im satisfied that
IPA did subsequently correctly assess Mr G and Ms Ms claim under the terms of the
Enhanced Cover for Covid-19.
While it would, of course, have been more helpful if IPA had identified from the outset that
Mr G and Ms M held Enhanced Cover for Covid-19 and explained the correct reason why
their claim wasnt covered, this doesnt mean that it would be fair for IPA to now accept Mr G
and Ms Ms claim in a situation where their policy doesnt cover what happened. Nor does it
mean that compensation for distress and inconvenience is warranted in circumstances
where I dont think Mr G and Ms Ms claim is covered under their policy anyway. And,
overall, I dont think IPAs delays in giving Mr G and Ms M an answer to their claim were
excessive or unreasonable in the circumstances.
I understand Mr G and Ms M feel that IPA was obstructive in refusing to request a copy of Mr
Gs renewal call with C. But, as this conversation took place between Mr G and a different
business to IPA, I cant fairly conclude that IPA should have acted differently in this regard.
While the Financial Ombudsman Service has no power to consider complaints which solely
relate to complaint handling, we can consider complaints about the underlying actions of a
financial business in carrying out a regulated activity (in this case, the carrying out of a
contract of insurance). Im satisfied that, in this case, we can consider Mr G and Ms Ms
complaint in its entirety. Based on the evidence Ive seen, Mr G and Ms Ms complaint was
answered by IPA within 8 weeks as required by the regulator. While IPA may not have
responded to each and every complaint point raised by Mr G and Ms M, the Financial
Ombudsman Service isnt a regulator and we have no power to punish or fine businesses for
any perceived failings in their complaint handling processes.
IPA initially offered Mr G and Ms M £50 compensation because of its failure to acknowledge
some of Mr G and Ms Ms correspondence. However, on further review, IPA has said its
complaints department responded to Mr G and Ms Ms complaint correspondence on 17
November 2020 and 6 January 2021 respectively and withdrew its offer, which it was entitled
to do. I dont think there are any grounds upon which I could reasonably ask IPA to reinstate
its offer in the circumstances.
Im sorry to disappoint Mr G and Ms M, but I dont currently intend to direct IPA to do
anything further.IPA accepted my provisional decision. Mr G and Ms M also said they accepted my 
provisional decision, in principle, but raised a number of additional comments about the 
merits of their complaint against IPA which Ive addressed below. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In response to Mr G and Ms Ms complaint, IPA addressed the issues which it was 
responsible for. IPA doesnt appear to have commented on the content of the call between 
Mr G and C. It may have been preferable if IPA had specifically told Mr G and Ms M that 
theyd need to direct any complaint about the call that took place to C but, as Ive already 
explained, I cant punish or fine IPA for any perceived failings in its complaint handling 
processes. 
Any complaint about the failure to issue documentation to Mr G and Ms M also needs to be 
directed to C. IPA didnt sell the policy to Mr G and Ms M, so IPA isnt responsible for the 
provision of the renewal documentation. 
I understand that the Enhanced Cover for Covid-19 wording which Ive quoted is noted as 
being updated as at 24 July 2020. This was after Mr G and Ms Ms policy renewed and, 
therefore, may not set out the exact wording which was in place in April 2020. However, Mr 
G and Mrs M cut short their holiday due to events which took place after 24 July 2020. So, 
the updated wording  and not any previous version of the wording  would apply to the 
circumstances of their claim.
Overall, I see no reason to change my provisional decision.  
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold Mr G and Ms Ms complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr G and Ms M to 
accept or reject my decision before 24 August 2022.
 
Leah Nagle
Ombudsman