DRN-3043019
complaint
This complaint is about a credit card payment protection insurance (PPI) policy taken out in 
2004. Ms J says Marks & Spencer Financial Services plc mis-sold her PPI.
background
The background and circumstances leading up to this complaint, which includes Ms Js 
circumstances at the time of the sale as well as the PPI policy benefits, limitations and 
exclusions of cover, arent disputed. So I havent repeated all of this information here.
Our adjudicator did not uphold the complaint.
Ms Js representative disagreed with the adjudicators opinion  they didnt raise any new or 
additional points but repeated the same complaint points and arguments theyd previously 
made. 
As the complaint couldnt be resolved informally, it has been passed to me for a final 
decision.
my findings
Although I have only included a summary of the complaint, I have read and considered all 
the evidence and arguments available to me from the outset, in order to decide what is, in 
my opinion, fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of this complaint. 
When considering what is fair and reasonable, I am required to take into account relevant: 
law and regulations; regulators rules, guidance and standards; codes of practice; and, 
where appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry practice at the time. 
Weve set out our general approach to PPI mis-sale complaints on our website and 
published some example final decisions that set out in detail how these relevant 
considerations may apply to PPI sales like Ms Js. I havent set out that detailed information 
here but Ive taken into account all relevant considerations in deciding Ms Js complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided not to uphold this complaint and Ive summarised my reasons 
for this conclusion below:
I think M&S made it clear that Ms J didnt have to take out the PPI and she chose to take 
it out. I say this because Ive seen a copy of the application form that Ms J filled in at 
home and returned by post. There was a separate section for PPI containing a box that 
had to be ticked if PPI was required. An applicant also had to sign in that section to 
confirm they wanted PPI. Ms J has ticked the box and signed for the policy.
M&S didnt recommend the PPI to Ms J - so it didnt have to check that the PPI was right 
or suitable for her. But it did have to give Ms J enough clear and timely information so 
she could decide for herself if it was right for her.
Its possible the information M&S gave Ms J about the PPI wasnt as clear as it shouldve 
been. But Ive found that she chose to take it out - so it looks like she wanted this type of 
cover. The cover wasnt fundamentally wrong for Ms J  for example she wasnt affected 
by the significant exclusions on or limits to the cover. And it wasnt too dissimilar to what 
she reasonably thought she was buying from the information she was given. There were 
also no additional restrictions on cover for mental health or back problems. It also looks 
like it was affordable  so it seems like it would have been useful for her if something 
went wrong. Because of this I dont think Ms J would have declined the cover had M&S 
done anything more.
Overall, I consider that Ms J would have still taken out PPI. The policy was sufficiently close 
to what its likely she thought she was getting and I think the policy could provide a useful 
benefit in a difficult time, given her circumstances at the time. And in those circumstances, I 
think that she would have taken out the policy in any event.
Ms Js representative has raised a number of what I consider to be general complaint points, 
which it says apply to all PPI complaints. These general points include: a claim that the 
Financial Ombudsman Service is not correctly applying the regulators rules and guidance 
for handling PPI complaints; these policies represented poor value because of the number of 
significant exclusions and limitations of cover coupled with the low claims ratio; and the duty 
of utmost good faith meant M&S should have disclosed the poor value and explained the 
significance of the limitations and exclusions and the impact it had on the chances of making 
a claim.
But Ms Js representative has not said how these points apply to the specific facts and 
circumstances of Ms Js individual complaint  just that they apply to all PPI complaints.
I have thought about these things and how they might apply in Ms Js particular case. But 
these points dont persuade me to alter my conclusions about what is fair and reasonable in 
all the circumstances of the complaint  for the reasons Ive set out above I dont uphold this 
complaint. 
This means M&S doesnt have to do anything to put things right.
my decision
Overall, having considered all the evidence and arguments to decide what is, in my opinion, 
fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of this complaint and for the reasons I have set 
out above, I do not uphold Ms Js complaint  so I make no award.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, I am required to ask Ms J to accept or 
reject my decision before 2 November 2021. 
Carole Clark
Ombudsman