DRN-3462781
The complaint
Mr G complains that Skipton Building Society (Skipton) has put a marker on the National 
Hunter fraud prevention database in connection with a mortgage application recording 
misuse of mortgaged property. 
What happened
Mr G and his wife applied for a mortgage with Skipton through a broker in August 2018, 
which was declined during the same month. Mr G says that the reason given for it being 
declined was because Skipton did not have a suitable product to offer as there was a holiday 
letting barn in the garden of the property. Mr G accepted this and went on to find a mortgage 
elsewhere which would allow this. He subsequently applied for a business loan through a 
different lender in November 2020 and this was rejected. Mr G was invited to review his 
National Hunter records and these showed that Skipton had added a marker against him for 
fraudulent activity, namely misuse of a mortgaged property. 
Mr G asked Skipton to remove this information on the basis that it is incorrect, but Skipton 
refused to do so. Mr G says that Skipton also refused to tell him on what basis the marker 
was added, given that Skipton accepts he has never held a mortgage with it. He also says 
that he is concerned that at the time Skipton did not seek further information to clarify 
matters from either himself or the broker who made the application as all the information was 
held by the broker. 
Mr G lost the opportunity to obtain a government supported bounce-back loan as the 
deadline passed in March 2021 and he says credit facilities were withdrawn by this other 
lender. He says that he has also been the subject of financial enquiries from the other lender 
and the fraud department of HMRC due to Skiptons allegation of fraud. Mr G works in 
financial services so needs to comply with money laundering regulations. He says that the 
fraud marker could reflect on his integrity and professional credibility and he could lose his 
registration and business altogether. Mr G would like the marker to be removed, for Skipton 
to reimburse the loan he was unable to obtain and to compensate him for the effect of the 
marker being placed against him incorrectly.
Skipton said that the marker in August 2018 was correctly applied and that it was unable to 
remove it from Mr Gs record. It said the application was declined due to the discovery of an 
undisclosed holiday let on the property as it does not lend on these forms of property. 
Skipton said the reason for the marker was therefore due to inconsistencies across the 
mortgage application received.
Our investigator looked into the complaint and thought that the misuse of mortgaged 
property marker hadnt been applied correctly by Skipton as Mr G didnt have a mortgage 
with Skipton. Skipton initially disagreed with this but subsequently accepted that the misuse 
of mortgaged property marker was misleading and amended the marker to show the reason 
as lack of transparency on transaction. This was on the basis that Mr G stated that the 
property was for residential use but it received intelligence via the valuer that part of the 
property was being advertised as a holiday let.
Our investigator looked at the complaint again having regard to the amended marker. She 
was of the view that, although the information on the application form was inaccurate, she 
didnt believe that the threshold for fraud had been met in this case. She therefore asked for 
Skipton to remove the marker from all fraud prevention databases. The investigator also 
recommended that Skipton should pay Mr G £500 in respect of the trouble and upset caused 
by the fraud marker being added to his record. 
Skipton accepted the findings and agreed to remove the marker and pay the £500 
compensation to Mr G. Mr G disagreed with this and therefore the case has come to me to 
make a decision. He does not accept that the amount of compensation adequately reflects 
the damage caused by Skipton. He says that he has lost his good name with the bank where 
he has been a customer for over 50 years and in all financial circles. Mr G also says that he 
has lost both private and business credit facilities with his bank and the opportunity to obtain 
a loan at a favourable interest rate underwritten by the government during the coronavirus 
pandemic. He says that he has been humiliated by being branded a fraudster on a national 
database.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having carefully considered all the evidence and arguments, I agree with the investigator for 
broadly the same reasons and Ive explained these further below.
Fraud prevention databases play an important role in the financial services sector, allowing 
financial businesses to share information to protect themselves and their customers from 
fraud. However, its important that a marker is only applied where it can be justified. 
Ive taken this into account when looking at Mr Gs case. Having done so, Im satisfied that 
Skipton acted unfairly when it placed the marker on the National Hunter database.
Skiptons concerns were based on the fact that the mortgage application confirmed that the 
property to be mortgaged was for residential purposes only, however the valuation confirmed 
the existence of a detached self-contained barn which was being used for holiday lets. 
Ive looked at the application form which included the question Will any part of the property 
be used for purposes other than your own residence? to which no was marked as the 
answer. It is accepted by all parties that this is not correct as there was a barn in the back 
garden of the property which was used for holiday lets. 
In determining whether to apply a fraud marker, a business must have reasonable grounds 
to believe that fraud has been committed or attempted, and there must be clear evidence of 
this. The threshold is therefore not whether the application is inaccurate but whether there is 
reasonable suspicion of fraud. There are various fraud offences, but a common feature is 
that a financial business has found dishonesty in the information supplied by the customer. I 
will therefore go on to consider whether I think Mr G behaved dishonestly in this case or, 
alternatively, whether the inaccuracy was down to a misunderstanding or honest mistake.
Mr G acknowledges that there was an error in the application and accepts that he signed the 
declaration confirming that the information on the application form (completed by the broker) 
was correct. However, he maintains that this was an innocent oversight as he thought the 
barn formed part of the residence. Whilst Mr G says that he cant recall being specifically 
asked about the holiday let by the broker, he says that he showed Skiptons valuer the holiday barn himself and provided brochures and links which demonstrate that he wasnt 
trying to deceive Skipton.
Ive also seen correspondence from Mr Gs broker setting out that when the valuer visited 
the property to carry out the valuation, it was Mr G who made him aware that the outbuilding 
was used for holiday lettings. 
In light of the above, I dont think Mr G deliberately attempted to falsify his application or omit 
information. It seems unlikely that he would draw attention to the holiday let barn to the 
valuer if he had intended to conceal this during the course of his application to Skipton. I also 
note that Skipton has not suggested the information about the holiday let barn came from 
anyone other than Mr G. I am therefore satisfied that the surrounding evidence indicates that 
Mr G was not acting dishonestly when he declared that the information on the application 
form was accurate. And I dont think the threshold has been met for a fraud marker to fairly 
have been applied. 
A business shouldnt apply a fraud marker solely on suspicion of fraud; suspicion should 
lead to further investigation. So I think Skipton should have asked further questions at the 
time and considered the circumstances in order to avoid the fraud marker being applied in 
the first place. 
Ive gone on to consider the impact of the fraud marker being applied on Mr G. He is a 
professional working in financial services who has been subject to regulatory enquiry as a 
result of the fraud marker and I appreciate that he would have been worried about this. He 
also lost both private and business credit facilities with his bank and the opportunity to obtain 
a government-supported bounce back loan at a favourable interest rate during the 
coronavirus pandemic. Mr G says that the fraud marker could reflect on his integrity and 
personal and professional credibility and feels humiliated by being branded a fraudster and I 
accept that he feels that his personal and professional reputation has been damaged by this. 
Mr G has said that Skipton should provide the bounce back loan he was unable to obtain 
due to the fraud marker. I have considered this and dont agree. Firstly, markers added by a 
business should not be grounds for another business to decline an application  instead they 
should be grounds to conduct further checks. So I cant reasonably say that Skipton is 
responsible for the loan being declined. Secondly, and more importantly, the loan was for a 
limited company that Mr G was director of. As the business is a separate legal entity to Mr G 
personally it is not an eligible complainant for the purposes of this complaint. For that 
reason, I am unable to make any award for any financial or non-financial loss to this 
company  or the impact of that on Mr G personally  in respect of the loan. I am also unable 
to consider the effect on the business generally when determining the distress and 
inconvenience caused.
I have considered all of the factors and am of the view that Skipton should compensate Mr G 
for the trouble and upset caused in the sum of £500. I understand that Mr G would like more 
compensation but having regard to the fact that I am only able to take into account the effect 
of the fraud marker on Mr G personally and not to his company, I feel that this a fair amount 
in all of the circumstances.
Putting things right
For the reasons set out above I uphold this complaint and require Skipton to:
Remove all fraud markers it has applied from all fraud prevention databases, if it 
hasnt done so already. 
Pay Mr G £500 for the trouble and upset hes been caused.My final decision
For the reasons set out above I uphold this complaint and require Skipton Building Society to 
put things right as set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision before 17 June 2022.
 
Rachel Ellis
Ombudsman