DRN-2886365
The complaint
Mrs C complains that she was misled into entering a finance agreement by Lookers Motor 
Group Limited trading as Lookers Nissan (Lookers) when she acquired a vehicle.
 
What happened
Mrs C acquired a used vehicle from Lookers in January 2018. The vehicle was financed by 
way of a hire purchase agreement, for which Lookers acted as the credit broker. 
Mrs C voluntarily terminated the agreement in September 2020. Upon termination of the 
agreement, the finance provider charged Mrs C £301.79 for excess mileage. 
Unhappy with this, Mrs C complained to Lookers. She said shed asked Lookers about the 
mileage allowance and voluntary termination on the agreement at the point of sale and was 
told if she didnt exceed the annual 10,000 mile allowance, then she wouldnt be charged. 
Mrs C said she was misled and wasnt given the correct information to make an informed 
decision about entering into the agreement. 
Lookers sent Mrs C their final response to her complaint in January 2021. They said there 
was no record of the conversation between her and the dealer, so theyd looked at the 
documents from the point of sale, and the finance agreement. They told Mrs C they thought 
shed been given enough information at the point of sale to make an informed decision, so 
they didnt uphold her complaint. 
Unhappy with this, Mrs C brought her complaint to this service. Our investigator looked into 
things for Mrs C. He thought that the finance and point of sale documents clearly set out the 
excess mileage charge, and how this might apply if the agreement was terminated early. He 
didnt think Mrs C had been misled at the point of sale, and so he didnt think Lookers 
needed to do anything more. 
Mrs C didnt agree. She said her complaint isnt about the information in the documents, but 
that Lookers didnt give accurate information when she asked about the excess mileage 
charge. Mrs C feels her testimony about what happened at the sale is being ignored, 
because theres no recording of it. 
As an agreement cant be reached, the case has been passed to me to decide.  
  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In considering whats fair and reasonable, I need to have regard to the relevant law and 
regulations. The agreement in this case is a regulated hire purchase agreement, so we can 
consider a complaint relating to it. Lookers were acting as the credit broker for the finance 
agreement and are responsible for a complaint about arranging it.  
In order to find that the finance agreement was misrepresented to Mrs C, I first need to be 
satisfied that there was a false statement of fact made by Lookers, and then that the false 
statement of fact induced Mrs C to enter into the agreement. 
Mrs C has told this service that when she acquired the vehicle, she asked about the mileage 
allowance, and the sales person told her that the allowance was 10,000 miles a year. Mrs C 
is unhappy that the sales person wasnt more specific at the time that this allowance would 
be pro-rated if the car was handed back early. 
There is no record of the conversation that took place between Mrs C and Lookers, but Ive 
thought about Mrs Cs testimony of this conversation, and Im not satisfied that there was a 
false statement of fact. The information given about the annual mileage allowance was 
correct, the agreement confirms that it was 10,000 miles a year.
Mrs C says that Lookers should have told her exactly what the mileage allowance wouldve 
been at the point she terminated the agreement. Lookers couldnt have known at the time 
exactly when Mrs C would terminate the agreement, and they arent responsible for 
calculating mileage or charges under the agreement, thats for the finance provider to do. 
So, I dont think its unreasonable that Lookers gave Mrs C the information as it is in the 
agreement, rather than future possibilities that they wouldnt be responsible for. 
Ive also considered the written agreements that were signed by Mrs C. The finance 
agreement confirms the excess mileage charge, when it applies and that it will be calculated 
on a pro rata basis if the agreement is ended early. So, Im satisfied that Mrs C was provided 
with enough information to make an informed decision at the time of entering to the 
agreement. 
As Im not satisfied that there was a false statement of fact at the time Mrs C entered into the 
agreement, it follows that there was no misrepresentation and I find that the agreement was 
not mis-sold to Mrs C by Lookers. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs C to accept or 
reject my decision before 31 December 2021.
 
Zoe Launder
Ombudsman