DRN-3429948
The complaint
Mr S complains that Shawbrook Bank Limited (Shawbrook) has rejected the claim he made 
under sections 56, 75 and 140A of the Consumer Credit Act 1974 (the Act) in relation to a 
solar panel system he says was misrepresented to him by the supplier.
Mr S is represented by a claims management company (the CMC).
Background
In or around November 2018, Mr S was contacted by a representative of a company Ill call 
P to talk about purchasing a solar panel system (the system) to be installed at his home. 
After being visited by a representative of P, Mr S decided to purchase the system and 
finance it through a ten year fixed sum loan agreement with Shawbrook. The system was 
subsequently installed.
In July 2020 the CMC made a claim to Shawbrook on Mr Ss behalf under section 75 of the 
Act, and other sections. The CMC said that, following a cold call, P had made a number of 
representations about the system that had turned out not to be true, and it was these 
misrepresentations that had induced Mr S to enter into the contract with P. The CMC said 
the following misrepresentations had been made:
the system would generate free electricity;
the system would pay for itself over the duration of the loan agreement; and
the feed in tariff (FIT) and electricity savings would provide enough income to cover 
the finance agreement repayments costs, and would yield a minimum monthly profit 
of £30; and
Mr S had been promised a holiday voucher for three family holidays in free self-
catering accommodation (one week each year over three years) if he bought the 
system, but he had only been able to go on one of these holidays.
Shawbrook didnt agree that the system had been misrepresented to Mr S or that there were 
any other reasons for the claim to be upheld. 
One of our adjudicators looked into what had happened. Having considered all the 
information and evidence provided, our adjudicator didnt think that P had misrepresented 
the system to Mr S and found no reason to uphold the complaint.
The CMC didnt agree with the adjudicators view for the following reasons:
the adjudicator had placed too much reliance on the sales documentation, in 
particular the quote, in coming to a decision, and not given enough weight to the 
verbal promises made by Ps salesman; and
it would take 83 years for the panels to pay for themselves.
As an agreement couldnt be reached, the case was passed to me for review. I wrote a 
provisional decision which read as follows.
My provisional findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I am not minded to uphold it. I will explain why.
Relevant considerations
When considering whats fair and reasonable, Im required to take into account relevant law 
and regulations, relevant regulatory rules, guidance and standards and codes of practice, 
and, where appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry practice at the relevant 
time. In this case the relevant law includes sections 56, 75 and 140A of the Act.
Section 75 provides protection for consumers for goods or services bought using credit. As 
Mr S paid for the system with a fixed sum loan agreement, Shawbrook agrees that section 
75 applies to this transaction. This means that Mr S could claim against Shawbrook (the 
creditor) for any misrepresentation or breach of contract by P in the same way he could have 
claimed against P (the supplier). So Ive taken section 75 into account when deciding what is 
fair in the circumstances of this case.
Section 56 is also relevant. This is because it says that any negotiations between Mr S and 
P, as the supplier, are deemed to have been conducted by P as an agent of Shawbrook.
Section 140A is about unequal relationships between the parties to a credit agreement. In 
this case, the CMC relies on the alleged misrepresentation of the system, and also on the 
possibility that Shawbrook paid P commission or gave P some other financial incentive to 
broker the loan. Shawbrook denies that it paid commission, and I have seen no evidence to 
the contrary.
For the purpose of this decision Ive used the definition of a misrepresentation as an untrue 
statement of fact or law made by one party (or his agent) to a second party which induces 
that second party to enter the contract, thereby causing him loss.
Key documents
There are several documents that have been provided by both the CMC and Shawbrook. 
These include the credit agreement and solar quote, titled Your Personal Solar Quotation. 
Ive considered these in detail and whether they support the alleged representations made 
by P.
The quote is a detailed document that sets out key information about the system, the 
expected performance, financial benefits and technical information. Im satisfied that it 
formed a central part of the sales process and is therefore relevant when considering if there 
have been any untrue statements of fact alongside Mr Ss recollection of the sale.
The CMC continues to question whether the quotation document formed a central part of the 
sales process with P when Mr S agreed to enter into the contract for the system. I have 
carefully considered the points made by the representative along with those made by 
Shawbrook on behalf of P. P, via Shawbrook, has told this service that this document formed 
a central part of the sales process and the representative of P would have discussed this in 
detail with Mr S, explaining any benefits of the system, prior to him agreeing to enter into the 
contract. And I dont think its likely or plausible that Mr S simply took the salesmans word 
for it when he was told that he could buy thousands of pounds worth of equipment  paid for 
with an interest-bearing loan  without it costing him a penny, without at any point asking to see something to that effect in writing. So on the balance of probabilities, I am satisfied that 
the quotation did form a central part of the sales process when Mr S agreed to enter into the 
contract. I have therefore taken this into account, along with Mr Ss version of events, when 
considering if there have been any untrue statements of fact.
The credit agreement sets out the amount being borrowed, the interest to be charged, the 
total amount payable, the term of the loan and the contractual monthly repayments.
FIT payments and savings
Mr S has alleged that he was told his monthly loan repayments would be covered, or self-
funded by the FIT payments, together with the savings on his electricity bills. Ive 
considered the quote that was provided by P, as well as Mr Ss recollections of his meeting 
with Ps representative, to decide what is most likely to have been said at the meeting.
The system analysis page of the quote sets out the estimated income Mr S could expect to 
receive by way of FIT payments from the system. This is split out into the expected FIT 
payments in the first year and the expected average income over 20 years. The FIT scheme 
only provides payments for a 20-year period.
I think that the first of these tables is clear that Mr S could expect to receive a total FIT 
income in year one of £138.45. This results in an average monthly income of £11.54. Im 
satisfied that the same document set out that there would be a monthly loan repayment due 
of £97.74. As a result, Im not able to conclude that Mr S was told that the monthly loan 
repayments would be covered by the FIT payments alone.
The quote goes on to look at the electricity savings Mr S could expect from the system. The 
expected year one electricity savings is £225.61 and, when taking into account the optional 
extras chosen by Mr S, the combined income and savings in year one is shown as £545.26. 
This is shown in a table titled Putting it all together.
Theres a section headed Repayments with three tables showing repayments over 60 
months, 120 months and 180 months. Ive focused on the table for 120 months as this is the 
length of the loan that Mr S entered into with Shawbrook. This table shows the loan as 
repayable in 120 monthly payments of £97.74. (This is incorrect; the loan agreement gives 
the correct monthly figure of £97.68, but the difference  6p  is too small to affect the 
following observations.) For each year of the ten year loan it shows the expected grand total 
return from the system. It then averages that figure over 12 months, and subtracts the 
monthly loan repayment of £97.74, to give an average difference between the monthly return 
from the system and the monthly loan repayment in each year. This gives a negative figure 
for every year of the loan, meaning that the system would never make enough money to 
cover the loan payments.
I think the quote clearly sets out the income Mr S could expect to receive from the system, 
by way of FIT payments and savings, as well as his expected contractual monthly loan 
repayments. Whilst I accept that the table doesnt simply compare the FIT income and 
savings to the monthly loan repayments, it does clearly set out that the overall income he 
could expect to receive by way of FIT income and any additional savings would not be 
immediately sufficient to cover the monthly loan repayments. Therefore, Im not satisfied that 
he was told that the monthly loan repayments would be covered by the FIT income and 
savings combined.
I am reinforced in my opinion by this graph, which also appeared in the quote. This plainly 
showed that the system would not be enough to cover the loan payments, and also that it 
would take about 14 years for Mr S to break even and begin to make a profit (taking into 
account the cost of the loan).
Self-funding
Ill now consider whether P told Mr S that the system would be self-funding.
Ive considered the table above which sets out the estimated average monthly income from 
the system, and the effect on that income of subtracting the monthly loan repayment. Im 
satisfied that the table is clear and easy to understand (notwithstanding the 6p discrepancy 
in the monthly payments). That section of the quote has been signed by Mr S, so Im 
satisfied that P did enough to bring it to his attention.
Im of the view that this makes it clear that the system wouldnt be self-funding from the start. 
I think the quote is clear that there would be a difference between the expected FIT income 
and the monthly loan repayments.
However, I do accept that Mr S was told by P that the system would be self-funding over a 
period of time.
The Key Facts page of the quote has a graph detailing the estimated performance over 25 
years. This shows that it would take 11 years for the overall benefits that Mr S could expect 
to receive to match the cash price of the system.
I think the 11-year estimated payback time is clear and prominent, being in large print on 
page 2, and so I dont consider that it needed further explaining.
A later page of the quote has a table detailing the estimated performance of the system over 
25 years. This shows that shortly after the start of year 14 the overall benefits that Mr S 
could expect to receive would have exceeded the total amount payable under the loan 
agreement, £11,820.
Performance
As Ive set out above, Im satisfied that P told Mr S that the system would pay for its cash 
price in 11 years, and for the loan in a bit over 14 years, as supported by the graph and the 
table above. If that were an untrue statement of fact, and Im satisfied that this was what 
induced him to enter into the contract, and he subsequently suffered a loss, that could 
amount to a misrepresentation. The CMC says it is untrue because it will actually take 83 
years for the system to pay for itself. It is therefore necessary for me to consider how well 
the system has actually performed, and whether this is in line with the contract between P 
and Mr S. So Ive considered the performance of the system and whether this is in line with 
the contract between P and Mr S. (The CMC has asked why the adjudicator did this; she and 
I have done it for the reason I have set out here.)
The MCS certificate and quote set out that the system is expected to produce 2,136 kWh a 
year. I have looked at Mr Ss FIT statements and can see that his system, on average, has 
generated 2,091 kWh a year. This is only slightly less than estimated by P at the point of 
sale, so Im satisfied that the system is performing as expected.
However, I accept the CMCs observation that Mr W has still not received the financial 
returns he was expecting. Even though the panels are not under-performing in terms of FIT 
generation, as measured in kWh, they have still not performed as estimated as measured in 
pounds sterling. So I have considered why that is.
P used Office of National Statistics (ONS) data between 2005 and 2017 to calculate the 
utility price and RPI inflation. I have looked at the actual yearly increases between 2016 and 
2020, and the increases have been lower than predicted by P at the point of sale, and I think 
this explains why Mr S hasnt been receiving the financial returns he may have been 
expecting from the solar panels. Since actual energy prices have been lower than the 
modelling predicted, the savings achieved through the energy generated by the system has 
been correspondingly lower.
As I have explained, the assumptions used by P were based on the information available 
from the ONS at the time. And based on this, I dont consider it unreasonable for P to have 
used them as the basis for calculating the potential financial income Mr S could have 
expected to receive from the system. I have also looked at the assumptions used by P, 
including the self-consumption rate, expected annual increase in utility prices (EPR) and 
expected annual RPI inflation increase. I am satisfied that Ps method for calculating these is 
fair and reasonable.
So, whilst I can appreciate that the returns may not have been as high as estimated at the 
point of sale, Im not persuaded that this was due to unreasonable assumptions being used 
by P at the time Mr S entered into the contract.
Holiday promotion
Mr S was entitled to take three free one-week holidays in self-catering accommodation, one 
each year for three years. (This did not include the cost of the flights.) This was provided by 
a third party.
Mr Ss first holiday was in 2019, and this is the one he was able to go on. In late 2020 he 
booked the second holiday for March 2021, but this was cancelled due to the covid-19 
pandemic, and he was not allowed to rebook it; this is not in dispute. I have considered 
whether this was a misrepresentation or, alternatively, a breach of contract by P.
I dont think it is anyones fault that the second holiday had to be cancelled due to the 
pandemic. That is something which no-one could have foreseen, and it was entirely beyond 
the parties control. It is not evidence of a misrepresentation, since the promotional offer did 
not contain any false statement of fact. Nor is it a breach of contract, since the failure to 
supply the holiday was the result of a force majeure. Although neither party has provided me 
with the detailed contractual terms and conditions, only the offer letter, I am satisfied that 
even if there was not an express written clause in the contract to cater for this situation 
(although I think there probably would have been, as it is a fairly standard clause in 
commercial contracts), the inability to provide this holiday is more properly characterised as 
a frustration of contract rather than a breach.
I have considered whether the holiday providers failure or refusal to provide an alternative 
holiday at a later date, or a refund, might amount to a separate breach of contract. But I do 
not think that it does, because it appears to have been an important term of the promotion 
that each holiday had to be taken in its corresponding calendar year. If it was not possible to 
re-arrange the holiday for later in 2021, then it does not follow that it had to be rebooked for 
2022 instead.
Even if I took a different view about that, I am not satisfied that P would be responsible for a 
breach of contract by a third party which took place more than a year after the point of sale.In 2021 Mr S booked his third holiday for February 2022, but he was unable to go on it 
because when it was time to go he could not afford the flights or any spending money to take 
with him. I think it is self-evident that P is not responsible for that. It follows that Shawbrook 
is not liable for that either.
Summary
Having carefully considered the evidence provided by all parties in this complaint, Im
satisfied that there were no untrue statements of fact made by P that induced Mr S to enter 
into the contract for the system, and I have found no other reason to uphold this complaint.
Responses to my provisional decision
Mr S maintained that his second holiday had been cancelled through no fault of his own and 
that he should be compensated accordingly. Shawbrook had nothing to add.
While I recognise that the cancellation of Mr Ss second holiday was certainly not his fault, 
I remain of the view that it was nobody elses fault either. So there is no reason for me to 
depart from my provisional findings, and I confirm them here.
My final decision
My decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 24 August 2022.
 
Richard Wood
Ombudsman