DRN-3975171
The complaint
Miss J is unhappy with what happened at the end of a hire agreement taken with Ald 
Automotive Limited trading as Kia Contract Hire (ALD).
What happened
In October 2018 Miss J took a hire agreement with ALD to acquire a new car. The 
agreement was taken over four years, with a mileage allowance of 10,000 a year. The 
regular monthly repayments were £260.74.
Miss J says shortly before the end of the hire term she asked for a quote to extend the 
agreement by a year and to change the mileage. She says she was told she would receive 
this within three days. But, when she later chased ALD for the quote, she was told she 
wouldve needed to give two months notice for an extension.
Miss J was then offered an informal late hire at a similar price to what she was previously 
paying, but says this was unfair as she had used below the mileage allowance.
Miss J complained to ALD and in October 2022 it issued its final response to the complaint. 
In summary, this said that ALD could have extended the term of the agreement and altered 
the mileage as part of a trial it was running. But it said Miss J was mistakenly told this wasnt 
possible.
ALD explained if the contract was extended, Miss J wouldve been offered a monthly 
repayment of £234.82, or £7.72 a day. Instead, Miss J was offered a rate of £8.57 a day as 
an unofficial late hire, which Miss J had declined. ALD said this meant Miss J wouldve paid 
£310.98 more over the year if she kept the car, but she had decided to return it.
ALD said it was under no obligation to offer changes to contracts and this was purely done 
as a gesture of good will. So, it said it hadnt breached Miss J terms and conditions. 
ALD explained it had credited £310.98 to Miss J bank account as an apology for what 
happened.
Miss J remained unhappy and brought the complaint to our service. She said she only 
returned the car as an MOT and service was due. She also said she was without a car for 
three weeks which affected her family life. 
Miss J said she wanted the car returned to her, or the exact same model of car, under a hire 
agreement for the price that shouldve been offered.
Our investigator issued an opinion and didnt uphold the complaint. She said, in summary, 
that the agreement couldnt now be changed as it had ended. She said she didnt think ALD 
had breached the terms of Miss J agreement. And she said she thought the offer of £310.98 
to reflect what happened was fair.
Miss J remained unhappy. She said ALD didnt tell her she would need to give it two months 
notice to request an extension of the hire agreement, so it had breached the terms and 
conditions. 
Our investigator explained this didnt change her opinion. So, the case has been passed to 
me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I dont think this complaint should be upheld. Ill explain why.
Miss J complains about a hire agreement. Entering into consumer credit contracts such as 
this is a regulated activity, so Im satisfied I can consider Miss J complaint against ALD.
Ive thought about the terms and conditions Miss J agreed to when she acquired the car. 
These do explain ALD may vary the mileage or term of the agreement if requested by a 
consumer. But, the terms then give some further details and then say:
Kia Contract Hire is under no obligation to vary the Agreement under this clause
So, I cant see the terms of the agreement have been breached by Miss J not being offered 
a formal extension.
But, that being said, I dont think this is the crux of the matter here. It isnt in dispute that ALD 
did something wrong. Its explained in its final response that it couldve offered Miss J a 
formal contract extension, but it didnt. And its apologised for this and paid Miss J £310.98. 
So, what I need to consider here is whether it needs to do anything further to put things right.
Im satisfied Miss J has been caused some distress and inconvenience here. I think being 
given incorrect information must have been upsetting. 
But, when thinking about the issues Miss J says were caused by not having a car, Ive 
thought about whether shes mitigated her losses here. I do need to consider that she 
couldve kept the car for roughly the same payments she was already making, but decided 
not to. I appreciate she said this was because an MOT and service was due  but she still 
wouldve had to pay out for this if she was offered a formal extension.
I understand the payments were a little higher under the informal extension that ALD later 
explained she couldve been offered. But, because Miss J handed the car back, she didnt 
lose out financially because of this.
Miss J says that ALD shouldve made her aware she needed to give two months notice to 
change the contract. But, it appears from the final response that this wasnt the case  ALD 
specifically said it couldve offered an extension when Miss J asked. So the issue here is still 
Miss J being given incorrect information.
I understand Miss J wants the car to be returned to her or an exact same model provided, 
but I dont think this is practical or reasonable to ask ALD to do, given the agreement has 
ended and the car handed back.Thinking about everything here, Im satisfied Miss J has suffered distress and inconvenience 
from being given incorrect information. But Im satisfied the £310.98 ALD already paid to her 
is fair and reasonable to reflect this under the circumstances of the complaint.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss J to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 April 2023.
 
John Bower
Ombudsman