DRN-3381269
The complaint
Mr C has complained that Starling Bank Limited has given him poor customer service.
What happened
Mr C took out a third party subscription, which had an introductory offer, then he would be
charged at £14.99 a month. Mr C says he contacted Starling to cancel the subscription via
their webchat facility. He says that the agent told him it would not be possible to cancel the
Continuous Payment Authority (CPA) that he had set up on the account and they directed Mr
C to the merchant.
Mr C informed the agent of the regulators view of a consumer being able to cancel CPAs
directly with their bank, but Mr C says that the agent told him he would need to pay it as it
was in the terms and conditions hed agreed to with the third party. Mr C says the agent
finally agreed to pass the cancellation request to their disputes team, and the subscription
was subsequently cancelled.
Mr C complained to Starling. He said that the agent asked him what he was complaining
about and what outcome he wanted. Mr C said the agent then closed the chat on him
without recording the complaint.
Starling partially upheld Mr Cs complaint. They said his request to have the CPA cancelled
should have been raised on the first occasion without Mr C having to ask for it to be
cancelled several times. Starling paid Mr C £15 compensation.
Mr C brought his complaint to our service. He said his final response letter from Starling did
nothing to address his concerns, he wanted them to apologise for their poor complaints
handling and consider redress.
Our investigator upheld Mr Cs complaint. She said it would be fair for Starling to pay Mr C
an extra £35 compensation, taking the total compensation to £50. Our investigator said that
Mr C had to make a request to have the CPA cancelled several times, before Starlings
agent finally referred his request to their disputes team. He also didnt have his complaint
logged when requesting it, he had his live chat closed on him, whilst he was in the middle of
typing his complaint information and then the final response didnt fully cover the complaint
and was partially upheld initially, rather than a full uphold. He also had to spend his time
looking at the correct process for cancelling a CPA and had to send this information to
Starling.
Starling asked for an Ombudsman to review the complaint. They said as complaint handling
falls outside of the scope of the Financial Ombudsman Service, then a decision should be
issued which discounts the issues encountered in the complaint handling process.
As my findings differed in some respects from our investigators, I issued a provisional 
decision to give both parties the opportunity to consider things further. This is set out below:
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr C has made a number of points to this service and Ive considered and read everything
hes said and sent us. But, in line with this services role as a quick and informal body Ill be
focusing on the crux of his complaint in deciding whats fair and reasonable here.
I must explain to Mr C that complaint handling by a business isnt a regulated activity and as
such, the issues hes raised that relate directly to how Starling have investigated his
complaint, such as the contents of his final response letters dont come under my powers to
consider. But I can look into the poor customer service that Mr C received from Starling.
Im satisfied that Starling should have acted upon Mr Cs initial request to cancel the CPA. If
they had done that, then Im sure that none of the subsequent events would have occurred
and Mr C wouldnt have been inconvenienced. But as this wasnt actioned, then Mr C had to
find supporting evidence from the regulator, to show he was entitled to cancel the CPA
directly with Starling, only to be told about the terms and conditions of the agreement he had
made with the third party.
Regardless of whether Mr C had agreed to certain terms and conditions or not, his request
was a simple request which should have been acted on initially. If the agent was trying to
make Mr C aware of certain conditions (without actually seeing the full terms and conditions
anyway), it could have been done in a way where the agent acknowledges that they had
forwarded the cancellation request to their disputes team, but the third party may still get in
touch to dispute the issue with Mr C.
Ive thought about what Mr C has said about the call agent closing the chat on him while he
was typing, from a customer service perspective (as opposed to a complaint handling
prospective). I can understand how Mr C would be frustrated by this. I think he was slightly
inconvenienced by this. I say slightly inconvenienced as the new chat agent had access to
the previous chat Mr C had with Starling, so Mr C didnt need to explain everything again,
but I am persuaded that it wouldve been frustrating for him to see the agent end the chat as
he was typing. Ive looked at the impact of this here and can see that when Mr C responded
to the previous agents message at 17:41, the new agent joins the chat at 17:44 and Mr C is
told at 17:48 that his previous chat can be added to the complaint. So while the delay was
seven minutes, this still would have slightly inconvenienced Mr C.
Ive thought about the compensation which Starling have paid Mr C. And I agree with our
investigator that £15 doesnt reflect the impact of the issues that Starlings customer service
would have had on Mr C. I also agree that a further £35, taking the total compensation to
£50 is reasonable. I say this as it recognises that Mr C was inconvenienced by Starlings
actions by not cancelling the CPA as first requested at 16:56 and the subsequent issues that
followed. So I intend to ask Starling to put things right for Mr C.
I invited both parties to let me have any further submissions before I reached a final 
decision. Both parties accepted my provisional decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As neither party have provided me with any further information to consider, then my final 
decision and reasoning remains the same as in my provisional decision. Putting things right
In my provisional decision I said I intend to ask Starling Bank Limited to pay Mr C a further 
£35 for inconvenience. Im still satisfied this is a fair outcome for the reasons given 
previously.
My final decision
I uphold the complaint. Starling Bank Limited should pay Mr C a further £35 for 
inconvenience. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 April 2022.
 
Gregory Sloanes
Ombudsman