DRN-4332210
The complaint
Mr C complains Blue Motor Finance Ltd (BMFL) irresponsibly entered into a hire purchase 
agreement with him which was unaffordable. 
What happened
Mr C entered into a hire purchase agreement with BMFL on 27 June 2018 for a used car. 
The total cash value of the car was £9,213 and Mr C paid a deposit of £100. This meant the 
total amount of credit was for £9,113. The APR was 9.6% and the total amount payable was 
£11,492. Under the agreement, Mr C was to make 60 monthly repayments of £189.85 with a 
£1 option to purchase at the end of the term. 
Mr C is represented in his complaint. He said at the time of the lending BMFL didnt ask any 
questions to confirm he would be able to pay the loan in a sustainable way and he already 
had multiple other credit commitments at the time he applied for lending. His representatives 
complained about the affordability of the agreement to BMFL on 16 January 2023. 
BMFL responded to the complaint on 14 March 2023. It said Mr C confirmed his income and 
employment. It also said it used data from credit reference agencies to confirm Mr Cs 
creditworthiness and assess affordability. It also looked for signs of financial stress (for 
example number of accounts and credit card debt). It said nothing was triggered and it felt 
the agreement was affordable as the monthly repayments reflected less than 10% of Mr Cs 
stated income. Therefore, it concluded the checks had been proportionate and it was fair to 
enter into the agreement. It also said it drew Mr Cs attention to the terms and conditions of 
the finance agreement. 
Mr C didnt accept BMFLs response. Therefore, his representatives referred the complaint 
to our service. Our Investigator set out their view to the parties. They felt the checks carried 
out by BMFL werent proportionate. They also said proportionate checks were likely to have 
shown the agreement was unaffordable and BMFL shouldnt have entered into the 
agreement.  
BMFL didnt agree. In summary, it said: 
It took into account the income declared by Mr C, the expenditure on the credit file, 
the demographic expenditure expected and the fact the repayment was less than 
10% of Mr Cs income. 
The new hire purchase agreement was only £2 more than the previous one he had 
been successfully paying for a significant period of time. The view seemed to include 
the existing £187 hire purchase payment, but this monthly commitment was to be 
replaced by the new agreement. 
Therefore, in accordance with CONC 5.2.3 G, it felt it did not need to carry out any 
further affordability checks and it complied with the prevailing regulations. 
Our Investigator explained they hadnt taken into account the existing hire purchase payment 
when considering the outgoings. And said the other points didnt change her opinion. But 
BMFL still didnt agree. 
Therefore, the complaint has been passed to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In doing so, Ive considered  amongst other things  the rules and guidance for lenders set 
out in the Consumer Credit Sourcebook (CONC) within the Financial Conduct Authoritys 
handbook. I think there are two overarching questions I need to consider in order to decide 
whats fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of this complaint. These questions are: 
1. Did BMFL complete reasonable and proportionate checks to satisfy itself that Mr C 
would be able to repay the borrowing? 
a) If so, did it make a fair lending decision? 
b) If not, would reasonable and proportionate checks have shown that Mr C could 
sustainably repay the borrowing?
2. Did BMFL act unfairly or unreasonably in some other way? 
Did BMFL complete reasonable and proportionate checks to satisfy itself that Mr C would be 
able to repay the agreement in a sustainable way?
Before granting credit, BMFL were required to carry out a reasonable and proportionate 
assessment of Mr Cs ability to sustainably repay the debt. This is often referred to as an 
affordability check. This check had to be borrower-focussed. This means it needed to be 
concerned with whether Mr C could sustainably afford the borrowing (considering his specific 
circumstances), rather than how statistically likely he was to repay. The latter, is the risk 
posed to BMFL as the lender, or its credit risk but this is not necessarily the same as an 
assessment of affordability. 
Whats considered reasonable and proportionate will vary depending on a number of factors 
such as, but not limited to: 
The amount of credit; 
The total repayable and the size of the regular repayments; 
The duration of the agreement; 
The cost of the credit; and 
The consumers individual circumstances. 
BMFL said Mr C discussed the finance options with the car dealer and it wasnt directly 
involved with these discussions. Ive seen the consumer information collected at the time of 
the agreement. I can see Mr C confirmed he was employed and earned £23,162 per year. 
He confirmed he paid rent and had dependents. 
BMFL said it used a credit reference agency to check creditworthiness and applied an 
affordability score. It also said it applied a series of policy rules that looked for signs of 
financial stress and affordability issues. This included credit card debt and utilisation, the 
total number of accounts, excessive exposure of unsecured debt vs income, multiple recent 
searches and applications for credit. It said none were triggered and the finance proposal was accepted in accordance with its credit policy. It said the monthly payment of £189.85 
was less than 10% of Mr Cs stated income and was considered affordable and sustainable.
 
BMFL also carried out a credit check and have provided a copy. I can see Mr C had two 
defaulted accounts in 2016 with a combined balance of £187. The balance was £36 at the 
time of the agreement. I can also see Mr C had two telecommunication accounts, two credit 
cards, two loans and a mail order account. His total active credit was £4,979. 
There were three late or missed payments, but the accounts were up to date at the time of 
the agreement. The search seems to show me his monthly credit repayments were £206, 
this is excluding the active credit agreement he had for another hire purchase of £187. Mr C 
would need to be able to repay the balance on his credit card sustainably.
 
Having thought carefully about the checks carried out and what they showed, Im of the view 
BMFL should have carried out more checks to ascertain Mr Cs committed expenditure. I 
also think they could have done more to verify his income. This is because of the length of 
the agreement and the amount of the monthly repayments. Whilst Ive noted what proportion 
of Mr Cs declared income the repayments amounted to and what the bureau information 
showed about his credit commitments, I dont agree these were sufficient checks for BMFL 
to satisfy itself that the agreement was affordable. This is because it didnt collect specific 
information about Mr Cs non-discretionary expenditure or verify his income. 
Id also note he declared that he was a tenant with dependants, and I think this also 
suggests more information about the specific circumstances would be useful here because 
there could have been further expenditure not accounted for. And Im also mindful of the 
information BMFL had about Mr Cs two defaulted accounts. This indicated some previous 
financial difficulties which should have prompted further checks.
Would reasonable and proportionate checks have shown Mr C would be able to repay the 
agreement in a sustainable way? 
As reasonable and proportionate checks werent carried out on this agreement, I need to 
decide what a reasonable and proportionate check would have shown. Such additional 
checks might have included asking Mr C about his committed expenditure and depending on 
what was said, verifying this by obtaining further information. 
To understand what information BMFL were likely to have received, Ive reviewed three bank 
statements which show Mr Cs income and expenditure in the three-month period leading up 
to the agreement. I want to be clear that Im not suggesting BMFL needed to check Mr Cs 
bank statements specifically, but Im satisfied that these give me a good indication of what 
information it would likely have found out about his financial circumstances had it completed 
reasonable and proportionate affordability checks. 
The average income received by Mr C over the three months from his salary was around 
£1,530. Although, it should be noted in two of the months Mr C received around £1,300.
 
In addition to this, Mr C received some support with the rent and household bills. Ive looked 
at the amount he received over the three months and there doesnt appear to be a stable or 
set agreed amount. In one of the months, he received £800 and, in another month, he 
received around £200. Also, considering statements from outside of the three-month period 
it seemed he received around £400. But over the three-month period he received an 
average of £530. Therefore, his average income was around £2,057.
Ive also reviewed Mr Cs regular credit commitments and non-discretionary expenditure and 
Im of the view this was around £1,880. The identified monthly expenditure includes (but is not limited to) things like council tax, water, gas and electric and rent. As well as, car 
insurance, appliance insurance, other bills and food shopping. 
Ive also considered the credit commitments which are outlined on the statements and on the 
bureau information collected by BMFL. Ive noted the balance shown in the search. But the 
statements also show payments towards credit commitments. This includes Mr Cs regular 
monthly credit payments. 
Im mindful Mr C was also paying towards another hire purchase agreement for £187 which 
BMFL have said this new agreement was intended to replace. Therefore, Ive not included 
this when making the calculations for the regular committed expenditure. 
Taking all of this into account, Mr C had non-discretionary expenditure of around £1,880. 
Bearing in mind the average income over the period, his disposable income was around 
£177. Therefore, Im not satisfied he had sufficient disposable income to sustainably afford 
the repayments of £189.95. 
Having reviewed the information, Im satisfied its likely proportionate checks would have 
shown the lending was unaffordable. This is because Mr Cs income wasnt sufficient to 
cover non-discretionary expenditure, regular credit commitments and the repayments under 
the agreement. BMFL have said the new borrowing was only £2 more than his previous hire 
purchase agreement, which he had been paying successfully. However, for the reasons 
outlined above, I dont agree he did have sufficient disposable income and it meant it was 
unlikely Mr C could make the repayments in a sustainable way. Therefore, I dont think it was 
reasonable for BMFL to enter into the agreement.
 
Did BMFL act unfairly in some other way?
 
The evidence Ive seen doesnt demonstrate BMFL acted unfairly outside of entering the hire 
purchase agreement. 
Putting things right
Where a business has made an error, our service would usually aim to put the consumer 
back in the position they wouldve been in had the error not occurred. However, in cases 
where a business has lent irresponsibly this isnt entirely possible, as the lending provided 
cannot be undone. BMFL have confirmed Mr S has paid the agreed amount and now the 
agreement has ended he has kept possession of the car. 
As I dont think BMFL ought to have approved the lending, I dont think its fair for it to be 
able to charge any interest or charges under the agreement. Mr C should therefore only 
have to pay the original cash price of the car, being £9,213. Anything Mr C has paid in 
excess of that amount should be refunded as an overpayment. 
To settle Mr Cs complaint Blue Motor Finance Limited should do the following: 
Refund any payments Mr C has made in excess of £9,213, representing the original 
cash price of the car. It should add 8% simple interest per year* from the date of 
each overpayment to the date of settlement. 
Remove any adverse information recorded on Mr Cs credit file regarding the 
agreement. 
*If Blue Motor Finance Limited considers that its required by HM Revenue & Customs to 
deduct the inform tax from that interest, it should tell Mr C how much its taken off. It should also give Mr C a tax deduction certificate if he asks for one, so he can reclaim the tax from 
HM Revenue and Customs.
 
My final decision
Im upholding this complaint and Blue Motor Finance Ltd should put things right in the way 
outlined above. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 27 October 2023.
 
Laura Dean
Ombudsman