DRN-3399935
The complaint
Mr F complains that Clydesdale Bank Plc trading as Virgin Money wont refund his loss 
totalling £30,000 after he fell victim to a scam in April 2021.
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here. The facts are not in dispute, so Ill focus on giving the reasons for my decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
While Im very sorry that Mr F has been the victim of a cruel scam  and recognise the 
impact this is having on him, I agree with the conclusions reached by the investigator for 
these reasons:
Its not in dispute that Mr F made and authorised the payments of £10,000 and 
£20,000. So, under the Payment Services Regulations 2017, the starting position 
would be for Virgin Money to have followed his payment instructions.
However, taking into account the law, relevant regulations and good industry practice 
at the time, I would expect Virgin Money to have monitored accounts and identified 
suspicious activity, such as that which appeared unusual or out of character. In 
situations where potential fraud is identified, I would expect it to intervene and 
attempt to prevent losses for the customer. 
In this case, both payments Mr F made were in branch. It appears he was given a 
declaration form to sign which included scam warnings, but Id question whether this 
was enough given the significant sums involved. But Ive also thought about whether 
a further intervention, beyond the written warning, would have been likely to have 
unravelled the scam  and I dont think it would have. 
I say this because the firm Mr F believed he was paying had been cloned. So, he 
unknowingly paid a fraudster instead of the legitimate firm. The Financial Conduct 
Authority (FCA) issued a warning on its website, but this was published after hed 
made the payments. The declaration form Mr F signed advised him to check the 
FCAs website. But, had he done so, he would have found the firm he thought he was 
dealing with was legitimate. So, neither party would have had cause to think he was 
falling victim to a scam. And therefore I dont believe that Mr F has lost out as a result 
of the actions (or inactions) of Virgin Money. 
Virgin Money told Mr F it had attempted to recover the loss but that it had been 
unsuccessful. This isnt surprising given the time passed between the final payment 
and when Mr F reported the loss, several months later. But I cant reasonably have 
expected it to do anything further to try to recover the funds.
For these reasons I do not uphold this complaint.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint about Clydesdale Bank Plc trading as 
Virgin Money. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr F to accept or 
reject my decision before 10 October 2022.
 
Melanie Roberts
Ombudsman