DRN-1800426
The complaint
Mr J complains that Barclays Bank UK PLC blocked his credit card whilst he was travelling 
abroad, causing him trouble and upset. 
What happened
In late 2019 Mr J went travelling abroad for several months. He added credit onto his credit 
card, which he planned to use to pay for flights as he moved between locations. Mr J says 
he made the bank aware of his travel plans during a branch visit. 
Whilst away the bank blocked his card, leaving him unable to book flights as he needed. He 
says this created a lot of problems with his family, as he was reliant on his daughter (who 
wasnt travelling) to book and pay for flights for him. 
When Mr J returned to the UK, he found Barclays had blocked his card for security reasons 
and sent him a new card to replace it. Barclays said itd tried to contact Mr J by email several 
times to explain this, but due to a clerical error it made, these were never received. 
Mr J said if hed received the emails, his daughter couldve collected his new card and 
purchased the flights for him. He also said Barclays was unclear about how his email 
address was changed, giving varying versions of events. He also had concerns about 
security as emails meant for him were sent to the wrong email address. 
Barclays agreed it had recorded the email address incorrectly. But it said even if Mr J had 
received the emails, the original card wouldve still been blocked and a new card re-issued. 
For the trouble and upset caused it offered £150. 
One of our investigators looked into what happened. He said the account terms and 
conditions allowed Barclays to block and reissue a card in certain circumstances. And in this 
case, due to a security breach it had fairly taken these steps. He also said the email sent to 
the wrong address didnt contain sensitive data, so while he understood it caused worry, it 
didnt have a material impact on him. 
Overall he said £150 was fair compensation for the mistakes Barclays had made. 
As Mr J disagreed, the complaint has been passed to me for a final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Based on what Ive seen, Ive arrived at 
the same conclusions as the investigator and for broadly the same reasons.
blocking and replacing card
As our investigator has highlighted, the account terms and conditions allow Barclays to 
restrict account access if it reasonably considers it necessary. This is to prevent fraud and 
protect its customers. In this case, Barclays has told us it had reasonable cause to believe Mr Js details were at risk. So it followed its process to block the card and issue a new one. 
Im satisfied this was reasonable in the circumstances.
Its not in dispute that Barclays recorded the wrong email address for Mr J. So I have to 
consider the impact of this. Mr J said that he didnt contact Barclays when his card stopped 
working because he was concerned about call costs and had an unreliable internet 
connection. But from what Ive seen he was still contacting his daughter regularly so its not 
entirely clear why he didnt contact Barclays. 
But in any case, even if Barclays had managed to let Mr J know of the card being blocked, 
I'm not persuaded it would've significantly changed matters. I say this because a new card 
wouldve still been sent to his home address. So he wouldve always needed to rely on 
someone to help him with the flights  even if his daughter used his card as hes suggested. 
incorrect email address
Barclays has offered Mr J £150 for the impact of getting his email address wrong. 
During the period Mr J was away, its clear he didnt know the reasons why his card stopped 
working. And while knowledge of the reasons might not have changed what happened, I can 
see the uncertainty might have left him more frustrated or anxious. 
Barclays also sent an email to the wrong email address which Mr J has raised concerns 
about. Ive seen nothing to suggest it was received by any third party, and having looked at 
the contents I can see it included no personal information. So for that reason I agree with the 
investigator that this doesnt warrant any further compensation and its apology is sufficient. 
During the life of the complaint, I can see there has been some back and forth with regards 
to how Barclays updated Mr Js email address. But given Barclays has taken responsibility 
for the mistake, I dont see that this is material so Ive not considered it any further. 
Overall, I understand Mr J found the experience of having his card blocked and replaced 
frustrating and inconvenient. But put simply, Barclays took these steps to protect his account 
and details. And while Barclays couldve kept Mr J better informed of what was happening, 
Im satisfied its offer of £150 in compensation is fair and reasonable in the circumstances.  
My final decision
Barclays Bank UK PLC has made an offer to pay £150. I conclude that such an offer is fair 
and reasonable in all the circumstances. My decision is that Barclays Bank UK PLC should 
pay Mr J £150 if it hasnt done so already.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr J to accept or 
reject my decision before 24 July 2020.
 
Jack Baldry
Ombudsman