DRN-3114745
The complaint
Mr L complains that Bastion Insurance Co. Ltd turned down his claim on his car breakdown 
insurance policy.   
What happened
Mr Ls car wouldnt start so he called Bastion to claim on his policy. Bastion asked what the 
problem was and Mr L said the key wasnt working and wouldnt start the car. Because of 
this Bastion turned down his claim. Mr L didnt think that was fair and complained. 
Bastion reviewed the complaint and didnt uphold it. It said the policy didnt excludes cover 
for The cost of a locksmith if You lose, break or lock Your keys in Your Vehicle. Mr L didnt 
think this was fair and referred his complaint here, he said he hadnt lost or broken his key 
and it wasnt locked in the car. He also said hed had it recovered and inspected at a 
manufacturing garage which said the issue was with the cars onboard CAS unit, which 
meant the dash needed to be removed. 
Our investigator reviewed the complaint and recommended it was upheld. He found that the 
exclusion didnt apply to Mr Ls circumstances. However as Mr L wasnt able to evidence 
what hed paid for the recovery he didnt think it was fair for Bastion to cover that, instead he 
recommended Bastion pay Mr L £100 for the distress and inconvenience cause by declining 
his claim. 
Mr L accepted our investigators findings. Bastion didnt respond. As Bastion didnt respond 
the complaint has come to me to decide.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The exclusion Bastion has relied upon says: 
This policy will not apply for any claim caused by, arising from, or relating to, the 
following:
xliv. The cost of a locksmith if You lose, break or lock Your keys in Your Vehicle.
Bastion said that the policy doesnt cover any key related issues because they need 
reviewing by a locksmith. From reviewing the exclusion above which Bastion has referred to 
Im not persuaded it says that. The exclusion says the policy wont cover the cost of a 
locksmith if You lose, break or lock your keys in the car. In Mr Ls case, he hadnt lost, 
broken or locked his keys in his car. 
I appreciate he said the key wasnt working, but thats different to Mr L breaking it. Also, Mr L 
didnt need a locksmith, he needed recovery to either his home address or a garage. So, Im 
not persuaded that exclusion applied in this particular case. Furthermore, once Mr Ls car 
was properly diagnosed the garage has said the issue is with the CAS unit. 
As Im not persuaded Bastion acted fairly and reasonably when it turned down Mr Ls 
complaint, Ive looked at how to put things right. Our investigator recommended Bastion 
pays £100 for the unnecessary distress and inconvenience caused. Mr L accepted this, and 
Bastion didnt dispute this by the required date, so I see no reason to depart from it.   
My final decision
For the reasons explained above, I uphold this complaint. I require Bastion Insurance Co. 
Ltd to pay Mr L £100 for distress and inconvenience.   
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr L to accept or 
reject my decision before 19 November 2021.
 
Alex Newman
Ombudsman