DRN-2453356
The complaint
Mr R, on behalf of R, complains that Metro Bank PLC carried out a chargeback without
telling him which resulted in a County Court Judgement.
What happened
Mr R says a company that supplied equipment to him took money out of his account in
August 2019 for about £1,134. He says he was unaware of the transaction at the time but
accepts the money was owed. Mr R says in December 2019 he noticed a payment into his
account for £1,134 but thought it was a payment from a customer. He says without his
knowledge or without telling him Metro had reversed the payment from August 2019 which
led to the company issuing proceedings against him and a Count Court Judgement of about
£1,874 (CCJ) being recorded against the company which will have significant implications.
Metro says it ought to have told Mr R that it had reversed the transaction as Mr Rs account
was overdrawn. It says Mr R ought to have noticed the transaction but has offered £500 as it
accepts partial responsibility. It also says Mr R had some time before the CCJ was recorded
to pay the company.
Mr R says the first he became aware of the CCJ was when he received it in the post and
brought his complaint to us. Our investigator upheld the complaint in part and thought Metro
ought to have told Mr R what was happening and so thought it should pay £500
compensation for the impact of the CCJ and half the court fee as well as pay the £500 it
offered
.
Metro doesnt agree with that view and maintains that Mr R could have avoided the CCJ.
My provisional decision
I issued a provisional decision about this complaint and said as follows.
I came to the provisional view that Metro had made mistakes and ought to pay 
compensation. But I didnt think it ought to pay compensation for the impact of
the CCJ which I thought provisionally was avoidable for the reasons I explained.
I said there was no question here that Metro ought to have told Mr R that it was carrying out 
the chargeback and ought to have told him that the money had been paid into his account. If 
it had then I thought Mr R could have made immediate arrangements to repay the company 
that had originally taken the payment.
I could see from both parties that the money was paid into Mr Rs account in December 
2019. I thought Mr R had told us that he wasnt expecting any money into his account as he 
wasnt working but also told us that he thought it was from a customer. I thought Mr R ought 
to have realised that there was a payment into his account and could have checked with 
Metro where the money came from. But I didnt think that was a key issue as I could see that 
Mr R did contact Metro on 14 January 2020 and was given an explanation. I also thought 
that the County Court claim which is dated 13 January 2020 was the trigger that led to that 
contact.
I appreciated that Mr R said the document he received on 13 January 2020 was the CCJ, 
but I was satisfied it was not and it was the claim form that the company in question had 
issued. So, thought Mr R ought to have contacted that company and explained what had 
taken place and could have paid the company the money he knew he owed it. I also thought 
the CCJ would have been registered some time later which gave Mr R a reasonable time 
period to satisfy the debt or sort matters out. I didnt think Mr R had given us the actual CCJ 
or told us the date it was registered, and I made clear that the document he refers to as the 
CCJ was the claim form.
As I thought Mr R could have avoided the CCJ by paying the debt he owed I didnt think 
Metro should pay the £500 compensation for the impact that CCJ would have on R. But I 
didnt think Mr R could have avoided the claim being made and I also thought Metro should 
pay compensation for the earlier mistakes.
My provisional view was that Metro should pay £500 compensation for not telling Mr R about
the chargeback and for the extra costs caused by what took place. I also thought Metro 
should pay the £115 court fee as I was satisfied its actions led to court proceedings being 
started. But I didnt think Metro should pay for the cost of the rental items as Mr R was 
responsible for that amount. And for the reasons I explained I found that Mr R had a 
reasonable time period to avoid a CCJ and could have repaid the company as soon as he 
was aware of what had happened which I said was in January 2020. I said I hope Mr R could 
also explain what action he had taken if any to have the CCJ removed if he had satisfied the 
debt and said no doubt he could provide us with the date of the CCJ.
Mr R has replied to my provisional decision and says he accepts it. Metro says it has nothing 
to add to it.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I have come to the same view that I reached in my provisional decision and 
for the same reasons.  
Putting things right
I intend to order Metro to pay R £615 compensation in total.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint in part and order Metro Bank PLC to pay R a 
total of £615 compensation.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask R to accept or 
reject my decision before 31 January 2021.
 
David Singh
Ombudsman