DRN-1129603
 
The complaint
Mr D complains that Monzo Bank Ltd allowed his account with them to go overdrawn without 
his authorisation and failed to provide a satisfactory explanation when he raised this with 
them. 
What happened
Mr D opened an account with Monzo but hadn't yet put any money in it. He travelled on the 
London underground and found that both his Oyster card - which he'd intended to use - and 
his Monzo account card were charged for one journey. As a result, his Monzo account went 
overdrawn.
Mr D asked Monzo for an explanation, saying that he hadn't authorised them to debit the 
account when funds weren't available.
Monzo gave Mr D contact details at Transport for London (TFL) where he could obtain a 
refund. And they said TFL didn't check a customer's balance before processing payments.
Mr D wasn't happy with this explanation and made a complaint to Monzo. When they didn't 
uphold it, he brought his complaint to us. Our investigator looked into it and didn't think 
Monzo had done anything wrong.     
Mr D disagreed and asked for a final decision from an ombudsman. He's unhappy Monzo 
allowed his account to go overdrawn. And he doesn't think they dealt with his questions 
satisfactorily when he raised the issue with them.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Usually, when a customer makes a card payment, the merchant will in effect run a check to 
ensure the necessary funds are available in the customer's account before the payment is 
accepted.
There are exceptions to this. Some payments - for example, on planes, in hotels or at 
TFL entry / exit barriers - are made "offline". In other words, there's no automated check on 
the customer's account to ensure funds are available. 
Monzo aren't responsible for that. It's the way the broader system works. And that's usually 
more convenient for customers.
So, Monzo didn't have any choice but to allow the funds to be taken from Mr D's account. 
And when he contacted them, they made sure he had the correct contact details for TFL to 
resolve the "card clash" quickly and get a refund.Monzo haven't charged Mr D for going overdrawn. He's not suffered any financial loss as a 
result of being charged by TFL. And when he contacted Monzo, they did the right thing and 
told him how to get a refund from TFL as soon as possible.
I've seen the records of Mr D's contact with Monzo and I'm satisfied they handled his queries 
fairly, reasonably and professionally. So, I can't say Monzo have done anything wrong.  
 My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I don't uphold Mr D's complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision before 18 November 2019.
Neil Marshall
Ombudsman