DRN-3504468
The complaint
Mr W complains about the advice given by Acumen Independent Financial Planning Limited 
(Acumen) to transfer the benefits from his defined-benefit (DB) occupational pension 
scheme with British Steel (BSPS) to a personal pension arrangement. He says the advice 
was unsuitable for him and believes this has caused a financial loss
What happened
In March 2016, Mr Ws employer announced that it would be examining options to 
restructure its business, including decoupling the BSPS (the employers DB scheme) from 
the company. The consultation with members referred to possible outcomes regarding their 
preserved benefits, which included transferring the scheme to the Pension Protection Fund 
(PPF), or a new defined-benefit scheme (BSPS2). Alternatively, members were informed 
they could transfer their benefits to a private pension arrangement.
In October 2017, members of the BSPS were sent a Time to Choose letter which gave 
them the options to either stay in BSPS and move with it to the PPF, move to BSPS2 or 
transfer their BSPS benefits elsewhere. The deadline to make their choice was 
11 December 2017 (and was later extended to 22 December 2017). Mr W chose to move to 
the BSPS2.
Nevertheless, still concerned about what the announcement by his employer meant for the 
security of his pension, Mr W sought advice. Around November 2017, Mr W met with 
Acumen and it completed a fact-find to gather information about Mr Ws circumstances and 
objectives. Amongst other things this recorded that he was 35; he was married with three 
children; he owned his own home, which had an outstanding mortgage of around £102,000; 
he had a 50% share of the rental income from a property amounting to £275 a month; he 
had around £3,000 in savings and held some individual shares valued at around £4,500; and 
he was contributing to his employers new defined contribution (DC) pension scheme. 
Acumen also carried out an assessment of Mr Ws attitude to risk, which it deemed to be 
high medium  a score of 6 on a scale of 1-10.
In January 2018, following Mr Ws agreement to proceed with the transfer, the necessary 
paperwork was submitted to carry out the transfer. And on 9 February 2018, Acumen issued 
a suitability report confirming its advice to Mr W to transfer his BSPS benefits into a personal 
pension and invest the proceeds split across three investment funds. 
In summary, the suitability report said the reasons for this recommendation were to allow 
Mr W to access his benefits from any time from age 55; to provide a broad range of 
investment opportunities; to provide greater freedom and flexibility in how to access his 
pension; to provide better death benefits; and because Mr Ws desired level of retirement 
income was sustainable beyond his life expectancy given the various sources of income hed 
have.
In May 2018 the transfer was completed and around £164,000 was transferred to Mr Ws 
new personal pension plan.
In 2021 Mr W complained to Acumen about the suitability of the transfer advice. Mr W said 
he didnt think the advice was in his best interests and was worried about the performance of 
his pension plan and that it wouldnt perform well enough to match his BSPS benefits.
Because Acumen didnt respond to the complaint within the required timescale, Mr W asked 
the Financial Ombudsman Service to consider his complaint. An investigator upheld the 
complaint and required Acumen to pay compensation. In summary they said the transfer 
wasnt financially viable because of the growth rate required to match Mr Ws DB scheme 
benefits. And they didnt think there was a compelling reason to justify the transfer despite 
likely providing Mr W with overall lower retirement benefits. They said Mr W was too young 
to have any retirement plans at this stage and so he didnt know that he would retire early; 
he didnt have a need for flexibility at this time; and lump sum death benefits wasnt a 
suitable reason to transfer particularly when his DC scheme could provide this. They said if 
suitable advice had been given not to transfer, Mr W wouldve followed that advice and on 
balance he wouldve moved to the BSPS2.
Acumen disagreed. It said that the BSPS2 was not guaranteed to go ahead at the time  the 
only options were to transfer or move to the PPF. And it said Mr W didnt want to go into the 
PPF.
The investigator wasnt persuaded to change their opinion, so the complaint was passed to 
me for a final decision.
Following the referral, Acumen indicated that it wanted to run a loss calculation and it made 
an offer of settlement to Mr W. It appears the offer wasnt accepted by Mr W / the offer 
expired  so it is necessary for me to give certainty to both parties on this matter and make a 
final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive taken into account relevant law and regulations, regulators rules, guidance and 
standards and codes of practice, and what I consider to have been good industry practice at 
the time. This includes the Principles for Businesses (PRIN) and the Conduct of Business 
Sourcebook (COBS). And where the evidence is incomplete, inconclusive or contradictory, I 
reach my conclusions on the balance of probabilities  that is, what I think is more likely than 
not to have happened based on the available evidence and the wider surrounding 
circumstances.
The applicable rules, regulations and requirements
The below is not a comprehensive list of the rules and regulations which applied at the time 
of the advice, but provides useful context for my assessment of Acumens actions here.
PRIN 6: A firm must pay due regard to the interests of its customers and treat them fairly.
PRIN 7: A firm must pay due regard to the information needs of its clients, and communicate 
information to them in a way which is clear, fair and not misleading.
COBS 2.1.1R: A firm must act honestly, fairly and professionally in accordance with the best interests of its client (the client's best interests rule).
The provisions in COBS 9 which deal with the obligations when giving a personal 
recommendation and assessing suitability. And the provisions in COBS 19 which specifically 
relate to a DB pension transfer.
Having considered all of this and the evidence in this case, Ive decided to uphold the 
complaint for largely the same reasons given by the investigator. My reasons are set out 
below.
The regulator, the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA), states in COBS 19.1.6G that the 
starting assumption for a transfer from a DB scheme is that it is unsuitable. So, Acumen 
should have only considered a transfer if it could clearly demonstrate that the transfer was in 
Mr Ws best interests. And having looked at all the evidence available, Im not satisfied it was 
in his best interests.
Financial viability
Acumen carried out a transfer value analysis report (as required by the regulator) showing 
how much Mr Ws pension fund would need to grow by each year in order to provide the 
same benefits as his DB scheme (the critical yield). However, this was based on his existing 
scheme benefits. But at the time of the advice Mr W didnt have the option to remain in the 
BSPS  he either needed to opt into the BSPS2 or move with the scheme to the PPF. 
I can see that Acumen provided an estimate of the annual pension amount Mr W would likely 
receive at 65 through the BSPS2. But I think the benefits available to him through the 
BSPS2 shouldve been factored in with Acumens transfer value analysis. Its possible 
Acumen didnt do this because it has argued in response to the investigators opinion of the 
complaint that the BSPS2 wasnt guaranteed to go ahead at this time. But I think Acumens 
comments suggest it overestimated the chances of this not happening. Mr W had received 
his Time to Choose information by the time the advice was given and details of the scheme 
had been provided; the BSPS2 wouldve offered the same income benefits but the annual 
increases wouldve been lower. Of course, its possible this may not have gone ahead, but 
all of the communications from the scheme trustees were very optimistic that the scheme 
operating conditions would be met. So given this, and because Mr W had elected to opt-into 
the BSPS2, I think it was reasonable for Acumen to have factored the benefits available to 
Mr W through the BSPS2 into its analysis and advice so that he was able to make a fully 
informed decision.
The advice was given after the regulator gave instructions in Final Guidance FG17/9 as to 
how businesses could calculate future 'discount rates' in loss assessments where a 
complaint about a past pension transfer was being upheld. Prior to October 2017 similar 
rates were published by the Financial Ombudsman Service on our website. Whilst 
businesses weren't required to refer to these rates when giving advice on pension transfers, 
they provide a useful indication of what growth rates would have been considered 
reasonably achievable for a typical investor.
Mr W was 35 at the time of the advice and its recorded that he was looking to retire at 58. 
The critical yield required to match Mr Ws benefits at age 65 was set out in the TVAS report 
of 13 November 2017 and was 6.9% a year if he took a full pension  no figure was 
produced based on a cash lump sum and a reduced pension. The critical yield to match the 
benefits available through the PPF at age 65 was quoted as 5.1% per year if Mr W took a full 
pension  again no figure was produced for a cash lump sum and a reduced pension.But as Ive said above, Mr W remaining in the BSPS wasnt an option. So, the critical yields 
applicable to the BSPS2 benefits shouldve been provided instead. The lower annual 
increases under the BSPS2 wouldve likely decreased the critical yields somewhat. But I still 
think they wouldve likely been higher than those reflecting the PPF benefits.
Furthermore, it strikes me as a little odd why Acumen only produced critical yield figures 
based on the schemes normal retirement age of 65 when Mr W had indicated that he 
wanted to retire earlier at age 58. This was the retirement age the advice was, or ought to 
have been predicated on, so I wouldve expected to see Acumen include critical yield figures 
based on the benefits available to Mr W at 58 too. Without this I dont think Mr W was in a 
position to make an informed decision.
The relevant discount rate closest to when the advice was given which I can refer to was 
published by the Financial Ombudsman Service for the period before 1 October 2017, and 
was 4.7% per year for 29 years to retirement (age 65) and 4.5% for 22 years to retirement 
(age 58.) Ive kept in mind that the regulator's projection rates had also remained unchanged 
since 2014: the regulator's upper projection rate at the time was 8%, the middle projection 
rate 5%, and the lower projection rate 2%. 
I've taken this into account, along with the composition of assets in the discount rate, Mr Ws 
high medium attitude to risk and also the term to retirement. In my view, there would be 
little point in Mr W giving up the guarantees available to him through his DB scheme only to 
achieve, at best, the same level of benefits outside the scheme. As I said above, Acumen 
didnt produce critical yield figures based on Mr Ws target retirement age of 58. Had it done 
so, I think its reasonable to assume that given the shorter term to retirement and even 
allowing for the lower annual increases under the BSPS2, the critical yields wouldve been 
higher based on a retirement age of 58 than those quoted at age 65. 
Nevertheless, even based on a retirement age of 65, at a required investment return of 6.9% 
(and allowing for a slight decrease in the critical yield based on the BSPS2 benefits) I think 
Mr W was most likely to receive benefits of a lower overall value than those provided by the 
BSPS2 if he transferred to a personal pension, as a result of investing in line with a high 
medium attitude to risk. And I dont think the position was very different if the scheme didnt 
go ahead and Mr W moved to the PPF  I think the opportunity to improve on the benefits 
available to Mr W was extremely limited.
For this reason alone a transfer out of the DB scheme wasnt in Mr Ws best interests. Of 
course financial viability isnt the only consideration when giving transfer advice. And this is 
something Acumen indicated at the time  it didnt believe that the required returns could be 
met to match Mr Ws scheme benefits but thought Mr Ws other objectives meant the 
transfer was suitable. So as I agree there might be other considerations which mean a 
transfer is suitable, despite providing overall lower benefits,  Ive considered this below.
Flexibility and income needs
One of the main reasons Acumen recommended the transfer was to provide Mr W with the 
ability to access his pension benefits from age 55 and to offer flexibility and control in how he 
accessed those benefits.
But Im not persuaded that Mr W knew with any certainty whether he required flexibility in
retirement. And in any event, I dont think he needed to transfer his DB scheme benefits at
this stage to achieve flexibility - if thats what he ultimately required.
Mr W was 35 at the time of the advice. And while I accept its possible he had given his 
future retirement some thought, given it was at least 23 years away and he still had the majority of his working life in front of him, I dont think he had anything that could reasonably 
be described as a firm retirement plan. In support of this I can see in the suitability report it 
said: Looking to retire at 58 although this might may change... I think Mr Ws desire to want 
to retire early at 58, was in my view likely based on the earliest age he would be entitled to 
access his benefits rather than being a firm objective.
Like most people, I accept Mr W liked the idea of retiring early. And he already had this 
option available to him he didnt have to transfer out to achieve this. I also accept Mr W 
couldnt take his DB scheme benefits flexibly. Although he could choose to take a cash lump 
sum and a reduced annual pension, Mr W had to take those benefits at the same time. But 
nothing here indicates that Mr W had a likely future need to take a cash lump sum and defer 
taking his income. I also havent seen anything to indicate that Mr W had a strong need to 
vary his income throughout retirement. In fact Mr W didnt know what income hed need in 
retirement and Acumen didnt do anything to try and establish it  the relevant section in the 
fact-find about future income requirement says: None...23 years to retirement.
So it strikes me that flexibility was simply a feature or a consequence of transferring to a 
personal pension arrangement rather than a genuine objective of Mr Ws at the time.
But crucially, Mr W was contributing to his workplace DC pension scheme. And the nature of 
a DC scheme means this already provided Mr W with flexibility  he wasnt committed to 
take these benefits in a set way. Acumen recorded that a total of 16% of Mr Ws salary was 
being invested here  a combination of employer and employee contributions. So by age 58, 
based on current contributions alone and without accounting for growth, salary increases or 
increases in contribution rate, this could be worth around £118,000. And even accounting for 
modest growth over this period, this could be substantially more. I think Mr W couldve taken 
lump sums as and when required and adjusted the income he took from it according to his 
needs. So, I think if Mr W retained his DB pension, this combined with his new workplace 
pension (plus the share of the rental income he was receiving assuming this would continue 
)wouldve likely given him the flexibility to retire early - if thats what he ultimately decided.
So in any event, Mr W didnt need to transfer his DB scheme benefits at this stage to a 
personal pension arrangement in order to achieve flexibility in retirement. And he didnt have 
to sacrifice this by opting into the BSPS2. But if Mr W did in fact have a greater need for 
flexibility beyond that which he already had, because the BSPS2 wouldve still allowed Mr W 
the ability to transfer out, I think this couldve been explored closer to his intended retirement 
age - if his needs later demanded it.
Turning to Mr Ws income need  as I said above, Mr W did not know, and Acumen did not 
attempt to establish, what income Mr W might likely need in retirement. I think it was simply 
too far in the future for Mr W to make a reasonable estimate. Despite that, one of Acumens 
reasons for recommending the transfer was because Mr Ws desired level of retirement 
income was sustainable beyond his life expectancy. The report also said that: You do not 
need the higher level of income projected from the British Steel Pension Scheme... 
But I dont know how Acumen could reasonably arrive at either of these conclusions given it 
did not know or record the level of income Mr W would need.
I think it was far too early to recommend Mr W transfer out of his DB scheme when both his 
retirement plans and income needs were unknown. And when there was nothing to indicate 
that the income from the BSPS2 (estimated by Acumen to be £13,905 a year at age 65, so 
at age 58 and assuming Mr W did choose to retire at 58 it would be lower) wouldnt have 
provided Mr W with a solid guaranteed income foundation upon which his other means could supplement to likely meet his needs. As I referred to above, Mr W had his DC workplace 
pension, which he could draw on flexibly, as and when needed to top up his income or take 
lump sums. Mr W might also still have the benefit of his share of a rental income (£275 a 
month at the time of the advice.) Im mindful too that with at least 23 years to retirement and 
possibly more, Mr W would likely have capacity at various points to save any excess income 
in the years to his retirement to give him further scope to supplement his income  at least 
until his state pension being payable later on.
If the BSPS2 hadnt gone ahead, Mr W wouldve moved with the scheme to the PPF. And 
while the income Mr W would receive was likely lower than the pension hed be entitled to 
under the BSPS2, I dont think it was substantially lower such that it wouldve made a 
difference to the recommendation. 
So overall, I dont think it was in Mr Ws best interests for him to transfer his pension just to 
have flexibility that Im not persuaded he really needed and when his retirement plans and 
income needs were unknown. 
Death benefits
Acumen also recommended the transfer for better lump sum death benefits  the suitability 
report said that the lump sum death benefits through a transfer to a personal pension 
arrangement were better than those provided from the two options put forward by British 
Steel.
Death benefits are an emotive subject and of course when asked, most people would like 
their loved ones to be taken care of when they die. The lump sum death benefits on offer 
through a personal pension was likely an attractive feature to Mr W. But whilst I appreciate 
death benefits are important to consumers, and Mr W might have thought it was a good idea 
to transfer his DB scheme to a personal pension because of this, the priority here was to 
advise Mr W about what was best for his retirement provisions. A pension is primarily 
designed to provide income in retirement  not as a legacy planning tool.
I also think the existing death benefits attached to the DB scheme were underplayed. Mr W 
was married, so the 50% spouses pension wouldve been useful to his spouse if Mr W 
predeceased her. I dont think Acumen made the value of this benefit clear enough to Mr W. 
This was guaranteed and it escalated. And under the BSPS2 it would be calculated as if no 
cash lump sum had been taken (if Mr W chose to do so). Furthermore, it was not dependent 
on investment performance, whereas the sum remaining on death in a personal pension 
was. In any event, Acumen should not have encouraged Mr W to prioritise the potential for 
higher death benefits through a personal pension over his security in retirement.
Im mindful too that Mr W already had lump sum death benefits available to him through his 
workplace DC scheme  he also had death-in-service benefit, which wouldve paid out in the 
event of Mr Ws death before retirement. And Mr W couldve nominated his wife and/or 
children as beneficiaries of these if he hadnt already done so.
But if Mr W genuinely wanted to leave a legacy for his spouse and/or children, which didnt 
depend on investment returns or how much of his pension fund remained on his death, I 
think Acumen shouldve instead explored and ultimately recommended additional life 
insurance. 
The starting point for this didnt necessarily have to be based around a sum assured for the 
full transfer value of Mr Ws pension. Basing the quote on this basis essentially assumes that 
he would pass away on day one following the transfer, and that isnt realistic. Ultimately, 
Mr W wanted to leave whatever remained of his pension to his family, which would be a lot 
less than this if he lived a long life, if he took more from his pension than expected and/or if investment returns were lower than expected. So, the starting point shouldve been to ask 
Mr W how much he would ideally like to leave to his family, taking into account his existing 
benefits. And this couldve been explored on a whole of life or term assurance basis, which 
was likely to be a lot cheaper to provide given Mr Ws age. 
Overall, I dont think different death benefits available through a transfer to a personal 
pension arrangement justified the likely decrease of retirement benefits for Mr W. And I dont 
think that insurance was properly explored as a suitable alternative.
Control or concerns over financial stability of the BSPS
While Mr Ws concerns about the scheme wasnt given as a reason for the recommendation 
to transfer, Acumen says that Mr W didnt want to go into the PPF.
I understand that Mr W, like many of his colleagues, was concerned about his pension. His  
employer had recently made the announcement about its plans for the scheme and so he 
was likely worried his pension would end up in the PPF. There were lots of negative things 
circulating about the PPF. So its quite possible that Mr W was leaning towards the decision 
to transfer because of the concerns he had. But it was Acumens obligation to give Mr W an 
objective picture and recommend what was in his best interests.
As Ive explained, by this point details of the BSPS2 were known and it seemed likely it was 
going ahead. So, the advice shouldve properly taken into account the benefits available to 
Mr W through the BSPS2, particularly as hed chosen to opt into it. I think this shouldve 
alleviated some of Mr Ws concerns about the scheme moving to the PPF.
But even if there was a chance the BSPS2 wouldnt go ahead, I think that Acumen shouldve 
reassured Mr W that the scheme moving to the PPF wasnt as concerning as he thought or 
had been led to believe. Importantly Mr W still had the option of taking early retirement 
through the PPF. Mr W didnt have any firm retirement plans at this stage - but I think the 
income available to Mr W through the PPF wouldve still provided a solid base, which his 
other means including his DC scheme could supplement to meet his overall income need at 
retirement. Crucially I dont think he was likely to be able to exceed this by transferring out. 
And although the increases in payment in the PPF were lower, the income was still 
guaranteed and was not subject to any investment risk. Mr W might not have been able to 
later transfer out of the PPF  but given what I said earlier on about him already having 
flexibility, I dont think there was an apparent need for him to do so.
Summary
I accept that, given the broader circumstances and situation at the time Mr W was likely 
motivated to transfer out of the BSPS and that his concerns about what might happen to the 
scheme were real. And I dont doubt that the flexibility, control and potential for higher or 
different death benefits on offer through a personal pension would have sounded like 
attractive features to Mr W. But Acumen wasnt there to just transact what Mr W might have 
thought he wanted. The advisers role was to really understand what Mr W needed and 
recommend what was in his best interests.
Ultimately, I dont think the advice given to Mr W was suitable. He was giving up a 
guaranteed, risk-free and increasing income. By transferring, Mr W was very likely to obtain 
lower retirement benefits and in my view, there were no other particular reasons which would 
justify a transfer and outweigh this. Mr W did not have any real retirement plans, so he 
shouldnt have been advised to transfer out of the scheme just to have flexibility that Im not persuaded he really needed, and the potential for higher death benefits wasnt worth giving 
up the guarantees associated with his DB scheme. So, I dont think it was in Mr Ws best 
interests for him to transfer his DB scheme to a personal pension at this time, particularly 
when Mr W had already opted-into the BSPS2.
So, I think Acumen shouldve advised Mr W that his decision to opt into the BSPS2 was a 
suitable one and in his best interests in the circumstances.
Of course, I have to consider whether Mr W would've gone ahead anyway, against 
Acumens advice.
Ive considered this carefully, but Im not persuaded that Mr W wouldve insisted on 
transferring out of the BSPS against Acumens advice. I say this because, while as Ive 
already said Mr W was likely motivated to transfer when he approached Acumen, on 
balance, I still think Mr W wouldve listened to and followed its advice if things had happened 
as they should have and it recommended he not transfer out of the scheme. While I can see 
Mr W held some individual shares, he was not, in my view an experienced investor or 
someone who possessed the requisite skill, knowledge or confidence to against the advice 
they was given, particularly in complex pension matters. Mr Ws pension accounted for most 
of his private retirement provision at the time and as Acumen documented, his capacity for 
loss was low. So, if Acumen had provided him with clear advice against transferring out of 
the BSPS, explaining why it wasnt in his best interests, I think he wouldve accepted that 
advice.
Im not persuaded that Mr Ws concerns about the scheme were so great that he wouldve 
insisted on the transfer knowing that a professional adviser, whose expertise he had sought 
out and was paying for, didnt think it was suitable for him or in his best interests. So, if 
Acumen had clearly explained this and that it wasnt necessary for Mr W  to risk his 
guaranteed pension at this stage, I think that wouldve carried significant weight. So, I dont 
think Mr W wouldve insisted on transferring out of the BSPS if Acumen had given suitable 
advice that he not do so and told him that his decision to opt into the BSPS2 was the right 
one in the circumstances.
In light of the above, I think Acumen should compensate Mr W for the unsuitable advice, in 
line with the regulatory rules for calculating redress for non-compliant pension transfer 
advice. And as per the above, it is the benefits available to him through the BSPS2 that 
should be used for comparison purposes.
I can see the investigator also recommended an award of £250 for the distress and 
inconvenience the matter has caused Mr W. So Ive also thought about whether its fair to 
award compensation for distress and inconvenience - this isnt intended to fine or punish 
Acumen  which is the job of the regulator. But I think its fair to recognise the emotional and 
practical impact this had on Mr W. Taking everything into account, including that I consider 
Mr Ws retirement provision is of great importance to him given its significance in his overall 
retirement income provision, I think the unsuitable advice has caused him some distress. So 
I think an award of £250 is fair in all the circumstances.
Putting things right
A fair and reasonable outcome would be for the business to put Mr W, as far as possible, 
into the position he would now be in but for the unsuitable advice. I consider Mr W would 
most likely have remained in the occupational pension scheme and moved to the BSPS2 if 
suitable advice had been given.Acumen must therefore undertake a redress calculation in line with the rules for calculating 
redress for non-compliant pension transfer advice, as detailed in policy statement PS22/13 
and set out in the regulators handbook in DISP App 4: 
https://www.handbook.fca.org.uk/handbook/DISP/App/4/?view=chapter.
Acumen should use the FCAs BSPS-specific redress calculator to calculate the redress. A 
copy of the BSPS calculator output should be sent to Mr W and the Financial Ombudsman 
Service upon completion of the calculation.
For clarity, Mr W has not yet retired, and he has no plans to do so at present. So, 
compensation should be based on the schemes normal retirement age, as per the usual 
assumptions in the FCA's guidance.
This calculation should be carried out using the most recent financial assumptions in line 
with DISP App 4. In accordance with the regulators expectations, this should be undertaken 
or submitted to an appropriate provider promptly following receipt of notification of ,Mr Ws 
acceptance of my final decision.
If the redress calculation demonstrates a loss, as explained in policy statement PS22/13 and 
set out in DISP App 4, Acumen should:
calculate and offer Mr W redress as a cash lump sum payment,
explain to Mr W before starting the redress calculation that:
- their redress will be calculated on the basis that it will be invested prudently 
(in line with the cautious investment return assumption used in the 
calculation), and
- a straightforward way to invest their redress prudently is to use it to augment 
their DC pension
offer to calculate how much of any redress Mr W receives could be augmented rather 
than receiving it all as a cash lump sum,
if Mr W accepts Acumens offer to calculate how much of their redress could be 
augmented, request the necessary information and not charge Mr W for the 
calculation, even if he ultimately decides not to have any of their redress augmented, 
and
take a prudent approach when calculating how much redress could be augmented, 
given the inherent uncertainty around Mr Ws end of year tax position.
Redress paid to Mr W as a cash lump sum will be treated as income for tax purposes. So, in 
line with DISP App 4, Acumen may make a notional deduction to cash lump sum payments 
to take account of tax that consumers would otherwise pay on income from their pension. 
Typically, 25% of the loss could have been taken as tax-free cash and 75% would have 
been taxed according to Mr Ws likely income tax rate in retirement  presumed to be 20%. 
So making a notional deduction of 15% overall from the loss adequately reflects this.
Acumen should also pay Mr W £250 for the distress and inconvenience the matter has 
caused.
Where I uphold a complaint, I can award fair compensation of up to £160,000, plus any 
interest and/or costs that I consider are appropriate. Where I consider that fair compensation 
requires payment of an amount that might exceed £160,000, I may recommend that the 
business pays the balance. My final decision
Determination and money award: I uphold this complaint and require Acumen Independent 
Financial Planning Limited to pay Mr W the compensation amount as set out in the steps 
above, up to a maximum of £160,000.
Recommendation: If the compensation amount exceeds £160,000, I also recommend that 
Acumen Independent Financial Planning Limited pays Mr W the balance.
If Mr W accepts this decision, the money award becomes binding on Acumen Independent 
Financial Planning Limited.
My recommendation would not be binding. Further, its unlikely that Mr W can accept my 
decision and go to court to ask for the balance. Mr W may want to consider getting 
independent legal advice before deciding whether to accept any final decision.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 19 October 2023. 
Paul Featherstone
Ombudsman