DRN-3201288
The complaint
Mr and Mrs J complain Santander UK Plc has treated them unfairly in many ways, including 
but not limited to not providing them with full statements for their accounts.
What happened
Mr and Mrs J have had over 90 accounts with Santander and related businesses going back 
over 20 years. Theyve made a number of complaints about Santander, amongst others, 
over the years, including complaints about Santander failing to provide them with full 
statements meaning, they say, that they cannot reconcile their accounts.
Our service has dealt with a number of complaints from Mr and Mrs J, some of which have 
resulted in decisions from ombudsmen.
Santander has also dealt with a number of complaints from Mr and Mrs J, and has said, for 
example, that its unable to provide more detail about the accounts theyve asked about. 
Santander has also said, for example, that a lot of the information Mr and Mrs J have asked 
for no longer exists as it doesnt keep information indefinitely.
Santander and one of our investigators looked into Mr and Mrs Js complaint that Santander 
has treated them unfairly in many ways. Our investigator said  after having given 
considerable thought to what we could and couldnt look into  that they didnt think 
Santander had acted unfairly. Mr and Mrs J didnt agree with our investigator and asked for a 
decision from an ombudsman. So Ive looked into this complaint.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr and Mrs J are complaining about over 90 accounts and are complaining about multiple 
issues.
Im not going to go into each and every one of their complaints in detail  weve received 
extensive amounts of correspondence about their complaints over the years  not least 
because I dont think that will help anyone. Instead, Im going to summarise what I consider 
to be the key issues theyre complaining about. These are that Santander:
(1) hasnt provided full statements for each and every one of their accounts meaning 
theyre unable to reconcile them;
(2) hasnt kept the information about each and every one of their accounts  its 
destroyed information, despite Mr and Mrs J telling Santander not to do so;
(3) hasnt paid balances owing to them; and
(4) hasnt provided details of how a settlement for one of their accounts has been 
calculated.
Im not going to go into detail about why I agree with our investigator that these complaints 
ought not to be upheld, again because I dont think thatll help. Ill keep my reasoning short 
and to the point.
Having looking at the evidence, Im satisfied that Santander has spent a considerable 
amount of time and effort trying to provide Mr and Mrs J with as much of the information as 
theyve asked for as it can. Thats despite some of that information being over 10 years old. 
More importantly, Im satisfied that Santander has gone further than a bank normally would 
have to go in order to meet Mr and Mrs Js requests for information. I can see that Mr and 
Mrs J dont feel Santander has done enough for them, but I dont agree that it would be fair 
or reasonable to expect Santander to do more.
I can see that Mr and Mrs J are concerned that they arent able to reconcile all of their 
accounts  theyre worried about HMRC and believe that theyre owed money but they cant 
get to the bottom of this. I can also see why Mr and Mrs J didnt want Santander to destroy 
any information about their accounts, and to keep it indefinitely because thats what they told 
Santander to do. But I dont agree that this is something Santander should have done, not 
least because it has obligations under the Data Protection Act which mean it shouldnt retain 
information indefinitely and because Mr and Mrs J have responsibilities as customers too.
I know that this decision wont give Mr and Mrs J the closure they want or need. But I cant 
say Santander should be doing more, and I dont think it is helping that Mr and Mrs J keep 
on raising the same or similar issues. I genuinely hope they can move on.
My final decisio
My final decision is that its neither fair nor reasonable to expect Santander to do more.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr J and Mrs J to 
accept or reject my decision before 21 February 2022.
 
Nicolas Atkinson
Ombudsman