DRN-2870836
The complaint
Mrs B complains Watford Insurance Company Europe Limited has avoided her car 
insurance policy (that is, treated it like it never existed) and said it wont deal with her claim.
What happened
Mrs B took out a car insurance policy online through a broker. Her husband was a named 
driver on the policy. When her car was stolen, Mrs B tried to claim. 
Watford said it wouldnt deal with Mrs Bs claim and cancelled her policy. This was because 
it said Mrs B had misrepresented her husbands occupations when she applied for the 
insurance. It says if it had been given the correct information, it wouldnt have accepted the 
risk.
Mrs B brought her complaint about this to us. The investigator who looked at it upheld it. In 
brief, he thought Watford shouldve continued covering Mrs B under the policy but removed 
Mr B. So he said Watford should reinstate the policy and deal with Mrs Bs claim. He also 
said Watford should pay Mrs B £150 for the distress and inconvenience it had caused her.
Watford disagrees and has asked for an ombudsman to look at Mrs Bs complaint. It says it 
only knew Mr Bs occupations after the car theft of the car. It says it wouldnt have offered 
cover if it had known these details when the policy started.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided to uphold Mrs Bs complaint. I dont think Watford has treated 
Mrs B fairly, Ill explain why.
The relevant law in this complaint is The Consumer Insurance (Disclosure and 
Representations) Act 2012 (CIDRA). This requires consumers to take reasonable care not to 
make a misrepresentation when taking out a consumer insurance contract. The standard of 
care is that of a reasonable consumer. 
If a consumer fails to take reasonable care, the insurer has certain remedies as long as the 
misrepresentation is what CIDRA calls a qualifying misrepresentation. For it to be a 
qualifying misrepresentation, the insurer has to show it would have offered the policy on 
different terms, or not at all, if the consumer hadnt made the misrepresentation. 
CIDRA sets out a number of considerations for deciding whether a consumer failed to take 
reasonable care. And the remedy available to the insurer under CIDRA depends on whether 
the qualifying misrepresentation was deliberate or reckless, or careless.
Watford says Mrs B failed to take reasonable care when she described her husbands 
occupation as shop assistant when applying for the insurance. When Mr B spoke to 
Watford to report the theft just under a year later, he said he was a taxi driver and had been 
for about two years.
Watford has sent us a screenshot showing what it says Mrs B wouldve been asked about 
her named drivers occupation. One question asks what their main occupation status is. 
Another asks if they have any other job. The screenshot for this second question shows a 
box for an applicant to start typing in to bring up another occupation.
At the time Mrs B applied for the insurance, Mr B had a private vehicle licence for use with 
another car (which he had separately insured). And Mrs B has said Mr B worked as a private 
hire driver during the week at that time. But Mr B had also recently been offered a role as a 
kitchen shop assistant, which he was due to start at around the same time the policy 
started. Mrs B says his plan was to work in this role at weekends. In the end, though, she 
says Mr B didnt carry on this role beyond the initial training period. But he did continue to 
work as a private hire driver.
Looking at the information Ive got about this, I think Mrs B failed to take reasonable care 
when she applied for the car insurance. I say this especially since it seems she was given 
the chance in her online application to show her husband had (or was about to have) two 
jobs when the policy started. But she only gave details of the new job which, at the time she 
applied for the insurance, he hadnt actually started.
Watford has given us extracts from its underwriting guidance to show that, whether Mr B was 
described as a taxi driver or a private hire driver, either occupation was one that was 
unacceptable to it for the policy Mrs B wanted to take out. So Im satisfied that, if Mrs B had 
said Mr B was a taxi driver or private hire driver when she took the policy out, Watford 
wouldve turned down cover for Mr B. 
Because Mrs B failed to take reasonable care when she applied for the insurance and 
because Watford has shown the correct information wouldve made a difference to its 
acceptance of the risk, I think there has been a qualifying misrepresentation for the purposes 
of CIDRA.
So next I must decide whether Mrs Bs misrepresentation was deliberate or reckless, or 
careless. Watford has said it thinks it was careless. I agree. Since Im satisfied Mrs Bs 
misrepresentation should be treated as careless, Ive looked at the actions Watford can take 
under CIDRA.
Watford has taken the view that, because Mr Bs occupation was one it would never have 
covered, its entitled to treat Mrs Bs policy as if it never existed from the start and not deal 
with her claim. Its view is that its allowed to do this under CIDRA.
But in the circumstances of Mrs Bs complaint I dont think that leads to a fair and reasonable 
outcome. Thats because Mrs B was the policyholder and the registered keeper of the car. 
From what she says, she was the main driver and also the last person to drive it before it 
was stolen. And, as Ive said, Mr B had another car insured in his name to which his private 
vehicle hire licence applied  so he wouldnt have been able to use her car for his work. 
Also, Ive seen nothing to make me think Mr Bs occupation had any bearing on the theft of 
the car. And, in any case, where theres been a careless misrepresentation, CIDRA says if 
an insurer wouldve entered into a policy, but on different terms (other than relating to the 
premium), the policy should be treated as if it had been entered into on those different terms.
While Mr B was an unacceptable underwriting risk to Watford as a named driver on the 
policy, Watford hasnt shown Mrs B was also an unacceptable risk. So I think the fair and 
reasonable thing to do here is for Watford to treat the policy as if Mr B was never on it from the policy start date. But I think it should reinstate Mrs Bs policy in her name only (including 
making any necessary adjustments to the premium) and deal with her claim in line with the 
policy terms.
Mrs B says shes suffered a lot of hurt and stress as a result of Watfords actions. For 
example, shes shown us evidence she fainted and an ambulance was called on the same 
day Watford gave her notice of cancellation of her insurance. And shes described how it 
disrupted her home life. In these circumstances, I think its fair and reasonable Watford 
should pay Mrs B £150 for the distress and inconvenience its caused her.
I should mention one final point. Watford says it has no record of a phone call Mrs B says 
was made to it about mistakes in the policy details at the start  including to do with Mr Bs 
occupation. I dont know why theres a discrepancy here. But it doesnt give me a reason to 
change any of my conclusions on this complaint.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given, I uphold Mrs Bs complaint and direct Watford Insurance 
Company Europe Limited to:
Reinstate Mrs Bs policy (but with Mr B removed as a named driver) and deal with 
Mrs Bs claim in line with her policy terms and conditions. 
Recalculate Mrs Bs premium, without Mr B as a named driver, from the policy start 
date and, if this changes the premium, tell Mrs B how much it owes her or how much 
she owes it.
Remove the policy cancellation from all internal and external databases and write to 
Mrs B to confirm the cancellation was an error on its part (so she can show this letter 
to future insurers, if she needs to).
Reimburse Mrs B any charges shes paid in connection with the policy cancellation.
Pay Mrs B £150 in compensation for the distress and inconvenience it has caused 
her.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs B to accept or 
reject my decision before 30 August 2021.
 
Jane Gallacher
Ombudsman