DRN-2981268
The complaint
Mr H complains about the service provided to him by National Savings and Investments 
(NS&I) in early 2021.
What happened
Mr H received a letter from NS&I on 22 January 2021 dated 19 January 2021. This letter 
referenced a letter NS&I had received from Mr H on 7 January 2021. But this letter didnt 
give the date of Mr Hs letter, or what his letter was about.
On 22 January 2021 Mr H telephoned NS&I to try and establish what letter (from him) it was 
referring to in its letter dated 19 January 2021.
Mr H was unhappy with how long it took NS&I to answer his call of 22 January 2021, how 
the call was handled by NS&Is representative and unhappy that he wasnt asked sufficient 
questions by NS&Is representative for him to be reasonably identified, therefore breaching 
General Data Protection Regulation (GDPR).
Mr Hs complaint was considered by one of our investigators who didnt uphold it. In 
summary she said:
The time Mr H had to wait for his call of 22 January 2021 to be connected was both 
understandable and reasonable given the unusual circumstances NS&I (and other 
financial institutions) were having to work in at the time.
In all the circumstances NS&Is handling of Mr Hs call of 22 January 2021 was 
reasonable and understandable.
There had been no unauthorised disclosure by NS&I of Mr Hs personal data during 
the call of 22 January 2021. In any event, its not in dispute that anything that was 
discussed or disclosed during the call of 22 January 2021 was only discussed with, 
or only disclosed to, Mr H, nobody else.
If Mr H wanted to pursue a complaint about a possible breach of GDPR by NS&I, 
then this was something he needed to take up with the Information Commissioners 
office (ICO).
Mr H didnt agree and so his complaint has been passed to me for review and decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I can confirm that I agree with the view reached by the investigator and 
there is very little I can usefully add to what has already been said. 
I appreciate Mr H might have been frustrated in having to wait as long as he did for his call to 
NS&I on 22 January 2021 to be connected. But like the investigator Im satisfied that this 
delay was entirely reasonable and understandable in the unusual circumstances NS&I (and 
other financial institutions) were having to work in at the time.
Ive listened to the recording of the 22 January 2021 call. And having done so I agree that it 
was, at times, difficult and frustrating for both parties. But taking everything into account I 
dont think that NS&Is handling of this call was such that it would be either fair, or 
reasonable, for me to make a compensation award in favour of Mr H.
Like the investigator Im not persuaded that during the call of 22 January 2021 anything was 
discussed or disclosed pertaining to Mr Hs personal data to anybody other than Mr H 
himself. 
But for the sake of completeness I would reiterate what the investigator said on this point. 
And that is if Mr H wants to pursue a complaint about a possible breach of GDPR by NS&I, 
then this is something he needs to take up with the ICO.
So in summary I dont think, in respect of this particular complaint, that NS&I has done 
anything wrong or that it needs to do anything further.
My final decision
My final decision is I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 18 October 2021.
 
Peter Cook
Ombudsman