DRN-2193915
The complaint
Mr G complains that Nationwide Building Society wont refund transactions totalling just over 
£1,000 that he didnt authorise. And hed like a refund. 
What happened
Mr G says in June 2019 he loaded his Nationwide credit card details onto a computer 
console in the living room of his house, and gave one of his sons  Ill call A  access to 
this. He authorised a genuine transaction for £19.99 to a merchant Ill call M on the 
16 June 2019. Unfortunately he believes that another of his sons, Ill call B,  who didnt 
have access to the console or the account  bullied A and obtained the password for the 
console account. And on doing so proceeded to spend just over £1,000 on Mr Gs credit 
card to M. 
On receiving his statement Mr G noticed the transactions and complained to Nationwide. But 
they didnt refund the transactions. And said they thought Mr G authorised them. 
Mr G didnt accept this, so brought his complaint to our service. 
One of our investigators looked into Mr Gs complaint, but didnt think Nationwide needed to 
do anything further. In summary he thought that Mr G had authorised the disputed 
transactions and it wasnt picked up as fraud as Mr G had previously made genuine 
transactions to the merchant. 
Mr G didnt accept our investigators view and in summary said:
-Nationwide should have picked up the transactions. There was large spending in 
terms of type, frequency, volume and amount. 
-There were 45 transactions in just over a month  this is unusual activity for the 
account. 
-He has no history of transactions with this merchant. 
-B wasnt permitted to use the card, and A was bullied to get hold of the password. 
-The bank needs to prove that he authenticated the transactions. 
-Hes concerned that Nationwide had access to his contract with M, and doesnt feel 
like this has been addressed. 
As Mr G didnt accept our investigators view, its been passed to me for a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
And in doing so Ive reached the same conclusion as our investigator for broadly the same 
reasons.
 
Im satisfied from the banks technical evidence that Mr Gs card number and CVV were 
used to make the disputed transactions. Mr Gs raised that its the banks responsibility to 
prove that the transactions were authenticated  and in seeing this technical evidence Im 
satisfied that is the case. But this isnt the end of the story  to hold Mr G liable for the 
transactions I have to be satisfied that Mr G consented to the transactions.
 
Ive considered what the relevant legislation says. This legislation says that anyone given the 
authority to carry out transactions on the behalf of the card holder is effectively acting as 
their agent. Once Mr G uploaded his card details to As computer console and provided A 
with the password to his account, the bank wouldnt be aware that Mr G hadnt authorised 
the transactions. And therefore all transactions by A would be treated as authorised.
 
Mr G argues that he only gave A the password for the account, and his card details  
therefore only A was authorised to carry out transactions. But, its important for me to 
consider here how B gained access the account. And he did so via A and by accessing the 
computer console where Mr G had decided to load his card details. Mr G argues that A only 
provided B with the access to the account under duress but this doesnt change the fact that 
A was acting as Mr Gs agent at the time and by giving B access he was in effect also giving 
him agency. Ive thought about Mr Gs argument further, but once he gave A his card details 
 or access to those card details  anybody that A then allowed to access the details was 
effectively authorised to act as Mr Gs agent. This meant when B carried out the disputed 
transaction in the eyes of the bank he was acting with the card holders authority. I realise 
this will be disappointing for Mr G but it follows the disputed transactions were authorised 
and Nationwide can hold him liable for them. 
Ive gone on to consider Mr Gs response to our investigators view, where he raised a 
number of additional points. Namely:
-Nationwide should have picked up the transactions. There was large spending in 
terms of type, frequency, volume and amount. 
-There were 45 transactions in just over a month  this is unusual activity for the 
account. 
-He doesnt have a history of transactions with this merchant. 
Its true that Nationwide have a responsibility to monitor accounts for a number of reasons 
including preventing fraud and scams. And they need to have systems in place to look out 
for unusual transactions or other signs that might indicate that its customers were at risk of 
fraud. 
But, and I realise this will be disappointing to Mr G, Im not satisfied that Nationwide should 
have contacted him and queried the transactions. Looking at the previous 12 months of 
account activity, I dont think that the transactions could be regarded as unusual. Yes, as 
Mr G has pointed out there were a large number of transactions in a short period of time. But 
the overall spending and balance on Mr Gs credit card wasnt significantly higher than in 
previous months, and despite Mr Gs insistence I disagree that the payments werent paid to 
a merchant hed used before. As I previously explained Mr G made a genuine transaction to 
M on the 16 June 2019. In summary I dont think that Nationwides fraud detection systems 
should have been triggered by the transactions to M. 
In summary I think Mr G authorised the disputed transactions. And it follows Nationwide can 
hold him liable for them. 
GDPR breach:Mr G has also raised that Nationwide had access to his contract with M  which concerns 
him and he believes this may be a GDPR breach. Nationwide have explained that they 
havent seen a copy of Mr Gs contract with M  and Ive no reason to think this isnt the case 
- but theyve also highlighted within the terms and conditions of the credit card that theyre 
entitled to gather evidence from third parties in certain circumstances. In summary I cant 
see that Nationwide have done anything wrong here, and I wont be asking them to do 
anything further. 
My final decision
My final decision is I dont uphold Mr Gs complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision before 4 December 2020.
 
Jeff Burch
Ombudsman