DRN-1122143
 
The complaint
Mr R says Elevate Credit International Limited, trading as Sunny (Sunny) irresponsibly lent 
to him. Mr R says that after the first few loans he was struggling to make regular repayments 
and looked to take further borrowing to repay his current debt. He wasnt refused the 
additional borrowing which then caused him to struggle to pay his essential household bills. 
What happened
This complaint is about seven short-term loans Sunny provided to Mr R between June and 
December 2016. Mr Rs borrowing history is as follows:
Loan Date Taken Date Repaid Instalments Amount
1 26/06/2016 26/08/2016 Instalment £100.00
2 16/07/2016 28/11/2016 Instalment £200.00
3 11/08/2016 28/11/2016 Instalment £150.00
4 03/09/2016 12/06/2017 Instalment £350.00
5 02/12/2016 28/06/2017 Instalment £250.00
6 03/12/2016 28/02/2017 Instalment £250.00
7 10/12/2016 28/06/2017 Instalment £200.00
 
Our adjudicator partially upheld Mr Rs complaint and thought loans six and seven shouldnt 
have been given as it looked like Mr R was becoming persistently reliant upon short-term 
lending. 
Sunny disagreed. It said it had carried out sufficient checks before all of the lending and 
those checks showed that the lending was affordable for Mr R. It also said then when Mr R 
missed repayments it contacted him and set up an affordable repayment plan.
Sunny later offered to pay redress for loans six and seven but didnt include the 8% interest 
we would expect to see. However, we put the offer to Mr R but havent heard back from him. 
As the complaint remains unresolved, it has been passed to me in my role as ombudsman 
for a decision. 
 What Ive decided  and whyIve considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Weve set out our general approach to 
complaints about short-term lending - including all of the relevant rules, guidance and good 
industry practice - on our website. 
 
Sunny needed to take reasonable steps to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In practice 
this means that it should have carried out proportionate checks to make sure Mr R could 
repay the loans in a sustainable manner. These checks could take into account a number of 
different things, such as how much was being lent, the repayment amounts and the 
consumers income and expenditure. With this in mind, in the early stages of a lending 
relationship, I think less thorough checks might be reasonable and proportionate.  
But certain factors might point to the fact that Sunny should fairly and reasonably have done 
more to establish that any lending was sustainable for the consumer. These factors include:
the lower a consumers income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make any 
loan repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income);
the higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income); 
the greater the number and frequency of loans, and the longer the period of time 
during which a customer has been given loans (reflecting the risk that repeated 
refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, 
unsustainable).
 
There may even come a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly 
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable.
I think that it is important for me to start by saying that Sunny was required to establish 
whether Mr R could sustainably repay his loans  not just whether the loan payments were 
affordable on a strict pounds and pence calculation. 
Of course, the loan payments being affordable on this basis might be an indication a 
consumer could sustainably make their repayments. But it doesnt automatically follow this is 
the case. This is because the relevant regulations define sustainable as being without undue 
difficulties and in particular the customer should be able to make repayments on time, while 
meeting other reasonable commitments; as well as without having to borrow to meet 
the repayments. And it follows that a lender should realise, or it ought fairly and reasonably 
to realise, that a borrower wont be able to make their repayments sustainably if theyre 
unlikely to be able to make their repayments without borrowing further. 
Mr R didnt comment on the adjudicators opinion that loans one to five shouldnt be upheld. 
Because of this, I dont think there is any ongoing disagreement about these loans. So, I 
wont be making a decision about this lending. But the loans were part of the borrowing 
relationship Mr R had with Sunny. So, it is something I will take into account when 
considering the other loans he took. 
Ive carefully considered all of the arguments, evidence and information provided in this 
context and what this all means for Mr Rs complaint. After doing so, Ive decided to uphold 
the complaint in part. Ill explain why. 
Ive looked at the overall pattern of Sunnys lending history with Mr R, with a view to seeing if 
there was a point at which Sunny should reasonably have seen that further lending was unsustainable, or otherwise harmful. And so Sunny should have realised that it shouldnt 
have provided any further loans. 
Given the particular circumstances of Mr Rs case, like the adjudicator, I think that this point 
was reached by six. I say this because:
At this point Sunny ought to have realised Mr R was not managing to repay his loans 
sustainably. Mr R had taken out six loans within six months. So Sunny ought to have 
realised it was more likely than not Mr R was having to borrow further to cover the 
hole repaying his previous loan was leaving in his finances and that Mr Rs 
indebtedness was increasing unsustainably.
Mr Rs first loan was for £100 and loan six was for £250.  At this point Sunny ought to 
have known that Mr R was not likely borrowing to meet a temporary shortfall in his 
income but to meet an ongoing need. 
Mr R wasnt making any real inroads to the amount he owed Sunny. Loan seven was 
taken out six months after Mr Rs first. And it was for a larger amount. Mr R had paid 
large amounts of interest to, in effect, service a debt to Sunny over an extended 
period.
 
I think that Mr R lost out because Sunny continued to provide borrowing from loan six 
onwards because:
these loans had the effect of unfairly prolonging Mr Rs indebtedness by allowing him 
to take expensive credit intended for short-term use over an extended period of time.
the number of loans which Mr R borrowed was likely to have had negative 
implications on Mr Rs ability to access mainstream credit and so kept him in the 
market for these high-cost loans.
 
So, Im also upholding the complaint about loans six and seven and Sunny should put things 
right.
Putting things right
refund all interest and charges Mr R paid on loans six and seven;
pay interest of 8% simple a year on any refunded interest and charges from the date 
they were paid (if they were) to the date of settlement;
the number of loans taken from loan six onwards means any information recorded 
about them is adverse. So, all entries about loans six and seven should be removed 
from Mr Rs credit file.
 
 HM Revenue & Customs requires Sunny to take off tax from this interest. Sunny must give 
Mr R a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if he asks for one.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, Im partially upholding Mr Rs complaint. Elevate Credit 
International Limited should put things right as set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision before 12 June 2020.
Catherine LangleyOmbudsman