DRN-3861546
The complaint
Mrs L complains about a hire purchase agreement taken out in her name with Volkswagen 
Financial Services (UK) Limited trading as Audi Financial Services, to get a brand new car.
What happened
In March 2017, Mrs L says her husband had a finance agreement in place with Volkswagen 
for a car. She says her husband struggled to meet the repayments due under that 
agreement, so he made arrangements with a dealer, to exchange the car, for a different, 
brand new model with lower monthly repayments. 
Both Volkswagen and Mrs L say her husbands subsequent finance application was 
declined. So, Mrs L says the dealer and her husband asked her to apply for a hire purchase 
agreement for the car, in her name instead. She says she didnt have any involvement with 
the application process and in 2018, Mrs L told Volkswagen she felt pressured into signing 
the paperwork. 
Repayments were made under the agreement up until August 2019. Mrs L says these came 
directly from her husband. But the repayments were often late or made a month in arrears. 
Eventually, Volkswagen decided to terminate the agreement, after arrears or more than 
£2,000 had accrued. 
In late 2019, Volkswagen took steps to repossess the car and arranged for it to be sold. The 
proceeds of the sale were used to reduce the balance owed under Mrs Ls hire purchase 
agreement. And in early 2020, Mrs L made arrangements to repay the outstanding balance, 
using a monthly repayment plan. 
By that point, Mrs L says her relationship with her husband had broken down. She says that 
she was left with a debt to repay to Volkswagen. So, in early 2021 Mr L raised a complaint 
with them about the way the hire purchase agreement was sold to her by the dealer. 
Volkswagen responded and said they couldnt have known about Mrs Ls personal 
circumstances at the time the agreement was taken out. They also said Mrs L was involved 
with the discussions about the finance and that she was still responsible for the outstanding 
balance due under the agreement. 
Mrs L didnt accept Volkswagens response and brought her complaint to us. One of our 
investigators looked into Mrs Ls case and found that Volkswagen had treated her fairly. He 
was persuaded that Mrs L was aware of the hire purchase agreement and had allowed her 
husband to use the car. 
The investigator also found that although Volkswagen should have done more to look at 
Mrs Ls financial circumstances, its likely any information would have shown she was able to 
afford the repayments. So, the investigator concluded it was fair for Volkswagen to hold 
Mrs L responsible for the balance owed under the agreement. 
Mrs L didnt agree with that and said she had raised concerns about the agreement with 
Volkswagen soon after it was put into place. She also said Volkswagen shouldnt have lent 
her money based on her husbands income.
The investigator didnt change his conclusions and now Mrs Ls case has been passed to me 
to make a decision.
I sent Mrs L and Volkswagen my provisional decision on this case, on 30 November 2022. I 
explained why I think the complaint should be upheld. A copy of my provisional findings is 
included below:
The start of the agreement 
This case is about a hire purchase agreement in Mrs Ls name taken out with Volkswagen, 
which is a regulated financial product. As such, we are able to consider complaints about it. 
Mrs Ls complaint to Volkswagen is that the dealer and her husband put her under significant 
pressure, to sign the agreement for the car. Mrs L also says that she didnt have anything to 
do with the car, as it was only ever used by her husband and insured in his name. So, Ive 
thought about what both Mrs L and Volkswagen have told us about what happened when the 
agreement was taken out in Mrs Ls name. 
Ive looked at Mrs Ls personal bank account statements from 2017 and I agree she was 
heavily financially reliant on her husband and family members. Ive also looked at an email 
from Mrs L to her husband, in November 2018. And Mrs L has told us about the very difficult 
personal and financial circumstances she has experienced since then. 
On the day the agreement was signed, Mrs L says she was aware that her husband was 
having his own financial difficulties and that he asked her to join him at the dealership. Mrs L 
says the dealer explained that her husband had failed a credit check, so asked her to take 
the agreement out in her name instead. 
Subsequently, Mrs L says she signed the agreement forms, knowing the car was for her 
husband. She also says that she signed the agreement forms more out of embarrassment 
about the situation. 
Having thought carefully about everything, I empathise with the circumstances Mrs L found 
herself in. On balance, I think Mrs L did what she thought was right, because her husband 
was looking to change his car, to lower the monthly repayments. In turn, this may have 
helped Mrs L and her husbands overall financial circumstances. 
But, Im not persuaded this demonstrates that Mrs L was coerced into signing the hire 
purchase agreement with Volkswagen. I accept Mrs L felt she was in a difficult position, and 
Im persuaded she went on to speak to family members about it. On balance though, I dont 
think Volkswagen put Mrs L under any pressure to sign the paperwork at the dealership, or 
that they should have spotted any signs of coercion from Mrs Ls husband. 
However, Mrs L also says she didnt have any income at the time she signed the agreement 
forms. Volkswagen have also told us that Mrs Ls husband had not met their criteria for them 
to give him a hire purchase agreement. So, Ive considered the responsibility of Volkswagen 
when looking at Mrs Ls overall circumstances. 
The affordability of the agreement 
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about unaffordable or irresponsible 
lending - including the key rules, guidance and good industry practice - on our website. And Ive referred to this when deciding Mrs Ls complaint. 
Having carefully thought about everything, I think the key questions to ask here are: 
Did Volkswagen complete reasonable and proportionate checks to satisfy itself that Mrs L 
would be able to make repayments due under the agreement in a sustainable way? 
If so, did it make a fair lending decision? 
If not, would those checks have shown that Mrs L wouldve been able to do so? 
Did Volkswagen complete reasonable and proportionate checks to satisfy itself that Mrs L 
would be able to repay her loan in a sustainable way? 
Volkswagen provided this agreement under the authorisation and regulation of the Financial 
Conduct Authority (FCA). The rules and regulations in place required Volkswagen to carry 
out a reasonable and proportionate assessment of Mrs Ls ability to make the repayments 
under this agreement. 
This assessment is sometimes referred to as an affordability assessment or affordability 
check. The checks had to be borrower focused  so Volkswagen had to think about 
whether making repayments sustainably would cause difficulties or adverse consequences 
for Mrs L. 
In practice this meant that Volkswagen had to ensure that making the payments under the 
agreement wouldnt cause Mrs L undue difficulty or adverse consequences. In other words, 
it wasnt enough for Volkswagen to simply think about the likelihood of it getting its money 
back, it had to consider the impact of the repayments on Mrs L. 
Checks also had to be proportionate to the specific circumstances of the application for the 
agreement. In general, what constitutes a proportionate affordability check will be dependent 
upon a number of factors including  but not limited to  the particular circumstances of the 
consumer (e.g. their financial history, current situation and outlook, and any indications of 
vulnerability or financial difficulty) and the amount, type and cost of credit they are seeking. 
Even for the same customer, a proportionate check could look different for different 
applications. In light of this, I think that a reasonable and proportionate check ought 
generally to have been more thorough when: 
the lower a customers income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make any 
repayment amount from a lower level of income); 
the higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income); and 
the longer the term of the agreement (reflecting the fact that the total cost of the 
credit is likely to be greater and the customer is required to make payments for an 
extended period). 
There may also be other factors which could influence how detailed a proportionate check 
shouldve been for a hire purchase application  including (but not limited to) any indications 
of borrower vulnerability and any foreseeable changes in future circumstances. So, Ive 
carefully thought about all of the relevant factors in this case. 
Volkswagen have explained to us that Mrs Ls husband went to the dealership in March 2017, because he wanted to lower his monthly repayments. Mrs L says this was because 
her husband was experiencing financial difficulties. So, Im persuaded Volkswagen were 
aware of Mrs Ls husbands intentions, to end his previous agreement part way through the 
loan term and get a new agreement that was more affordable to him. 
Furthermore, Volkswagen have told us they declined Mrs Ls husbands application in March 
2017, because of concerns about affordability. Volkswagens notes go on to show that an 
initial application from Mrs L was also declined. On balance, I think Volkswagen had 
concerns about providing a hire purchase agreement to both Mr L and then Mrs L in March 
2017. 
Mrs Ls hire purchase agreement was for a brand new car using credit of around £38,000, 
the majority of which was to be repaid over four years. I think the amount borrowed by Mrs L 
was significant and becomes even more stark given, that Volkswagen initially declined two 
applications shorty before the agreement was put into place. 
Regulated lenders are required to exercise reasonable care and skill, have clear and 
effective processes in place to assess affordability and also take adequate steps to check 
and verify the information provided by a customer. This means theres an expectation that a 
lender shouldnt simply rely on what it is told by a prospective borrower, about matters 
regarding income and expenditure. 
Volkswagens records about the application show that they noted that Mrs L was a business 
owner for just over three years and working full time. The records also show that 
Volkswagen checked Mrs Ls details with credit reference agencies. And from looking at a 
credit report sent in by Mrs L, I can see where the details obtained by Volkswagen in 2017 
are consistent with the various accounts she held. 
However, it remains that Volkswagen didnt record details about Mrs Ls income or her 
position within the business. And Volkswagen didnt make a note of Mrs Ls monthly 
expenditure. 
Ive carefully considered the circumstances leading up to the signing of the agreement with 
the background of two previous failed applications. Overall, I think Volkswagen had a 
responsibility to ask Mrs L for further details about her income and expenditure. Based on all 
the evidence, Im not persuaded Volkswagen asked for those details, or for any supporting 
documents. So, I think there were a number of unanswered questions that Volkswagen 
needed to address, before it would have been reasonable and proportionate to proceed with 
Mrs Ls agreement. 
In these circumstances, as Volkswagen didnt take additional steps to verify Mrs Ls income 
and expenditure, I think their checks before providing the hire purchase agreement to Mrs L, 
werent reasonable and proportionate. 
Would reasonable and proportionate checks have indicated to Volkswagen that Mrs L would 
have been unable to sustainably repay this loan? 
I dont think reasonable and proportionate checks were carried out before this loan was 
provided. And I cant say for sure what they wouldve shown. So I need to decide whether it 
is more likely than not that a proportionate check would have told Volkswagen that Mrs L 
wouldve been unable to sustainably afford the repayments due under the agreement. 
Mrs L has provided us with evidence of her financial circumstances at the time she applied 
for the hire purchase agreement. Of course, I accept different checks might show different 
things. And just because something shows up in the information Mrs L has provided, it doesnt mean it wouldve shown up in any checks Volkswagen might have carried out. 
But in the absence of anything else from Volkswagen showing what this information would 
have shown, I think its perfectly fair, reasonable and proportionate to place considerable 
weight on it as an indication of what Mrs Ls financial circumstances were more likely than 
not to have been at the time. 
Ive looked at Mrs Ls personal bank account statements from December 2016 until March 
2017. Having done so, I can see that she received payments from her husband, which were 
sporadic in frequency and amount. I can also see that these payments are for less than the 
monthly repayment that was due under the hire purchase agreement. No other form of 
income is shown coming into Mrs Ls account. 
Mrs L did receive some child benefit payments and financial support from family members. 
The bank statements dont show regular outgoings, such as payments to utilities, but Mrs L 
says her husband paid for those from his own personal accounts. I can see that Mrs L had 
payments to other lenders, which is consistent with the credit check, carried out by 
Volkswagen. 
Having considered everything, I dont think Mrs L had any regular income of a level to 
service the repayments to the hire purchase agreement. Her bank statements reveal that 
she wasnt employed at the time the agreement was signed, which contradicts the 
information Volkswagen relied upon during the information gathering stage of the 
application. 
Im mindful that Mrs Ls husbands income would have contributed to the finances of the 
household. But, Ive concluded that Volkswagen already had concerns about that, when they 
declined an application in his name. Also, from looking at Mrs Ls bank statements, I dont 
think they show that her husband was providing her with enough consistent financial support 
to make the required payments. 
Bearing all of this in mind, Im satisfied that reasonable and proportionate checks would 
more likely than not have demonstrated that Mrs L would not have been able to make the 
repayments due under the agreement, without borrowing further or suffering significant 
adverse consequences. 
Overall, I think reasonable and proportionate checks would more likely than not have alerted 
Volkswagen to the fact that it shouldnt have provided the hire purchase agreement to Mrs L. 
The car has now been repossessed by Volkswagen and the proceeds of the sale have been 
used to reduce the outstanding balance owed by Mrs L. In all the circumstances, I think its 
fair for Volkswagen to allow Mrs L to now exit the hire purchase agreement at no additional 
cost to her. 
Ive found that Volkswagen didnt treat Mrs L fairly when they agreed lend to her. So, I think 
its fair for Volkswagen to refund all the charges and interest theyve applied to the hire 
purchase agreement since it started. This refund and adjustment may create a credit 
balance, which should be paid to Mrs L. If that happens, I think its fair that Volkswagen adds 
interest at 8% per year simple, to any overpayments made by Mrs L. I say this because 
Mrs L hasnt been able to make use of those funds. 
Ive seen that Mrs L entered into a repayment plan with Volkswagen and this information has 
been passed to credit reference agencies. In light of my conclusions about Mrs Ls 
awareness and acceptance of the hire purchase agreement, I dont think it would be fair to 
ask Volkswagen to remove all the information about it. But, I dont think its fair for Mrs L to suffer any negative impact as a result of missing or not 
be able to make the full repayments due under the agreement. So, I think its fair and 
reasonable for Volkswagen to remove any adverse information thats been recorded with 
credit reference agencies. 
The usage of the car 
Volkswagen have told us that the car obtained under the hire purchase agreement, had 
been driven for around 60,000 miles when it was recovered in September 2019. So, in 
around two and a half years, I think the car had covered a significant number of miles. 
While I accept Mrs L may not have used the car herself, Ive concluded that its likely she 
was aware of, and accepted being party to the hire purchase agreement in March 2017. So, 
I think its fair for Mrs L to pay for how much the car was able to be used. There isnt an 
exact calculation for reaching a figure for the usage of the car. So, Ive considered what I 
think to be fair and reasonable to both sides of the dispute. 
The hire purchase agreement shows that the purchase price of the car was £40,530. When 
the car was recovered and sold by Volkswagen, they received £14,000. This means the 
cars value decreased by around £26,000. 
The account statements for the hire purchase agreement, the initial deposit and the recent 
payments made to a collection agent, show that around £25,000 has been paid towards the 
agreement. Ive also thought about the annual mileage allowance under the agreement and 
the mileage the car had covered. Additionally, Ive thought about the value of the sale 
proceeds, given what we know about the condition of the car that was returned to 
Volkswagen. 
In the round, I think Mrs L has paid for the fair usage of the car and its fair for Volkswagen to 
retain the repayments made under the agreement. I recognise that Mrs L has received 
significant financial help from family members to make payments to Volkswagen. 
And I know that this may have caused further personal difficulties. But, I have to consider 
how much the car was used and overall, I think its fair for Volkswagen to expect payment for 
that. 
I also think its fair that if any balance remains outstanding after all the adjustments have 
taken place, that Volkswagen ends their pursuit of Mrs L for repayment. I can see from a 
very recent letter from Volkswagen to Mrs L, that they may have ended their pursuit of the 
debt already. 
Distress and inconvenience 
Mrs L has described the events leading up to the signing of the hire purchase agreement in 
2017 and the breakdown of her relationship with her husband. I empathise with the 
circumstances shes told us about and the difficult situation she continues to deal with. And I 
hope Mrs L finds that her circumstances improve. 
But, when looking at the distress and inconvenience she has experienced, I need to consider 
just the impact of Volkswagens actions, rather than anything that may have been caused by 
a third party. 
I can see from Volkswagens records that Mrs L had raised concerns about the way her 
agreement was provided in 2018. I can also see where the pursuit of the outstanding debt 
has put a strain on Mrs Ls financial circumstances, and she says this has had an impact on her health. Similarly, I can understand where the adverse information recorded with credit 
reference agencies has caused Mrs L worry. 
Overall, I think Volkswagen were able to intervene at an earlier stage here and that the worry 
caused to Mrs L has added to an already difficult time for her. So, I think its fair for 
Volkswagen to make an award to Mrs L in light of the delay and worry theyve caused. In all 
the circumstances, I think its reasonable for Volkswagen to pay Mrs L £250 for the distress 
and inconvenience she has experienced.
Both Mrs L and Volkswagen replied and accepted the provisional decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Both parties have accepted my provisional directions about how this complaint should fairly 
be resolved, so I see no reason to come to a different conclusion. 
Putting things right
For these reasons Volkswagen Financial Services (UK) Limited trading as Audi Financial 
Services should: 
1. allow Mrs L to exit the hire purchase agreement at no additional cost to her; 
2. refund all interest and charges accrued under the hire purchase agreement; 
3. add interest at 8% per year simple on any overpayments, if any, from the date they 
were made by Mrs L to the date of settlement; 
4. after the adjustments, pay any credit balance created by the refund to Mrs L; 
5. pay £250 to Mrs L for the distress and inconvenience caused; and 
6. remove any adverse information recorded with credit reference agencies, about the 
hire purchase agreement from the start of the agreement, to the date of settlement of 
this complaint. 
Volkswagen must pay these amounts within 28 days of the date on which we tell them Mrs L 
accepts my final decision. If they pay later than this, they must also pay interest on the 
settlement amount from the date of final decision to the date of payment at 8% a year 
simple. 
If Volkswagen deducts tax from any interest they pay to Mrs L, they should provide Mrs L 
with a tax deduction certificate if she asks for one, so she can reclaim the tax from the tax 
authorities if appropriate.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint and require Volkswagen Financial Services 
(UK) Limited trading as Audi Financial Services to put things right as set out above.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs L to accept or 
reject my decision before 13 January 2023.
 
Sam Wedderburn
Ombudsman