DRN-2831650
The complaint
E complains it was mis-sold a motor fleet policy by Titan Insurance Services Ltd. Reference 
to Titan includes its agents.
E is a limited company. Its been represented in this complaint by Ms C. For simplicity, Ive 
referred to the actions of Ms C as being those of E.
 
What happened
E purchased a motor fleet policy from Titan. It had used Titan as a broker in previous years. 
When the policy came to renew, Titan offered E a number of policies.
E said it was important that the policy allowed it to increase the number of vehicles on cover. 
And it said it was important that it could add and remove vehicles from the policy when it 
required.
Titan offered E two policies with the same insurer on slightly different terms. Both options 
were a three-year agreement. One option required the vehicles insured to have cameras 
installed, the other, which was more expensive, didnt. E said it couldnt have cameras on its 
vehicles, so E selected the more expensive option. Titan said the policy E selected had a 
100% minimum and deposit (M&D) contribution, which meant E wouldnt get any return of 
premium if the policy cancelled. But it said the policy allowed E to add and delete vehicles 
from cover and that any adjustments would be charged pro-rata.
During the first year of the policy E wanted to remove some vehicles from cover and get a 
refund. It was told by the underwriter of the policy that it if it removed those vehicles from 
cover, no return of premium would be given under the 100% M&D on the policy.
E complained to Titan about this, it said this isnt how it explained the policy would work and 
thought the policy had been mis-sold. Titan said it simply passed on the quote from the 
underwriter and said it explained the key aspects of the policy to E. It said it only became 
aware of the 100% M&D after the quote was accepted so doesnt think it can be fairly held 
responsible for this.
E wasnt happy with this response and brought its complaint to us. One of our investigators 
thought that first we needed to investigate the underwriter of the policy. She thought this was 
because the root cause of the problem was how the policy was operating, and that was the 
underwriters responsibility. She thought that if the policy wasnt operating as it should, E 
might not feel the policy was mis-sold to it. She looked into this complaint, and ultimately felt 
the policy was performing as it should. So turned to looking into whether Titan mis-sold the 
policy.
Our investigator thought that Titan didnt explain how the M&D and the adding and deleting 
of the vehicles would interact with each other. She thought Titan gave E the impression that 
the M&D only related to the cancellation of the policy  when in fact it related to the policy as 
a whole  including adding or removing vehicles. But, our investigator thought that had Titan 
explained how the policy actually operated, that E would have still chosen this policy. So she 
didnt think Titans failure to explain how the policy operated had had any detriment on E. 
Ultimately she thought this meant the policy wasnt mis-sold.
E disagreed and asked for an ombudsmans decision. It said it was clear that Titan made an 
error in explaining how the policy would operate, so thinks it should be held accountable for 
its losses.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im not upholding Es complaint. I understand this will not be the answer E 
was hoping for. Ill explain my reasoning. For clarity, this decision relates solely to the sale of 
the policy, Im not considering how the policy operates as thats the responsibility of the 
relevant underwriter and has been dealt with in a separate complaint. 
In order for me to say Es policy was mis-sold, I need to be satisfied of three key things. The 
first, being that Titan gave misleading/incorrect information or advice. If it did, the second key 
thing I need to consider is whether that misleading information or advice meant E chose the 
policy when it wouldnt have chosen it had it been given the correct information or advice. 
And if it wouldnt have chosen this policy, and would have chosen another, Id need to 
consider a third point. Id need to consider whether E would have been in a better position 
than it finds itself in now had it chosen that different policy.
In this case, I think its clear Titan did give unclear or misleading advice. I appreciate Titan 
has said it simply passed on the details of the quote from the underwriter to E. But I think 
Titan gave E the impression the M&D was superseded by the ability to add and remove 
vehicles and that adjustments to the premium would be made on a pro-rata basis. So I think 
E thought if they added vehicles on to the policy theyd be charged more, but if they took 
vehicles off cover, theyd get a refund of premium.
In effect that is how the policy works. If E adds vehicles on, theyll be charged a pro-rata 
increase, and if they remove vehicles, theyll get a pro-rata refund. But importantly any return 
of premium is subject to the 100% M&D. So E wont get a refund of anything under the 
premium it pays at the start of each one of the three year-long terms. I think as a broker, 
Titan should have understood this is how the policy operated, and so should have made this 
clearer to E. Im satisfied the M&D was made clear on the quotation, prior to E taking out 
cover. So this information was available to Titan.
As Im satisfied Titan gave misleading advice, I now need to consider whether this 
misleading advice was key to E selecting this policy. In other words, I need to consider 
whether E would have purchased this policy anyway, had it known how the policy truly 
operated. And I think it would have.
I appreciate E says otherwise. It says it would have chosen a different policy, specifically one 
that would have allowed it to add or delete vehicles from cover on a pro-rata basis as it 
thought the policy Titan sold it would. It says it was always clear this was one of its needs.
Ive carefully considered this. And I need to decide what I think E would most likely have 
done, and importantly, been able to do, at the time it took the policy out. I appreciate the last 
year has been difficult for a number of businesses. And the policy may well now not work for 
E. But I need to consider what it likely would have done at the time.E has said it would have stayed with the same policy it was on before renewing and moving 
to this new policy with Titan. But that policy had a limit to the number of vehicles that could 
have been added to the cover (10). And that limit was lower than the number of vehicles E 
wanted to insurer (14). And shortly after taking out this policy, E added a further vehicle on to 
cover. So I dont find it likely it would have chosen to stay on the same policy when it already 
exceeded the vehicle cap.
But even if E wanted to take that option, it wouldnt have been able to. The underwriter of 
that policy wasnt willing to continue cover to E on that policy. So not only do I think its 
unlikely an option E would have taken, its an option E wouldnt have in reality been given 
the choice to take.
E has said too that it would have shopped around or taken other quotes it was presented 
with. Titan has said there were other quotes available to E. But these quotes had a 
requirement for cameras to be fitted. These policies also had restrictions on the drivers 
covered.
E explained to Titan when taking out cover that it couldnt fit cameras to the vehicles as they 
werent owned by E  they were hired. And E also explained to Titan that it was concerned 
some of its drivers wouldnt meet the requirements of these other policies. So again here, Im 
not persuaded E would have selected any of these other quotes as they didnt meet the 
requirements of the policy. And I find it unlikely it would have changed its business model to 
meet these requirements.
I appreciate E has said it could have used a different broker, and this is true, it could have. 
But this was always an option to it. And Titan has shown that it was aware E was looking at 
other brokers at the time the policy was taken out too. Importantly though, Ive not been 
provided with any quotes or evidence to support a better policy was available to E at the time 
it purchased this one from Titan.
And without that evidence, and for the reasons set out above, I think that if Titan had better 
explained how the policy operated, and made it clear that the 100% M&D meant that even if 
E took vehicles off the policy, the insurer wouldnt offer any refund under the 100%, that E 
would have purchased this policy anyway, as it best met its needs at the time of purchase.
As Im satisfied E would have likely purchased this policy anyway, Ive not gone on to 
consider the third point as it holds no relevance. And on this basis, I dont think E was mis-
sold this policy.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask E to accept or 
reject my decision before 20 August 2021.
 
Joe Thornley
Ombudsman