DRN-3323760
The complaint
Ms L complains that Hiscox Insurance Company Limited referred her to an accident 
management company (AMC).
What happened
Ms Ls car was damaged by a third party so she reported the claim to her broker. Her claim 
was then dealt with by an AMC who claimed directly from the third partys insurer. Ms L 
wasnt happy with how the AMC dealt with the claim and complained. She also complained 
to Hiscox for referring her to an AMC. 
Hiscox reviewed the complaint and didnt uphold it. They said this was because they were 
never made aware of the claim and the referral to the AMC wasnt done by them. Ms L 
disagreed, she said the broker of her policy is an agent of Hiscox and therefore theyre 
responsible as well. 
Our investigator looked into the complaint and didnt recommend it be upheld. He found that 
while Hiscox had appointed the broker delegated authority for some activities, claim handling 
for Hiscox wasnt one of them. So as Hiscox hadnt referred Ms L to the AMC, he didnt think 
theyd done anything wrong. 
Ms L disagreed so the complaint has come to me to decide.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I understand Ms L has also raised complaints with the AMC who dealt with her claim and her 
broker. In this decision Im only able to comment on the actions of Hiscox or their agents.
The terms and conditions of Ms Ls policy set out what Hiscox will do in the event of a claim 
and how to report a claim to them. The section about how to make a claim says to contact 
Hiscox or the broker of the policy. Hiscox said if a claim is reported to the broker it should 
then be passed to Hiscox to deal with. 
When Ms L reported the claim to her broker, she was referred to an AMC. Ive reviewed the 
agreement between Hiscox and Ms Ls broker and it doesnt include anything to say that the 
broker is authorised for any claims handling activities on behalf of Hiscox.
I understand Ms L feels Hiscox is responsible as there is an agreement for some activities to 
be completed by the broker on Hiscoxs behalf. But as claim handling isnt one of them, and 
it wasnt Hiscox who referred Ms L to an AMC. Im unable to agree theyve done anything 
wrong. 
I appreciate this isnt the answer Ms L was hoping for, but Im unable to fairly hold Hiscox 
responsible for something which they arent responsible for.  
My final decision
For the reasons explained above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms L to accept or 
reject my decision before 13 April 2022.
 
Alex Newman
Ombudsman