DRN-2698536
The complaint
Mrs P complains that EQUIFAX LIMITED (Equifax) wouldnt allow her to access the 
information it held about her and she was concerned about fraud.
What happened
Mrs P explains that she was the victim of credit card fraud. And so, she wanted to check her 
credit record. She is unhappy that although she says she answered security questions 
correctly Equifax wanted additional verification. And that when she spoke to a member of 
staff based overseas she had difficulty understanding what the issue was.
Equifax considered Mrs Ps complaint and in a final response said that she had an inactive 
account. And that it needed two pieces of documentation to confirm her identity and re-
activate the account. This could be emailed, uploaded on the website or posted to an 
address. It said that it didnt operate a call centre based in this country and apologised for 
the inconvenience caused as its UK based escalation team wasnt able to take calls due to 
the impact of the coronavirus pandemic.
Our investigator didnt recommend that the complaint be upheld. He said that it was 
reasonable for Equifax to take steps to ensure it was dealing with the correct customer. Its 
process to re-activate an account needs additional evidence. And it had provided different 
options for Mrs P to do so. It could also choose how to operate its call centres and had said 
its staff were fully trained.
Mrs P didnt agree. She said that she was very careful with her personal data and that 
uploading items online wasnt an option as she didnt have a virtual private network. She 
didnt wish to post sensitive information about her identity either. Had Equifax held the 
correct information about her then this wouldnt have been an issue. Mrs P says that she felt 
vulnerable especially as she couldnt understand what a member of staff was saying to her. 
And she said she wasnt happy for her information to be provided overseas. She wanted the 
access on her account to be reset so she could try and log in again online. Equifax had been 
obstructive, and she now wanted it to post her credit report to her.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im sorry to hear that Mrs P has been the victim of fraud and I can understand that this would 
have been a distressing experience. She sensibly wanted to see just what had been 
recorded on her credit record by financial businesses to Equifax about any fraudulent activity 
and to check that it had all been identified and dealt with.
I know that she couldnt see what the issue was as shed remembered her security questions 
and wanted to be able to access the information quickly. Equifax says it wants to protect her 
and her information and its process is to make further checks on an inactive account. I dont 
doubt that is inconvenient, but we dont have a role in saying what processes businesses 
should operate as we arent the regulator. 
There is no recording of the call Mrs P had with Equifax about this available so I cant assess 
that. But I think that even if communication had been clear then the answer would have been 
the same as now from Equifax and the requirement to verify the information something     
Mrs P disagreed with.
Id expect Equifax to handle her information securely wherever it is held and accessed and in 
fact the processes it has are consistent with it taking this responsibility seriously. Of course, 
Mrs P knows shes genuine  but Equifax wants to check. And I dont have a basis to find 
that this is unreasonable and to require it as Mrs P wants to do things differently. I appreciate 
she will remain frustrated by this outcome.
My final decision
My decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs P to accept or 
reject my decision before 1 June 2021.
 
Michael Crewe
Ombudsman