DRN-3517371
The complaint
Mr and Mrs J complain that Royal & Sun Alliance Insurance Limited (RSA) unfairly declined 
their legal expenses insurance claim. 
What happened
The circumstances of this case are well known to both parties, so Ive summarised whats 
happened below.
Mr and Mrs J have a legal expenses insurance policy. From 2013, RSA has 
underwritten the policy. 
Mr and Mrs J sought to make a claim on their policy in 2020 to pursue a legal claim 
against a neighboring golf club as stray golf balls and overgrown trees were affecting 
the enjoyment of their property. They said the clubs removal of protective netting in 
2018 had led to increased golf balls reaching their property.
RSA initially declined the claim. It said the events had begun before the policy started 
and pre-existing issues arent covered. 
Mr J brought a complaint to this service. And following our investigators involvement, 
RSA agreed to pass the claim for the overgrown trees to its panel of solicitors. 
Our investigator went on to consider the issue of the stray golf balls. She was 
persuaded the removal of the protective netting was the initial insured event which 
gave rise to the legal claim  because it was following this that Mr and Mrs J 
experienced a higher frequency of stray golf balls entering their garden. 
She said RSA needed to consider the claim under the remaining terms and 
conditions without reference to the exclusion it had sought to rely on.
RSA disagreed. It said information provided by Mr and Mrs J suggests the issues 
with stray golf balls existed much sooner than 2018.  
So, the complaint has been passed to me for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im upholding this complaint and Ill explain why. 
The starting point is the policy document. Under the legal expenses  what is covered 
section it says:
We will provide the following cover for legal expenses up to £100,000 for any one 
claim []. You must have told us about the claim within 6 months of the cause of 
action arising []. The cause of action must happen within the territorial limits and 
during the insurance period. 
Its the last sentence of this section upon which this complaint hinges. RSA has sought to 
rely on the following policy exclusion as it considers the subject matter of the legal claim to 
have pre-existed the policy start date:
Any event, dispute or cause of action that first happened or started before you took 
out this insurance.
RSA contends there was an issue with stray golf balls entering Mr and Mrs Js property from 
the time they moved into it in approximately 2010  which was before the policy started. Its 
referenced an email from Mr J to support this, in which he says:
My wife and I have lived in this property for 10 years, over this period we have 
experienced on average 1-3 errant gold balls per year smashing into our garden.
RSA has also referred to an incident in 2013 where Mr and Mrs Js neighbours property was 
damaged because of a stray golf ball. It says this shows errant golf balls were an issue for 
Mr and Mrs J much sooner than 2018.
Mr and Mrs J dont dispute that golf balls have entered their garden from before the policy 
began, but have said its the increased frequency of this from 2018 which caused them 
concern for their personal safety and the need to ultimately pursue legal action.
On its face, I can understand that this matter concerns stray golf balls entering Mr and Mrs 
Js property across a number of years. But here, I think there is a distinct change in 
circumstances that means it would be fair and reasonable for RSA to consider this claim.
I dont think its reasonable to say the damage to Mr and Mrs Js neighbours property 
constitutes the initial insured event for this claim concerning the removing of the netting. 
While its clear that golf balls from the course may cause damage to nearby properties, I 
think it would be unfair to consider this potential damage to Mr and Mrs Js property from 
infrequent golf balls as the cause of action arising. 
Instead, Ive seen that following the removal of the safety nets, the number of errant golf 
balls entering their property has increased by at best, 4 times, and at worst 10 times over the 
year. Either way, Im satisfied this increase in frequency shows a change in circumstances, 
and importantly, that this change coincides with a new event, namely the removal of the 
safety nets. So, I think its fair and reasonable to consider this as the insured event in this 
instance.
For completeness, RSA has agreed to pass Mr and Mrs Js claim about the overgrown trees 
to its panel firm of solicitors and so Im not considering this element of the claim further. 
Overall, I dont think RSA has acted fairly in declining Mr and Mrs Js claim in respect of the 
alleged nuisance caused by the errant golf balls, and so it should reconsider the claim, 
subject to the remaining terms and conditions.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint. Royal & Sun Alliance Insurance Limited 
must reconsider the claim subject to the remaining terms and conditions, but without relying 
on the exclusion its sought to apply. Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs J and Mr J to 
accept or reject my decision before 20 July 2022.
 
Nicola Beakhust
Ombudsman