DRN-4013955
The complaint
Mr L complains about emails he received from Clear Score Technology Limited.
 
What happened
Mr L had an account with Clear Score and, last year, contacted the business to ask for his 
details to be removed from its marketing list. Despite requesting no further marketing emails, 
Clear Score continued to send Mr S emails each month. Mr L went back to Clear Score and 
repeated his request that no further marketing information be sent to him. 
At the beginning of November 2022 Mr L received another email from Clear Score and 
contacted it again. Clear Scores agent told Mr L he should not be receiving emails and that 
he was now unsubscribed. The agent confirmed Mr L wouldnt receive further emails. But in 
December 2022 another email from Clear Score was sent to Mr L and he raised a complaint. 
An investigator at this service looked at Mr Ls complaint. Clear Score said that Mr L had 
been unsubscribed from marketing emails. But Clear Score confirmed that its terms and 
conditions allow it to send a monthly email to customers advising their credit report is ready. 
Clear Score said that whilst it had continued to send monthly emails in line with its terms, no 
marketing emails were sent. Clear Score also confirmed that its agent had made a mistake 
in November 2022 when they advised Mr L no more emails would be received. 
The investigator didnt agree that Clear Score had treated Mr L unfairly and didnt uphold his 
complaint. Mr L asked to appeal and said he felt his data had been abused and that he 
continued to receive communications from Clear Score despite making it clear he didnt want 
any emails. As Mr L asked to appeal, his complaint has been passed to me to make a 
decision.
 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Clear Scores explained that it can send more than one kind of email to customers, not just 
marketing communications. I can see our investigator has already quoted the relevant 
section of Clear Scores terms and conditions. In short, the terms say customers can opt out 
of marketing communications. But the terms also say that Clear Score will send a monthly 
email with the credit report, alerts when there is a change to the credit report, security alerts 
along with other essential communications relating to a customers account. The terms say 
these sorts of email cant be opted out of. 
So whilst I understand Mr L didnt want to receive any emails or contact from Clear Score, 
Im satisfied the terms and conditions he accepted when he opened the account allowed it to 
send core communications by email. 
Clear Scores sent us evidence of the emails it sent Mr L around the time he complained. Im 
satisfied the emails were sent in line with the account terms. I havent been persuaded they 
were marketing emails that Mr L was able to opt out of receiving. Im sorry to disappoint Mr 
L, but I havent found anything that shows Clear Score sent him emails when it shouldnt 
have. 
In November 2022 an agent at Clear Score incorrectly advised Mr L that he wouldnt receive 
any more emails. But Clear Scores confirmed this was an error on the agents part due to a 
misunderstanding. I accept thats the case. 
I understand Mr S didnt want to receive any emails from Clear Score. But as the terms said, 
there was no option for Clear Score customers to hold an account without receiving core 
communications by email. As Im satisfied Clear Score has acted in line with the terms and 
conditions and hasnt made mistakes with the emails it sent Mr S, Im not telling it to do 
anything else.
 
My final decision
My decision is that I dont uphold Mr Ls complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr L to accept or 
reject my decision before 24 April 2023.
 
Marco Manente
Ombudsman