DRN-3966545
The complaint
Mr M complains that Barclays Bank UK PLC trading as Barclaycard took too long to update 
the Credit Reference Agencies (CRAs) when his credit limit was increased.
What happened
Mr M says he is unhappy with the time Barclaycard took to update the CRAs. He said he 
applied for an increased credit limit, so his credit usage would look better and improve his 
credit rating when he applied for a mortgage, but this took months to be reflected with the 
CRAs, which he feels he lost a property as a result of this. Mr M made a complaint to 
Barclaycard. 
Barclaycard partially upheld Mr Ms complaint and credited £100 to his account. They said 
the data they send to the CRAs is extracted at the end of each month and they retain this 
information for 14 days before a report is generated, to check if any customers who have 
missed their payment due date have paid within 14 days. They said if they had, they report 
that they paid on time due to their Grace Day Extension policy. Barclaycard said the 
information is then sent to the CRA on approximately the 14th day of the month and they 
take approximately one week to review the data, with the update usually showing on the 
customer's credit file between the 21st and 28th of the month. Barclaycard said they 
provided poor customer service when Mr M tried to increase his credit limit as he hadnt 
received call backs from them, and he had calls disconnected. 
Mr M brought his complaint to our service. Our investigator did not uphold Mr Ms complaint. 
She said Barclaycard had not made an error with reporting the updated credit limit as 
Barclaycard had followed their process for this. 
Mr M asked for an ombudsman to review his complaint. He believes Barclaycard have let 
him down as his mortgage application was delayed by three months. He said a credit limit 
was increased with a third party provider on the same day as Barclaycard, and they updated 
the CRAs, but Barclaycard had taken a lot longer. He said he contacted Barclaycard 
numerous times and let them know this was needed for his mortgage application, but they 
took months before updating him. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Id like to explain to Mr M that it is not within this services remit to tell a business how to run 
their processes or procedures such as updating CRAs with credit limit increases. It would be 
the role of the regulator  the Financial Conduct Authority, who have the power to instruct 
Barclaycard to make changes to their policies and procedures, if necessary. 
Mr M has mentioned how another credit limit he increased with another provider on the 
same day as his Barclaycard was updated quicker with the CRAs than his Barclaycard 
account. But different financial institutions may have different procedures as to how they 
update the CRAs. This doesnt necessarily mean that one procedure is right and one is 
wrong though. Here I can only look into whether Barclaycard have made any errors, as this 
is the company that Mr M is solely complaining about here.
Ive considered what Mr M has said about having to chase Barclaycard to update the CRAs. 
But Im not persuaded that he needed to do this. While I can understand why he did this as 
this wasnt showing on his credit report, the evidence shows that Barclaycard had already 
updated the CRAs that his credit limit had increased. 
From the evidence Barclaycard has shared with us, I can see that the credit limit increase 
was put into effect on 16 November 2022. And Im satisfied that Barclaycard have followed 
their process for Mr Ms credit limit increase. I say this because the information I can see 
they provided to one CRA informed them of the credit limit increase in December 2022. So 
as they extract the data at the end of the month and retain this information for 14 days 
before a report is generated and send this on approximately 14th day of the month, then it 
appears that Barclaycard have followed this process. And while I can empathise with Mr M 
that this wasnt showing on the credit file that he was viewing, it would be out of 
Barclaycards control with when the individual CRAs displayed this information to Mr M.
Mr M has said that this affected him as he lost a property by having to delay a mortgage 
application. But he would have been able to demonstrate to the mortgage provider that the 
credit limit was increased on 16 November 2022 even if it wasnt showing with the CRAs yet 
as its likely he wouldve been able to take a screenshot of his Barclaycard account when the 
credit limit increased. Mortgage providers would consider a number of different things in 
order to approve mortgage lending. So while the increase may have helped his credit 
utilisation, its unlikely that a £2,000 credit limit increase not showing on a credit file at that 
stage would be the sole reason to affect a mortgage approval, especially when Mr Ms credit 
file screenshot that he sent us shows he was only at around 8.5% credit utilisation (£5,224 
total outstanding credit card balances vs £61,400 total credit limits) when his Barclaycard 
limit was showing as £10,000 still on his credit file. The extra £2,000 in credit limit would 
reduce his approximate credit utilisation from 8.5% to 8.2% if his Barclaycard showed a 
£12,000 credit limit (and therefore increase his total credit card limits from £61,400 to 
£63,400). But regardless of this, I cant say that Barclaycard made an error in how they 
reported his credit limit to the CRAs.
Barclaycard have said they credited £100 compensation to Mr Ms account due to him not 
getting call backs and the line being disconnected. This would have been distressing for Mr 
M and it would have inconvenienced him by having to contact Barclaycard about this, so Im 
satisfied that compensation was due to him for their service failings. But as £100 is in line 
with what I would have awarded him for this had Barclaycard not recognised that they let Mr 
M down here, it follows I dont require Barclaycard to do anything further. 
My final decision
I do not uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 1 August 2023.
 
Gregory Sloanes
Ombudsman