DRN-3342902
The complaint
A company, which Ill refer to as V, complains that BCR Group Limited was responsible for 
mis-selling it latent defect building warranties.
Mr B, who is a director of V, brings the complaint on Vs behalf. Another director has also 
been involved at times but, for simplicity, Ill refer to both directors as Mr B.
What happened
V is a property development company. It was developing a block of nine flats and wanted to 
take out latent defect warranties for them. In 2014, Mr B got in touch with a company, C, an 
appointed representative of BCR, to arrange the warranties.
C provided Mr B with a quote for the warranties with an insurer, A.
Mr B later got in touch with C to say that changes to the development V was carrying out 
meant the sum insured would need to increase by around £500,000. C provided an updated 
quote. Because of the increase in sum insured, the quote came from a different insurer, G, 
and at a higher premium.
Mr B accepted the updated quote, paid for it, and received the warranty certificates in 2016.
In 2018, A went out of business and its warranties became void. Mr B noticed the certificates 
received from C reflected the first quote  the insurer was A and the sum insured hadnt 
been increased. This meant the warranties were void. Mr B complained to C. He thought the 
warranties had been mis-sold and asked it to put that right.
BCR said the warranties had been setup with A and the premium passed to A. And it was in 
discussion with various parties to find a new insurer to take over the voided policies and fulfil 
the cover they were supposed to provide. A new insurer couldnt be found, so Mr B paid to 
take out replacement warranties with another company, O.
Mr B referred Vs complaint to this service and asked to be compensated for its losses. In 
the meantime, he received a refund from the Financial Services Compensation Scheme 
(FSCS) of some of the money he paid for the warranty with A.
Our investigator thought the complaint should be upheld. He said BCR was responsible for C 
when it arranged a warranty with A  and thats what had caused Mr B to complain. And 
arranging an insurance policy is an activity this service can consider complaints about. He 
thought C had made a mistake by arranging the policy with A rather than G. And that had 
ultimately led to financial losses and inconvenience. He asked BCR to pay Mr B for those 
losses, plus interest, and compensation of £500.
Mr B agreed with our investigator. BCR didnt. Ill summarise the key points it made:
V hadnt raised concerns about having warranties provided by A between receiving 
them in 2016 and A going out of business in 2018. BCR thought that meant V had 
accepted the warranties with A.
BCR cant be held responsible for A going out of business.
V increasing the sum insured caused C to generate two quote references and this 
caused problems.
V had sold six of the flats prior to A going out of business. So there was no need for 
V to pay to replace those six warranties. BCR shouldnt be held responsible for any 
costs V chose to incur for replacing those six warranties for other owners.
V had received refunds from the FSCS for the three remaining flats it owned. These 
refunds should be taken into account.
Its unfair to expect BCR to pay for the non-insurance costs as well as the insurance 
premiums V has paid to obtain new warranties.
An agreement couldnt be reached, so the complaint has been passed to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
This service has previously found BCR responsible for the acts and omissions of C when 
arranging warranties with A. And that the activity of arranging such a warranty is one we 
have jurisdiction to consider.
Vs complaint is essentially that C arranged a warranty for it with A  and that wasnt the 
warranty it needed, asked for, or paid for.
So Im satisfied its appropriate for our service to consider this complaint. And that BCR is 
responsible for Cs acts and omissions when it arranged warranties with A. So if I find C 
acted unfairly, BCR is responsible for putting that right.
Did C act unfairly?
BCR, and C itself, has at times accepted C made a mistake by arranging the warranty with 
A, rather than G. But more recently BCR has suggested the way Mr B acted caused 
problems. I dont agree with that and Ill explain why.
Mr B initially asked C for warranties at the lower sum insured. C provided As quote and he 
paid for it. Mr B later asked to increase the sum insured. C provided Gs quote, which was at 
a higher price. He paid the additional amount. So I think it ought to have been clear to C that 
Mr B needed, asked for, and paid for, the warranty with G.
Im satisfied C made a mistake when it arranged the policy with A, at the lower sum insured, 
rather than with G, at the higher sum insured.
BCR said the certificates provided to Mr B in 2016 all clearly showed A was the insurer  not 
G. This isnt in dispute and I think Mr B accepts he could have noticed this sooner. However, 
because the second quote showed the insurer was G, and thats what he paid for, he understood thats what he would receive. As C didnt tell him anything different to this, he 
says he wasnt prompted to check.
As Mr B had needed, asked for, and paid for, a warranty with G, at a higher sum insured, I 
can understand thats what he was expecting to receive. If, despite that, C had placed the 
warranties with A, and at the lower sum insured, I would have expected it to highlight such 
an important piece of information to Mr B. But C didnt do this, so I can understand why Mr B 
says he wasnt prompted to check the certificates.
I dont think this means he accepted the warranty with A, as BCR has suggested. Doing so 
would have meant accepting a sum insured around £500,000 less than Mr B needed, asked 
for, and paid for. I think Mr B trusted C to provide him with the warranties hed needed, 
asked for, and paid for.
It would have been preferable if Mr B had noticed Cs mistake sooner. But its not Mr Bs 
responsibility to correct Cs mistakes  its Cs responsibility not to make them. And it doesnt 
change the fact that C made the mistake  which means it treated Mr B unfairly.
Overall, Im satisfied C has made a mistake  and BCR is responsible for putting that right. 
So the question for me is what loss, if any, this mistake caused V.
What loss did Cs mistake cause V?
To recap, Mr B paid C to arrange the warranties with G. He didnt receive those warranties. 
He received warranties with another insurer, A, based on the wrong sum insured. A later 
going out of business highlighted the problem. But even if it had remained in business, that 
wouldnt have put V in the position it should have been in. It would still have had warranties 
with a sum insured around £500,000 less than it needed, asked for, and paid for.
That means C, and by extension BCR, would have been responsible for resolving the 
problem with the wrong warranties regardless of what happened to A. So BCR isnt being 
held responsible for A going out of business. Its being held responsible for the mistake its 
appointed representative, C, made long before A went out of business.
BCR offered to help transfer As warranties to another insurer but this eventually failed. So 
Mr B was left to seek warranties with a suitable sum insured. He paid O to do that. Im 
satisfied that was a reasonable course of action to take to ensure latent defect cover 
remained in place for the flats.
Mr B originally paid C around £6,500 for all nine warranties, based on the quote from A. The 
quote from G was for around £10,500. He paid the balance to C. If C had then arranged the 
warranties with G, that would have treated Mr B fairly. He would have received the 
warranties he needed, asked for, and paid for. So, I dont think it would be fair to tell BCR to 
refund any of this amount.
But Mr B shouldnt have had to pay anything further. So any loss beyond this, which hes 
reasonably suffered obtaining suitable warranties, is a loss which in my view stems from Cs 
mistake.
Consequential losses such as this need not amount to a regulated activity in their own right. 
Im simply considering the financial impact of the mistake C made when it was carrying out a 
regulated activity. So I dont think its relevant whether the loss is made up solely of 
insurance premiums or also non-insurance costs, such as any surveys required by O in 
order to provide the warranties.All the costs necessarily incurred in obtaining the new warranties were a result of Cs 
mistake. BCR tried to find a more cost-effective method of providing alternative warranties 
but it was unable to. So I dont think it was unreasonable for Mr B to pay what was required 
in order to obtain new warranties.
I agree with BCR that any amount awarded to Mr B should reflect the loss he necessarily 
suffered. Losses suffered by other parties cant be awarded to him. I also agree its fair to 
take into account any amounts already received towards his loss from the FSCS.
Mr B sold six of the flats and the warranties for each of them were transferred to the new 
owners. I havent seen anything to show that he retained a responsibility for the warranties 
for those six flats after that point. I understand he met the costs of providing new warranties 
for those flats. I can appreciate why he may have felt a moral obligation to do so. But Im not 
persuaded this was something he was required to do  or these were losses he necessarily 
suffered. So, I dont think it would be fair to tell BCR to refund these costs. 
That leaves the three remaining flats, which Mr B has continued to own and hold three 
corresponding warranties for. I think he necessarily suffered a loss when obtaining suitable 
warranties for these three flats as he needed to maintain cover for any latent defects whilst 
he owned them  and to ensure warranties were in place if he were to sell them.
Ive seen evidence to show Mr B paid O £5,316.66 for these three warranties. Ive also seen 
evidence to show Mr B received £423.75 from the FSCS towards the cost of his three 
warranties held with A. Because of that, Im satisfied hes lost £4,892.92 as a result of Cs 
mistake. So BCR should pay that amount. And hes been without that money unfairly, so I 
consider BCR should add interest to that payment.
As well as financial losses, Mr B has also described other problems V has faced, including:
The inconvenience of dealing with this problem for many years  including numerous 
emails and phone calls with various parties as a result of Cs mistake.
The time cost to V of arranging new warranties for its three flats.
V still manages the six flats it sold to other owners, so it has had to deal with a lot of 
correspondence with the new owners.
Mr B has noted other concerns, including the distress and inconvenience of the other 
owners. Whilst Ive read and understand them, Im limited to awarding compensation for the 
avoidable inconvenience V has been caused as a limited company. So I cant take into 
account the impact on Mr B personally, nor other owners.
Having thought about the impact on V, Im satisfied its suffered avoidable inconvenience 
over the years whilst dealing with the result of Cs mistake. As a result, Im satisfied £500 
compensation is reasonable and proportionate in the circumstances.My final decision
My final decision is to uphold this complaint.
I require BCR Group Limited to:
Pay V £4,892.92.
Add interest to that amount, at 8% per year simple, from the date Mr B paid for the 
new warranties until the date BCR makes the payment.
Pay V £500 compensation.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask V to accept or 
reject my decision before 19 April 2022.
 
James Neville
Ombudsman