DRN-3137293
The complaint
Mr W is unhappy with the service that he received from Sainsburys Bank Plc surrounding a 
request to transfer an ISA balance.
What happened
Mr W made a request to transfer an ISA balance from Sainsburys to a different provider in 
December 2020, but the request was rejected by  Sainsburys on several occasions. The 
reason for this was because Sainsburys had incorrectly logged a previous incoming ISA 
transfer as counting towards that years ISA allowance instead of being for the previous year. 
Sainsburys were able to correct the issue, and the transfer was completed in February 
2021, with the remaining balance of Mr Ws Sainsburys ISA being transferred out the 
following month. Mr W wasnt happy at the length of the delay, or with the efforts hed had to 
make to ensure that Sainsburys error was corrected. So, he raised a complaint.
Sainsburys looked at Mr Ws complaint. They acknowledged that theyd made an error that 
had led to the completion of Mr Ws transfer request being delayed, and they offered to 
reimburse to Mr W any loss of interest that he might have incurred because of this. 
Sainsburys also offered to make a payment to Mr W of £150 to compensate him for any 
trouble and upset that he might have incurred.
Mr W didnt feel that Sainsburys offer of compensation went far enough, so he referred his 
complaint to this service. One of our investigators looked at this complaint, but they felt that 
Sainsburys response to Mr Ws complaint did represent a fair and reasonable resolution to 
what had taken place, so they didnt uphold the complaint.
Mr W remained dissatisfied, so the matter was escalated to an ombudsman for a final 
decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I can appreciate how it must have been frustrating for Mr W to have requested an ISA 
balance transfer from Sainsburys, but for Sainsburys to reject the transfer request because 
of an error made by Sainsburys and through no fault of Mr W.
In such circumstances, what this service would expect would be that Sainsburys would take 
any corrective action necessary to ensure that Mr W hasnt suffered any financial detriment 
by what has taken place, and that Sainsburys would make an offer to Mr W to compensate 
him for any distress or inconvenience he may have incurred.
I think that Sainsburys have done that here. They offered to reimburse to Mr W any loss of 
earned interest that he may have missed out on as a result of the transfer being delayed, 
and they also offered to pay £150 to Mr W to compensate him for what had occurred.
By offering to reimburse to Mr W any loss of earned interest Im satisfied that Sainsburys 
have taken the corrective action necessary to ensure that Mr W hasnt suffered any material 
financial detriment as a result of the transfer being delayed and to ensure that Mr Ws ISA 
balance would be returned to the financial position that it should be in, had the delay never 
occurred. 
Sainsburys also offered to make a compensation payment of £150 to Mr W, and Im aware 
that Mr W doesnt feel that this offer of compensation by Sainsburys goes far enough in 
relation to the time and effort that he has had to expend trying to resolve this issue.
Matters of compensation can be subjective, with an offer considered as being fair and 
reasonable by one party not being considered as being such by someone else. But this 
service doesnt seek to calculate compensation as reimbursements to a person for time and 
effort expended, or to punish or fine a business in any way. 
Instead, this service makes a holistic assessment of what is felt to be a fair compensation 
amount in consideration of many relevant factors. And, while I appreciate that Mr W will 
disagree in this instance, the offer of £150 that Sainsburys have already made here does 
feel fair to me, and I can confirm that its commensurate with what this service would expect, 
given the circumstances. 
Mr W has also referenced another dispute involving a smaller amount of money which 
resulted in him received a larger offer of compensation that Sainsburys have offered in this 
instance. I can understand why Mr W might feel that this demonstrates that more 
compensation is warranted here, but the other dispute to which Mr W refers has no bearing 
on this complaint. Rather, each complaint is assessed purely on its own individual merits, 
and in this instance, having assessed this complaint on its own merits, I continue to feel that 
the £150 compensation amount that Sainsburys have offered here is fair and reasonable.
All of which means that I feel that the response to Mr Ws complaint that Sainsburys have 
already issued - including the offer to reimburse any loss of interest accrued to Mr W, and 
the offer of £150 compensation - does represent a fair and reasonable resolution to this 
complaint. And it follows from this that I wont be upholding this complaint or instructing 
Sainsburys to take any further action, beyond that to which theyve already agreed.
I realise that this wont be the outcome that Mr W was wanting, but I hope that hell 
understand, given all that Ive explained, why Ive made the final decision that I have.
My final decision
Your text here
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 10 December 2021.
 
Paul Cooper
Ombudsman