DRN-3244741
The complaint
Mr F complains that Bank of Scotland plc trading as Halifax have unfairly registered a default
on his credit file.  
What happened
Mr F was accepted for an unsecured personal loan with Halifax in December 2018. In
December 2019 he suffered health issues and his hours at work were reduced. He
contacted a debt management company to see if he could make an arrangement to reduce
the payments he made to creditors, including Halifax.
The debt management company indicated to Halifax that Mr Fs circumstances may be long
term. Halifax accepted Mr Fs offer to pay £256.24 per month. His contractual monthly
payment was £330.93.
Halifax wrote to Mr F on 15 January 2020. The letter said that his account was being
transferred to Halifaxs recovery team in roughly two months if his account was still in
arrears. The letter said that when his account is passed to the recoveries team then his
account would be closed and no further fees, interest or charges will be applied. The letter
said that before they transfer his account to the recoveries team, they will send him a default
notice and then a final arrears reminder. They said that Mr F did not need to respond to
these unless he was able to increase his payments.
The letter explained that once the transfer to the recoveries team was completed then a
default would be registered which would stay on Mr Fs credit file for six years. In the
question and answers section of the letter there was a section which said my situation is
changed and I now think I will be able to make a higher payment than Ive agreed with you,
what should I do? This section explained to Mr F that if he contacted Halifax then theyll do
their best to find an appropriate solution for him. This may mean that his account didnt need
to be closed and a default registered on his credit file.
Mr F contacted Halifax on 22 January 2020. He wanted Halifax to stop the repayment plan
and to stop the default. Mr F was told that his account was referred days ago and they
couldnt stop the default on the account.
Halifax sent Mr F a default notice on 29 January 2020, showing arrears of £74.69. The
account later defaulted. Mr F noticed that his credit score was badly affected by the default,
so he says he contacted the Financial Conduct Authority for some advice. He says they told
him that a default should be a last resort and it is usually registered when communication
with a business and customer has broken down. Mr F made a complaint to Halifax.
Halifax did not uphold his complaint. They said it was decided a short term repayment plan
was not appropriate at the time, as Mr F was unsure when his circumstances would improve.
So they agreed that a longer term repayment plan should be set up and his account moved
to their recoveries department. Mr F did not agree with the outcome of his complaint, so he
brought his complaint to our service.
Our investigator upheld Mr Fs complaint. He said Halifax did not take into account Mr Fs
personal circumstances and he didnt think that a default should have been registered so
soon. Our investigator said it is our expectation that a default should be registered as a last
resort. He said that Halifax should remove any default markers from Mr Fs credit file and
pay Mr F £200 compensation for distress and inconvenience.
Halifax asked for an Ombudsman to review the complaint. They made a number of points
which included that the debt management company had advised them that Mr Fs financial
difficulties would be long term, they had followed their process for customers with long term
financial difficulties which included closing his account and permanently stopping the interest
charged (part of this process is the default).
Halifax also said that the account has been interest free for nearly two years, allowing Mr F
to pay down the debt quicker, which would only be possible on defaulted accounts and if
they removed the default marker then they would need to register late payment markers,
which would ultimately result in another default being registered if Mr F was unable to pay
the arrears that had accrued over the loan period. 
As my findings differed in some respects from our investigators, I issued a provisional 
decision to give both parties the opportunity to consider things further. This is set out below:
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
One of the things Ive considered here is whether Halifax have followed their processes
when they are told a customers financial issues are going to be long term. Im persuaded
that they have and Ill explain why.
The debt management company informed Halifax of Mr Fs situation and indicated that this
was a long term issue. In these instances, to help a customer, Halifax have said that they
would close the customers account. This would prevent interest being charged on the
remaining amount, which would help the customer pay off the debt sooner  but a
consequence of this action is that a default will be registered as the contractual monthly
payment wont be met and arrears would continue to accrue. So it is usually more beneficial
for their customer that a default would be recorded at the earliest possible date, if it seems it
would be inevitable that a default would need to be registered, if the customers situation
appears to be long term.
But Im also persuaded that sometimes, even when a business follows their own process, as
they did in this instance, that this can sometimes lead to an unfair outcome for their
customer. Im satisfied that this happened here and I'll explain why.
Ive no doubt that the debt management company indicated via their payment proposal that
Mr Fs financial difficulty may be long term and thats why Halifax initially took the actions
that they did. Halifax sent Mr F a letter dated 15 January 2020, which included the section
my situation is changed and I now think I will be able to make a higher payment than Ive
agreed with you, what should I do? This section explained to Mr F that if he contacted
Halifax then theyll do their best to find an appropriate solution for him. Which may have
meant that his account didnt need to be closed and a default registered on his credit file.
So, when Mr F contacted Halifax after receiving this letter, he explained to them that he was
back to work. Halifaxs own system notes show that Mr F wanted to stop the plan being put
in place and stop the default. Mr F says that he offered to top up the payment to the
contractual amount, but he says he wasnt allowed to. Halifaxs system notes show that the
call handler spoke to another colleague who told her that the account was referred a fewdays ago and cant stop the default on the account. This statement contradicts what the
letter sent to Mr F says. This letter says that his account was being transferred to Halifaxs
recovery team in roughly two months if his account was still in arrears.
So, Im persuaded that what should have happened here, is when Mr F informed Halifax that
he wanted to cancel the repayment plan and cancel the default in light of his changing
circumstances  as Halifaxs notes show that he had a new job  is that they should have
either reinstated his contractual monthly payment and allowed him to repay any arrears (if
any) which had accrued by this point or completed an income and expenditure assessment
with him to see if he could afford the extra payment to pay his contractual monthly payment.
As his circumstances had changed from when he was off work from his previous job in the
previous month, then the information Halifax had received from the debt management
company wouldnt have been current and Mr F would know his own circumstances better
than a debt management company.
Mr F has said he offered to top up his monthly payment and he had previously asked for the
plan to be cancelled. This indicates that Mr F did have the affordability to go back and pay
his contractual monthly payment and therefore if the income and expenditure was completed
on the phone and it was shown Mr F did have the affordability to pay Halifax the monthly
contractual payment, then Im satisfied the default wouldnt have happened.
So although Im persuaded that Halifax had good intentions by taking the actions they did,
based on the information from the debt management company, Im persuaded this led to an
unfair outcome for Mr F when the payment plan instructions werent reversed in the following
month that they were given, whilst the amount in arrears was very low, despite Halifax
sending Mr F a letter explaining that a default could still be avoided at that point.
As Mr F wasnt given the opportunity to avoid the default, despite Halifaxs system notes and
Mr Fs testimony that he wanted to cancel the repayment plan and cancel the default, then I
think the fairest thing to do here is to put Mr F back in the position that he would have been
in if Halifax had cancelled the repayment plan when he asked them to. So even if Mr F had
already been transferred to the recovery team (even if the letter said this would happen in
approximately two months) and they werent able to transfer him back once this happened,
Mr F should not be disadvantaged through Halifaxs system procedures.
Ive asked Mr F if he was and is able to afford his contractual monthly payment of £330.93.
He confirmed that he had already offered to pay Halifax the extra amount in January 2020
and to continue making this payment and thats why he felt he was treated unfairly when the
default was registered as he offered to keep the account up to date. But Halifax had turned
him down.
Ive also considered what would have happened if Mr F had his contractual monthly payment
reinstated or he passed an income and expenditure assessment in January 2020. If he went
back to paying the contractual monthly income, he would have been paying a combination of
capital and interest. Mr F has had the benefit of not paying interest on the outstanding
balance for nearly two years. So Im not persuaded that its fair that Halifax shouldnt receive
the interest they would have been entitled to, if Mr F was paying his monthly contractual
payment in January 2020.
So in order to put things right, Ive had a look at Mr Fs credit agreement. This says that Mr F
should pay £330.93 a month and the total amount payable over the term is £23,826.96. So
Im persuaded that Halifax should rework Mr Fs loan to amend the monthly repayment to
£330.93 (subject to any affordability checks they need to make) and Mr F should pay this
monthly payment  which he has confirmed is affordable to him until the total payments
made over the course of the loan come to £23,826.96.Halifax should also remove any adverse credit information from Mr Fs credit file if he has the
affordability to make the monthly payment of £330.93. Halifax has previously said that if they
do this then they will need to show late payment markers to reflect that the full monthly
contractual payment hasnt been made. But Im not persuaded this is fair. I say this as if the
income and expenditure assessment had been completed when Mr F had requested the
repayment plan to be cancelled and it showed Mr F had the affordability to do so, then its
likely he would have been paying his full contractual monthly payment for the duration of the
loan. Ive seen no evidence which would currently persuade me otherwise. I can see that Mr
F has maintained the payment plan in the interim period and has even increased his
payments to Halifax.
I must make Mr F aware that he will need to maintain his payments at the increased
payment (his contractual monthly payment), as any missed/late payments moving forward
will be registered on his credit file. If he does not have the affordability to make the higher
payment, then its fair that he stays on his current repayment plan and that the default
marker stays. I say this as if Mr F cant pay £330.93 then the loan would have defaulted
anyway.
Finally Ive considered the impact that the default has had on Mr F. I know that Halifax
believe they were acting in Mr Fs best interests by taking the actions that they did. But by
sending Mr F a letter explaining that there were things he could do to avoid the default, but
then not taking his new individual circumstances into account when he rang Halifax to avoid
the default, then this would have caused distress to Mr F.
Im persuaded, despite his difficult circumstances, he was trying to avoid the default.
Halifaxs system notes show that he was vulnerable at this time, yet his request to cancel the
default and repayment plan wasnt explored in sufficient detail. To recognise the impact this
would have had on Mr F at a difficult time in his life, then Im persuaded that Halifax should
pay Mr F £200 for the inconvenience and distress for the reasons Ive already given.
I invited both parties to let me have any further submissions before I reached a final 
decision. Mr F agreed with my provisional decision. Halifax did not agree with the provisional 
decision and made a number of follow up points.
In summary, Halifax said the most recent debt management repayment plan proposed by 
the debt management company in November 2021, showed Mr Fs current income and 
expenditure. This showed that Mr F would not have the affordability to meet higher payments 
to his Halifax loan. They said that either Mr F should have sufficient income to pay the 
£330.93 a month payment with Halifax and increase his other creditors accordingly (and they 
highlighted the risk of credit agreements being broken and further defaults), or if Mr F was 
committed to paying Halifax £330.93 a month, then he would have less disposable income to 
meet his other creditors monthly payments.
Halifax provided an illustrative example which would show that if he were to pay the 
contractual monthly payment of £330.93 a month then the new loan (if agreed) would finish 
around March/April 2025, as opposed to his current arrangement (based on his current 
payment) being finished in September 2023. Halifax also pointed out that if Mr F defaulted 
on any new loan then that would be reported on his credit file later than what it is presently. 
Halifax said that when Mr F spoke to their call handler on 22 January 2020, the call handler 
asked him is there any other changes you might expect that will change your finances in a 
positive way?  and Mr F replied no.
 
What Ive decided  and whyIve considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive given a great deal of consideration to what Halifax have told me in their response to my 
provisional decision. It does concern me that the latest proposal from the debt management 
company in November 2021, proposes a lower monthly payment to Halifax. This information 
was not available to me prior to me making my provisional decision. I agree with Halifax that 
it would appear that Mr F does not have the affordability to meet an increased payment.
So I put this to Mr F and asked how he would be able to afford a higher payment when the 
debt management company income and expenditure details for Mr F  which he signed to 
say were correct  show he doesnt have any disposable income to meet any higher 
payment. Mr F said that he had originally proposed to Halifax that while he was on his plan 
with the debt management company if he could stick with that but also top up the payment 
to meet the contractual payment. He said thats what hes proposing here, to top up the debt 
management company monthly payment so Halifax will receive the contractual monthly 
payment each month. Mr F said that his partner will help him out so he can make the top up 
to Halifax. 
Ive considered what Halifax have said about the conversation Mr F had with their call 
handler on 22 January. While Mr F may have responded negatively to the question about his 
financial circumstances improving, Halifaxs system notes show that only five days earlier 
(17 January 2020) he told them that he had a new job. So its not clear if Mr F had answered 
this question in relation to since he had the new job and his circumstances wouldnt improve 
moving forward. But as Halifax didnt look at his income and expenditure at this point then 
Im not persuaded at this point what the outcome of any affordability conversation would 
have been here. 
Ive also considered what Halifax have said about if a new loan is set up and Mr F defaults 
again then this will show on his credit file. Ill expand on this for Mr F. Any adverse credit 
information moving forward would be reflected on his credit file, for example if he missed a 
month topping up his payment or if he made a late payment. This would be Mr Fs 
responsibility to ensure that his payments are made, regardless of his circumstances. If 
Halifax accept that there is affordability for him to make payments (if his partner is meeting 
some of the priority bills), then Mr F would still be responsible for the increased payment to 
Halifax if he were to split with his partner during the term of the loan.
Ultimately, my provisional decision was to put Mr F in the place he should have been if 
Halifax took into account the new information he provided them in January 2020 when he 
informed them his circumstances had changed (new job) and asked them to stop the debt 
repayment plan. My provisional decision does not automatically mean that the loan will be 
amended/Mr Fs credit file will be amended etc as Mr F would need to meet Halifaxs 
affordability criteria for this to happen, as he would have needed to in January 2020. 
So although Ive taken Halifaxs comments into account and have given them great 
consideration, Im still persuaded that Mr F should be afforded the opportunity to complete 
an income and expenditure assessment with them, which Im persuaded that this should 
have happened at the time, for the reasons Ive already given. If this shows that he doesnt 
have the affordability to meet the higher payment, then in effect, nothing will change as to 
how it is now. But if it does show that Mr F has the affordability to meet his original 
contractual payments, then Halifax should rework his loan. Mr F should speak to his debt 
management company before anything is put in force to see if and how this affects his other 
creditors, so he is in an informed position prior to any agreement being put in place as 
neither this service or Halifax would be responsible for any implications this may have. In summary, Halifaxs response hasnt changed my view and my final decision and 
reasoning remains the same as in my provisional decision. I know Halifax will be 
disappointed with the decision, but I hope they understand my reasons. 
  
Putting things right
In my provisional decision I suggested that I intended to ask Halifax to rework Mr Fs loan 
(subject to any income and expenditure checks they need to complete). The loan should be 
reworked so Mr Fs payments are £330.93 a month until he pays a total of £23,826.96  in 
line with his credit agreement. I also intended to ask Halifax to remove any adverse credit
information registered on Mr Fs credit files for this loan (subject to Mr F having the 
affordability of meeting the £330.93 monthly payment). And I also intended to ask Halifax to 
pay Mr F £200 for inconvenience and distress for not taking his individual circumstances into 
account at the time he requested the repayment plan to be cancelled. Im still satisfied this is 
a fair outcome for the reasons given previously.     
My final decision
Bank of Scotland plc trading as Halifax should rework Mr Fs loan (subject to any income 
and expenditure checks they need to complete). The loan should be reworked so Mr Fs 
payments are £330.93 a month until he pays a total of £23,826.96  in line with his credit
agreement.
Bank of Scotland plc trading as Halifax should remove any adverse credit information 
registered on Mr Fs credit files for this loan (subject to Mr F having the affordability of 
meeting the £330.93 monthly payment).
Bank of Scotland plc trading as Halifax should pay Mr F £200 for inconvenience and distress 
for not taking his individual circumstances into account at the time he requested the 
repayment plan to be cancelled.
  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr F to accept or 
reject my decision before 7 February 2022.
 
Gregory Sloanes
Ombudsman