DRN-3234862
The complaint
Mr B complains that Skyfire Insurance Company Limited didnt tell him when a third-party 
claimed on his car insurance policy.
What happened
In September 2020, Mr B was involved in a collision. Mr B says that he wanted to try and 
arrange to settle the claim privately with the third party  he says the third-party confirmed 
that they would let their insurance company know but wouldnt make a claim.
Mr B says that he was negotiating costs with the third-party but they later lost touch.
Sometime later, Mr B went to renew his insurance and it was at this point he says he found 
out that the third-party had made a claim against his policy, and Skyfire had paid out to settle 
the claim. Mr B was unhappy because he says Skyfire hadnt told him about the claim, and 
had it done so, he would have tried to settle the claim privately so he could avoid losing his 
no claims discount and avoid the potential impact to his premiums. 
Mr B also complains about the service he received from Skyfire. He said that every time he 
called, he would be put on hold and wouldnt receive a call back when promised.
Skyfire responded to Mr Bs complaint to say that it hadnt done anything wrong when it 
settled the claim made against the policy. However, it should have let him know the cost of 
the claim as it had previously agreed to do so and offered him £50 to say sorry. 
Mr B says he didnt receive the payment of £50 and so had to chase Skyfire again  who 
then offered him an additional £50 for the inconvenience. 
When the complaint was referred to this service, Skyfire reviewed what had happened and 
decided that it would offer Mr B a further £100 to settle the complaint  so £200 in total. 
Our investigator also looked into things for Mr B. They found that Skyfire had acted fairly in 
settling the claim. But agreed that Skyfire should have told Mr B about the cost of the claim 
made against him, as this was previously agreed during a phone call. The investigator also 
thought that Skyfire could have provided better service when Mr B contacted it. However, the 
investigator found that that £200 Skyfire had already offered was a fair way to settle things.
Mr B didnt agree the £200 was enough  especially when taking into account the impact the 
claim has had on his premiums and his no claims bonus.
Because Mr B didnt agree, the complaint has been passed to me to make a decision on the 
matter.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having considered everything, it is my decision not to uphold Mr Bs complaint. I appreciate 
this will come as a disappointment to him, but Ill explain my reasons for this below. 
In line with most insurers, the policy says that Skyfire can take over the settlement of the 
claim. So, it can decide whether to defend a claim or settle it. Skyfire was presented with a 
claim made by the third-party, and so it needed to deal with this appropriately. Based on 
what Ive seen, it appears Mr B has accepted that he was at fault for the incident, and Skyfire 
has settled the claim on that basis. So, I dont think it has done anything wrong here.
Mr B says that had he have known about the claim made against his policy, he would have 
wanted to settle this directly with the third-party so that his future insurance premiums 
wouldnt have been affected. I can understand that it must have been frustrating for Mr B 
that the third-party claimed on his policy when they said they werent going to. But I dont 
think that I can hold Skyfire responsible for the third-partys actions here. While Mr B might 
have been able to settle things privately, it doesnt appear that the third-party wanted to do 
this, as they had already started the claims process. And they had stopped contacting Mr B 
to negotiate a price for the repair work. So its possible that even if Mr B had been made 
aware of the claim, he may not have been able to settle things privately anyway.
I can see in the notes provided by Skyfire that Mr B was given the option to buy back the 
claim made against his policy. This means that Mr B was given the option of paying Skyfire 
the full amount it paid out on the claim. If Mr B had chosen to do this, Skyfire would likely 
have changed the outcome of the claim from fault to non-fault. I understand that Mr B is 
concerned about the increase in his insurance premiums as a result of the claim, so buying 
this back from Skyfire could have reduced future premiums. However, its worth noting that 
the cost of insurance is determined by many factors and not just claims history. If Mr B would 
still like to do this, then he should contact Skyfire direct.
I dont think its in dispute that Skyfire didnt treat Mr B fairly when it didnt notify him of the 
cost of the claim made against him. I can also see that it has agreed that it didnt call Mr B 
back when it said it would and made the payment for the first offer of compensation late.
Ive thought about these things as a whole and whether Skyfires offer of £200 is enough to 
settle things here, and I think it is. 
Mr B has said that Skyfire didnt notify him of the claim made against his policy. But looking 
at the information provided, I think it did let him know during a phone call that the third-party 
had made a claim. However, Skyfire agreed to let Mr B know the cost of settling the claim, 
which it has accepted it didnt do.
While I appreciate it must have been disappointing for Mr B to find out that a claim had been 
made against his policy and he wasnt told of the cost of this, I dont ultimately think this has 
impacted Mr B too much. For example, based on the notes provided by Skyfire, Mr B was 
likely aware of the claim and I dont think that the outcome of the claim, or the amount paid 
out, would have been any different had Skyfire told Mr B about the cost. And I also dont 
think this has had an impact on the insurance premiums Mr B has needed to pay. I agree 
that it must have been frustrating for Mr B to have to contact Skyfire on a number of 
occasions, but I dont find that he has been too inconvenienced by this. And so, Im not going 
to ask Skyfire to pay Mr B anymore.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold Mr Bs complaint
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or reject my decision before 4 March 2022.
 
Sophie Wilkinson
Ombudsman