DRN-3904463
The complaint
Mr B and Mrs P have complained that Barclays Bank UK PLC unfairly declined their 
application for a buy-to-let (BTL) mortgage. Mr B and Mrs P want Barclays to compensate 
them for the costs they incurred in paying for a specialist report and for the cost of a bridging 
loan they took out to purchase the property, which they estimate to be £20,800.
Mr B has dealt with the complaint both with us and Barclays, so for the sake of simplicity I 
will refer to him throughout this decision.
What happened
I will summarise the complaint in less detail than its been presented. There are several 
reasons for this. First of all, the history of the matter is set out in detail in correspondence, 
and in the investigators letter dated 7 January 2023. All parties have a copy of that letter, so 
there is no need for me to repeat the details here. I will instead concentrate on giving the 
reasons for my decision. In addition, our decisions are published, so its important I dont 
include any information that might lead to Mr B and Mrs P being identified. So for these 
reasons, I will keep my summary of what happened quite brief.
The crux of this complaint is that Mr B is unhappy that Barclays declined an application for a 
BTL mortgage after receiving a nil valuation from its surveyors. Mr B provided a specialist 
report relating to damp at the property, but after reconsideration, the application was still 
declined by the bank.  Mr B and Mrs P went on to purchase the property using a bridging 
loan. 
They then asked the bank for another mortgage to refinance the bridging loan. However, this 
was outside Barclays lending criteria, as theyd not owned the property for more than six 
months.
Mr B complained but Barclays didnt uphold the complaint so Mr B and Mrs P brought it to 
our service. An investigator looked at what had happened but didnt think the complaint 
should be upheld. 
In a very detailed letter dated 7 January 2023 the investigator explained that the valuation 
was for Barclays lending purposes only, that Barclays was entitled to rely on the opinion of 
its surveyor, and that the bank had been entitled to decline the first application. The 
investigator was also satisfied that Barclays was entitled to decline the second application 
for a new mortgage after Mr B and Mrs P had bought the property with the bridging loan, as 
it wasnt within the banks lending criteria.
Mr B disagreed with the investigators findings and asked for an ombudsman to review the 
complaint. He was largely dissatisfied about the investigator providing his opinion on the 
complaint, and said that this was biased. Mr B reiterated all the points hed previously made 
about why he thought Barclays had acted unfairly.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The evidence in the case is detailed, running to several hundred pages of documents. Ive 
read everything, and its apparent that some parts of the evidence are less relevant to the 
underlying case than others. 
I note Mr Bs dissatisfaction at the way Barclays dealt with his complaint. However, under 
our rules we can only consider complaints about regulated activities. Complaint-handling is 
not a regulated activity, nor is it ancillary to a regulated activity. So whilst I note Mr Bs 
unhappiness about how his complaint has been dealt with, its not something I have any 
legal power to consider, and so wont be commenting any further on it.
I must also explain first that the Financial Ombudsman Service is independent of both 
consumers and the businesses they are complaining about. This means that we dont act for 
consumers, nor do we take instructions either from consumers or businesses, or allow either 
party to direct the course of our investigations; were we to do so, it would compromise our 
independence and impartiality. Its up to us to determine what evidence we need in order to 
investigate a complaint. So although Ive noted the questions which Mr B would like 
answered to his satisfaction, its not my role to put those questions to Barclays or act as a 
representative or go-between on this case.
We provide an informal service  and this means that what the investigator has provided is 
his opinion on the case, in line with our process. Because Mr B hasnt agreed with that, I will 
give my decision on the case  which is also my opinion, based on the available evidence.
Barclays is entitled to set its own lending criteria. Decisions that Barclays makes in respect 
of what those criteria are, its attitude to risk involved in this particular lending assessment, 
and whether it should lend and if so, on what terms are clearly discretionary matters for 
Barclays own commercial judgement that I would not interfere with.
The valuation was provided for Barclays purposes only. As this was a BTL application, Mr B 
and Mrs P cannot rely on it. This is the position endorsed by the Court of Appeal in the case 
of Scullion v Bank of Scotland [2011] EWCA Civ 693. Generally BTL purchasers are 
expected to have their own surveys and specialist reports carried out. Im satisfied Barclays 
was entitled to rely on the opinion of the surveyor the bank instructed. 
I understand what Mr B is saying  that he couldnt carry out any work on the property before 
owning it. But Barclays was entitled to seek further clarification on what needed to be done 
to the property as part of its consideration of the application. The evidence does not support 
Mr Bs contention that Barclays agreed to pay for the specialist report Mr B provided. 
Im satisfied that Barclays reached its lending decision fairly, after taking into account all 
relevant factors, including the valuation, exposure to risk, and the specific circumstances of 
this application. Given this, Im satisfied that Barclays gave fair consideration to this 
application and so legitimately exercised its commercial judgement when declining the 
application. This means that there is no basis upon which I can find that Barclays has treated 
Mr B and Mrs P unfairly or unreasonably in declining the application.
It was Mr B and Mrs Ps decision to go ahead with the bridging loan to purchase the 
property. Mr B has explained that he was keen to buy it, because the purchase price was 
£350,000 but he thought the property, once renovated, would be worth £450,000. But taking out a bridging loan was a commercial decision Mr B and Mrs P made, as BTL landlords. I 
cant hold Barclays responsible for the costs Mr B and Mrs P incurred in doing this.
Because it was less than six months after the purchase when Mr B and Mrs P applied to 
Barclays for a new mortgage, they didnt meet the banks lending criteria (which requires a 
property to be owned for more than six months before the bank will consider a re-mortgage 
application). Barclays isnt under any obligation to lend outside its normal lending criteria. I 
therefore do not find the bank to be at fault in relation to this.
I appreciate Mr B and Mrs P will be disappointed that Ive not been able to uphold their 
complaint. As I said above, what the Financial Ombudsman Service does is provide an 
informal opinion on a complaint. If Mr B and Mrs P accept my final decision, it will be legally 
binding on them and Barclays. But if they decide not to accept it, they will be free to pursue 
their grievances against the bank in court, where there is a more formal procedure in relation 
to evidence and arguments than the process we follow. I would suggest Mr B and Mrs P take 
legal advice from a solicitor before embarking on any court proceedings.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
This final decision concludes the Financial Ombudsman Services review of this complaint. 
This means that we are unable to consider the complaint any further, nor enter into any 
correspondence about the merits of it.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B and Mrs P to 
accept or reject my decision before 22 May 2023.
 
Jan O'Leary
Ombudsman