DRN-3818791
The complaint
Miss R complains that Clydesdale Financial Services Limited trading as Barclays Partner 
Finance incorrectly and unfairly recorded a missed payment on her credit file.
What happened
Miss R has two loans with Barclays Partner Finance. In February 2022, Barclays Partner 
Finance said that the direct debit payment for both the loans had been returned unpaid. Miss 
R made the payment to one of the loans later that month  but did not pay the other until 
March 20022. So Barclays Partner Finance recorded the payment for that loan as being late 
on her credit file.
Miss R said she didnt know she that she didnt have enough money in her bank account to 
pay the amount that was due. She said that Barclays Partner Finance failed to contact her 
and hadnt changed her address. She said that if it had contacted her, then she would have 
contacted it. Miss R said the late payment needs to be removed.
The investigator said that Barclays Partner Finances offer of £100 was fair to reflect the 
poor service Miss R had received. But the late payment marker was recorded correctly.
Miss R did not accept what the investigator said. She made a number of points, including:
The evidence she provided that the text messages from Barclays did not come through 
on the dates Barclays Partner Finance claimed had been ignored.
She was abroad at the time in question so she could not know that she needed to make 
a payment if a text message wasnt sent.
Her salary wasnt paid because a client became insolvent  that was why the payment 
wasnt made.  She told Barclays that but it ignored her.
The late payment marker has ruined her credit rating and her ability to obtain credit.
The payment may have bounced, but she paid immediately when she returned to the 
UK>
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Barclays Partner Finance is obliged to record true and accurate information on Miss Rs 
credit file. So I need to decide whether it is true and accurate to record that Miss Rs 
February 2022 payment was late on her credit file.
It is not in dispute that Miss R did not make the payment that was due on 1 February 2022. 
The direct debit was returned unpaid . Barclays Partner Finance said that it would not 
usually record payment as late if the payment was made in the same month it was due. But 
Miss R did not make the payment on one of the loans until 7 March 2022.
Barclays Partner Finance wrote to Miss R to tell her that the payment had been returned. But 
those letters were sent to the wrong address. I consider that was a mistake by Barclays 
Partner Finance  as it had the correct address on the other loan. So it ought reasonably to 
have updated the address on both accounts. But I dont think that matters in respect of the 
late payment. I say that as Miss R has said she was abroad and she also received text 
messages about the missed payment. 
Miss R has provided evidence that she received text messages from Barclays Partner 
Finance on 15, 18, 21 and 25 February 2022. The messages said her account was overdue, 
her credit rating may be at risk and that she should contact it to make a payment. I can see 
that Miss R did make a payment to the other loan account on 23 February 2022. But she 
received another text message after that. And ultimately it is for her to manage her finances 
and to make sure that the payment reaches Barclays Partner Finance on time.
I note the explanations Miss R has given for not making the payment. While it may have 
been outside Miss Rs control that she did not have money in her bank account when 
Barclays Partner Finance attempted to collect the payment, that does not mean that it could 
not record the late payment on her credit file.
Ultimately, I consider that it is true and accurate to record the February payment for one of 
the loans as being late. That accurately reflects the circumstances here and I think it is fair 
for Barclays Partner Finance to record the information it did.
Barclays Partner Finance has offered Miss R £100 compensation for its poor service, 
including when dealing with her complaint. I dont have the power to look at things it did 
while handling Miss Rs complaint. But I consider it is fair to reflect the failure to amend her 
address.
Miss R has said that the late payment marker has ruined her credit rating and her ability to 
obtain credit. I know it will be little consolation to her, but while the late payment will remain 
on her credit file for six years, its impact on her credit score and ability to obtain credit will 
reduce over time. And while every lender will view the late payment differently  that alone is 
unlikely to mean that she is unable to obtain any credit, if everything else on her credit file is 
ok.
My final decision
My final decision is that Clydesdale Financial Services Limited trading as Barclays Partner 
Finance should pay Miss R £100.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss R to accept 
or reject my decision before 20 December 2022.
 
Ken Rose
Ombudsman