DRN-2417469
The complaint
Mr and Mrs S complain that advice they were given by Connect IFA Ltd to take out an index-
linked second charge buy-to-let (BTL) mortgage was unsuitable. They were advised to 
purchase the product based on false information, having already signed up for an equity-
based product from the same lender.
To resolve their complaint Mr and Mrs S would like to be compensated for their financial 
losses, and also the considerable personal impact of the time and worry involved in 
researching and corresponding on how to put things right.
What happened
Mr and Mrs S were given advice by Connect to take out a second charge mortgage on a 
BTL property. They say the advice to take out that mortgage was unsuitable and has 
resulted in their incurring financial losses which they estimate to be in excess of £50,000.
They made a complaint to Connect, which wasnt upheld, and then complained to us. An 
investigator looked at the complaint but didnt think Connect had done anything wrong. 
Mr and Mrs S asked for an ombudsman to review the complaint.
However the ombudsman said that under our rules we could only consider a complaint 
against a mortgage broker in relation to regulated activities carried out by the broker. So in 
order to be able to consider Mr and Mrs Ss complaint against Connect, the complaint must 
be about advice and arrangement of a regulated mortgage contract.
However the second charge BTL mortgage taken out by Mr and Mrs S wasnt a regulated 
mortgage contract. This meant that we had no power to consider a complaint against 
Connect about the advice given to take out the second charge BTL loan, as it didnt fall 
within the scope of our rules. We couldnt consider the suitability of the mortgage, or any 
concerns Mr and Mrs S had about the advice that was given to take it out. 
But we could consider the activity of credit broking  the introduction of Mr and Mrs S to the 
lender (in other words, was a lender sourced which could offer a product which was 
appropriate for Mr and Mrs Ss needs). Credit broking also covered assistance with the 
preparatory work which Connect carried out with a view to their taking out the mortgage  so 
assisting Mr and Mrs S to compile the information required to submit the application.
Mr and Mrs Ss complaint was then considered on this limited basis by a different 
investigator, but she didnt recommend it be upheld. She said we could consider the role 
Connect played in providing Mr and Mrs S with credit agreement options which matched 
their requirements, i.e. a BTL mortgage for a property intended to be rented out by them and 
not to be used as their main residence. 
We could also consider any assistance Connect had provided in compiling the information 
required to submit the application. The investigator could see that Connect had assisted 
Mr and Mrs S in gathering the information required to submit the application so that they met 
the eligibility criteria.
The investigator said Connect had sent Mr and Mrs S an email dated 29 August 2014 which 
provided them with information about an index-linked second-charge BTL mortgage - which 
was what they took out. Therefore it appeared Connect did help to source a product which 
matched what they were looking for.
Connect did need to explain the key features of the product so that Mr and Mrs S could 
make an informed choice. The investigator thought Connect had done this. Mr and Mrs S 
were provided with loan agreement illustrations to inform them of the key features of the 
mortgage. The investigator was satisfied that they were given enough information about the 
agreement to make an informed decision about whether they wanted to proceed.
Mr and Mrs S didnt agree and asked for an ombudsman to look at the case. They also 
made some specific points which Ive summarised as follows:
1. Connect originally did preparatory work for an equity release product. But it later 
substituted an index profit share product of which it gave scant detail. It wasnt a profit 
share, it was a profit grab. Mr and Mrs S werent given enough information about the 
product to make an informed decision. The illustration Connect provided was simple and 
lacked the detail needed for people with no experience.
2. The Halifax indices were based on residential purchase information, not including any 
BTLs, so were based on an index which didnt compare with Mr and Mrs Ss house. They 
also had a Northern bias. The indices were calculated solely from completions where the 
mortgage was provided by the Halifax and therefore didnt accurately represent the UK 
or London.
3. Connect had told them the multiplier would be x1.5 but the lender applied x2. So they 
ended up owing 33.3% more than theyd been led to believe.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
It needs to be remembered that an ombudsman has already decided that we cant consider 
any issues relating to advice or suitability of the mortgage.
The buy to let remortgage property details form, which is a form prepared, I assume, by 
Connect for prospective lenders, records that Mr and Mrs S needed a second charge to 
keep the current first charge intact, and were attracted by no monthly payments of equity 
loan. They would like to raise the maximum possible for property renovations and new 
property acquisitions.
Ive considered Mr and Mrs Ss complaint summary against the lender and Connect, 
contained in their email of 24 November 2019, and also their observations on Connects 
second final response, contained in their email to our service of 27 February 2020. The 
complaint in essence is that they were sold a product on the wrong premise which has 
turned out to be prohibitively expensive. 
In its responses to the complaint Connect submitted that it had explored various options, 
including the terms which would be available from several lenders. It felt that the lender 
chosen had the best options for Mr and Mrs S. Specifically it looked at two schemes which were available, an equity option and an index option. Having issued an illustration on the 
equity option, it sent an email on 29 August 2014 explaining the index option.
That email doesnt in terms recommend the index option over the equity option, but 
Mr and Mrs S say that Connect nevertheless did that. Im aware they dont accept Connects 
account and that its their position that it did make that recommendation. However, that is a 
complaint about Connects advice and the suitability of the mortgage. The activity of credit 
broking consists of introducing a customer to a finance or credit provider. I dont consider 
that Mr and Mrs S suffered from any deficiencies in the way that function was carried out, 
nor from the way Connect assisted them in compiling the information required to submit the 
application. Indeed, the application succeeded. 
Therefore I agree with the investigator that Connect fulfilled its role as a credit broker. 
Mr and Mrs S wanted a BTL second mortgage for a property intended to be rented out by 
them and not to be used as their main residence. Connect did help to source a product 
which matched what they were looking for.
Ive also considered the specific points made by Mr and Mrs S in response to the 
investigators recommendation. But Im afraid it doesnt seem to me that I can take these into 
account. Specifically:
1. The information provided was in Connects email of 29 August 2014 and in the 
illustration dated 3 September 2014 which was provided by the lender. But a complaint 
that this information was scant and lacked sufficient detail is a complaint about the 
sufficiency of the advice given to Mr and Mrs S by Connect. 
2. It wouldnt help for me to express a view as to whether the indices were appropriate or 
whether the wrong index was used. Whether they were or not, this is a complaint about 
the suitability of the index profit share mortgage for Mr and Mrs S, the BTL property 
being in London. So I cant consider it.
3. The illustration dated 3 September 2014 says in paragraph 2 that the multiple applied in 
the illustration is x2. Connects email of 29 August 2014 also says the figure would be 
doubled. But in any case, Im afraid that this is also a complaint about Connects advice.
In summary, what Mr and Mrs S complain to have suffered from, as set out in their complaint 
form to our service, is advice by Connect to take the index profit share mortgage instead of 
the equity release mortgage. But unfortunately we dont have jurisdiction to consider that.
My final decision
My decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr and Mrs S to 
accept or reject my decision before 27 March 2021.
 
Edward Callaghan
Ombudsman