DRN-3458885
The complaint
Mr H says that he and his partner were misled about the terms of a timeshare they bought  
while in Florida in August 2012. Because Mr H paid part of the price for the timeshare using 
his Halifax credit card (issued by Bank of Scotland plc), he says that he has a claim  against 
Halifax.
What happened
Mr H has explained that he was on holiday in Florida when he and his partner were offered 
discounted Disney tickets, on condition that they attended a presentation with Westgate 
Lakes LLC, a business dealing in holiday clubs and timeshare resorts. After a lengthy 
presentation they agreed to buy a timeshare property, although Mr H says they were told 
that they were buying a holiday club membership.
When Mr H and his partner used the property a year later, they found out that they had 
bought a one-week holiday, not the two-week deal they had been led to believe they had 
bought. Their accommodation was not as described.
Mr H says he was also told that the deal would be a good investment and that maintenance 
charges would only rise in line with inflation. He was also told that he would not have to pay 
for another holiday ever again, but availability of accommodation was not what he had been 
led to believe.
Mr H also said that the sales was pressured. It was much longer than he had been led to 
believe it would be and he was told that he had to sign up on the day to get a special deal.
In October 2018 Mr H, through representatives, complained to Halifax. In addition to the 
complaints about the sale itself, he said that Halifax had not carried out appropriate checks 
before agreeing to lend him the money to fund the purchase. Halifax said however that there 
was insufficient evidence to support Mr Hs claim. The complaint was referred to this service 
in July 2019.
Our investigator did not however recommend that it be upheld, for broadly the same reasons 
as Halifax. Mr Hs representatives (which by this point were different from the 
representatives who had referred the claim to us) did not accept the investigators 
assessment and asked that an ombudsman review the case. I did that and issued a 
provisional decision in which I said:
I shall deal first with the complaint that Halifax did not assess whether Mr H could afford the 
borrowing to pay for the holiday product he bought. I note that Mr Hs representatives 
referred to the rules and guidance in CONC  the part of the Financial Conduct Authoritys 
Handbook that deals with consumer credit. Since the loan pre-dates the FCAs regulation of 
consumer credit activities, however, CONC did not apply at the time. I would nevertheless 
expect lenders to have assessed the affordability of credit in line with guidance issued by, for 
example, the Office of Fair Trading (OFT), the Lending Standards Board and the Finance 
and Leasing Association.
Halifax did not however provide a separate loan to finance the holiday product. Mr H used 
his existing credit facility on his credit card account. To that extent, therefore, this part of the 
complaint is about an earlier decision about the level at which to set or increase Mr Hs credit 
limit. It is not clear when Halifax last set or increased the credit limit before August 2012. 
However, our own rules say that we cannot generally consider a complaint unless it is 
referred to us within six years of the event complained of or, if later, within three years of the 
date on which the complainant knew, or ought reasonably to have known, that he had cause 
for complaint.
The event complained of here is the setting or changing of Mr Hs credit limit, some time 
before August 2012. It follows that this part of the complaint should have been referred to us 
by no later than August 2018  and very possibly well before that. Because it wasnt, we 
have no power to consider it.
I turn therefore to the sale itself. I think it is clear that what was sold was a one-week 
timeshare. The documents provided include a lengthy insurance policy in respect of the 
purchase. It specifies that the land referred to in the policy is Time Share Interest(s) 
Together with the right to occupy, pursuant to the Plan, Bldg xxxx, Unit xxxx, during Unit 
Week(s) 25 during Assigned Year All.
So, whatever Mr H believed he was buying (or was told he was buying), the reality was that 
he bought a one-week timeshare interest in a property in Florida.
That is significant for two reasons:
First, it means that the sale contract is most likely governed by the laws of Florida and 
that disputes should be resolved before the courts in Florida.
Second, it means that The Timeshare, Holiday Products, Resale and Exchange 
Contracts Regulations 2010 (on which Mr Hs representatives have placed some 
reliance) do not apply. Regulation 5 says that the Regulations apply if the contract is 
governed by the law of the UK or any part of it or if relevant accommodation is in the UK 
or an EEA state. Neither was the case here.
Mr Hs claim primary claim against Halifax is that he has a claim for breach of contract or 
misrepresentation against Westgate and that the effect of section 75(1) of the Consumer 
Credit Act 1974 is that he has a like claim against Halifax. Subject to certain conditions, 
which I believe are met here, that is the effect of section 75 where goods or services are 
paid for with a credit card. It does not matter that the supplier of those goods or services is 
outside the UK or that the underlying contract is governed by a law other than that of the UK.
In English law, a misrepresentation is, in very broad terms, a statement of law or of fact, 
made by one party to a contract to the other, which is untrue and which induces the other 
party into the contract. A breach of contract occurs when one party does not do what it has 
agreed to do under the contract.
However, under the Limitation Act 1980 an action (that is, court action) based on breach of 
contract or misrepresentation cannot generally be brought after six years from the date on 
which the cause of action accrued. Any statements which might have induced Mr H into 
buying the timeshare were made on or before 9 August 2012, more than 6 years before he 
raised any claim with the bank.
Were the timeshare contract subject to English law, therefore, its very likely that I would 
conclude that any claim for misrepresentation against Westgate would probably fail and that 
the banks response to the claim was therefore reasonable. And it is not clear what term or 
terms of the timeshare contract Mr H says were breached, or when.As I have said, however, the sale contract here was governed by the laws of Florida. Any 
claim under section 75 therefore depends on Mr M having a valid claim against Westgate 
under those laws.
Most common law jurisdictions place time limits on the bringing of civil claims  as I have 
indicated above, so do the Financial Ombudsman Services rules. Given the time that has 
passed since Mr H bought the timeshare, I think it likely that Florida law, like English law, 
would prevent him from bringing a claim against Westgate in connection with events from 
the time of sale.
Be that as it may, I am currently inclined to agree with Halifax that there isnt sufficient 
evidence here that Mr H has a claim for breach of contract or misrepresentation, were such 
a claim to be considered under English law. In all the circumstances, therefore, I believe that 
the banks response to the claim was reasonable.
In summary, therefore, I am satisfied that section 75(1) of the Consumer Credit Act could 
apply in this case. I think it likely however that a court applying English law would conclude 
that any claim against Westgate would now be out of time. I am not persuaded that a court 
applying Florida law would reach a different conclusion. Even if it did, I have seen no 
evidence to show that a claim would be successful.
I indicated that I was unlikely to uphold the complaint. 
Halifax accepted my provisional findings, but Mr H did not respond to them. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Neither party has responded in substantive terms to my provisional decision, so I see no 
reason to change my overall conclusions. 
The only further point I would make is on the complaint that Halifax did not a make a proper 
assessment before agreeing to provide Mr H with the amount of credit that it did  in this 
case by setting his credit limit at the level it did. Even if I were to take the view that we do 
have power to consider that part of the complaint (perhaps because Mr H was unaware of 
the nature or extent of the banks obligations), I have seen nothing to suggest that the credit 
limit was set too high or that a fuller assessment would have led to a different outcome. 
I stress too that it is not for me to decide whether Mr H has a valid claim against Westgate or 
a claim against Halifax under section 75. They are however matters I must take into account 
in deciding whats fair and reasonable in all the circumstances. In my view, the banks 
response to Mr Hs claims was fair and reasonable.     
My final decision
For these reasons. my final decision is that I do not require Bank of Scotland plc to do 
anything more to resolve Mr Hs complaint.   
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 17 April 2023.
 
Mike IngramOmbudsman