DRN-1511935
The complaint
Miss F complains Santander UK Plc unnecessarily delayed a payment to her conveyancing 
solicitors, which meant she was a day late completing her house purchase. This caused 
significant distress to her and her family and meant she incurred additional costs. 
What happened
Miss F was set to complete her house purchase on 14 November 2019. On 12 November 
2019, she called Santander to arrange a CHAPS payment of £108,424 to her conveyancing 
solicitors. 
Miss F called Santander the following day as the payment hadn't arrived. She was told it had 
gone through and to keep checking back. Later that afternoon, the payment was held for a 
fraud check. Miss F was told about this late that afternoon and she complained about the 
delay. 
The following morning, the day of the move, Santander contacted Miss F at around 9.30.  It 
obtained the details it needed and was satisfied such that the payment could be released. 
This was done later that day. Unfortunately, the payment didn't arrive with the solicitors until 
late in the evening - too late for completion. By this time, Miss F and her family had left their 
previous home and all their belongings were in removal trucks. Miss F incurred additional 
costs from the removal company, her solicitors, and she needed to home her pets for the 
evening.  
Santander explained that it needed to carry out additional checks as part of protecting its 
customers from fraud. So it didn't think it had done anything wrong. However, it did 
reimburse Mrs F for her additional costs and refunded the CHAPS transfer fee. It also sent 
her two bottles of wine. 
Our investigator was satisfied Santander had fairly resolved this complaint. Miss F asked for 
the matter to be referred to an ombudsman. She feels she was initially lied to about the 
payment having gone through when it hadn't. And she believes the check was unnecessary; 
although she acknowledges a bank's duty to protect its customers from fraud, it was her 
solicitors it was carrying out a check on, who are in a high street and have dealt with 
Santander for years. She further argues this caused such distress that she fell and injured 
herself, and her family was caused distress by the whole episode.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I have a great deal of sympathy for the situation in which Miss F found herself. House moves 
are stressful, so I can appreciate why if anything happens during that process further stress 
can be caused, particularly if that's during completion. But I can only make an award if I think 
Santander has done something wrong. Miss F made her CHAPS request on 12 November 2019.  She called on 13 November 2019 
as her solicitors hadn't received the payment. I'm not persuaded Santander intentionally lied 
to her when it said the payment had gone through; it wasn't until late in the afternoon that it 
became clear a fraud check was needed on the payment. This wouldn't have been known to 
the call handlers until the system had been updated. 
Following Miss F's complaint, she was called the following morning at around 9.30 to go 
through some additional questions. I understand Miss F thinks this was an unnecessary 
process but I disagree. Banks are required to have fraud prevention and security measures 
in place to protect their customers money. What measure they have in place is a matter for 
them, and not something I'd generally interfere with.
Although Miss F may have been dealing with a known high street solicitors, that doesn't 
mean she wasn't at risk of fraud. Many people going through a house move have suffered 
from intercept fraud. This can happen by a fraudster imitating a solicitors contact 
information and then contacting the house purchaser with instructions of where to send the 
deposit - providing fraudulent bank details. Many thousands of pounds have been lost by 
people falling victim to such fraud. Given the very sophisticated methods used by fraudsters, 
and the serious consequences of such a loss, I don't think it would be fair of me to find that 
Santander was incorrect to carry out any fraud checks. 
I have considered that following the call it took a little time for the payment to be released (a 
few hours). We have questioned Santander about this. It has explained that once a payment 
is released it needs to be resubmitted, and will be queued with other priority payments. I 
accept its explanation for this; particularly as the payment was released later that same day 
(and knowing that banks must deal with many thousands of such payment requests).
I do appreciate it was released too late for Miss F to complete on the day intended. And I 
accept this must have been very worrying for her and her family. But overall, having 
considered the matter very carefully, I'm not persuaded Santander has done anything wrong. 
It follows that I find the resolution it has already made in response to the complaint  fair and 
reasonable, and I don't require it to do anymore. 
My final decision
For the reasons given, I don't uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss F to accept or 
reject my decision before 6 April 2020.
Claire Hopkins
Ombudsman