DRN-2625403
The complaint
Mr M and Miss P are unhappy that Lloyds Bank PLC declined their request for a chargeback 
claim regarding a purchase that they made on a debit card.
What happened
Mr M and Miss P purchased some flooring in early March 2020. A fitter from the flooring 
provider visiting their house to install the flooring later that month, and at that time it was 
realised that the flooring that had been purchased was unsuitable. So, the provider agreed to 
issue a refund to Mr M and Miss P.
However, the next day lockdown restrictions came into effect because of the Covid-19 
pandemic. This meant that the business that had supplied the flooring closed, and it was 
agreed that the refund would be processed when the lockdown restrictions ended, and the 
business reopened. But the business ceased trading during the lockdown period and didnt 
reopen when the lockdown restrictions ended. 
In early June Mr M and Miss P brought in another fitter who confirmed that the flooring 
couldnt be fitted and who advised that the flooring was faulty. 
In August, Mr M and Miss P asked Lloyds to process a chargeback claim to recover the 
money that they had paid for the flooring. But Lloyds declined to proceed with the 
chargeback claim and said that this was because more than 120 days had passed since the 
transaction date in early March which meant that the period that a chargeback claim could 
be applied for had now expired.
Mr M and Miss P werent happy that Lloyds had declined their chargeback claim, so they 
raised a complaint. Lloyds looked at the complaint, but they confirmed that the 120 day 
period had expired, so they didnt uphold it.
Mr M and Miss P werent satisfied with Lloyds response, so they referred their complaint to 
this service. One of our investigators looked at this complaint, but they also felt that Mr M 
and Miss P hadnt raised the chargeback claim within the 120 period and that because of 
this it was reasonable for Lloyds to decline it. So, they didnt uphold the complaint either.
Mr M and Miss P remained dissatisfied, so the matter was escalated to an ombudsman for a 
final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Its important to confirm here that this complaint isnt concerned with whether Mr M and Miss 
P were treated fairly with regard to the flooring that they received from the supplier and their 
frustrations with getting a refund for that flooring from the supplier.
Instead, this complaint is focussed on whether Lloyds acted unfairly or unreasonably when 
declining to proceed with the chargeback claim submitted by Mr M and Miss P in August 
2020.
Its also important to clarify what a chargeback claim is. Its a process by which some 
disputes are resolved between the card issuer, in this case Lloyds, and merchants, in this 
the flooring supplier, under the relevant card scheme rules. 
 
These rules are set by the card provider  in this case Visa - whose symbol is on the card. 
Visa has an agreement with the banks as to how its cards are used, and this agreement 
covers when an attempt at a chargeback can be made. The rules are quite strict, and Lloyds 
doesn't have the power to change them. 
Its also important to note that a chargeback claim isnt a right that a customer has  its a 
voluntary act, and this means that Lloyds werent required to ask Visa for the transaction to 
be reversed via the chargeback scheme, although it is considered good practice for them to 
do so, if they think the chargeback claim is likely to succeed. 
But in this instance Lloyds didnt feel that the chargeback claim was likely to succeed, and 
one reason for this was because more than 120 days had passed since the date of the 
transaction, and the chargeback rules require chargebacks for refunds to be applied for no 
later than 120 days from the date of the transaction.
This meant that Mr M and Miss P would have had until early July 2020 to apply for the 
chargeback claim. I note that it was confirmed to Mr M and Miss P in early June 2020 that 
the flooring couldnt be used, but that the chargeback claim wasnt made until August 2020. 
And while I can understand that Mr M and Miss P may have compelling reasons as to why 
they didnt apply for the chargeback claim until August 2020, I cant fairly hold Lloyds 
accountable for the claim not being submitted until the 120-day period had passed.
Im aware that Mr M and Miss P believe that an alternative reason for the chargeback claim 
should be used, for instance Goods or Services not provided, and that had this been the 
case then a longer timeframe may have been applicable which would mean that their claim 
had been made before that timeframe had expired. But Im not convinced by this argument, 
because the goods had been received and had been determined as being unsuitable, and a 
refund had been agreed.
I also must note there is no guarantee that the chargeback claim would have been 
successful, had it been processed by Lloyds when Mr M and Miss P requested it in August 
2020.
Finally, I understand that Mr M and Miss P believe that this service should award them an 
amount of compensation from Lloyds on the basis that Lloyds have no responded to this 
service in a timely manner which has caused this complaint to remain unresolved for what 
they consider an unreasonable amount of time. 
I can appreciate Mr M and Miss Ps frustrations here, but like many other organisations this 
service has been affected by the Covid-19 pandemic and so, in the current climate, it isnt 
the case that this complaint has taken an unusually long amount of time to be resolved. 
Having completed by review I can sympathise with Mr M and Miss P and the difficult 
situation they found themselves in regarding the flooring, and I hope that they were able to 
recover the cost of the flooring via other channels. But its difficult for me to conclude that Lloyds have acted unfairly or unreasonably here, for 
the reasons explained above, and it follows from this that I wont be upholding this complaint 
or asking Lloyds to take any further action at this time. 
I realise that this wont be the outcome that Mr M and Miss P were wanting, but I hope they 
can understand why I have reached the decision that I have.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M and Miss P 
to accept or reject my decision before 14 April 2021.
 
Paul Cooper
Ombudsman