DRN-1805676
The complaint
Mr and Mrs P have complained that U K Insurance Limited (UKI) unfairly rejected a claim 
they made on their travel insurance policy after they cancelled their holiday following a family 
bereavement. 
What happened
Mrs P has a travel insurance policy through her bank account which also benefits Mr P. In 
July 2019 they booked a holiday abroad which was to start on 16 October 2019. Shortly 
before they were due to go on their holiday Mrs Ps sister sadly passed away, and so they 
ended up cancelling the holiday. 
Mr and Mrs P made a claim on their UKI travel insurance policy for the cost of the holiday 
which came to around £12,000. UKI turned the claim down and said the reason for this was 
because Mrs Ps sister had been given a terminal prognosis in 2016 which meant that the 
claim was excluded under the policy. It also said that Mrs Ps sister had elective surgery in 
July 2019 to have a feeding tube fitted and that this could suggest her condition was getting 
worse. 
Mrs and Mrs P didnt agree and complained but UKI didnt change its decision though it 
offered £50 compensation for delays in its communication with them. Mr and Mrs P said 
though Mrs Ps sister did have a terminal diagnosis she was stable prior to her death and 
also that she was expected to live for a few more years. Mrs P added that her sister had 
been quite well and did not require medical attention for a number of months and so her 
death was sudden and unexpected. 
 
As they were unhappy with UKIs response Mr and Mrs P complained to us. Our investigator 
who looked at the complaint thought it should be upheld on the basis that it wasnt fair or 
reasonable for UKI to turn the claim down in the circumstances. He said the medical 
evidence indicated that Mrs Ps sisters condition was a slowly progressive one and one 
which was difficult to give a prognosis for. He acknowledged that Mrs Ps sister had elective 
surgery shortly after the holiday was booked but this was something she chose to do and, 
according to her GP, not something that was related to her death. He said he didnt think Mr 
and Mrs P had any way of knowing that there was a risk of her sister passing away when 
they booked their holiday as she had not been unwell prior to her death.
UKI didnt agree and asked for an ombudsmans decision. It said the policy makes it clear 
that there is no cover where there is a terminal prognosis regardless of when it was given or 
whether or not there is a definitive timescale in terms of life expectancy. 
UKI made a number of further points including the fact that it believed the surgery was 
necessary and not something that was done in case it was needed for the future- which is 
what Mr and Mrs P had said to it. It said that Mrs Ps sister was in a care home and needed 
a procedure to help her eat as her condition was causing inadequate oral intake of food. So, 
according to UKI, the condition was getting worse and the procedure would not have been 
done if it wasnt necessary. It also said it didnt consider Mrs Ps sisters death to be 
unexpected as she had a terminal prognosis which caused her death. Finally, UKI said it 
was Mr and Mrs Ps responsibility to decide on whether to travel or not once they became 
aware of a terminal prognosis of a close relative; and that it was a risk they had to take 
themselves as UKI would not be liable in those circumstances. 
Our investigator responded to UKI and said that Mrs Ps sisters doctor specifically said that 
the operation did not have any impact on her death. So, he didnt think that the operation 
was an indication that the death wasnt unexpected. He agreed that under a strict 
interpretation of the policy terms the claim would be excluded but he thought that in the 
specific circumstances it would be fair for UKI to pay the claim. 
UKI responded to say that the operation may not have had an impact on her death, but it 
was as a direct result of her condition which was the cause of her death. It insisted that the 
operation suggested that the condition had deteriorated and said the doctors letter 
supported that the operation was carried out because it was needed at the time. It reiterated 
that the policy excludes claims where a close relative has received a terminal prognosis 
regardless of whether they dont pass away until years later. 
In his view our investigator said UKI should pay the claim subject to the remaining terms and 
conditions of the policy plus 8% interest. On 26 October 2020, I went back to UKI to clarify 
that I would be asking it to pay the claim subject to the policy limit and any excess plus 
interest. To date UKI hasnt made any further comments and Im, therefore, proceeding with 
my final decision.
 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided to uphold it. 
I was very sorry to hear about the circumstances of this complaint. Id like to offer my 
condolences to Mr and Mrs P for their loss.
The starting point is the policy. It says that, in the event of a cancellation, UKI will pay up to 
£5,000 per insured person for journey deposits and costs which they cannot recover from 
any other source and where the cancellation is due to, among others, the death or serious 
injury of member of their immediate family. The definition of immediate family includes 
sister and sister-in-law. Nevertheless, the policy excludes claims which are as a result of 
a terminal prognosis being given to, among others, a member of the insureds immediate 
family prior to the journey being booked or the insurance being taken out. I think the policy 
wording is clear in this regard. 
UKI accepts that Mrs Ps sister would be considered immediate family for both Mr and Mrs 
P, under the policy. But it rejected the claim relying on the exclusion that says that a claim 
resulting from a terminal prognosis being given to a member of the insureds immediate 
family will not be covered. 
Mrs Ps sister was diagnosed with multi system atrophy/Parkinsons variety which I 
understand is a neurological disorder which can cause problems with movement, balance 
and automatic functions of the body. Mrs Ps sister was given this diagnosis in 2016 and her 
GP said her condition was slowly progressive but difficult to give a prognosis for. UKIs own 
research suggests that patients with this condition usually have a six to nine-year life 
expectancy from the date their symptoms start though some may live longer. My own 
research suggests that the life expectancy could be longer with most patients living with this 
condition for seven to ten years but also with some living with it for fifteen years or more. Whichever the case, I can see why UKI believes that this was a terminal prognosis and 
therefore why the policy would, strictly speaking, exclude it. And this is also supported by the 
fact that the GP said this would get progressively worse and the fact this condition ultimately 
was the cause of Mrs Ps sisters death.
Nevertheless, this doesnt mean that I think that, in the particular circumstances of this 
complaint, it would be fair and reasonable for UKI to rely on this exclusion. When 
considering complaints of this nature, aside from what the policy says, I also consider a 
number of other issues which may include whether the consumers were aware of the 
prognosis at the time they booked their holiday, whether the condition was stable, whether 
there was a sudden and unexpected deterioration etc. 
I think these considerations are even more important in this case, where the condition only 
gets slowly progressively worse and where life expectancy can be, arguably, relatively long. 
This is because if I were to decide that UKI should apply the relevant exclusion very strictly, 
this could mean that Mr and Mrs P would be unsure as to whether their policy would cover 
them in these circumstances and this could go on over a number of years- which is a long 
period of time- even where they have no reason to believe, at the time of booking, that they 
may have to cancel their holiday due to a relatives terminal prognosis. I dont think it would 
be fair to have this level of uncertainty. Having said that I appreciate that some insurers, 
including UKI, may not want to take the risk of providing cover when an insureds family 
member has a terminal prognosis. But in my opinion, this should be balanced with the fact 
that some patients may be given a long prognosis where at least at the initial stages the risk 
of death might be relatively small. 
The medical evidence available consists of a letter from Mrs Ps sisters GP as well as a 
medical and a death certificate. The medical certificate was completed by the GP in October 
2019 and says that medical help in relation to this condition was first sought in 2014 and that 
the diagnosis was made in 2016. As I said above, the GP said Mrs Ps sister was suffering 
from a slowly progressive condition which was difficult to give a prognosis for. She also said 
that the admission for the operation in July 2019 was elective and that Mrs Ps sister was 
thereafter being treated as an outpatient under the care of a respiratory team. The death 
certificate says the cause of death was multi system atrophy/Parkinsons variety.
 
In her letter which was sent in December 2019 in response to questions posed by UKI, the 
GP said that there was no timescale given to Mrs Ps sister in terms of her condition as it 
was very unpredictable and also a slowly progressive disease. The GP also said that the 
surgery was not related to her death but that her condition had caused inadequate oral 
intake and that supplementary nutrition was required via this tube. 
Mrs P has had her policy since 2009, well before her sisters diagnosis in 2016. Mr and Mrs 
P dont deny being aware of her sisters condition at the time they booked the holiday, but 
they say that she was stable up to the point when she passed away and that they expected 
her to live for a few more years. Bearing in mind that the GP didnt give any timescales in 
terms of life expectancy I think this is reasonable.
Also, Mrs Ps sister passed away five years after the first onset of symptoms and three years 
after her diagnosis. Bearing in mind that the GP said it was a slowly progressing one and 
UKIs and my own research into the life expectancy of this condition being at least six years 
and up to 15 or more, I think ties in with what Mrs P said about expecting her sister to have 
lived for a few more years. 
UKI says that Mrs Ps sisters condition was not stable because in July, just after the holiday 
was booked, she had an operation for a tube to be fitted to help her with feeding. UKI says this shows that her condition was deteriorating. Mr and Mrs P dont agree and say this was 
elective surgery and something her sister decided to do in case she needed it for the future. 
UKI also said that Mrs Ps sister lived in a care home at the time but Mr and Mrs P said this 
is something she decided herself as she was living on her own prior to that and she thought 
it would be easier rather than to have carers visit her. 
I appreciate UKI says the surgery was an indication that the condition was getting worse, but 
I dont think thats necessarily the case based on the evidence Ive seen. The GP supports 
what Mr and Mrs P said about the surgery being elective which suggests to me that there 
wasnt any real urgency for the tube to be fitted. But even if the surgery was necessary as 
UKI suggests I dont think this means that Mrs Ps condition had deteriorated to such an 
extent that her death was reasonably foreseeable at the time when the holiday was booked. 
I say this because the GP said that after the surgery Mrs Ps sister was being seen by a 
respiratory team and other experts such as a nutritionist as an outpatient. I wouldnt have 
expected her to be an outpatient if her condition had deteriorated to the extent that UKI 
suggests. And I think the fact that she was deemed to be well enough to undergo a non-
urgent operation suggests to me that her death, three months later, was sudden and 
unexpected.
But even if I were to accept that this was a sign of deterioration this is something the GP said 
would happen in any event, but again this doesnt mean it was so bad at the time the holiday 
was booked that made her pass away a few months later reasonably foreseeable. Also, as 
our investigator said in his view, there are different levels of deterioration and this wouldnt 
mean that Mrs Ps sister was unstable at the time that they booked their holiday. 
So, from the medical evidence available I dont think that there was anything to suggest, on 
balance, that Mrs Ps sisters condition wasnt stable at the time the holiday was booked or 
that she would pass away a few months later. Also, there are no other medical notes after 
the July surgery and as far as I am aware Mrs Ps sister returned to her accommodation and 
ultimately died in her sleep and there was no suggestion that she was under any additional 
medical care to what she wouldve been under due to her condition in any event. 
For the reasons Ive given I think though Mr and Mrs P were aware of her sisters condition 
at the time when they booked the holiday I think, on balance, her condition was stable and 
that her death was sudden and unexpected and not reasonably foreseeable. And for these 
reasons I think its fair and reasonable, in the specific circumstances of this complaint that it 
is upheld. And as I am not aware of any reasons why UKI shouldnt pay the claim up to the 
policy limit I think this is what it must now do. 
My final decision
For the reasons above, Ive decided to uphold Mr and Mrs Ps complaint against U K 
Insurance Limited. It must pay their claim subject to the policy limit and any excess. It must 
also pay simple interest on the amount it pays at a rate of 8% per year form the date of the 
claim to the date it pays it. 
If U K Insurance Limited considers that its required by HM Revenue & Customs to withhold 
income tax from that interest, it should tell Mr and Mrs P how much its taken off. It should 
also give Mr and Mrs P a tax deduction certificate if they ask for one, so they can reclaim the 
tax from HM Revenue & Customs if appropriate.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P and Mrs P to 
accept or reject my decision before 4 December 2020.
 
Anastasia Serdari
Ombudsman