DRN-2881875
The complaint
Miss Y is unhappy with the end of contract charges applied by Mercedes-Benz Financial 
Services UK Limited (MBFS), following the return of her car.
Miss Y is represented in this complaint by her partner, but for ease of reading Ill just refer to 
her.
What happened
In March 2018, Miss Y was supplied with a new car through a hire agreement with MBFS. 
The agreement was for 36 months, with monthly rental payments of £230.39.
When the agreement came to an end, Miss Y arranged to return the car. The car was 
collected on 26 March 2021, and the collection agent visually inspected the car for damage. 
Miss Y said that the agent highlighted damage to the front bumper. She said she didnt sign 
the agents form as she didnt accept the bumper was damaged.
Miss Y said MBFS told her additional damage had been identified in a second inspection. 
She said she wasnt aware that a second inspection would be carried out. She said this 
damage wasnt identified in the initial inspection and could easily have occurred after the car 
was collected.
Shes also unhappy that MBFS have invoiced her for the charges but wont provide her with 
evidence that the repairs have been carried out.
 
MBFS said they conducted a second inspection because the car was wet due to the weather 
conditions at the first inspection. They said they did this because damage isnt always visible 
when a car is wet.
MBFS said the second inspection showed up a scratch to the right-hand C post, a dent in 
the left-hand rear door, and the scratch to the front bumper. They said the cost of damage 
identified in the second inspection was £455. This included the scratch identified in the first 
inspection.
They said their agent had confirmed that the car wasnt damaged whilst in transit. 
They also said that if Miss Y had insisted on the second inspection being done at her 
address, she wouldve incurred extra charges for the days she had the car after the end of 
the lease period.
Miss Y was unhappy with MBFSs response, and she brought her complaint to us for 
investigation.
Our investigator said that, from the evidence shed seen, the damage MBFS were charging 
for was present on the car at the second inspection.
The investigator also said there was only five days between the first inspection at Miss Ys 
address and the second inspection. She said she thought it was more likely that the damage 
wouldve occurred in the three years, and 27,858 miles, Miss Y had the car for. So she didnt 
think MBFS had done anything wrong by charging Miss Y for the damage.
The investigator said the charges were explained in the agreement. The charges 
compensated MBFS for the loss the damages may cause, and MBFS didnt have to show if 
the work had been done.
Miss Y didnt agree. She said there was no evidence the bumper was scratched, and that 
the other damage was within the allowed tolerances.  So shes asked for an ombudsman to 
make a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I have reached the same overall conclusions as the investigator, and for 
broadly the same reasons. If I havent commented on any specific point, its because I dont 
believe its affected what I think is the right outcome.
In considering this complaint Ive had regard to the relevant law and regulations; any 
regulators rules, guidance and standards, codes of practice, and what I consider was good 
industry practice at the time. Miss Y was supplied with a car under a hire agreement. This is 
a regulated consumer credit agreement which means were able to look into complaints 
about it.
Ive seen a copy of the hire agreement, which Miss Y signed on 28 March 2018. Under the 
heading Vehicle Return Standards (VRS), the agreement confirmed when the vehicle is 
returned to us, a Vehicle Return Standard Inspection will be carried out by trained 
technicians at the nominated Defleet Centre. It goes on to explain what is, and isnt, 
considered acceptable under the VRS.
MBFS also said they provide customers with another copy of their VRS, six months before 
the end of any agreement. They said its also available online. Given all of the above, Im 
satisfied that Miss Y shouldve been reasonably aware that the car would be inspected a 
second time, away from her address.
 
I note that MBFS said the second inspection was done because of the poor weather 
conditions during the first inspection. But Im satisfied it was reasonable for them to conduct 
a second inspection at their Defleet Centre, after the car was returned to them, regardless of 
the conditions during the first inspection. And its reasonable for MBFS to rely on the 
outcome of the second inspection, over the first. 
Turning to the damage, Ive looked at the photos of the damage to the bumper. Miss Y says 
theres no visible damage showing in her photo of the bumper. I disagree  I can see a scuff 
mark on the underside of the bumper. This is the same size and shape as shown on the 
photograph taken by MBFSs agent at the second inspection.
 
The scuff mark is greater in size than the 50mm allowed in the VRS. So I think its fair and 
reasonable for MBFS to charge Miss Y for this damage.
Ive also reviewed the other photographs taken at the second inspection. Im satisfied they 
show damage that is chargeable under the VRS. The photographs are taken alongside the 
agents ruler and show damage that is more than the allowed 13mm. The photograph of the 
damage to the C post shows scratches along the post for more than 50mm. 
Ive looked carefully at the photographs supplied by Miss Y, which she says she took on the 
day of the first inspection. For the reason given above, Im persuaded that both her photo 
and the photo taken by the agent show that the damage was present.
Based on what Ive seen, Im satisfied that the damage MBFS is charging Miss Y for was 
more likely than not to have been present when the car was collected from her.
I appreciate this will come as a disappointment to Miss Y, but I think that MBFS acted 
reasonably by charging her for the damage to the car, and I wont be asking them to amend 
their invoice. 
Miss Y asks that MBFS provide evidence that the repair work has been done. The VRS 
explains that  the charges are to compensate for any loss in the value, and the decision 
whether or not to repair the vehicle is for MBFS to make. So I wont be asking MBFS to do 
any more.
My final decision
My final decision is that Im not upholding Miss Ys complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss Y to accept 
or reject my decision before 24 September 2021.
 
Gordon Ramsay
Ombudsman