DRN-3992510
The complaint
Ms H complains that Novitas Loans Ltd treated her unfairly in relation to a fixed sum loan 
agreement she entered into.
What happened
Ms H, via her solicitors, approached Novitas for a loan in September 2014 to fund her 
divorce proceedings. The loan facility was for £100,000 and was secured against her marital 
home. Ms H was provided with a revolving credit facility where she needed to authorise any 
drawdowns made by her solicitors up to the maximum amount of £100,000. The interest 
charged under the agreement was 18% per year. Ms H was not required to repay the loan 
facility until her divorce proceedings were finalised.
Prior to entering into the loan agreement, Novitas requested that Ms H obtain independent 
legal advice (from someone other than her divorce solicitors) concerning her liabilities under 
the loan agreement. Another solicitor provided Novitas with confirmation that this advice had 
been given to Ms H.
In March 2015, an extension to the loan facility was requested by Ms Hs solicitors. This was 
to borrow an additional £100,000, taking the total loan to £200,000. Ms H signed a new loan 
agreement in May 2015 for the additional borrowing on broadly the same terms as the 
previous agreement. Ms H also signed a separate waiver saying she didnt wish to seek 
independent legal advice in relation to this new extension on the loan as she understood the 
agreement and she received advice in relation to the first loan.
Ms H instructed new solicitors and in August 2015, a final extension to the loan facility was 
requested by Ms Hs new solicitors. This was to borrow an additional £30,000, taking the 
total loan facility to £230,000. Ms H signed a new loan agreement the same month on 
broadly the same terms as the previous two agreements. Ms H also signed another waiver 
declaring she didnt wish to seek independent legal advice before entering the new loan.
In January 2016, Ms H paid off the loan facility by refinancing it with another loan provider 
(who Ill refer to as R). Including interest, she paid off £259,105.30.
In February 2021, Ms H complained to Novitas. She raised a number of issues in this 
complaint as well as in numerous follow up complaints. Novitas responded with several 
different final response letters to address the various complaint points Ms H had raised 
Novitas didnt uphold the vast majority of her complaints, but it did accept that it had unfairly 
charged her interest for a period of time while it had failed to provide compliant annual 
statements for her loan. It refunded her over £7,000 in interest charges. 
Ms H also raised complaints about her solicitors (both the first and second) as well as R. 
Ms Hs complaints about her solicitors have been referred to another ombudsman scheme 
and the Solicitors Regulation Authority. The complaints about R have been dealt with in 
Court. I dont therefore think its appropriate for me to consider anything that the Court has 
already decided, nor do I have any jurisdiction to consider any complaint about Ms Hs 
solicitors.
However, much of what Ms H complains about is closely connected to all the parties 
involved in her divorce proceedings. Weve asked her to specify the points she would like 
our service to make findings on in relation to Novitas actions. Shes provided a detailed 
account of her concerns and Ive summarised the key issues below:
Her solicitors unfairly pressured her into the loan agreements. They were acting as 
agents of Novitas as per section 56 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974 and therefore 
Novitas are responsible for their failings. The loan agreement was misrepresented as 
regulated by the Consumer Credit Act 1974 when it wasnt and was a mortgage.
Novitas and her solicitors were aware she was vulnerable and had she not been 
struggling with many vulnerabilities she would not have entered into the loan 
agreement. Novitas had failed in its duty to treat a vulnerable customer fairly. The 
solicitor that was supposed to give her independent legal advice about the loan 
facility was not independent as her divorce solicitors had taken her to them and they 
were not qualified to advise on loan agreements.
Novitas didnt complete adequate due diligence before entering into the agreement 
as it didnt carry out appropriate checks to ensure she could afford to pay back the 
loan facility. Her solicitors had inflated the value of her assets and this wasnt 
questioned by Novitas.
There were multiple breaches of CONC (the Consumer Credit Sourcebook within the 
Financial Conduct Authorities Handbook) by Novitas around affordability checks and 
pre-contract disclosures. It also purported to have completed credit checks before 
lending but there is no evidence it did this, and if it did, it did so without her consent.
Her solicitors (acting as Novitas agent) were also in breach of credit broking rules 
within CONC.
The Novitas loans were actually funded by another provider and this was not 
disclosed to Ms H at any time.
Novitas were in breach of various provisions of the Consumer Credit Act 1974, 
including not providing a copy of the unexecuted agreement or a copy of the signed 
agreement. It also failed to honour her right to withdraw from the credit agreement.
Novitas breached the terms of their own loan agreements on multiple occasions.
The loan agreements contained illegal and unfair contract terms. For example, Ms H 
says it prevented her from having free choice as to which solicitors would represent 
her in her divorce proceedings.
The rate of interest on the loan agreements was sometimes missing and was at all 
times incorrectly stated as 18% when it was actually much higher.
There are around £98,000 worth of drawdowns on the loan for which Novitas cant 
provide any signed confirmation from Ms H that she authorised them.
She said that Novitas had paid her solicitors a secret commission as well as various 
benefits in kind which hadnt been disclosed and which they continued to deny. She 
also raised a number of concerns about the actions of both sets of divorce solicitors 
and their relationship with Novitas as well as Novitas relationship with R.
I sent Ms H and Novitas my provisional decision on 16 January 2023. I explained why I thought the complaint should be upheld in part. Ive copied the relevant extracts of my 
provisional findings below:
Ms H is unhappy with the conduct of two different solicitors, R and Novitas. Ill only 
be considering the actions of Novitas and whether I think they acted fairly and 
reasonably in their dealings with Ms H when it set up and administered her loan 
agreements.
I think the crux of Ms Hs complaint against Novitas is that the loan agreements were 
unfair and therefore she believes she shouldnt have to pay everything that was 
charged under those agreements. She has given numerous reasons for why she 
believes the agreements to be unfair, Ive mentioned some of those in the 
background to the complaint above (see: what happened). I havent however, 
detailed everything shes mentioned, nor in the same level of detail. No discourtesy is 
meant by this, it simply reflects the informal nature of our service. Although I havent 
mentioned everything, I have nevertheless considered everything Ms H has said and 
provided when deciding what is fair and reasonable in this case.
Our investigator concluded that the Novitas loans were unaffordable to Ms H and he 
didnt think Novitas had completed proportionate affordability checks before lending. 
Both Novitas and Ms H have accepted that conclusion. I therefore dont see any 
reason to analyse that aspect further. However, for completeness, Im also 
persuaded that Novitas didnt carry out adequate affordability checks.
What is in contention is what remedy should apply given the loans were unaffordable 
and that Novitas ought not to have entered into the loans with Ms H on that basis. 
When putting things right, I think it would be fair and reasonable to try and place 
Ms H (as close as possible) back in the position she would have been in, but for the 
unfair lending decision by Novitas. 
However, as Ms H has already received the money under the loans and this has 
been used as part of her divorce proceedings, it isnt possible to unwind what has 
happened. Ms H would have needed to fund her divorce proceedings in some way, 
so as a starting point I think its fair and reasonable that she pays back the capital 
that she borrowed. Any interest, fees and charges that were applied by Novitas under 
the loans should however be refunded to her (where it hasnt already).
Ms H refinanced her Novitas loans with R, the refinancing included the interest that 
had been charged on the Novitas loans. This means Ms H continued to pay interest 
on the interest, fees and charges applied by Novitas under her new loan with R. 
I think it would be fair and reasonable to ensure these costs are factored into any 
redress due to Ms H.
I understand the loans with R were at an interest rate of 9% compounded annually. 
Ms H tells us the Decree Absolute was granted in September 2016, but that the 
financial aspects of the divorce are still to date not fully resolved. I think its fair that 
Novitas pays interest at 9% compounded annually on the refund of interest, fees and 
charges. However, I dont think its reasonable it does so indefinitely.
In thinking about what a fair remedy should be, Ive considered what Ms H has told 
us about her divorce proceedings. I understand further court directions concerning 
the sale of the matrimonial home were made later in 2016 and 2017 and it wasnt 
until early 2018 that Ms H became the sole owner of the property in order for her to 
sell it. Until that point she tells us that her ex-husband had been obstructing the sale 
of the property which prevented her from accessing funds she needed to pay off her loans.
While I accept the property still hasnt been sold and aspects of the financial side of 
the divorce are still ongoing, I cant be sure exactly why it has taken this long, nor do 
I think its appropriate for me to make any specific finding on that point as it concerns 
the actions of third parties I have no jurisdiction over. Taking into consideration the 
facts and evidence Ive been presented with, I think it would be reasonable to say 
that Novitas should pay 9% interest (compounded annually) on the refund it provides 
until August 2018. This I think will have given a reasonable amount of time for Ms H 
to have sold the property after being granted sole ownership of it and it seems this 
was broadly when Ms H also says R began to seek repayment of the loans from her. 
I dont think it would be reasonable for Novitas to pay interest for any further period of 
time, given Rs loans were expected to be repaid at around this time.
Ms H argues that some or all of the capital amount she borrowed for her divorce 
proceedings should also be refunded along with all the interest and charges that 
were applied.
Ms H has provided many reasons for why she feels the Novitas agreements were 
unfair and that this unfairness means it wouldnt be reasonable for her to incur all the 
costs charged by her solicitors. However, even if I agreed with every point Ms H has 
made, I dont think it would be fair and reasonable to say she should receive a refund 
of any of the capital that was borrowed. Ill explain why.
The loan agreements Ms H entered into with Novitas set out the terms under which 
she will be required to pay back what was borrowed on her behalf by her solicitors. 
Im satisfied Ms H saw those loan agreements as she signed them to say she 
accepted the terms.
The capital she borrowed was used to pay for her and her solicitors legal costs in her 
divorce proceedings. Ms H argues that she ought to have been advised to go to 
mediation instead which would have resolved her divorce at a fraction of the cost. Im 
not persuaded that was likely. I say this because Ms H has provided details of her 
divorce proceedings which have been long and seemingly hard fought by both sides 
especially when trying to determine the financial aspects of the divorce.
How much the solicitors billed Ms H for their work is a matter between her and the 
solicitors. Novitas just needed to ensure that Ms H had agreed to each of the 
individual capital drawdowns under the loan. Ms H says that Novitas hasnt been able 
to provide proof of her acceptance to every drawdown. While this is true, Im 
persuaded that its likely Ms H did authorise each of the drawdowns.
I say this because Ive seen evidence that Ms H did authorise other drawdowns and 
when she refinanced with R, she didnt complain about any discrepancy in the 
amount that had been borrowed. Nor did she raise any such complaint until many 
years later. If she hadnt authorised the drawdowns (which amounted to tens of 
thousands of pounds) I would have expected her to have complained at the time of 
refinancing with R (or very soon after).
Further, Ms H has already made various complaints about her solicitors to another 
ombudsman scheme which concern among other things the fairness of the costs that 
were incurred. The outcomes of those disputes will have determined whether Ms H 
was rightly due a refund of any of the capital amounts she borrowed. Anything she 
received there could have been used to reduce her current outstanding liability with 
R.Novitas didnt have any responsibility for the costs Ms Hs solicitors charged for legal 
work and fees. Whether or not Novitas conduct (or its agent(s) on its behalf) when it 
arranged the loans and when it administered them was unfair, I havent seen 
anything to persuade me that this ought to mean a reduction in the amount of capital 
Ms H borrowed would be fair and reasonable. This is because Ms H has received the 
legal advice and assistance that the capital borrowed was used to pay for, when 
pursuing her divorce proceedings. If I were to direct a refund of any of the capital, this 
might place Ms H in a better position than she would ever have been in. If Ms H 
believes her solicitors didnt provide her with the services it should have or charged 
her too much, as Ive said above, this is a matter between her and those solicitors.
Novitas accepted my provisional decision. Ms H didnt agree that she should have to pay 
any or all of the capital amount borrowed to Novitas. She said that Novitas actions and 
inactions created an unfair relationship between her and Novitas and an appropriate remedy 
would be a reduction in the capital borrowed. Ms H provided a detailed response setting out 
the various ways in which she believes there was an unfair relationship. She also provided a 
number of documents to support her position. Further, she said that the 9% interest refund 
should be calculated for a longer period as she couldnt reasonably have sold her property in 
that time. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Both parties accept the loan was unaffordable and shouldnt have been approved. Both 
parties also agree that the interest and charges applied to the loans should be refunded to 
Ms H. The issues left to decide concern whether Ms H should repay all of the capital 
borrowed and how much her reasonable financial loss is relating to further interest charged 
under the loan given by R. 
Ms H feels very strongly that the relationship between her and Novitas was unfair and that 
various actions and inactions by Novitas caused her unfairness. As I set out in my 
provisional decision, even if I agreed with every point Ms H has made, I still dont consider it 
fair and reasonable to direct Novitas to refund the capital that was borrowed. 
I say this because the capital was used by her solicitors to fund her divorce proceedings. If 
Ms H feels her solicitors charged her too much or didnt complete work to an adequate 
standard, this is a matter between her and those solicitors. I understand Ms H has raised a 
separate complaint about her solicitors through another ombudsman scheme and therefore 
any remedy she might receive through that can be used to reduce any capital amount she 
borrowed. If I were to make a direction for a reduction in the capital amount borrowed, it 
might result in Ms H receiving more than she is reasonably entitled to or placing her in a 
better financial position than she ever would have been in. 
Ive considered Ms Hs comments in relation to the interest element of my proposed award 
and Im satisfied the conclusions I reached in my provisional decision are fair and 
reasonable. While its possible a buyer had been difficult to find for her property at the asking 
price she says she wanted, I havent seen anything to persuade me that a longer time period 
would be reasonable. 
It seems the division of the financial aspects of the divorce have been contentious and hard 
fought by both sides. However, Ms H was the sole owner of that property from early 2018 
and it was within her power to secure the sale from that point on. While the property wasnt 
sold in the time Ive suggested is reasonable, Ive not seen anything to persuade me that it was an unrealistic or unreasonable timeframe. Ms H says it wasnt, as a certain sales price 
needed to be achieved, however, shes not provided sufficient evidence to persuade me the 
house couldnt have been sold for less than that price. The Court documents she provided 
have the key financial information redacted, but from what I can see, it appears to suggest a 
lower sales figure was possible and foreseeable without significantly impacting the division 
of assets.
I understand this will come as a disappointment to Ms H, but Im satisfied that the outcome 
I reached in my provisional decision is fair and reasonable for the reasons Ive given above.      
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I uphold this complaint in part and direct Novitas Loans Ltd to:
Refund all interest and charges applied to the loan (that havent been refunded 
already), adding 9% interest on that compounded annually. The interest should be 
calculated from the date Ms H settled the Novitas loans to August 2018. As this 
additional 9% interest award is a refund of a financial loss Ms H incurred as a result 
of Novitas actions, no deduction of tax should be applied.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms H to accept or 
reject my decision before 26 April 2023.
 
Tero Hiltunen
Ombudsman