DRN-2957352
The complaint
Mr B complains about how National Westminster Bank Plc handled a mortgage over his 
property following the death of his wife.
What happened
Mr B and the late Mrs B had a joint mortgage with NatWest, secured over their home. Mrs B 
suddenly passed away in late 2018.
Mr B says his wife managed the family finances and he trusted her to do so. After she died, 
he found out about various debts she had concealed from him although they were in joint 
names. These included a loan and a mortgage with NatWest. It appears Mr B knew about 
the mortgage, but did not know it was in arrears and did not know Mrs B had been trying to 
increase the borrowing.
Mr B complained to NatWest. He was concerned that it had not carried out proper checks 
before agreeing the lending and had not noticed that his signature had been forged, and 
about what he would need to do to clear the debts. And he complains that a life insurance 
policy that should have paid out on his wifes death was cancelled.
In order to repay the debts, Mr B decided to sell the property. Because NatWest was 
investigating the fraud complaint, it did not give him a redemption figure for the mortgage, or 
the loan debt which had been charged to the property, for some time. 
With the help of a loan from a friend, Mr B wanted to repay the mortgage, sell the property 
and then repay his friend. He managed to repay the mortgage at the end of 2019, but his 
solicitors said NatWest delayed in removing its charge in respect of the loan. This meant he 
had to try and find a buyer in 2020, during the pandemic. He believes that the sale price was 
lower than it might have been as a result. 
Mr B said that NatWest initially tried to overcharge him for the loan and mortgage, and took a 
very long time to investigate what had happened. Although in the end it requested lower 
figures in settlement, he says that the long delay meant that he had to pay more mortgage 
interest, as well as the costs of managing the property for a longer period. He also had to 
pay extra legal fees to his own solicitor, and the redemption figure was inflated by NatWests 
legal fees. And the delay caused him considerable upset and worry. 
NatWest accepted that it hadnt handled matters as well as it should have done. It didnt find 
that there was fraud, but it agreed it should have settled redemption figures sooner than it 
did.
To try to put matters right, NatWest paid Mr Bs solicitors costs in connection with the 
redemption of the mortgage. It redeemed the mortgage based on the balance as it was in 
February 2019  writing off the interest added in the meantime. And it offered £1,100 
compensation, as well as to pay £250 to Mr Bs friend.
Mr B didnt accept that. His friend said he wanted NatWest to pay:
Around £10,000 for his friends time in assisting him, at a notional hourly rate of £30;
Interest on the money he had borrowed from his friend to repay the mortgage;
Household running costs of around £1,500 because the house sale was a year later 
than it should have been  this included gardening and maintenance costs as well as 
the difference between utility and other bills for the property and for the smaller 
property Mr B would downsize to;
Compensation for Mr Bs upset and worry at £100 per week for over a year.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
There are two products at the heart of this complaint, a mortgage and a loan.
Mr B has also complained about a level term assurance policy  a form of life insurance  
set up in 2007. But that was cancelled within the initial 30 day cooling off period and no 
payments were made to it thereafter. Ive not seen any evidence it was cancelled through an 
error by NatWest.
The loan was taken out in 2006, in joint names and over a seven-year term. Although limited 
information survives, it appears it might have been used to consolidate previous debts. The 
mortgage was also taken out in 2006.
From soon after they were taken out, both the loan and the mortgage fell into arrears and 
NatWest took various recovery actions over the years, dealing with Mrs B.
At the time of Mrs Bs death in 2018, the loan was still outstanding even though the term had 
ended several years before. Because it hadnt been paid, it had been passed to NatWests 
solicitors to recover the debt, taken to court and a charge had been placed over Mr and Mrs 
Bs property. 
As our investigator explained to Mr Bs friend, we cannot consider anything to do with the 
loan. Thats because when a court makes a judgment for a defaulted loan, it stops being a 
loan and becomes a judgment debt. The loan ceases to exist and merges into the judgment 
debt. And we have no jurisdiction over judgment debts for unsecured loans. We also cant 
consider whether the loan was taken out fraudulently, because the court ordered that Mr B 
was responsible for the debt as well as Mrs B. And I cant award any compensation for how 
the loan or judgment debt was handled. Though I can see that the reason for the eventual 
settlement figure for the loan being lower was that its solicitors asked for the full outstanding 
debt, which NatWest then reduced through refunds for insurance costs and other fees.
There were two sub-accounts on the mortgage, both relating to borrowing taken out in 2006. 
No further borrowing was taken out since 2006, though it seems Mrs B may have tried to do 
so at various times. The last change to the mortgage was when a new fixed interest rate was 
taken in 2018. 
The mortgage was also in arrears and also being managed by the banks solicitors. But no 
repossession order had been made since a suspended possession order in 2012 and the 
mortgage continued to exist after Mrs Bs death, though now solely in Mr Bs name. I can 
see that by the time of Mrs Bs death in 2018, there were substantial arrears. Mrs B had 
been in discussion with NatWest throughout this time, and had made various payment 
arrangements to try and get things back on track  though Mr B says he was unaware of any 
of this. Having looked at the history over this period, I do think NatWest tried to work with Mrs B and showed reasonable forbearance  including agreeing repayment plans, and 
agreeing a reduced interest rate.
After Mrs B died in November 2018, Mr B became more aware of the family finances. Mr B 
took advice from his friend. They concluded that he couldnt afford to keep up with the 
mortgage payments and the best thing to do was to sell the property to repay the debts, and 
use the remaining equity to buy a small property for Mr B to live. To avoid the bank 
repossessing the property in the meantime, Mr Bs friend agreed to lend him the money to 
repay the mortgage while he tried to sell the property.
However, it took around a year to get a redemption figure from NatWest. While some of that 
delay was due to the investigation of the fraud allegation, Ive also seen internal notes that 
show NatWests mortgage centre produced incorrect figures. And Mr B and his friend 
continued to dispute the settlement figure.
Given the nature of what Mr B had said, it was right that NatWest take the time to investigate 
it carefully and thoroughly. But there were also unnecessary delays. The mortgage has now 
been paid off and the property sold. What I need to decide is what, if anything, NatWest still 
needs to do to put matters right.
This was clearly a very difficult and upsetting time for Mr B. Not only did he lose his wife, he 
also discovered significant financial problems he was previously unaware of which resulted 
in him having to sell his home.
Im pleased to see that Mr B had the support of good friends at what was a difficult time, who 
assisted him in resolving his financial situation.
However, its not possible for me to require NatWest to pay Mr Bs friend for his time. Its 
clear that he has spent significant time helping Mr B and corresponding with NatWest and 
then us on Mr Bs behalf, and Im sure Mr B has found his input extremely helpful.
But in dealing with a complaint, I am only empowered to award compensation for financial 
and non-financial loss to the complainant  Mr B.
I cannot award Mr Bs friend compensation for the inconvenience and time he was put to, 
because Mr Bs friend is not the complainant here.
Its very unusual for the Financial Ombudsman Service to award a complainant the costs of 
professional representation, since our process is designed to be accessible and informal and 
not require professional representation. But, in certain exceptional circumstances, we can 
award a complainant the costs they have had to pay to a professional representative.
However, thats not the case here. Theres no suggestion that Mr Bs friend has charged 
Mr B £30 an hour for assisting him. Therefore, Mr B has not incurred any costs in being 
represented. Instead, what I am being asked to do is to require NatWest to make a payment 
to Mr Bs friend in recognition of the time the friend has spent in connection with this matter, 
at a notional hourly rate. 
Thats not something I have the power to do  I cannot make an award for the friends 
inconvenience, as he is not the complainant. I cannot make an award for financial loss since 
there has been no payment made by Mr B  and therefore he has incurred no loss  for his 
friends time. And I cannot make a costs award for a professional representative, since 
Mr Bs friend is not a professional representative and has not made a charge to Mr B for his 
services. I dont think it would be fair to require NatWest to pay Mr B compensation for the delay in 
selling his property in terms either of the property price, or the running costs of the property 
in the meantime. Mr Bs friend says that the property was valued at £165,000 in 2019, and 
sold for £155,000 in 2020. 
Im not persuaded, though, that theres financial loss here. Firstly, had the property been 
marketed in early 2019, theres no guarantee that the property would have sold promptly. 
And while the initial valuation was £165,000 theres no guarantee an offer for this figure 
would have been received  indeed, Mr B accepted a reduced offer in 2020.
In any case, I think its important to bear in mind that NatWest is not, in my view, ultimately 
responsible for this situation. Ive said I cant look at what happened with the loan. But 
theres no suggestion that Mr B was unaware of the mortgage from the start, and while 
Mrs B may have tried to take further borrowing, that was unsuccessful. And I dont think the 
financial difficulties that led to the mortgage being in arrears can be put at NatWests door 
either. Ultimately, based on what Mr B has said of their situation, it seems to be Mrs Bs 
mis-management of the family finances that lay at the root of the problems Mr B has 
experienced.
And because of that, and the complaints made following Mrs Bs death, NatWest was always 
going to have to spend time investigating those complaints and looking into what had 
happened  and couldnt give a final redemption figure before it had done so. While some of 
the delay during 2019 was NatWests fault  there were issues in settling the final 
redemption figure for the mortgage, and removing the charge for the loan  much of it was 
the result of dealing with the situation Mrs B had left Mr B in. I dont therefore think that I can 
fairly hold NatWest wholly responsible for Mr B not being able to sell the property during 
2019.
While Mr B had a buyer who pulled out at the start of lockdown in March 2020  because of 
the lockdown  he found another buyer who offered slightly less at the end of the first 
lockdown. NatWest isnt responsible for the lockdown and the impact of it. Im glad Mr B 
found another buyer promptly in 2020. But Im not persuaded that the price he sold for in 
2020 was less than he would have sold for in 2019, or that he has suffered any financial loss 
as a result.
Im not therefore persuaded that Mr B has suffered any financial loss because he only sold 
the property in 2020. 
As regards the mortgage redemption figure, I think NatWest has made a fair offer here. It 
agreed to a redemption figure based on the mortgage balance in February 2019  three 
months after Mrs Bs death  rather than almost a year later when the mortgage was actually 
repaid. And in fact, it actually accepted less than that in full settlement of the mortgage, since 
it also waived an early repayment charge associated with the interest rate taken in 2018.
Im satisfied that this means that Mr B has not incurred a financial loss because of the delays 
in redemption. Even without the fraud allegations and investigation, it would have taken 
some time following Mrs Bs death before the mortgage could have been repaid  and the 
redemption amount would have been based on the repayment date, not the date of Mrs Bs 
death. In effect, NatWest has waived all interest from February 2019 onwards, as well as the 
early repayment charge, and I think this was a fair way to arrive at a settlement figure. Given 
what Ive said above, that much of the delay during 2019 was due to investigation of this 
complex case resulting from Mrs Bs actions rather than NatWests failures, I think this is a 
fair offer. It puts Mr B back in the position he would have been in had redemption happened 
soon after her death, as if there had been no complaints, investigation, or other delay.Mr B also wants NatWest to pay interest on the loan his friend lent him. His friend lent him a 
sum just above the mortgage balance in early 2019, with a 3% interest charge. The intention 
was that Mr B pay off the mortgage straightaway to avoid the risk of repossession, then 
repay his friend when the property sold. 
But I dont think it would be fair to ask NatWest to cover this cost. While I understand Mr Bs 
worries, I dont think it was necessary for him to take a loan at this point. Although the 
mortgage was in arrears, NatWest knew that Mr B had been recently bereaved and was 
trying to resolve matters. I dont think there was any imminent danger of repossession, and 
Ive not seen any evidence of NatWest suggesting there was.
I understand NatWest has covered Mr Bs solicitors fees in respect of the discharging of the 
mortgage and charges. Im satisfied thats fair.
Finally, I need to decide what is fair compensation for Mr Bs distress and inconvenience. I 
appreciate everything hes gone through over the last three years and Im very sorry to learn 
of everything thats happened. I think its important to note that, first of all, no financial award 
can truly compensate him for everything thats happened. And secondly, I can only require 
NatWest to compensate him for things that are NatWests fault. Without wishing to minimise 
in any way the very real distress that losing his wife, and then discovering the situation she 
left him in, would have caused to Mr B, they are not NatWests fault and not something I can 
require NatWest to compensate him for.
In my view, the key failing here is the additional delay  beyond the investigation that would 
always have been necessary because of Mrs Bs actions and Mr Bs complaints about them 
 in NatWest arriving at the settlement figure for the mortgage. Ive explained above that I 
dont think this caused Mr B financial loss, but it did compound the frustration and upset he 
felt at what was already a difficult and distressing situation. NatWest has offered 
compensation of £1,100. This is a substantial sum, and after careful consideration Im 
satisfied its a fair offer. I understand it has been paid to Mr B, so I dont require NatWest to 
take any further action.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given, Im satisfied National Westminster Bank Plc has resolved this 
complaint in a way thats fair and reasonable in all the circumstances, and I dont require it to 
take further action.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 26 October 2021.
 
Simon Pugh
Ombudsman