DRN-3702186
The complaint
Mrs J complains to Sesame Limited (Sesame) she was sold an unsuitable life assurance 
policy.
What happened
In 2015, Mrs J was contacted by a representative of Sesame to review her life assurance 
policy. As a result, Mrs J replaced her existing policy at the time with a new policy that 
increased her sum assured and ran for a longer term with only a minimal increase to her 
monthly premium.
While reviewing her mortgage in 2021, Mrs J also reviewed her life cover provisions and 
realised the policy shed been sold in 2015 was set-up on a non-smoker basis. Mrs J said 
shed made it clear at the time of taking out the policy she was a social smoker, so she 
raised a complaint.
Sesame didnt uphold Mrs Js complaint saying the recommendation of a non-smoker policy 
was appropriate for her at the time and that shed signed to say shed not smoked in the 
previous 12 months. 
Sesame did apologise for the time it had taken them to complete their investigation, paying 
Mrs J £175 to acknowledge it could have been completed sooner.
Unhappy with Sesames response, Mrs J asked The Financial Ombudsman Service to 
investigate her complaint.
One of our Investigators looked into things and thought Sesame were at fault. To put things 
right she said they should refund Mrs J the difference between the cost of her original policy 
premium taken out in 2011 and the cost of the 2015 replacement policy  from the point of 
sale in 2015 until she arranged alternative cover in 2021.
In addition, our Investigator said Sesame should pay interest at 8% simple on that amount 
up until the date of settlement and pay Mrs J £150 compensation for the distress and 
inconvenience the matter has caused.
Neither Mrs J nor Sesame agreed with our Investigators opinion.
Sesame remained of the opinion that by answering none at all to the question regarding her 
having smoked in the last 12 months or not, this was indicative of Mrs J wanting a non-
smoker policy. They also said her occupation and industry experience is relevant in her 
understanding the consequences of answering the question incorrectly.
Sesame also said the £175 compensation already paid to Mrs J in respect of the trouble and 
upset caused had been accepted so they didnt agree they needed to pay anything further.
Our Investigator considered Sesames response but remained persuaded Mrs J made the 
representative aware she wanted a smoker policy, and it was more likely than not she 
wouldnt have taken the new policy had it been made clear it was set up based on non-
smoker terms. Our Investigator also said the £175 compensation previously paid by 
Sesame was awarded to recognise poor complaint handling so she remained of the opinion 
they should pay an additional £150.
Mrs J said to put her back in the same financial position had Sesames error have not 
occurred would be for them to cover the difference in premiums between what she was 
paying and what shes having to pay now, from the point of sale in 2015 until the end of her 
original 2011 policys term.
Our Investigator considered Mrs Js comments but said because she was unable to say for 
sure if the new policy would run for the full term, she wasnt able to ask Sesame to put her 
back in the exact position Mrs J was asking for. She did however reconsider what she felt 
was reasonable in terms of redress to put things right and said she thought Sesame, in 
addition to what shed previously set out, should pay Mrs J the difference in premiums for 
50% of the remaining term.
Whilst Mrs J remained of the opinion the difference in premiums should be covered by 
Sesame for the full term, she agreed to accept our Investigators opinion.
However, Sesame remained of the belief a degree of responsibility ought to have been taken 
by Mrs J in ensuring the cover she had in place met her requirements. As no resolution 
could be reached this complaint has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided to uphold Mrs Js complaint and for much the same reasons as 
our investigator. Ill explain why.
But first, Im aware Ive summarised this complaint in far less detail than has been provided, 
and Ive done so using my own words. No discourtesy is intended by this. Instead, Ive 
concentrated on what I think are the key issues here. Our rules allow me to do this.
This reflects the nature of our service as an informal alternative to the courts. If theres 
something Ive not mentioned, it isnt because Ive ignored it. I havent. Im satisfied I dont 
need to comment on every detail to be able to reach what I think is the right outcome 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
And, where evidence is incomplete, inconclusive or contradictory, Ive looked to reach my 
decision about the merits of this complaint on the balance of probabilities  in other words, 
what I consider is most likely to have happened in the light of the available evidence and 
wider circumstances.
Its not in dispute Sesames representative contacted Mrs J in 2015. Ive seen nothing to 
persuade me Mrs J was proactively looking to review the life cover she had in place prior to 
being contacted.
While I do consider it reasonable that to Mrs J, enhancing her cover considerably for an 
increase to her premium of under £5 a month wouldve been of interest. Im also persuaded 
by her testimony and her actions both before and after taking out the policy in 2015 that 
having the correct cover in place was equally as important to her, if not more, to provide for 
her family should the worst happen.
The application completed in January 2015 asked the question During the last 12 months 
have you smoked any cigarettes, cigars, a pipe or used nicotine replacements? and was 
answered none at all.
Mrs J has explained shed not smoked in the 12 months prior to taking out the policy as her 
and her partner had been trying to conceive, was pregnant and had then recently given birth. But Mrs J says despite this, she made it clear to the advisor she remained and always would 
remain a social smoker and it was important for her policy to reflect this so there would be no 
risk of complications should a claim need to be made.
Mrs Js testimony has been consistent throughout, and I think reinforced by her having taken 
out a policy on smoker terms in 2011 prior to Sesames representative contacting her, and 
by her taking out a replacement smoker policy in 2021 in an attempt to put the right cover 
back in place soon after discovering the 2015 policy had been set up on non-smoker terms.
Ive looked at the fact find from 2015 which appears to have been completed the day after 
the policy application, and not by the advisor that Mrs J spoke to. Its clearly inconsistent to 
the application itself as it records her as having smoked in the 12 months prior as yes.
Ive not been able to listen to the call from the time the policy was taken out and I dont 
consider the fact-find completed to be reliable. Because of this, Ive had to look at what 
information is available to me and take a balanced approached as to what I think is most 
likely to have happened at the time.
And for the reasons Ive explained above, Ive placed more weight on the testimony provided 
by Mrs J.
While I have taken into consideration Sesames belief Mrs J ought to have taken a degree of 
responsibility having accepted the policy, it remains that she received advice from an expert 
in the field and Im satisfied its reasonable she relied on the advisor giving her the policy she 
asked for.
Sesame says the advisor posed the questions accurately and Mrs Js answers were 
recorded accurately. They also say the recommendation of the non-smoker policy was 
appropriate for her at the time it was recommended. But I dont agree.
I acknowledge Sesames belief there was a responsibility for Mrs J to ensure she had the 
right cover. But as Ive said, Sesames representative was the expert here and whilst I 
understand the specific question may have been answered accurately, it was the 
responsibility of the advisor to ensure the policy met Mrs Js needs. 
If the application did not provide an option to answer that shed not smoked in the last 12 
months, but remained a social smoker so required a policy on those terms, then I wouldve 
expected to see the adviser recommend her not to amend her cover and retain the policy 
she had in place. Had he done, Im satisfied Mrs J wouldnt have gone ahead and taken out 
the policy in 2015.
In summary, Im persuaded Mrs J wanted a policy on a smokers terms and this wasnt what 
she was provided. Because of this and for the reasons Ive explained above Ive decided 
Sesame need to put things right.
To ensure she had the correct cover back in place Mrs J took out a new policy in 2021 at a 
higher premium to her original policy. She cancelled the 2015 policy at the same time.
So, Sesame should pay Mrs J the difference between her 2011 policy premium and the 
premiums shes paid since to date plus 8% interest.
Ive also thought about Mrs Js policy going forward. Mrs Js original 2011 policy was set up 
to run for 32 years until 2043. While Im persuaded this cover remains important to her and 
she has no plans to cancel it, I cant say for sure her current policy will run until the end of 
the original term. This is because Mrs Js circumstances may change, or the worst could 
happen, and the policy could come to a natural end.
Because of this Im not of the opinion Sesame should pay Mrs J the difference in premiums 
until 2043. But I also dont think its fair nor reasonable Mrs J covers the difference in full 
either. So, Ive decided Sesame should pay Mrs J the difference in premiums for half of the 
remaining original policy term. Redress isnt always an exact science and considering all the 
circumstances of this case, Im satisfied this is a fair and reasonable resolution.Ive also listened to the call Sesames representative made to Mrs J after the issue came to 
light in 2021. Whilst its clear the call, stated as off the record shouldnt have been made, it 
was disclosed to Mrs J that there was possibly an option to reinstate her policy on smoker 
terms and due to the circumstances of the sale, for the representative to cover any gap in 
backdated premiums.
This call was closely followed by Sesames final response letter in which they didnt uphold 
her complaint. I can understand why having felt like the representative had admitted an error 
had occurred, for then to be told nothing had gone wrong, it mustve caused Mrs J a great 
deal of distress and inconvenience in addition to finding out she had the wrong cover in 
place in the first instance.
Sesame paid Mrs J £175. But as our Investigator explained this was to recognise, they 
couldve completed their investigation sooner. Im satisfied Sesame should also pay Mrs J 
compensation and I think £150 is fair and reasonable taking into consideration all the 
circumstances of this case.
Putting things right
To resolve this complaint, Sesame should:
refund Mrs J the difference in premiums paid, between her 2011 policy premium 
(£21.88) and her 2015 policy premium (£26.88) from the inception of the 2015 policy 
until its cancellation.
refund Mrs J the difference in premiums paid, between her 2011 policy premium 
(£21.88) and her 2021 policy premium prior to any indexation (£55.16) from the date 
her 2015 policy was cancelled to the date of settlement.
to the above amounts Sesame should add 8% simple interest from the dates 
premiums were paid until the date of settlement.
if Sesame considers that theyre required by HM Revenue & Customs to take off 
income tax from any interest due to Mrs S, they should tell her how much theyve 
taken off. They should also give Mrs S a certificate showing this if she asks for one, 
so she can reclaim the tax from HM Revenue & Customs if appropriate.
pay Mrs J the difference between her 2011 policy premium (£21.88) and her 2021 
policy premium prior to any indexation (£55.16) to cover 50% of the time between 
the date of settlement and the original policy term end date in 2043. As Mrs J has 
not yet had to pay these premiums, Sesame isnt required to add interest to this 
amount.
pay Mrs J £150 compensation for the distress and inconvenience caused.
My final decision
I uphold this complaint and require Sesame Limited to put things right by doing what Ive set 
out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs J to accept or 
reject my decision before 24 February 2023.
 
Sean Pyke-Milne
Ombudsman