DRN-3209756
The complaint
Mr J complained that Home Retail Group Card Services Limited, trading as Argos Financial 
Services (Argos) failed to carry out proper affordability checks before providing him with an 
Argos store card. 
What happened
Mr J applied online for, and was provided with, an Argos store card in May 2016. He had an 
initial credit limit of £550.
Mr J sent a letter to Argos in around April 2017 asking if he could make reduced payments 
each month, as he was experiencing financial difficulties. Argos received the letter and 
spoke to Mr J by phone, but no arrangement was put into place. Following that, several 
payments were missed, and Argos reduced Mr Js credit limit to £520 in June 2017. It also 
blocked the account from spending until the new limit was applied. Argos then issued a 
default notice in July 2017 and a default was recorded on Mr Js credit file in August 2017. 
Argos sold Mr Js account to a debt collection agency in February 2020.
Mr J complained to Argos in July 2020 as he didnt think it had carried out sufficient checks 
before allowing him to open his card account. He said this resulted in additional interest and 
fees being applied, and a default being recorded on his credit file. 
Argos responded. It said it used information from credit reference agencies and the electoral 
register to ensure it lent responsibly. It said Mr J was offered assistance when he contacted 
Argos in 2017, but there was no record of him contacting it again when his account fell into 
arrears. It said interest charges, late payment fees and the default were correctly applied.  
Mr J brought his complaint to this service. He said his father passed away in 2017 and his 
mental well-being was affected. He thought Argos should have noticed his credit file had 
multiple applications for credit, as well as loans where payments were being made late and 
default notices were issued. Mr J said he wasnt asked to confirm his income or to provide 
bank statements, and he had only £50 surplus income per month. Mr J said he informed 
Argos in 2017 about his personal situation, but it continued to apply interest and charges. He 
said the account was sold, and he continues to be harassed for money he does not have. 
Our investigator upheld Mr Js complaint and said Argos should have done more to collect 
information about his salary and income and expenditure at the application stage. Argos 
responded and said it had taken salary details. However, our investigators assessment 
remained unchanged. 
Argos disagreed with the outcome and so this came to me for a decision. 
I contacted both parties and let them know that I intended to come to a different conclusion 
to that of our investigator, and not uphold Mr Js complaint. This was because I thought that 
Argos had carried out proportionate and reasonable checks, and that the credit limit of £550 
was affordable. I gave both parties the opportunity to respond. 
Mr J responded and provided a copy of his credit file. He said he didnt recall being asked to 
provide salary details and, in any event, Argos didnt ask him to verify his salary. Mr J said 
his credit file should show defaults and negative information prior to the application, and 
certainly within the first three months of him being provided with the card. 
I am now in a position to issue a final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I am not upholding this complaint. 
Argos, as a regulated business, is required to carry out proportionate affordability checks 
when a consumer applies to open a store card account with it. And carrying out 
proportionate checks means the checks undertaken can vary according to the amount of 
money being borrowed, the term of the borrowing and the level of indebtedness the 
borrowing would create for the consumer. So, to put it into perspective, I wouldnt expect a 
business offering a store card with a credit limit of £550 to carry out the same level of checks 
as, for instance, a business offering significant mortgage lending. 
I know that Mr J thought the checks carried out by Argos should have involved it verifying 
employment information, as well as looking at full income and expenditure details. But I dont 
agree. I think Argos took enough personal information when it asked Mr J to let it know 
whether he was employed full time  he was  and for Mr J to tell it his salary. 
Argos also provided this service with information to show it carried out credit reference 
agency checks and that it used this information to calculate whether the credit was 
affordable and to check indebtedness. Argos said there were no defaults on Mr Js credit file 
and so it considered a credit limit of £550 to be affordable.  
Mr J provided this service with a copy of his credit report as he thought this would show 
otherwise. But I cant see that it does. Its certainly the case that Mr J entered into other 
credit agreements in 2016 and seemed to struggle with some payments in 2017, with 
defaults then being reported on some accounts. I have a great deal of sympathy for Mr J, as 
its clear hes struggled financially over the past few years, and I can see how this would 
have a negative impact on his well-being. But, from what I can see, the negative information 
on his credit file appeared after the Argos application was made and approved. Argos can 
only take into account information that was available to it at the point in time that Mr J 
applied for the account.
What this means is that Im satisfied Argos carried out proportionate and reasonable 
affordability checks when Mr J applied for a store card, and that these checks showed the 
lending of £550 was affordable. 
Mr J was also concerned that Argos continued to apply interest and charges to his account 
even after he told it he was experiencing difficulties in 2017. I can see that Mr J contacted 
Argos by letter and phone in 2017. In the letter, he offered to pay £10 a month, which was 
less than the minimum payment. When he then spoke to Argos by phone, he was told that 
as his account was fully up to date at that point, it couldnt make arrangements there and 
then to accept less than the minimum payment. So Mr J was told to wait until he received his 
next statement and at that point Argos could look at what assistance it could provide. The 
advisor asked Mr J to get back in contact with Argos then. The advisor also told Mr J that the 
minimum payment the following month would be £15, and he agreed that he could afford this. The advisor again reiterated that if Mr J had difficulties at that point, he could contact it. 
However, I understand that Mr J didnt contact Argos before payments were missed and a 
default issued. Again, while I sympathise with Mr J and the difficulties hes had, Argos cant 
be expected to amend his monthly repayments without him contacting them as suggested.  
I know that Mr J is concerned that he is still being pursued for the debt by the debt collection 
agency that Argos sold the debt to. I dont intend to make any findings about this, as my 
decision is dealing with the complaint against Argos and not the debt collection agency. But I 
will say that the terms of the agreement with Argos allow it to transfer the debt to other 
businesses, as it has done here. 
My final decision
Its my final decision that I do not uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr J to accept or 
reject my decision before 25 April 2022.
 
Martina Ryan
Ombudsman