DRN-4256296
The complaint
Mr M complains about the advice given by Ideal Financial Management Limited (Ideal) to 
transfer the benefits from his defined-benefit (DB) occupational pension scheme with British 
Steel to a personal pension. He says the advice was unsuitable for him and believes this has 
caused a financial loss.
What happened
I issued my provisional decision of July 2023 saying that I intended to uphold Mr Ms 
complaint and direct Ideal to put things right by undertaking a redress calculation in line with 
the rules for calculating redress for non-compliant pension transfer advice. A copy of the 
background to the complaint, and my provisional findings, are below in italics and form part 
of this final decision.
What I said in my provisional decision
What happened
In March 2016, Mr Ms employer announced that it would be examining options to 
restructure its business, including decoupling the BSPS (the employers DB scheme) from 
the company. The consultation with members referred to possible outcomes regarding their 
preserved benefits, which included transferring the scheme to the Pension Protection Fund 
(PPF), or a new defined-benefit scheme (BSPS2). Alternatively, members were informed 
they could transfer their benefits to a private pension arrangement.
In October 2017, members of the BSPS were sent a Time to Choose letter which gave 
them the options to either stay in BSPS and move with it to the PPF, move to BSPS2 or 
transfer their BSPS benefits elsewhere. The deadline to make their choice was 11 
December 2017 (and was later extended to 22 December 2017).
Mr M chose to opt into the BSPS2  but because he was concerned about what the recent 
announcements by his employer meant for the security of his DB scheme, he sought advice. 
Mr M met first with an adviser in December 2017, but because they didnt have the 
necessary permissions to provide advice on DB pension transfers, they referred Mr M to 
Ideal.
Mr M met with Ideal in January 2018. It completed a financial planning questionnaire with 
him to gather information about his circumstances and objectives. 
Amongst other things this recorded that Mr M was aged 53; he was working full-time; he was 
living with his partner; his children werent dependant; he owned his own home with an 
outstanding mortgage; and he had a small amount in savings. Ideal also carried out an 
assessment of Mr Ms attitude to risk, which it deemed to be cautious to moderate  a score 
of two on scale of one to five.
Mr Ms main priority  as recorded on a Pension Transfer Attitude Questionnaire was to 
retire early and at age 55.
On 10 January 2018 Ideal produced a Pension Transfer Initial Assessment and Summary 
document. This summarised Mr Ms circumstances and objectives and brought together 
Ideals analysis of the features and benefits of the BSPS2 versus a personal pension 
arrangement. Ideal concluded here that Mr M should transfer to a personal pension 
arrangement unless his priority was for a guaranteed growing income and he didnt want to 
take any investment risk.
On 14 January 2018 Ideal advised Mr M to transfer his pension benefits into a personal 
pension and invest the proceeds within a managed investment which it deemed matched 
Mr Ms attitude to risk. In summary the suitability report said the reasons for this 
recommendation were: it reflected Mr Ms investment objectives and access requirements; it 
allowed Mr M to utilise the recently introduced pension freedoms; and it provided Mr M with 
greater control over how death benefits could be paid allowing his children to benefit from 
any unspent funds.
Mr M accepted the recommendation and a short while after around £549,000 (a combined 
figure representing two tranches or periods of service) was transferred to his new personal 
pension.
Mr M complained to Ideal in 2020, using the services of a representative, about the suitability 
of the advice he received.
Ideal didnt uphold Mr Ms complaint. In summary it said Mr Ms objective could not be met 
by remaining in the DB scheme  he would not have been able to secure his main objective 
of early retirement on an income to meet his lifestyle. It said Mr M confirmed as much in a 
handwritten note explaining why he decided to proceed with the transfer.
Dissatisfied with its response Mr M referred his complaint to our service. An investigator 
upheld the complaint and required Ideal to pay compensation. In summary they said Ideals 
transfer analysis showed that the growth rate required to match Mr Ms existing scheme 
benefits at both 55 and 65 wasnt likely to be achievable, particularly given Mr Ms recorded 
attitude to risk. And they said there were no other reasons to justify the transfer and worth 
giving up his guaranteed benefits for. They said there was no clear evidence that Mr M 
wanted to retire early at the time of the advice. They said it had to be a realistic and 
achievable option, which was something Mr M couldve decided nearer the time  he didnt 
have to make an irreversible decision to transfer now. They said that death benefits wasnt a 
sufficient reason to support a transfer  a pension is designed to provide an income in 
retirement  when life assurance couldve been explored to address this. They said Mr M 
shouldve been advised to transfer to the PPF, which he wouldve followed.
Ideal disagreed. It provided a substantive response commenting against many of the 
investigators paragraphs. While I have read its submission in full, Ive not repeated all of it 
here. In summary Ideal said that Mr Ms main priority was to retire at 55  this is what was 
recorded in the advice paperwork at the time  and this is what he went on to do. It said it 
doesnt understand why the investigator concluded there was no conclusive evidence when 
Mr M wanted to retire.
It said Mr M could not have met his objective by remaining in the DB scheme. It said even if 
Mr M used the tax-free cash to repay his mortgage it would only have just been enough to 
meet his need if he used his partners income. It said Mr M separated from his partner 
shortly after the transfer, so if hed stayed in the scheme he wouldve had to get another job. 
It believes the advice was suitable - it said the cash flow comparisons supported the transfer. It said both it and Mr M considered it was worth taking the risk of transferring and it still 
stands by the recommendation. It said if Mr M had pursued the opinion of the investigator, 
hed still be working; he wouldnt have met his objective for a higher income; he wouldnt 
have income flexibility; and he wouldnt have the potential to pass on his pension fund to his 
beneficiaries.
Ideal also said that separate to the suitability of advice, it believes any loss calculation 
should be made against the PPF and not the BSPS2. It said the BSPS2 was not certain to 
go ahead at the time  it was only a proposal. And while in hindsight it did go ahead, using it 
as a metric would be wrong.
In response to the investigators opinion, Mr Ms representative said that it believed it was 
appropriate and fair for Ideal to calculate losses both on the basis of the BSPS and the PPF 
(and at age 65) and Mr M should be compensated on whichever produced the higher loss.
The investigator wasnt persuaded to change their opinion. They said while they noted 
Ideals comment that Mr M retired at 55 and started taking an income, they still thought he 
shouldve been advised to take benefits early from the scheme which wouldve given him a 
guaranteed income for life.
While Ideal maintained its view that the advice was suitable, it carried out a loss calculation 
based on the benefits available to Mr M through the PPF at age 60, which showed there was 
no redress due. But it offered £300, recognising the investigators recommended distress 
and inconvenience award, to settle the matter.
Mr M rejected the offer. He said his needs werent finalised at the time of the advice and 
there was a high possibility hed continue working until 65. He said he relied on the negligent 
advice and started taking an income at 55 and he retired. Mr M said that he didnt realise the 
detrimental impact taking his benefits 10 years early would have. Mr M said that while he 
initially took an income of £24,000 a year from his pension, hes been advised to reduce it to 
£16,500 to avoid running out of funds. He said he shouldve been advised that it was in his 
best interests to be in the BSPS2  so the offer should be based on the benefits available to 
him through the BSPS2 and at age 65.
Because things couldnt be resolved informally, the complaint has come to me for a decision.
What Ive provisionally decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive taken into account relevant law and regulations, regulators rules, guidance and 
standards and codes of practice, and what I consider to have been good industry practice at 
the time. This includes the Principles for Business (PRIN) and the Conduct of Business 
Sourcebook (COBS). And where the evidence is incomplete, inconclusive or contradictory, I 
reach my conclusions on the balance of probabilities  that is, what I think is more likely than 
not to have happened based on the available evidence and the wider surrounding 
circumstances.
The applicable rules, regulations and requirements
The below is not a comprehensive list of the rules and regulations which applied at the time 
of the advice, but provides useful context for my assessment of Ideal's actions here.
PRIN 6: A firm must pay due regard to the interests of its customers and treat them fairly.PRIN 7: A firm must pay due regard to the information needs of its clients, and communicate 
information to them in a way which is clear, fair and not misleading.
COBS 2.1.1R: A firm must act honestly, fairly and professionally in accordance with the best 
interests of its client (the client's best interests rule).
The provisions in COBS 9 which deal with the obligations when giving a personal 
recommendation and assessing suitability. And the provisions in COBS 19 which specifically 
relate to a DB pension transfer.
Having considered all of this and the evidence in this case, while Ive decided to uphold the 
complaint for largely the same reasons given by the investigator, I want to expand on my 
reasoning including clarifying the basis upon which I think the redress calculation should be 
carried out. My reasons are set out below.
The regulator, the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA), states in COBS 19.1.6G that the 
starting assumption for a transfer from a DB scheme is that it is unsuitable. So, Ideal should 
have only considered a transfer if it could clearly demonstrate that the transfer was in Mr Ms 
best interests. And having looked at all the evidence available, Im not satisfied it was in his 
best interests.
Financial viability
Ideal carried out a transfer value analysis report (as required by the regulator) showing how 
much Mr Ms pension fund would need to grow by each year in order to provide the same 
benefits as his DB scheme (the critical yield). And because Mr M had chosen to opt-in to the 
BSPS2, this was based on the benefits available to him under the BSPS2.
The advice was given after the regulator gave instructions in Final Guidance FG17/9 as to 
how businesses could calculate future 'discount rates' in loss assessments where a 
complaint about a past pension transfer was being upheld. Prior to October 2017 similar 
rates were published by the Financial Ombudsman Service on our website. Whilst 
businesses weren't required to refer to these rates when giving advice on pension transfers, 
they provide a useful indication of what growth rates would have been considered 
reasonably achievable for a typical investor.
Mr M was 53 at the time of the advice and he wanted to retire at 55, if affordable. The critical 
yield required to match Mr Ms benefits at age 55 was 44.97% if he took a full pension and 
32.25% if he took a cash lump sum and a reduced pension. Ideal also produced figures at 
age 65  these were 9.11% and 7.45% respectively. The critical yield to match the benefits 
available through the PPF at age 55 was quoted as 25.52% per year if Mr M took a full 
pension and 22.83% per year if he took a reduced pension.
The relevant discount rate closest to when the advice was given which I can refer to was 
published by the Financial Ombudsman Service for the period before 1 October 2017, and 
was 2.5% per year for one year to retirement. Ive kept in mind that the regulator's projection 
rates had also remained unchanged since 2014: the regulator's upper projection rate at the 
time was 8%, the middle projection rate 5%, and the lower projection rate 2%.
I've taken this into account, along with the composition of assets in the discount rate, Mr Ms 
cautious to moderate attitude to risk and also the term to retirement. In my view there would 
be little point in Mr M giving up the guarantees available to him through his DB scheme only 
to achieve, at best, the same level of benefits outside the scheme. But here, the lowest critical yield was 7.45%. And this was based on a retirement age of 65. For Mr Ms intended 
retirement age of 55, the lowest critical yield was in excess of 30%.
Given this rate was so far above both the discount rate and the regulators upper projection 
rate, I think Mr M was most likely to receive benefits of a lower overall value than those 
provided by the BSPS2 if he transferred to a personal pension and invested in line with a 
cautious to moderate attitude to risk.
In my view, to have come close to achieving the level of growth required to exceed the 
benefits provided by the BSPS2 if he transferred to a personal pension, wouldve required 
Mr M to take significant amount of risk and higher than he indicated he was prepared to take. 
And even then I think hed still be no better off as a result of transferring. Id add here that 
given the critical yields based on Mr Ms normal retirement age of 65, I dont think the 
position was very different.
If the BSPS2 hadnt gone ahead, albeit at this stage all of the indications were that it would 
go ahead, Mr M wouldve moved with the scheme to the PPF. And given the critical yields of 
25.2% and 22.83% I referred to above, it seems likely to me that Mr M would also be worse 
of in retirement as a result of transferring even if the scheme moved to the PPF.
I can see that Ideal produced various cashflow analyses, which it says supports the transfer 
as being financially worthwhile or viable despite the high critical yields. Ive considered 
these. Some of the analysis I will refer to below because it was produced to support the 
potential to build up a residual fund so Mr M could pass on monies to his beneficiaries upon 
his death.
The other analysis Ideal produced showed that to match Mr Ms DB scheme income and to 
have a fund which lasted until he was 90 required an investment return of 3.54%. I believe 
the return quoted was before charges, so the gross return required was higher. In any event, 
as I said above, there would be little point in Mr M transferring only to match the benefits 
available to him through the DB scheme. But in this scenario, if Mr M did live a very long life 
and out last his life expectancy, he would run out of money.
Ideal also produced analysis looking at Mr Ms spending capacity  it said Mr M could spend 
an extra £8,300 a year should he transfer based on net growth of 4.5% a year on his 
pension. It also stress tested the analysis where it included periods of poor performance and 
assumed growth of 4.5% a year after charges for the remaining years. I think including 
stress testing was appropriate here - but nevertheless a net annual growth after charges 
equates to a gross annual return in excess of 6% a year (based on the annual charges Ideal 
quoted in the suitability report.) Given the regulators standard projection rates (which I 
consider to be realistic as opposed to trying to project historic returns going forward) and 
taking account of Mr Ms relatively low approach to investment risk, Im not persuaded this 
required level of return would be considered reasonably achievable on a consistent annual 
basis. So Im not persuaded this demonstrates the transfer was financially viable.
Im also mindful that, if Ideal truly believed a transfer to a personal pension arrangement was 
financially viable for Mr M, it strikes me as somewhat odd in the way it worded the risk 
warning in the suitability letter. This said under disadvantages of transferring:
If you take advantage of the flexible options within the plan, and draw an income in excess 
of that you could have received from your existing plan, there is a very real risk that you 
could deplete the pension fund. This would severely impact on your retirement income. This 
appears to somewhat contradict Ideals analysis conclusion that Mr Ms spending capacity was £8,300 a year greater by transferring.
In any event, on the basis of financial viability alone a transfer out of the DB scheme wasnt 
in Mr Ms best interests. But I accept financial viability isnt the only consideration when 
giving transfer advice, as Ideal has argued in this case. There might be other considerations 
which mean a transfer is suitable, despite providing overall lower benefits. Ive considered 
this below.
Flexibility and income needs
Ideals advice paperwork referred to the flexibility of a personal pension. Ideal said Mr M 
had: the flexibility of taking the specific income required to meet your expenditure. You can 
also take the tax-free cash in many stages as opposed to just one payment.
But I dont think Mr M needed flexibility in retirement  I think this was simply a feature or a 
consequence of transferring to a personal pension arrangement. Mr M didnt for example 
have a need to access his tax-free cash early and defer taking income. And I cant see that 
he had a strong need for a variable income throughout retirement.
This was all about whether Mr M could afford to retire at 55. Because Mr M was 53 at the 
time of the advice, I think its reasonable to assume that hed given the matter some thought. 
That said, just because this was Mr Ms main objective, which Ideal has repeatedly pointed 
out, this doesnt mean Ideal could simply facilitate what Mr M wanted. Its role was to really 
understand what Mr M needed and recommend what was in his best interests. And if that 
meant that it didnt think it was affordable for Mr M to retire at 55 or it wasnt in his best 
interests to transfer out of the BSPS to achieve things then it shouldve said so.
Of course Mr M already had the early retirement option available to him  he didnt need to 
transfer out to achieve this. Ideal says that Mr M couldnt have achieved his objective by 
remaining in the scheme. But I think Ideals analysis from the time shows that Mr M couldve 
likely achieved things.
If Mr M took benefits from the BSPS2 at 55, Ideals analysis shows that he would be entitled 
to an annual income of £12,456 and a cash lump sum of around £83,000. Mr Ms 
outstanding mortgage at 55 was due to be around £51,000, which he could repay using his 
cash lump sum. Without his mortgage, Mr Ms household expenditure was around £23,000 a 
year. Mr Ms partner was earning around £10,000 - it seems reasonable to include his 
partners income given they were contributing to the overall household budget. So while their 
combined incomes would be just shy of their expenditure requirement, Mr M could use the 
remaining tax-free cash to supplement his income need until his state pension became 
payable. And while relatively small in value  likely around £10,000 at age 55 - Mr M also 
had his workplace DC pension he could access flexibly to supplement his need. By 
remaining in the DB scheme, Mr Ms income was guaranteed and it escalated  he would 
not be reliant on investment performance to achieve things.
If the BSPS2 didnt go ahead Mr M wouldve moved with the scheme to the PPF. And in this 
scenario Ideals analysis shows both the income and tax-free cash Mr M would receive were 
higher - £15,423 a year and tax-free cash sum of just over £102,400 allowing Mr M greater 
opportunity to meet his needs. So there was nothing here which ought to have made a 
difference to the recommendation at this time.
Mr M said hed retire early if it was affordable. But he didnt need to make this decision now 
 this was a decision he could make when he reached 55. But overall, I think Mr M couldve 
likely met his income needs in retirement through the BSPS2 or the PPF based on his 
indicated retirement age. So, I dont think it was in Mr Ms best interests for him to transfer his pension just to have flexibility, that Im not persuaded he really needed.
Death benefits
I can see Ideal also recommended Mr M transfer his DB scheme benefits to provide him with 
more control over death benefits so he could allow his children to benefit from any unspent 
funds.
Death benefits are an emotive subject and of course when asked, most people would like 
their loved ones to be taken care of when they die. The lump sum death benefits on offer 
through a personal pension was likely an attractive feature to Mr M. But whilst I appreciate 
death benefits are important to consumers, and Mr M might have thought it was a good idea 
to transfer his DB scheme to a personal pension because of this, the priority here was to 
advise Mr M about what was best for his retirement provisions. So while Ideal has made 
much of the analysis it produced to show the potential amount of liquid assets Mr M could 
build up in his pension and pass on to his beneficiaries, a pension is primarily designed to 
provide income in retirement  it is not primarily a legacy planning tool.
So I dont think Ideal shouldve encouraged Mr C to prioritise the potential for higher death 
benefits through a personal pension over his security in retirement.
If Mr M genuinely wanted to leave a legacy for his children, which didnt depend on 
investment returns or how much of his pension fund remained on his death, I think Ideal 
shouldve explored life insurance. It is my understanding that Mr M wouldve already had a 
significant death in service benefit through his employer. So he already had lump sum death 
benefits pre-retirement. But if he wanted an extra sum specifically for his children, he 
couldve taken extra cover out and written it in trust for the benefit of his children. And the 
starting point for this neednt have been to base things on the full transfer value. Ideal 
shouldve asked Mr M how much he would ideally like to leave to his children, and this 
couldve been explored on a whole of life or term assurance basis, which was likely to be a 
cheaper to provide.
Overall, I dont think different death benefits available through a transfer to a personal 
pension justified the likely decrease of retirement benefits for Mr M. And I dont think that 
insurance was properly explored as an alternative.
concerns over financial stability of the DB scheme
I think its likely that Mr M, like many of his colleagues, was concerned about his pension. 
His employer had recently made the announcement about its plans for the scheme and he 
was worried his pension would end up in the PPF. There was lots of negative sentiment 
about the PPF. So its quite possible that Mr M was also leaning towards the decision to 
transfer because of the concerns he had about his employer and what might happen.
But to a greater extent, these concerns were already alleviated because Mr M had decided 
to opt-into the BSPS2. And as Ive already explained, at the time of the advice it seemed 
likely the BSPS2 would go ahead as envisaged  a position I think it was reasonable for 
Ideal to have adopted.
In any event, even if there was a chance the BSPS2 wouldnt go ahead and the scheme 
moved to the PPF, the position was not as concerning as he thought or was led to believe.
This is because if Mr M did follow through with his intention to retire at 55, Ideals analysis 
showed that the income hed receive would be higher at 55 than through the BSPS2 hed 
chosen to opt-into - £18,564 a year as a full pension or £15,423 on a reduced pension basis. Importantly Mr M was unlikely to be able to exceed this by transferring out. And although the 
increases in payment in the PPF were lower, the income was still guaranteed and was not 
subject to any investment risk. Mr M might not have been able to later transfer out of the 
PPF  but Im not persuaded he had an apparent need to do so.
So I dont think that Mr Ms concerns about the scheme was a compelling reason to transfer 
out of the DB scheme altogether.
Summary
I dont doubt that the flexibility, control and potential for higher death benefits on offer 
through a personal pension would have sounded like attractive features to Mr M. But Ideal 
wasnt there to just transact what Mr M might have thought he wanted or seemed like a good 
idea. The advisers role was to really understand what Mr M needed and recommend what 
was in his best interests.
Ultimately, I dont think the advice given to Mr M was suitable. He was giving up a 
guaranteed, risk-free and increasing income. By transferring, Mr M was very likely to obtain 
lower retirement benefits and in my view, there were no other particular reasons which would 
justify a transfer and outweigh this. Mr M shouldnt have been advised to transfer out of the 
scheme just to have flexibility, and the potential for higher death benefits wasnt worth giving 
up the guarantees associated with his DB scheme.
So, I think Ideal shouldve advised Mr M to remain in his DB scheme.
Of course, I have to consider whether Mr M would've gone ahead anyway, against Ideal's 
advice.
Ive considered this carefully, but Im not persuaded that Mr M wouldve insisted on 
transferring out of the DB scheme, against Ideals advice. I say this because I dont think Mr 
M could reasonably be described as an experienced investor who possessed the necessary 
skill, knowledge or confidence to go against the advice they were given. In my view, Mr M 
had a fairly low-risk attitude to investing and this pension accounted for pretty much all of his 
private retirement provision. So, if Ideal had provided him with clear advice against 
transferring out of the DB scheme, explaining why it wasnt in his best interests, I think he 
wouldve accepted that advice.
Im not persuaded that Mr Ms concerns about his death benefits and his employer were so 
great that he wouldve insisted on the transfer knowing that a professional adviser, whose 
expertise he had sought out and was paying for, didnt think it was suitable for him or in his 
best interests. If Ideal had explained that Mr M could likely meet all of his objectives without 
risking his guaranteed pension, I think that wouldve carried significant weight. So, I dont 
think Mr M would have insisted on transferring out of the DB scheme.
In light of the above, I think Ideal should compensate Mr M for the unsuitable advice, using 
the regulator's non-compliant pension transfer advice redress methodology.
I can see the investigator said that Ideal ought to have recommended Mr M move with the 
scheme to the PPF and it is on this basis the loss calculation should be carried out.
But importantly here, the advice happened after the time to choose exercise. 
And Mr M had already chosen to opt-into the BSPS2 prior to receiving advice from Ideal  a 
decision that I understand from the scheme trustees could not be revoked.So because at the time of the advice Ideal could not have recommended Mr M remain with 
the existing scheme and move with it to the PPF, as I will explain below, it is the benefits 
available to Mr M through the BSPS2 that should be used in calculating the extent to which 
Mr M has lost out as a result of the unsuitable advice.
I can see the investigator also recommended an award of £300 for the distress and 
inconvenience the matter has caused Mr M. So Ive also thought about whether its fair to 
award compensation for distress and inconvenience - this isnt intended to fine or punish 
Ideal  which is the job of the regulator. But I think its fair to recognise the emotional and 
practical impact this had on Mr M.
Taking everything into account, including Mr Ms retirement status and that I consider he is 
now at the age when his retirement provision is of even greater importance, I think the 
unsuitable advice has caused him some distress. So I think an award of £300 is fair in all the 
circumstances.
Ideal said it didnt intend to respond to my provisional decision and would wait for my final 
decision.
Mr Ms representative replied and said they disagreed with my position that compensation 
should be based on Mr M taking benefits at age 55. In summary it said Ideal providing no 
analysis to show the value of the benefits at age 65. It says the early retirement discount 
factor was significant  something I did not refer to in my decision  which wouldve likely led 
Mr M to choose to continue working and delay taking his DB scheme benefits until age 65. It 
also commented on certain aspects of the advice  it said the only reason Mr M accepted 
the advice to transfer out and repay his mortgage was because this is a thought the adviser 
raised. Had he remained in the DB scheme its unlikely this wouldve crossed his mind. It 
says Mr M feels he was misled about what he could expect by transferring both in terms of 
the income he could take from his pension and the size of his pension pot at age 86. It says 
this contributed to Mr M retiring early.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so and also thought carefully about what Mr Ms representative has said in 
response to my provisional decision, Ive decided to reach the same conclusion as I set out 
in my provisional decision and for the same reasons  Ive not been persuaded to change 
my mind.
Ive already given my reasons - in detail  why I think the advice Mr M received from Ideal to 
transfer out of his DB scheme into a personal pension arrangement was not suitable and 
was not in his best interests. So I wont repeat them again here.
I accept that Mr Ms decision to retire was influenced by the advice he received by Ideal. But 
Im also mindful that Mr M was 53 at the time of the advice and I think the recorded priority 
that he wanted to retire early was a reasonable one. As I said in my provisional decision, I 
think given Mr Ms age and circumstances he wouldve given some thought to his retirement 
plans. And as I also set out, I think Mr Ms objective of retiring at 55 on an income that could 
meet his needs could be met by remaining in his DB scheme and taking early retirement. 
So if things had happened as they should have and Ideal had explained this clearly to Mr M, 
including explaining the early retirement reduction factors, and the fact that he couldnt 
expect to receive the same income hed get at 65 10 years earlier, I still think he wouldve followed that advice and, more likely than not, taken his DB scheme benefits at age 55. 
In the circumstances, Im not persuaded it is more likely that Mr M wouldve continued 
working until age 65 instead and delayed taking his DB scheme benefits. Furthermore, Mr M 
did retire and start taking benefits at age 55, so I also think it is fair to be led by what actually 
happened.
Putting things right
A fair and reasonable outcome would be for the business to put Mr M as far as possible, into 
the position he would now be in but for the unsuitable advice. Because Mr M had already 
made his decision to opt into the BSPS2 (and this decision could not be revoked) I consider, 
if suitable advice had been given, Mr M would most likely have remained in the occupational 
pension scheme and then joined the BSPS2.
Ideal must therefore undertake a redress calculation in line with the rules for calculating 
redress for non-compliant pension transfer advice, as detailed in policy statement PS22/13 
and set out in the regulators handbook in DISP App 4: 
https://www.handbook.fca.org.uk/handbook/DISP/App/4/?view=chapter.
Ideal should use the FCAs BSPS-specific redress calculator to calculate the redress. If Ideal 
does not yet have access to the calculator it should contact the supervision department of 
the FCA to seek access to it as soon as possible. A copy of the BSPS calculator output 
should be sent to Mr M and our Service upon completion of the calculation.
For the reasons I set out above, compensation should be based on Mr M taking benefits at 
age 55. And as Ive also explained, because Mr M opted into the BSPS2, it is the benefits 
available to him under the BSPS2 that should be used for comparison purposes.
This calculation should be carried out using the most recent financial assumptions in line 
with DISP App 4. In accordance with the regulators expectations, this should be undertaken 
or submitted to an appropriate provider promptly following receipt of notification of Mr Ms 
acceptance of my final decision.
If the redress calculation demonstrates a loss, as explained in policy statement PS22/13 and
set out in DISP App 4, Ideal should:
calculate and offer Mr M redress as a cash lump sum payment,
explain to Mr M before starting the redress calculation that:
- their redress will be calculated on the basis that it will be invested prudently (in line 
with the cautious investment return assumption used in the calculation), and
- a straightforward way to invest their redress prudently is to use it to augment their 
DC pension
offer to calculate how much of any redress Mr M receives could be augmented rather 
than receiving it all as a cash lump sum,
if Mr M accepts Ideals offer to calculate how much of their redress could be 
augmented, request the necessary information and not charge Mr M for the calculation, even if he ultimately decides not to have any of their redress augmented, 
and
take a prudent approach when calculating how much redress could be augmented, 
given the inherent uncertainty around Mr Ms end of year tax position.
Redress paid to Mr M as a cash lump sum includes compensation in respect of benefits that 
would otherwise have provided a taxable income.
So, in line with DISP App 4, Ideal may make a notional deduction to cash lump sum 
payments to take account of tax that consumers would otherwise pay on income from their 
pension. Typically, 25% of the loss could have been taken as tax-free cash and 75% would 
have been taxed according to Mr Ms likely income tax rate in retirement  presumed to be 
20%. So making a notional deduction of 15% overall from the loss adequately reflects this.
Ideal should also pay Mr M £300 for the distress and inconvenience the matter has caused.
Where I uphold a complaint, I can award fair compensation of up to £160,000, plus any 
interest and/or costs that I consider are appropriate. Where I consider that fair compensation 
requires payment of an amount that might exceed £160,000, I may recommend that the 
business pays the balance.
My final decision
Determination and money award: I uphold this complaint and direct Ideal Financial 
Management Limited to pay Mr M the compensation amount as set out in the steps above, 
up to a maximum of £160,000.
Recommendation: If the compensation amount exceeds £160,000, I also recommend that 
Ideal Financial Management Limited pays Mr M the balance.
If Mr M accepts my final decision, the money award becomes binding on Ideal Financial 
Management Limited.
My recommendation would not be binding. Further, its unlikely that Mr M can accept any 
final decision and go to court to ask for the balance. Mr M may want to consider getting 
independent legal advice before deciding whether to accept any final decision
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 17 August 2023. 
Paul Featherstone
Ombudsman