DRN-3261322
The complaint
Miss F is unhappy because Bank of Scotland plc trading as Halifax did not reimburse the 
money she transferred to a fraudster. 
Background
Both parties are aware of the circumstances of the complaint so I wont repeat them in detail 
here. But briefly, Miss F has explained that in January 2021, she was looking to buy a car 
and found one she liked one an online sales platform. Miss F enquired through the platform 
and was advised by the respondent that they had advertised the car on their friends behalf 
and provided the friends email address.
Miss F contacted who she believed was the seller of the car. Unbeknownst to Miss F, this 
individual was in fact a fraudster. Miss F asked some further questions about the car and 
requested to view it. The fraudster said they had moved home to Finland and had initially 
taken the car with them, but finding it unsuitable, and unable to sell it abroad, had arranged 
for it to be shipped back to the UK. They said the car was now with a shipping company who 
would handle the payment and delivery of the vehicle. Miss F was told if she made payment 
to the shipping company, her funds would be held for seven days while she inspected and 
tested the vehicle. If she was happy, her money would then be transferred to the seller, if 
not, she could receive a refund.
Miss F has said she completed a HPI check on the vehicle and found nothing untoward so 
agreed to the sale. She was provided with a website for a shipping company to register her 
interest in the car and once shed done so, received contact from who she believed was the 
shipping company. Miss F has said she checked the shipping company on Companies 
House and saw it was a legitimate firm. She also identified that the person shed received 
email contact from was listed as an employee of the company. She therefore made a 
payment of £3,400 as agreed for the car, to the payee named on the invoice.
When the delivery date passed and Miss F hadnt received the car, she realised shed been 
the victim of a scam and contacted Halifax to raise a claim.
Halifax investigated Miss Fs fraud claim and considered its obligations to provide Miss F 
with a refund. Halifax is a signatory of the Lending Standards Board Contingent 
Reimbursement Model (CRM) Code which requires firms to reimburse customers who have 
been the victims of APP scams like this in all but a limited number of circumstances. Halifax 
says one or more of those exceptions applies in this case.
Halifax has said Miss F made the payment without having a reasonable basis for believing it 
was a genuine payment. Halifax considers that Miss F ought to have done more to verify the 
legitimacy of the payment before making it based on red flags in the fraudsters story.
Halifax also said Miss F ignored an effective warning it provided when Miss F made the 
payment to the fraudster. The warning read as follows:
Check that a seller isnt a fraudster. Fraudsters use good deals and websites to hide scams. 
Before you buy something online, check that the:
Website address is genuine. 
Price for the item is fair. 
Seller has good reviews and full contact details. 
The safest way to pay is by debit or credit card. This can protect your money if anything 
goes wrong. Its a safe way to pay. If you cant pay by card, its often a scam.
Miss F feels she should be refunded and so has referred her complaint to us. An investigator 
looked into Miss Fs complaint and didnt consider she had a reasonable basis for believing 
this was a legitimate payment. However she also didnt consider that Halifax had done 
enough to protect Miss F under the Code, so recommended Halifax provide a 50% refund of 
the funds Miss F lost to the scammer, which Halifax agreed to. As Miss F disagreed with the 
investigators opinion, the complaint has been passed to me for a final decision.
My findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In deciding whats fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of a complaint, Im required to 
take into account relevant: law and regulations; regulators rules, guidance and standards; 
codes of practice; and, where appropriate, what I consider to be good industry practice at the 
time. 
In broad terms, the starting position at law is that a firm is expected to process payments 
and withdrawals that a customer authorises, in accordance with the Payment Services 
Regulations and the terms and conditions of the customers account. However, where the 
consumer made the payment as a consequence of the actions of a fraudster, it may 
sometimes be fair and reasonable for the bank to reimburse the consumer even though they 
authorised the payment.
When thinking about what is fair and reasonable in this case, Ive considered whether 
Halifax should have fully reimbursed Miss F under the provisions of the CRM Code and 
whether it ought to have done more to protect Miss F from the possibility of financial harm 
from fraud. 
Theres no dispute here that Miss F was tricked into making the payments. She thought she 
was making a genuine payment to purchase a car and that didnt happen. But this isnt 
enough, in and of itself, for Miss F to receive a refund under the CRM Code. The Code 
places a level of care on Miss F too. 
The CRM Code 
As Ive mentioned, Halifax is a signatory of the Lending Standards Board Contingent 
Reimbursement Model (the CRM Code) which requires firms to reimburse customers who 
have been the victims of Authorised Push Payment (APP) scams like this, in all but a limited 
number of circumstances and it is for Halifax to establish that a customer failed to meet their 
requisite level of care under one of the listed exceptions set out in the CRM Code. 
Under the CRM Code, a bank may choose not to reimburse a customer if it can establish 
that*: 
The customer ignored what the CRM Code refers to as an Effective Warning by 
failing to take appropriate action in response to such an effective warning The customer made payments without having a reasonable basis for believing that: 
the payee was the person the Customer was expecting to pay; the payment was for 
genuine goods or services; and/or the person or business with whom they transacted 
was legitimate 
*Further exceptions outlined in the CRM Code do not apply to this case.
In this case, Halifax has now accepted 50% liability of Miss Fs claim to acknowledge it didnt 
do enough to protect Miss F. However I think Halifax has been able to establish that it may 
choose not to fully reimburse Miss F under the terms of the CRM Code. Im persuaded one 
of the listed exceptions to reimbursement under the provisions of the CRM Code applies.
Taking into account all of the circumstances of this case, including the characteristics of the 
customer and the complexity of the scam, I think the concerns Halifax has raised about the 
legitimacy of the transaction Miss F made are enough to support its position that she failed 
to meet her requisite level of care under the CRM Code for the payment she made. I dont 
think Miss F had a reasonable basis for believing the person she transacted with was 
legitimate. Ill explain why.
The car Miss F purchased was advertised for £3,500 and Miss F agreed a price of £3,400 
with the fraudster. Having reviewed guides that provide average car sale prices based on 
make, model, vehicle age and mileage, this is considerably less than I would expect - the 
average sale price for that car being around £10,000. At the time of writing this view, its also 
priced around £1,000 less than any car of a similar specification I was able to find on an 
online car sales platform, based on a nationwide search. On this basis I think the price the 
car was advertised for was too good to be true and ought to have raised concerns. In 
addition, in this case the fraudster had told Miss F that as she had been unable to drive the 
car or sell it in Finland, she had paid for the car to be shipped back to the UK and for delivery 
to be covered to anywhere in the UK. I think this also ought to have raised concerns. Miss F 
has said she wouldnt know the cost involved in this process, which I agree is a fair comment 
 but nonetheless I think its fair to assume that to ship a car abroad and then potentially 
cover a delivery drive of several hours would have a noteworthy cost  and that it would be 
reasonable to question why a seller wasnt able sell the car in Finland with this level of 
discount applied by not incurring such shipping costs.
Miss F has provided copies of correspondence between her and the shipping company  
and has explained she was reassured that the name provided on email correspondence 
matched that for the secretary listed on Companies House. However, the email address 
used was from a gmail domain, rather than a business domain as you would usually expect 
from a business. In addition, when making the payment transfer, the name Miss F was 
provided for the account didnt match either the seller she had been speaking to, the 
shipping company, or the colleague in question. I think this ought to have caused concern for 
Miss F as its not clear how this account name linked to the sale.
I understand Miss F has requested we contact the legitimate shipping company that was 
spoofed as others have fallen victim to a similar scam. Id like to assure Miss F theres no 
question here that shes been the victim of a scam, and I dont doubt others have fallen 
victim under similar pretences. But I have to consider the particular circumstances of Miss 
Fs complaint and based on everything Ive seen, I consider that Miss F ought to have had 
concerns about the legitimacy of the seller she had contact with. I think that, in turn, ought to 
have led to a greater degree of checking on Miss Fs part. In not carrying out sufficient 
checks I dont find she had a reasonable basis for believing the seller was genuine and so 
fell below the level of care expected of her under the CRM Code.As I dont think Miss F met her requisite level of care, and also that Halifax couldve done 
more to protect Miss F, I think a 50% split of liability is a fair and reasonable outcome for 
Miss Fs fraud claim under the CRM code and that Halifax shouldnt be held further liable for 
Miss Fs losses. 
I do sympathise with Miss F as shes clearly been the victim of a cruel scam. But the 
circumstances of the case and the evidence available lead me to find that she should also 
be held liable for some of those losses incurred.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, my final decision is that I partially uphold Miss Fs complaint 
against Bank of Scotland plc trading as Halifax. I require Bank of Scotland plc trading as 
Halifax to:
Refund Miss F 50% of the £3,400 payment she made to the fraudster
Pay 8% simple interest, from the date this payment was made until the date of 
settlement.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss F to accept or 
reject my decision before 11 April 2022.
 
Kirsty Upton
Ombudsman