DRN-4258575
The complaint
Miss B complains that Capital One (Europe) plc have failed to refund multiple transactions 
she says she didnt authorise between 18 June and 2 July 2022.
 
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat everything 
again here. Instead, Ill focus on giving the reasons for my decision.
 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the conclusions reached by the investigator and have decided 
not to uphold it. 
Having considered the facts before me as well as the relevant law, it seems to me that the 
key question I need to determine here is whether its more likely than not that Miss B 
authorised the transactions. In other words, I need to decide whether Miss B made the 
transactions herself or gave someone else permission to do so. This is important because a 
customer will usually be liable for payments theyve authorised and, generally speaking, a 
bank will be liable for any unauthorised payments. In this instance, the disputed transactions 
were made using mostly card present transactions at stores and ATMs. This means the 
physical card wouldve needed to have been present for most of the disputed transactions. 
And having considered the evidence, Im satisfied the more likely explanation is that Miss B 
authorised the transactions. Ill explain why. 
The explanation and testimony Miss B has provided to this service about how she uses her 
card and how it might have come to be compromised has been relatively inconsistent and 
implausible. She initially said her identity was used by a fraudster who compromised her 
device and cards were also stolen. She said the fraudster was able to gain access to her 
banking apps and had her cards. She said the fraudster applied for a £10,000 loan with one 
of her banking providers (Bank A) but this was reversed when Bank A text her. She said 
Capital One didnt notify her to say anything suspicious was going on. 
But in communication with the investigator Miss B said:
She only found out about the disputed transactions in January 2023 when she made 
a DSAR with Capital One. 
She misplaced the Capital One card in July, she believes this was after getting her 
nails done.
She usually kept the card in her purse.
No one had access to her card. She left it among friends and family, but other than 
this, no one would have taken the card out. 
Her PIN was noted down in her phone.
Capital One highlighted that the physical card was used with gaps between the transactions 
while payments were made. It also highlighted that the mobile app was accessed at the time 
of the transactions and no new device was registered, so it was Miss Bs device being used. 
It further noted that an SMS was sent to Miss Bs genuine mobile number on 22 June 2022 
where a response was received confirming the spend. 
Miss B said she had no recollection of receiving or responding to a text alert from Capital 
One. She suspects someone had her device at the time and maybe responded, then deleted 
the message. 
The evidence shows me that Miss Bs mobile app was regularly reviewed during the period 
of disputed spend. The evidence also shows me that Miss Bs PIN was entered correctly first 
time after Miss Bs last two genuine transactions were authorised via contactless payment. 
However, 3.5 hours later, a large chip and PIN transaction was completed where the PIN 
was entered correctly first time. 
Miss B said she suspected that she misplaced her card shortly after the last genuine 
payment but her PIN was only noted in her phone. Miss B didnt say that her phone was lost 
or misplaced. Therefore, I think its unlikely that an unknown fraudster would have found 
Miss Bs card and guessed her PIN correctly first time, several hours after she said she 
thought she misplaced her card. 
In terms of the transactions the evidence also suggests that Miss B would likely have been 
aware they were made at the time. I note she frequently logged into her account throughout 
the period of the disputed payments between June and July 2022. And given the 
considerable number of transactions she says were unauthorised, it seems unlikely that she 
wouldnt have noticed these being made at the time, particularly as some of them were very 
large payments. I dont find Miss Bs statement plausible that someone else would likely 
have confirmed the SMS from Capital One on 22 June 2022. This was sent to her genuine 
mobile and Miss B said she was notified by Bank A that a loan was taken out in her name by 
text message  but this was received by her. 
Upon receiving our investigators view, Miss B said that the disputed transactions could only 
have been her ex-partner who became physically and emotionally abusive. She reported this 
to the police on 25 June 2022. She said she wouldnt have considered it to be him until our 
investigator pointed out that the mobile app was accessed via her IP address, and the only 
other person with access to her mobile would be him while she was asleep or at work as she 
occasionally worked from home. But she says she didnt disclose her PIN to him. Miss B 
said every time she changed her password her ex-partner got back into the account even if 
she would change it and if he couldnt access her phone he would become physically 
abusive. She said she usually accessed her device via Face ID and password but her ex-
partner did not have authority for her phone to be used by Face ID and she did not have the 
fingerprint option on her device. 
Im sorry to hear of the very difficult personal circumstances Miss B experienced but I think 
this would have been key for her to have mentioned at the outset and so I find it unusual that 
she didnt. I note she said our investigators view about her device being used prompted her 
to suspect her ex-partner. But Ive noted that Miss B reported him to the police during the 
period of disputed spend and she also says other debts were taken out in her name. I dont 
find it plausible that our investigators view prompted her to disclose this information at such 
a late stage. 
Capital One has also provided evidence to show that on 18 June, 21 June and 24 June 2022 
Miss Bs app was accessed using biometric authentication. Which means that 
face/fingerprint ID was used to access the device. But Miss B said she doesnt believe her ex-partner added his biometric details on her device  which is plausible as she said he 
would become abusive when she changed her password. If his biometric data was on the 
phone, he wouldnt have required her password to access her phone. 
I accept that Miss B said she was working when the disputed transactions were happening. 
It therefore seems that the more plausible explanation for the disputed transactions is either 
Miss B authorised them herself or gave somebody else her details, thereby giving her 
consent and authority for the payments to be made on her behalf. 
Ive also noted that there were credits received to the account before further disputed 
transactions were made which isnt consistent with a fraudster spending on the account. 
As a result, there isnt enough evidence to suggest that a scam has taken place here, or that 
an unauthorised third party carried out the transactions without Miss Bs knowledge or 
consent. So, I dont consider Capital One has acted unfairly by declining to refund the 
disputed transactions, as I consider they were most likely than not to have been authorised 
by Miss B. I appreciate this will likely come as a disappointment to her, but I wont be asking 
Capital One to take any further action. 
Finally, I recognise Miss B feels Capital One should have notified her when the suspicious 
transactions were being made. But as Ive already explained, it did receive a text message 
from her mobile number confirming transactions on 22 June 2022. As Im satisfied the 
transactions were authorised, I dont think Capital One were required to do anything 
differently. I recognise Miss Bs credit file has been adversely impacted but as I explained, 
Capital One was entitled to hold her responsible for the transactions on the account. It would 
also be required to report accurate information to credit reference agencies.
My final decision
My final decision is, I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss B to accept 
or reject my decision before 15 January 2024.
 
Dolores Njemanze
Ombudsman