DRN-1639199
The complaint
Mrs M complains about a declined claim on her contents insurance with Ageas Insurance 
Limited.
Mrs M is being represented by her son. 
What happened
Mrs M had a home insurance policy with Ageas. In April 2019 Mrs M logged a claim under 
her contents policy for a theft of jewellery from her property in February 2019. 
Ageas reviewed the claim via its underwriters and after appointing a loss assessor  the 
claim was declined. Ageas said that after gathering information from Mrs M regarding the 
circumstances of the theft, it found that Mrs M had let a friend stay in her property after she 
was admitted to hospital. 
Ageas declined the claim under section 4 of Mrs Ms policy, as it says she didnt do enough 
to protect her property whilst she wasnt there. It said Mrs M was aware that her friend and 
her boyfriend were not trust worthy characters and her jewellery should have been secured 
away when she let them stay.  
Mrs M remained unhappy, so she brought a complaint to our service. 
Our investigator looked into the complaint but didnt think it should be upheld. He agreed that 
Ageas could decline the claim under the term it referred to. Mrs M and her representative 
didnt agree with the investigators view, so the complaint has been passed to me to issue a 
final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
To begin with, I should say that its not my role to assess Mrs Ms claim. My role is to decide 
whether I think Ageas have acted in line with the terms of the insurance policy and, in all the 
circumstances, treated Mrs M fairly.
I have no doubts that Mrs M has been through a very stressful time and I sympathise with 
the situation she has found herself in. To be admitted to hospital and then to find someone 
she had let stay in her property had stolen from her must have been very distressing. 
Having considered the information supplied to me by both Mrs M, her representative and the 
business, I dont find Ageas acted unfairly when they declined Mrs Ms claim. Ill explain why. 
Under Mrs Ms contents section of her policys terms and conditions, it says
You are not insured against loss or damage in the following circumstances  whilst your 
home is lent, let, sublet or shared. Unless there is forceable or violent entry into or exit from 
it. 
Throughout the claim and complaint there has been no dispute from Mrs M or her 
representative that she gave her friend the keys to her property. Ageas have also confirmed, 
via a police report completed, that there was no evidence of forced entry into the property. 
So, its clear to me that Mrs M lent her friend the property and it follows that I dont find 
Ageas have acted unfairly when they have declined the claim under this term. 
Ageas have gone on to say that given the history of the relationship between Mrs M and her 
friend, she should have done more to secure her valuables. 
Section 4 of Mrs Ms policy says she must do everything she can to avoid loss to the 
property. Ageas have pointed out that a number of people could have secured her jewellery 
before her friend stayed in the property. Given Mrs M has said it was her son that noticed 
and alerted her to the fact the jewellery was missing, I dont find it unreasonable that Ageas 
have referred to this term and expected that a number of people could have secured the 
items, given they were aware of their whereabouts.
I understand Mrs Ms representative said the fair thing to do here would be to pay the claim, 
but Im afraid I dont agree. The policy terms are quite clear and as Ive mentioned above, I 
dont find Ageas have acted unfairly or outside of Mrs Ms policy terms when declining the 
claim. 
Having thought about all of the information given to me by both parties and having reviewed 
the terms and conditions of Mrs Ms policy  I dont find Ageas have acted unfairly when it 
has declined Mrs Ms claim and I wont be asking it to do any more.  
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs M to accept or 
reject my decision before 21 November 2020.
 
Tom Wagstaff
Ombudsman