DRN-3217211
The complaint
Mr T is unhappy that National Westminster Bank Plc (NatWest) approved an overdraft for 
him when he says he was in a debt management plan.  
What happened
One of our adjudicators looked into Mr Ts concerns and didnt think NatWest had done 
anything wrong or treated Mr T unfairly. Mr T, disagreed he says the overdraft was 
unaffordable as he was in a debt management plan. So the complaint was passed to an 
ombudsman for a final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about unaffordable and irresponsible 
lending - including the key rules, guidance and good industry practice - on our website. And 
Ive referred to this when deciding Mr Ts complaint. Having considered everything provided, 
Ive decided not to uphold Mr Ts complaint. Ill explain why in a little more detail. 
NatWest needed to make sure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In practice, what this means is 
NatWest needed to carry out proportionate checks to be able to understand whether Mr T 
would be able to repay what he was being lent before providing any credit to him. Our 
website sets out what we typically think about when deciding whether a lenders checks 
were proportionate. 
Generally, we think its reasonable for a lenders checks to be less thorough  in terms of 
how much information it gathers and what it does to verify it  in the early stages of a lending 
relationship. But we might think it needed to do more if, for example, a borrowers income 
was low or the amount lent was high. And the longer the lending relationship goes on, the 
greater the risk of it becoming unsustainable and the borrower experiencing financial 
difficulty. 
Ive kept all of this in mind when thinking about whether NatWest did what it needed to 
before agreeing to Mr Ts overdraft. Mr T was given what was an open-ended credit facility. 
So overall this means the checks NatWest carried out had to provide enough for it to be able 
to understand whether Mr T would be able to repay his overdraft within a reasonable period 
of time. 
NatWest says Mr T opened an account and applied for a £1,250 overdraft online on 14 
March 2017. The application was fully credit scored taking into account information Mr T 
provided about his income and outgoings as well as information held by other lenders 
provided through credit reference checks. And based on this information NatWest was 
satisfied his score was high enough to provide him with the overdraft facility he requested.
I accept that Mr Ts financial position may well have been worse than the credit check 
carried out showed or in any information he disclosed to NatWest at the time. And it is 
possible that further checks might have told NatWest this. But NatWest was reasonably 
entitled to rely on the credit check it carried out. Given there is no evidence of any adverse 
information shown on the credit check and the amount of credit being advanced was 
relatively low, I think NatWests checks went far enough. 
Id also expect a lender to be able to show that it didnt continue to lend to a customer 
irresponsibly. I can see Mr T applied for a loan around a week later which NatWest declined 
and that it took action on the overdraft within weeks of it realising Mr T wasnt paying back 
his outstanding overdraft debt. So Im satisfied NatWest continued to assess the credit 
applications made by Mr T appropriately.
This means that I dont agree NatWest provided Mr Ts with an overdraft facility unfairly or 
irresponsibly.
I appreciate that this will be very disappointing for Mr T  especially as hes been waiting 
some time for this answer. But I hope hell understand the reasons for my decision and that 
hell at least feel her concerns have been listened to. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, Im not upholding Mr Ts complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr T to accept or 
reject my decision before 2 March 2022.
 
Caroline Davies
Ombudsman