DRN-1830011
The complaint
Miss C and Mr R complain that a valuation carried out in connection with their Santander UK 
Plc mortgage failed to identify a defect with the property they bought.
What happened
In 2018 Miss C and Mr R took out a mortgage with Santander. As part of the application a 
valuation for mortgage purposes was carried out. The valuation didnt identify any significant 
defects. But after moving into the property Miss C and Mr R discovered that there was no 
waste pipe to the drain  so waste water was flowing directly under their house. They believe 
that the surveyor should have identified the defect. They also say when they complained to 
Santander it didnt listen to them or consider their complaint fairly.
Miss C and Mr R want Santander to refund the cost of the valuation report, pay them £200 to 
reflect the excess they paid when they made an insurance claim to rectify the problem and 
pay them compensation for the trouble and upset this matter has caused to them.
Our investigator didnt think the complaint should be upheld. She said it was a basic 
valuation for the benefit of the lender and the surveyor was independent and employed by a 
third party.
Miss C and Mr R didnt accept what the investigator said.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I appreciate the upset that Miss C and Mr R experienced when the house they bought had 
defects that werent identified by the valuation report. But I can only consider acts or 
omissions by businesses that are covered by our jurisdiction. In this case Santander is 
covered by our jurisdiction  but the third party that carried out the valuation is not. So I can 
only look at acts or omissions by Santander during the mortgage application process.
As the valuation report was not completed by Santander it is not responsible for the content 
of the valuation. Its involvement was limited to instructing the valuation and making its 
decision whether the property offered suitable security for the amount it was lending. The 
surveyor held appropriate qualifications to carry out a mortgage valuation. And I cant see 
anything in the report that Santander would have had reason to question. So I dont consider 
that Santander has acted unfairly or unreasonably in connection with the valuation.
I would add that the valuation report made clear that it was based on a limited inspection and 
defects that a more detailed inspection should reveal may not be discovered or commented 
on.
It is in line with normal industry practice that borrowers pay the cost of a valuation even if it is 
primarily for the lenders benefit. I dont consider this is unfair  and the amount charged was 
not out of line with other valuation reports that I have seen.
I note Miss C and Mr Rs points about the way that Santander handled their complaint. But 
as I have not upheld the underlying complaint, it wouldnt be fair for me to uphold a 
complaint solely about the complaint handling.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss C and Mr R 
to accept or reject my decision before 2 October 2020.
 
Ken Rose
Ombudsman