DRN-3269842
The complaint
Miss K has complained about the service she received from Admiral Insurance (Gibraltar) 
Limited (Admiral) when she made a claim under the Landlord Emergency Cover section of 
her Landlord Insurance Cover policy.
References in this decision to Admiral include its agents, claims administrators and 
contractors.
What happened
Miss K has a rental property. When her tenants reported a leak, Miss K contacted Admiral 
on 2 January 2021. An engineer attended on 3 January.  He advised that there was no leak 
but noticed a loud noise from the boiler that was most likely due to sludge. He also noticed 
that there was no air vent in the room and therefore the boiler wasnt safe. He turned the 
boiler off and put a sticker on it which stated this. Admirals contractors have said that the 
engineer didnt carry out any investigation into the reported leak and didnt carry out any 
work as he had to at risk it immediately due to the vent being blocked.
Miss K contacted Admiral again who confirmed that there was no leak, but that everything 
was fine. Admiral then called her back to say that the boiler was unsafe due to the absence 
of a vent.
Miss K contacted her tenant, who told her shed papered over the vent. Miss K asked her to 
remove the paper and the vent was reinstated. Miss K contacted Admiral again on 3 January 
to ask that someone come and inspect the vent and check if the boilers at-risk status could 
now be lifted and the boiler used. She was told that it couldnt send somebody out just to 
look at a vent as this wasnt covered under her policy. She was told that she did have 
heating and hot water, when in fact she didnt, and if there was a vent, it was fine.
There was no further contact between Miss K and Admiral until 6 January, when Miss K 
contacted Admiral as shed been expecting to hear from it. As she had a vulnerable tenant, 
Admiral agreed to send an engineer to check for safety. She was offered an appointment on 
8 January as a specific engineer was needed because her boiler was a back boiler. This was 
unacceptable to Miss K and she lodged a complaint about this safety check not being 
covered by her policy, the lack of communication, and the further delay in sending an 
engineer to undertake a check. She also told Admiral that her tenants had now given notice 
to leave the property due to its failure to carry out works that she said it was obliged to do 
under her policy.
Admirals records show that on 8 January an engineer attended. The report he submitted 
stated that a radiator needed replacing and leak sealant was required.  A number of days 
passed waiting for confirmation from this engineer as to whether Miss Ks property had 
heating and hot water facilities. 
It wasnt until 12 January that it became apparent that there had been mass confusion 
caused by the engineer muddling two jobs. The radiator problem related to work needed on 
another property and not Miss Ks. 
In relation to Miss Ks property, the engineer found that the vent was in the incorrect room, 
as it was in the kitchen whereas the back boiler was in another room. The holes for the 
ventilation were also too small. Miss K was told that she needed to arrange for a 
professional to close the vent in the kitchen and make a new one in the room with the boiler 
which wasnt something that its engineer could quote for. The second engineer therefore 
wasnt able to lift the at risk warning.
Admiral then changed its contractors. Its new contractors attended on 14 January. When 
they left, they said the boiler was working fine. Both heating and hot water had been tested 
and no fault had been found with the system. They said that the previous engineer had 
condemned the fire but hadnt left a warning notice. They said Ms K had been advised to get 
an engineer out to deal with the fire. 
On 4 February, Miss K told Admiral that she had inspected the property as she had a new 
tenant due to move in. She said brown water was coming out of the hot water taps, and she 
believed that this was due to work that had been carried out by Admiral. Admiral was 
advised by its contractors that their engineer hadnt touched the boiler when he had attended 
previously. 
On 5 February, an engineer attended. He found a water leak at the primary flow and return 
unions to the back-boiler unit which he said was caused over a long period of time judging 
by the serious corrosion to the base and right-hand front corner of the back-boiler unit. He 
also believed there to be corrosion or some form of perforation of the hot water cylinder coil 
which was responsible for noticeably brown, dirty water. He turned the boiler off and 
recommended that Miss K convert to a new combination boiler.
Miss K believes that this was the leak she reported on 2 January and that damage would 
have been caused to her property by Admirals failure to address this at the time. Another 
tenant was now facing a lack of heating and hot water.
Admiral told Miss K that it couldnt contribute to the cost of a new heating system, but it did 
offer £250 for alternative accommodation for her tenants if they wished to stay elsewhere. 
This would need to be paid for up-front and then reimbursed to Miss K. 
On 3 March, Admiral offered Miss K £800 to settle her various complaints. This was made 
up of £500 representing the alternative accommodation payments that it said she was 
entitled to, and £300 for its various service failings. Miss K said she would accept this sum. 
On 12 March, Admiral provided a revised final response letter. In this, it upheld Miss Ks 
complaints in relation to:
Its service failings, including providing Miss K with conflicting information about her 
claim; what was, and what was not covered by her policy; telling her there was no 
leak and then telling her that there was; not asking for further information from her by 
which it might have been able to ascertain that a new boiler was required and a 
temporary repair made to prevent the leak.
It partially upheld Miss Ks complaints in relation to:
the speed at which her initial appointment was made
not identifying the leak at the first engineers visit. But the engineer was correct in 
putting a label on the boiler for safety.It did not uphold Miss Ks complaints in relation to:
the leak leading to the amount of corrosion found in later visits
the cost of replacing the boiler
an alleged Data Protection Act breach
Admiral repeated the offer of £800 and said that £500 of this was a £250 contribution to each 
tenant affected. It said it would usually reimburse this following the receipt of an invoice, as 
required by the policy, but it said it recognised that Miss Ks tenants were without facilities at 
this time and therefore it was offered as a gesture of good will. £300 was compensation in 
recognition of the upheld elements of the complaint. It also said it would cover the costs of its 
engineers.
Miss K has since put the house on the market. Searches have been done and damp has 
been found within the property which Miss K says is as a result of the leak and of leaving the 
property in the wet and cold winter with no heating. She says this damage amounts to just 
under £3,000.
Our investigators view was that Admirals offer was fair and that he wouldnt be 
recommending that Admiral do any more to resolve Miss Ks complaint.
In response, Miss K has said that the £500 offered for alternative accommodation is 
something that she was entitled to and shouldnt form part of an offer of compensation. She 
is no longer satisfied with the outcome given what she says is the complete failure of the 
service I received from [Admiral] from start to finish of my claim, resulting in additional 
damage, financial loss, complete inconvenience to myself and my tenants not to mention the 
health issues caused both physical from my tenant, and mental from myself.
Miss K has asked that her complaint be referred to an ombudsman, so its been passed to 
me to make a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Because Admiral has upheld most of Miss Ks complaint either wholly or partially, I dont 
need to decide whether Admiral has done anything wrong or that any policy exclusions might 
apply. It has accepted that there were failings on its part. And I think it was right to have 
done so as there were evidently significant failings in its communication with Miss K, and 
delays in addressing the inconvenience caused to her and her tenants following the decision 
to at risk her boiler on 3 January without addressing the presence of a leak.
I have considered 137 pages of contact notes provided by Admiral, and can see the 
attempts that Admiral made to address Miss Ks boiler problem with various contractors, and 
why there was a delay in explaining to her why there was a continuing vent problem. But its 
also clear that Miss K experienced periods of no communication from Admiral, and lengthy 
waits on the phone to then speak to sometimes unhelpful and impolite call handlers, being 
cut off, and given incorrect information. 
Miss K has made it clear on a number of occasions the financial impact this has had on her. 
She was reimbursed the £120 she had to spend on heaters for her first tenants but lost one 
months rent (£500) from them. Although she worried that she might not find another tenant 
after her first tenants gave notice, she did manage to do so. Ive seen no evidence that she 
paid for any alternative accommodation from either her first or her subsequent tenants.Miss K has also had to pay for a new boiler. I dont consider that this is a cost for which 
Admiral is responsible. I accept the evidence Ive seen and the comments of Admirals 
engineer that there was corrosion present which would not have been caused by a leak over 
the short period of time from 3 January to 5 February when it was noticed. The leak would 
have been present for some time, and Admiral isnt responsible for this. The boiler had also 
been noted to be 20 years old and with sludge present. Miss Ks policy is to cover domestic 
emergencies and doesnt cover a boiler becoming beyond economic repair. So I cant ask 
Admiral to make any contribution towards this. 
Similarly, Miss K has reported a finding of damp. Theres no evidence before me that would 
suggest that this is solely attributable to a leak from 3 January when it was first reported, 
until 5 February when it was identified. It cant therefore be said that Admiral is responsible 
for the extent of the damage caused.
Which brings me to the impact on Miss K herself. Miss K has repeatedly described the 
impact Admirals handling of her claim has had on her mental health, and I have no reason 
to doubt this. What would, for anybody, be a stressful situation because of the responsibility 
she felt for her tenants wellbeing, and the worry about the potential financial consequences, 
was made more so for her by Admirals lack of communication, conflicting information, and 
the delays in proving her with information. The anxiety and depression she suffered required 
medical intervention. There were no steps that Miss K could take that would reduce the 
impact this was having on her. Admiral was aware of the effect this was having on Miss K, 
and also that both tenants were vulnerable.
Admiral offered Miss K £800 which she initially accepted until she learnt in Admirals 
subsequent final response that £500 of this was for her tenants in place of alternative 
accommodation.
My view is that £800 is fair and reasonable compensation to Miss K for her distress and 
inconvenience given the number of largely accepted failings by Admiral and the significant 
effect these have had on her. 
However I dont consider that it is appropriate for Admiral to allocate £250 of this sum to 
each of Miss Ks tenants. Miss K maintains she is entitled to this payment, but I dont share 
that view. Her policy states:
Alternative accommodation
If your property becomes uninhabitable and remains so because of a covered event, 
we will contribute up to £250 including VAT towards the cost of accommodation for 
your tenant (including their pets) including transport, on a reimbursement basis.
Reimbursement basis
Subject to our prior agreement and on receipt of the qualified repairer/authorised
contractors fully itemised invoice for repairs, or your receipt where you have 
purchased heaters or alternative accommodation for your tenant, we will pay you:
Up to £500 including VAT as a contribution to a repair which you will arrange yourself
Up to £250 including VAT for alternative accommodation
Up to £50 including VAT to purchase heaters
Neither tenant actually took advantage of the availability of alternative accommodation paid 
for by Miss K. She isnt entitled to this sum other by way of reimbursement.I acknowledge that the first tenants would have suffered some inconvenience in having to 
rely on electric heaters, but they received the waiver of a months rent. Im not aware of any 
concession that Miss K might have made to her subsequent tenant.
Im therefore going to require Admiral to pay Miss K compensation of £800.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above, Im upholding Miss Ks complaint.
I require Admiral Insurance (Gibraltar) Limited to pay Miss K compensation of £800.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss K to accept 
or reject my decision before 18 February 2022.
 
Nigel Bremner
Ombudsman