DRN-3556377
The complaint
Mr and Mrs H complain that The Royal Bank of Scotland plc didnt treat them fairly when 
they had difficulty paying their commercial mortgage during the coronavirus pandemic.
What happened
Mr and Mrs H are a married couple, and also as a partnership own a commercial property 
which is let to tenants, and subject to a mortgage with RBS. 
In 2015, following a complaint about significant errors in the management of the loan, RBS 
agreed to re-schedule it. RBS reduced the balance to just under £38,000 and agreed that 
the loan would operate on interest free terms thereafter, so that the payments Mr and Mrs H 
made would all go to reducing the capital.
In 2020, following the introduction of restrictions relating to the covid-19 pandemic, the 
regulator said that lenders should offer payment deferrals to customers whose income had 
been impacted and who would otherwise have difficulty making payments.
Mr and Mrs H asked for a payment deferral. They told our investigator they asked for one 
because it was available and used it to agree reduced rent with their tenant. RBS agreed a 
one year payment deferral, beginning in May 2020.
In December 2020, RBS sent Mr and Mrs H an agreement letter. Mr H signed the letter and 
returned it. This letter is at the heart of this dispute.
RBS says that this letter formally confirmed the payment holiday and acted as agreement to 
vary the terms of their loan to increase the term by the amount of the holiday. It says it 
confirmed that the payment holiday began in May 2020, and would end in May 2021.
Mr and Mrs H say they understood this letter to offer them a further one year payment 
holiday  so extending the existing arrangement from May 2021 to May 2022. They say they 
accepted it on that basis, returned it to RBS, and arranged their affairs on the assumption 
they would have to make no payments to the loan before May 2022. 
There wasnt any other communication between Mr and Mrs H and RBS at this time  so 
whether or not there was a further payment holiday turns on this letter. 
In May 2021, RBS expected Mr and Mrs H to resume making payments. But they did not do 
so  and didnt in June or July either. In August RBS contacted Mr and Mrs H to say they 
were in arrears, and needed to make up the missed payments. Mr and Mrs H complained.
Our investigator didnt recommend upholding the complaint, so Mr and Mrs H asked for it to 
be looked at by an ombudsman. And they said that, more recently, they didnt think RBS had 
acted fairly in discussions about making up the missed payments.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As I say, this case turns on the agreement sent by RBS to Mr and Mrs H. There was no 
other contact between them from May 2020  when the first payment holiday was agreed  
to mid 2021, when RBS said the account was in arrears.
So its important that I think carefully about what this letter says, and what its fair to expect 
RBS to do in light of it.
RBS sent the payment holiday agreement to Mr and Mrs H on 2 December 2020, and both 
the bank and Mr H signed it. The agreement says:
The customer will be granted a repayment holiday for a period of 12 months from 28 
May 2020 in respect of the capital element of their instalments where the customer 
will continue to make payments in respect of the interest element of their instalments.
The agreement went on to confirm that at the end of the payment holiday the monthly 
payments would be re-calculated and that the term of the loan would extended by the length 
of the payment holiday with the term now ending in December 2032.
Mr H says he assumed that this was a further offer of an additional twelve months from May 
2021 to May 2022. He says he signed the agreement on that basis and returned it to RBS. 
He says he and Mrs H organised their finances on the basis that they would not have to 
make payments until May 2022. It therefore came as a surprise to them when RBS got in 
touch in August 2021 to say that their loan was in arrears. 
Mr H says he understood the agreement to be for a further twelve months from May 2021 to 
May 2022 because:
It was sent out in December 2020  and it doesnt make sense to send out an 
agreement for signature where the agreements been in place for seven months 
already;
The agreement says the customer will be granted not the customer has been 
granted a payment holiday  also suggesting the agreement is about something 
that will happen in the future (an extension from May 2021) not something that has 
happened in the past (a holiday from May 2020);
The term was due to end in December 2030, so an extension to December 2032 also 
implies the extension of the payment holiday from one to two years, to May 2022.
Considering all that, Mr H says he assumed the reference to May 2020 in the agreement 
was a typo, and that May 2021 was intended. He accepts that, with the benefit of hindsight, 
he should have checked that  but says that it was reasonable to conclude that a further 
twelve month payment holiday was intended. He and Mrs H relied on that, and its fair for 
RBS to grant it.
RBS said that there was a typo on the agreement  it should have read that the term would 
now end in 2031, not 2032. It offered £200 compensation for the inconvenience caused by 
that mistake. But it didnt agree that it had offered a further payment holiday to May 2022, or 
that the agreement could be interpreted that way. It wasnt prepared to offer a further 
payment holiday, and Mr and Mrs H would need to come to some agreement about making 
up the payments missed since May 2021. 
RBS also said that the letter wasnt sent out until December 2020  it couldnt definitively explain why, though it was likely this was because it was trying to cope with more work and 
fewer staff, working remotely, during the pandemic. It said that it was unable to process 
much credit documentation remotely, and therefore a backlog built up until relevant staff 
were able to start returning to the office.
Ive looked carefully both at the agreement itself, and the wider circumstances, in thinking 
about whats fair and reasonable in this case.
Ive taken into account the points Mr H has made. But I think the agreement is clear. Mr and 
Mrs H were entitled to a twelve month payment holiday, during which time they would not be 
able to pay any capital  and as this was an interest free loan, that meant in their case that 
they need not make any payment at all. 
The agreement does not use words like further or additional payment holiday. It doesnt 
refer to the extension of an existing payment holiday. It says they are entitled to a 
repayment holiday for a period of 12 months from 28 May 2020. 
I think this is clear in setting out that the payment holiday is for twelve months  not two 
years, or a further twelve months  and that it begins in May 2020. And so, by implication, 
ends in May 2021, not May 2022.
There is a contradiction in that the agreement says the term was extended to 2032, which is 
a two year extension. RBS says that this is a typing error, and it should read 2031. Whereas 
Mr H says he assumed that this was correct, and it was the reference to May 2020 that was 
a typing error. 
I dont think the fact that the letter was sent in December adds anything. RBS has given a 
reasonable explanation of why this was. Mr H says this led him to assume that it must be an 
offer of a further holiday, since a letter wouldnt be sent out seven months after the fact. 
But while I understand Mr H questioning why the payment holiday was only confirmed in 
writing several months after the fact, I also dont think its plausible that RBS would have  
spontaneously, and without being asked  offered a further payment holiday several months 
in advance and without considering whether one was necessary.
Mr and Mrs H didnt ask for a further payment holiday in December. And I dont think, in and 
of itself and in the absence of any other discussions, this letter was enough to reasonably 
lead them to believe that RBS had offered one, without being asked, without checking 
whether it was needed, several months in advance.
The agreement letter did not offer a payment holiday from May 2021 to May 2022, it offered 
a payment holiday to May 2020 to May 2021 and a term extension of two years rather than 
one. Mr and Mrs H dont suggest that its wording actually does offer a holiday until May 
2022; rather, they assumed the express words of the letter in relation to the payment holiday 
must have been a mistake. 
But in my view neither the wording of the letter nor the possibility of an inconsistency 
between the dates of the holiday and the term extension created an offer of a further 
payment holiday to May 2022. What the agreement actually did, on its own words, was offer 
a one year payment holiday and a two year term extension. And thats the agreement Mr H 
signed. If it wasnt what he was expecting  or it didnt say what he thought it should say  Id 
have expected him to check that before signing it.
I also bear in mind that this is a commercial agreement. Mr and Mrs H are not, in this 
context, consumers. They are business people running a business. And as reasonably diligent business people running a business, if there was an ambiguity or a (perceived) error 
on an agreement Id have expected them to try and clarify that with RBS. 
But Mr and Mrs H didnt do that. They assumed that the agreement meant something other 
than what it actually said, signed and returned it to RBS without drawing that to its attention, 
and then proceeded as if the agreement said what they thought it should say rather than 
what it actually said.
Ive carefully considered everything. Ive noted that there was no other contact between RBS 
and Mr and Mrs H between May 2020 and mid-2021. And therefore the only source for Mr 
and Mrs Hs belief that they had been given a further payment holiday until 2022 was this 
letter. But thats not what the letter says, and Im afraid I dont think its a reasonable 
interpretation of the letter. And so I dont think it was reasonable that Mr and Mrs H 
assumed, purely based on the letter, that they would not have to make payments for a 
further year from May 2021.
It follows that in my view, when they didnt make those payments, it was reasonable for RBS 
to treat their loan as being in arrears, and to contact them to try and find out why payments 
werent being made. And when they continued not to be made, to consider recovery action.
Since the investigator gave her view of the case, Mr H has been in touch because hes not 
happy about conversations hes had about recovery of the arrears and the management of 
the loan going forward. Those very recent conversations are not part of this complaint and Ill 
say no more about them here. But I would urge Mr and Mrs H to work with RBS to get the 
loan back on track as far as they are able  and remind RBS that it has an ongoing 
obligation to treat them fairly.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H and Mrs H to 
accept or reject my decision before 11 August 2022.
 
Simon Pugh
Ombudsman