DRN-4251406
The complaint
Mr and Mrs R are unhappy One Insurance Limited declined a claim they made on a legal 
expenses insurance policy. 
What happened
Mr and Mrs R had some building work done at their property and were unhappy with how it 
was constructed. They made a claim to One Insurance Limited for assistance with the cost 
of legal expenses as they wanted to pursue legal action against the builder.
One Insurance Limited declined the property dispute claim as there was an exclusion 
relating to disputes arising from building work. And, later, it provided an opinion from a 
solicitor which explained a misrepresentation claim wouldnt have prospects of success 
(usually described as a greater than 50% chance of winning). It therefore said this also 
wouldnt be covered by the policy. 
The investigator looked into the complaint but let Mr and Mrs R know that she didnt think 
One Insurance Limited had done anything wrong.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the conclusion reached by the investigator for the following 
reasons:
The policy does contain an exclusion relating to Any costs relating to disputes 
arising from building, extending, rebuilding, renovating or amending any part of your 
home.  This isnt an unusual exclusion in legal expenses policies, so I would expect 
it to be specifically highlighted. 
Mr and Mrs Rs dissatisfaction stemmed from the quality of work that had been 
undertaken at their home. And, as such, I think One Insurance Limited fairly applied 
the exclusion to the claim. 
The policy requires that all prospective legal action has prospects of success, in this 
case the solicitor didnt think the misrepresentation claim would be successful. So, 
One Insurance Limited have acted reasonably in not taking this aspect of the claim 
forward. 
Mr and Mrs R say they werent able to access the relevant policy documents online 
when they upgraded the legal cover. This is something they will need to take up with 
the insurance broker which sold the policy to them. 
For these reasons I do not uphold this complaint.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold Mr and Mrs Rs complaint against One Insurance 
Limited.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr and Mrs R to 
accept or reject my decision before 15 August 2023.
 
Alison Gore
Ombudsman