DRN-2261998
The complaint
This complaint is about a further advance application Mrs and Mr M made on the mortgage 
they hold with Santander UK Plc, to fund major renovations and an extension on their 
property. Theyre unhappy that Santander wont release any of the funds until all of the work 
is complete. Theyve already started the project using their own funds, but cant complete it 
without the money from Santander.
What happened
By way of a provisional decision dated 14 September 2020, I set out the reasons why I 
wasnt minded to uphold this complaint. The following is an extract from that provisional 
decision.
It seems to me that there are two main issues for me to decide; these are:
is it fair and reasonable of Santander to apply a full retention of the money it has offered to lend 
until the work is complete; and
did Santanders mortgage advisor give Mrs and Mr M the impression that it was all right for 
them to start the work before the application had been approved and an offer issued.
On the first point, its not our role to second-guess or otherwise interfere with the decisions 
lenders make on how much theyre willing to lend, and what conditions they impose when 
lending. These are matters of lenders commercial decision, and involve quite detailed 
assessments of risk. 
The risk assessment is a little more complex when the security for the loan is undergoing 
very extensive renovations as those that applied in this case. Its not just about the loan to 
value ratio; lenders also have to consider the possibility of diminished saleability if the works 
encounter unforeseen difficulties that prevent their completion. Lenders arent property 
experts themselves, so for this part of the risk assessment they rely on third parties who are 
expert. Thats where the role of the surveyor becomes key.
Santanders duty to Mrs and Mr M was appoint a suitably-qualified surveyor, not just to value 
their property, but to evaluate the risk to Santander of funding the works. Im satisfied it 
discharged that duty - the surveyor it instructed is a member of the Royal Institution of 
Chartered Surveyors. Having done so, Santander was entitled to rely on the expert opinion 
of the surveyor when deciding whether to lend and on what terms it was prepared to lend 
Mrs and Mr M more money.
So, to clarify the position for Mrs and Mr M (as I know its a bone of contention for them) it 
Santander that decided to impose the retention, but it did so in full reliance on the opinion of 
the surveyor.
My remit doesnt extend to questioning the surveyors recommendation of a full retention; 
independent firms of surveyors arent covered by our scheme. This was the professional 
opinion of the party Santander was required to consult. It was entitled to rely on the opinion 
that it should retain the full advance pending completion of the works, and theres no proper 
basis for me to tell Santander it should release any of the further advance funds sooner.
The second point for me to decide is what Santanders mortgage advisor said (or didnt say) 
at the outset. Mrs and Mr M say the advisor told them the application was a goer. The 
advisor denies having said this, or any other form of words that might have implied the loan 
would be approved without any hitch.
When the testimony is as contradictory as it is here, I need to base my decision on the 
balance of probabilities. When considering any complaint like this, as Mrs ad Mr M are the 
ones bringing the complaint against Santander, to uphold the complaint their version needs 
to be more likely than Santanders version; not just as likely. Having considered everything I 
cant say Mrs and Mr Ms version is anything more than just as likely, which isnt enough for 
me to find in their favour.
Mrs and Mr M have also said the advisor never mentioned the possibility that a retention 
might be imposed, despite knowing the scale of the project and the condition of the property 
at the outset. Again, Ive no way of knowing if thats true or not, but Im not sure failing to 
mention a retention would be considered an omission on the mortgage advisors part 
anyway. As I said earlier, lenders arent property experts, and I would be slow to say that a 
mortgage advisor should attempt to forecast the expert opinion of the surveyor. 
Our investigator thought Santander could have informed Mrs and Mr M of the retention 
sooner and with greater clarity than it did; for this he recommended it pay them £200 
compensation. Santander doesnt agree, and having looked at everything thats been said 
and provided by both parties I dont either. I consider that Santander took reasonable steps 
to keep Mrs and Mr M informed of the decisions it was making, in reliance on the 
professional opinions of the expert it was required to seek.
I gave the parties until 14 October 2020 to respond to the provisional decision. Despite our 
investigator sending them reminders, neither party has said anything further.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive no reason to depart from my provisional conclusions, so I dont.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint or make any award against Santander 
UK Plc. My final decision concludes this services consideration of this complaint, which 
means Ill not be engaging in any further consideration or discussion of the merits of it.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs and Mr M to 
accept or reject my decision before 12 November 2020. 
Jeff Parrington
Ombudsman