DRN-2199655
Complaint
This complaint is about a payment protection insurance (PPI) policy taken out with a store
card. AXA France IARD (AXA) is responsible for this complaint. So, Ill refer to AXA as the
seller to keep things simple. Mrs M says AXA mis-sold her the PPI policy on her store card.
Background
This complaint is about a monthly premium PPI policy taken out with a store card in 2004.
The PPI covered Mrs M if she was unable to work because of accident, sickness or
unemployment.
Our adjudicator thought we should uphold the complaint. AXA disagreed so the
complaint has come to me to decide.
In my provisional decision of 5 August 2020, I set out why I wasnt minded to uphold the 
complaint. I invited both parties to provide any further submissions they may wish to make 
before I reached a final decision. AXA has not made any additional comments. 
Mrs Ms representatives have replied re-iterating that she wasnt given clear enough 
information about the PPI and had she been given this, she wouldnt have taken it. They feel 
the PPI did not provide any more cover than she already had through her employer. They 
have added that Mrs M was told where to sign by AXAs store representative and she 
thought she had to do this to complete her application.  
My findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding this case.
In my provisional decision I explained the following: 
Currently, I dont think Mrs Ms complaint should be upheld and Ill explain why.
AXA had to make it clear to Mrs M that the policy was optional and get her consent before
PPI could be applied to the account.
Ive seen a copy of the credit agreement Mrs M signed. In it, there was a section to add PPI.
I can see the box requesting cover has been signed. There was nothing on this form
indicating that she had to take the PPI, so the box couldve been left it blank if she didnt
want it. I can see there was another product that Mrs M couldve taken but this had a line put
through it. So, I think Mrs M wouldve known she couldve done the same for PPI if she didnt
want it. Overall, I think AXA made it clear that PPI was optional and Mrs M agreed to have it
knowing she had a choice, even though she may not remember that now.
Mrs M says that she was advised to take out the policy. AXA says that no advice was given.
It may be helpful to explain that businesses were able to sell PPI on either an advised (or
recommended) basis or a non-advised basis. An advised sale would usually mean that the
seller seeks out specific information about a customers personal and wider financial
circumstances to assess whether a PPI policy was suitable for that particular customer -
rather than simply intimating that its PPI policy was a good policy to have more generally to
all of its customers. The latter would be a non-advised sale.
I havent seen anything that suggests AXA gave Mrs M a tailored recommendation to take 
the PPI, so I dont think AXA recommended the PPI to Mrs M  so it didnt have to check it 
was right for her. But it did have to give her enough clear information so she could decide if 
she wanted to take it.
Its possible the information AXA gave Mrs M about the PPI wasnt as clear as it shouldve
been. But Mrs M was eligible for the policy and doesnt appear to have been affected by any
of the main things the policy didnt cover. For example, she told us she was employed and
didnt suffer from any medical conditions, so she wouldnt be affected by anything in the
terms about known health issues or unusual working arrangements.
Mrs M told us she had more than six months sick pay provided by her employer  based on
this, our adjudicator thought the complaint should be upheld. He felt that AXA hadnt given
Mrs M clear enough information about what the policy cost. And, because of this, if Mrs M
had understood the true costs of the policy, she wouldnt have bought the policy.
But based on what I know about Mrs Ms circumstances, I think the policy couldve been
useful to her. Although Mrs M says she had more than six months sick pay provided by her
employer, I understand shed only been employed for one year at the time she took the PPI.
From what we now of the industry Mrs M worked in and her tenure, I think she wouldve had
significantly less sick pay than she believed. Although its likely her employer provided
significant sick pay, thats likely only offered to employees who have completed many years
of service with them  and I have to assess Mrs Ms circumstances at the time she took the
PPI.
Mrs M also told us she didnt have any other means (such as savings or other insurance) to
make her repayments if shed found herself unexpectedly out of work because of illness,
injury or unemployment. And this policy couldve also paid out on top of the likely limited sick
pay she had for much longer than her sick pay wouldve likely lasted at the time. So, based
on what Ive seen so far, I still think she couldve found the policy to be useful.
With this in mind, I dont think better information wouldve stopped her buying it. And I dont
think that Mrs M has lost out as a result of anything AXA mightve done wrong.
Ive again thought about everything Mrs M and her representatives have said. I appreciate a 
store advisor sold her the PPI, but Mrs M signed to confirm the selections made  and I 
wouldve expected her to have looked over the form before signing it. And I think its clear on 
the form that the PPI is optional. 
As Ive said in my provisional decision, based on Mrs Ms tenure, I think its unlikely she had 
the amount of sick pay she believed she had. I have to asses her circumstances at the time 
the PPI was sold to her, and while she may have eventually been entitled to more than six 
months sick pay, I dont think she had that when she took the PPI. Had she been of work 
unexpectedly, then I think having the policy pay out for up to 12 months wouldve been 
useful to her. So, I still dont think more information at the time of sale, wouldve stopped her 
from buying the PPI. In the absence of any other points for me to consider, I find no reason to depart from my 
original findings as set out in my provisional decision, so I dont uphold this complaint. 
My final decision
For the reasons explained, I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs M to accept or 
reject my decision before 21 October 2020.
 
Asma Begum
Ombudsman