DRN-1500647
The complaint
Mrs L complains that Santander UK plc mis-sold a payment protection insurance
(PPI) policy.
What happened
This complaint is about a PPI policy taken out by Mrs L in 1998, in connection with a
mortgage. The policy provided Mrs L with cover for accident, sickness and unemployment.
Our adjudicator did not uphold the complaint. Mrs L disagreed with the adjudicators
opinion so the complaint has been passed to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Where the evidence is incomplete, inconclusive or contradictory (as some of it is here), I 
reach my decision on the balance of probabilities  that is, what I think is most likely to have 
happened in light of the available evidence and the wider surrounding circumstances.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and
Ive taken this into account in deciding Mrs Ls case.
It seems to me that the relevant considerations in this case are materially the same as those
set out on our website. And the main questions I need to consider are:
- If Santander gave any advice or recommendation, did it make sure the product it
recommended was suitable for Mrs Ls needs?
- Did Santander give Mrs L the information she needed to decide whether to
take out the policy?
If there was a problem with the way the policy was sold then I need to consider whether
Mrs L is worse off as a result. That is, would she have done something different  such as 
not taking out the policy  if there hadnt been any problems with the sale?
I have decided not to uphold Mrs Ls complaint and Ive set out my reasons below.
Mrs L says Santander told her she had to buy the PPI to get the mortgage she wanted, and 
that she wasnt given a proper choice about buying the policy. Ive noted everything Mrs L 
has said.
Santander hasnt been able to provide much information from the time the policy was sold. 
Thats not surprising given the amount of time thats passed, and its similar to some other 
cases Ive seen.
The difficulty I have is that I cant be sure what was discussed between Mrs L and Santander 
when the policy was sold. Im also mindful that these events took place many years ago, and 
that exact recollections of what happened can fade over time.
Without anything else to support what Mrs L has told me, I dont think I can fairly and 
reasonably say that Santander didnt make her aware that the policy was optional.
Santander has accepted that it advised Mrs L to take out the policy and it doesnt look like it
was unsuitable for her based on what Ive seen of her circumstances at the time. I say this
because:
- Mrs L was eligible for the policy given her circumstances and the PPI terms
and conditions.
- Mrs L says she would have received some work-related benefits if she couldnt
work due to sickness or accident, and that she had some savings. But the policy 
would have paid out in addition to Mrs Ls occupational benefits and would do so, it 
seems, for longer. Having the policy in place would mean Mrs L could use her work- 
related benefits and savings to pay for other expenses. So I think Mrs L would have 
had some use for the policy despite her existing arrangements.
- At the time Mrs L bought the policy she wasnt affected by any of the conditions 
limiting the policys main benefits, such as those affecting self-employed people or 
people with pre-existing medical conditions. As she could have benefited from the full 
extent of the cover I think it unlikely she needed better advice or information about 
the policys exclusions and limitations.
- I cant be sure that the cost of the PPI was made clear to Mrs L before she agreed
to buy it. But she agreed to buy the policy knowing she would have to pay
something for it. And Ive seen nothing to suggest it was unaffordable or that the
benefit wasnt enough to cover her monthly mortgage repayments.
Its possible the information Santander gave Mrs L about the PPI wasnt as clear as it
should have been. But she chose to take out the policy and so appears to have wanted this
type of cover. As Ive already said, Mrs L wasnt affected by any of the exclusions or
limitations and the policy seems to have been affordable. So I think it unlikely Mrs L
would have made a different decision if better information had been provided  overall, I
think she would still have taken out the policy.My final decision
My decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs L to accept or 
reject my decision before 1 October 2020.
 
Caroline Stirling
Ombudsman