DRN-1355549
The complaint
Mrs H complains that Mercedes-Benz Financial Services UK Limited charged her for 
damage to alloy wheels on a car she returned at the end of a finance agreement.
What happened
Mrs Hs finance agreement came to an end and in June 2019 the car was collected by an 
agent acting for MBFS. There was damage to each of the alloy wheels. Mrs H says that the 
agent told her she could claim on her insurance. Mrs H had taken out a policy which covered 
such damage.
The car was taken away and subsequently MBFS sent Mrs H an invoice for £340 for the 
damage. She challenged this and said the cost was covered by insurance. MBFS said that it 
wasnt party to the policy and any claim should be made by Mrs H, but it presumed that as 
she no longer had the car the policy wasnt valid.
Mrs H was unhappy with this response and brought a complaint to this service where it was 
considered by one of our investigators who didnt recommend it be upheld. He noted that 
MBFS had said that the agent denied discussing an insurance claim. He explained he wasnt 
party to what had been said, but MBFS wasnt party to the policy and it was up to Mrs H to 
make a claim.  There was no dispute the wheels were damaged and under the agreement 
Mrs H had signed she was responsible for the cost of any damage which went beyond fair 
wear and tear.
He didnt think MBFS had done anything wrong. Mrs H didnt agree and referred to the 
charge as a fine
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
While I appreciate Mrs Hs annoyance at the charge, I dont believe I can uphold her 
complaint. I will explain why.
Under her contract with MBFS she agreed that she would be liable for any damage on the 
car which went beyond fair wear and tear. It isnt disputed that the wheels were damaged 
and under that contact MBFS is entitled to charge her for the repairs.
Under the separate contract with a third parry Mrs H could have made a claim to the 
insurance company for the cost of repairing the wheels. That was up to her to do and if she 
failed to make a claim, I cannot hold MBFS responsible. I have not seen her insurance 
policy, but I suspect that as she no longer has the car she will not be able to make a claim. 
In short, the onus lay on Mrs H to claim and not MBFS.My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs H to accept or 
reject my decision before 26 September 2020.
Ivor Graham
Ombudsman