DRN-2762461
The complaint
Mr A complains that Amtrust Europe Limited (Amtrust) have unfairly rejected his mobile 
phone insurance claims based on him providing misleading information at inception.
What happened
I issued a provisional decision on this complaint on 1 April 2021 detailing my intension to 
uphold Mr As complaint I said:
The background of this complaint is well known to both parties and has been detailed by 
our investigator previously. so, Ill summarise the key points Ive focused on within my 
decision.
Mr A made a claim for his Samsung S8 with a previous insurer, who Ill call 
Business A, in April 2019.
Mr A had, alongside this policy, taken out another policy with a brand that Amtrust 
underwrote, who Ill call Business B, in November 2019. He then made a claim 
under this policy for his Samsung S8.
Business B asked for more information on the claim which Mr A didnt provide, 
and he eventually cancelled the policy with it.
Mr A went back to Business A and made a successful claim for the Samsung 
S8 phone in April 2020.
Mr A took out a new gadget insurance policy which this complaint relates to, 
under another brand but underwritten by Amtrust who Ill call Business C, in 
August 2020.
Mr A made a claim for his iPhone 7 and Samsung 20 under Business Cs policy 
in August 2020.
Amtrust declined the claim, saying that Mr A had provided misleading information 
when he took out the policy as it believes a device listed on the policy -Samsung 
S8 was already damaged at inception. Amtrust voided Mr As policy and declined 
his claims.
Mr A is unhappy with Amtrusts actions and asked our service to consider 
the complaint.
Our investigator considered the events and whilst she thought that Mr A claimed 
for an uninsured event on Business Bs policy, she didnt think that Amtrust had 
proven thered been a misrepresentation when he took out the policy with 
Business C. She felt that as neither attempted fraud or misrepresentation had 
been done under Business Cs policy, she didnt feel that Amtrust could void the 
policy.
Our investigator recommended that the policy should be marked as cancelled at 
the point of Amtrust having discovered the misleading information about the policy 
under Business B. Amtrust should then also continue with Mr As claims.
Mr A agreed with our investigators view but Amtrust didnt. They said its 
reasonable it considered Mr As claims under all its branded policies and its history 
with him and maintained its decision. So, the complaint has been passed to me to 
make a decision.
What I provisionally decided- and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im intending to uphold this complaint, but Im recommending Amtrust 
do something different to what our investigator recommended.
The relevant law in this is the Consumer Insurance (Disclosure and 
Representations) Act 2012 (CIDRA). This requires consumers to take reasonable 
care not to make a misrepresentation when taking out a consumer insurance 
contract (a policy). The insurer will only be able to take action if its shown theres a 
qualifying misrepresentation with CIDRA.
Its clear that Mr As claim has been made under Business Cs policy, for items 
which havent previously been considered as part of an insurance claim.
I havent seen that theres been a misrepresentation from Mr A when he took out 
the policy with Business C. The Samsung S8 phone looks to have been fixed in 
April 2020 and this policy was taken out in August 2020. Amtrust havent shown 
that they specifically asked Mr A about any previous claims or that Mr A has failed 
to meet any of the terms and conditions.
I also havent seen that Amtrust have shown that Mr A made a fraudulent claim 
on Business Bs policy. From what Ive seen, he cancelled the claim and no 
payment was made on it from Amtrust.
I dont consider its fair that Amtrust have linked Mr As potential claim under 
Business Bs policy with his new claim under Business Cs policy. These are for 
different items, and I dont think its been proven by Amtrust that Mr A was 
attempting to make a fraudulent claim under the policy with Business B.
Amtrust have said its not unreasonable that theyve kept attempted fraudulent 
claims by policyholders on file, across the different branded policies they offer. I 
agree this is reasonable, however by having such information, I feel that more 
consideration ought to be taken by Amtrust when Mr A took out Business Cs 
policy. If they had any concerns about him or the policy at that stage, they couldve 
refused cover at inception.
I dont think its fair of Amtrust to link the terms and conditions of Business Bs 
policy with Business Cs policy, or vice versa. So, looking at the terms for 
Business Cs policy, If any fraudulent or misleading claim is made or if any 
fraudulent or misleading means are used under this insurance, you will not be 
allowed to continue with your claim and your policy will be cancelled with 
immediate effect and no refund will be returned., I dont think Amtrust have shown 
theres been a fraudulent or misleading claim under this particular policy.
Without evidence of there being a misrepresentation by Mr A, I dont consider that 
Amtrust can then choose to void the policy when hes made a claim.
I intended to uphold this complaint and direct Amtrust to reinstate the policy and continue 
with the claims in line with the terms and conditions.
Responses to provisional decisionBoth parties have responded. Mr A has asked me to consider compensation to take into 
account the length of time his phone hasnt been fixed whilst paying a contract. 
Amtrust still feels it was fair for it to void the policy and disagrees with my provisional 
decision. In summary it has reiterated that as the underwriter of both Business B and Cs 
policies its reasonable for it to keep attempts of fraud on file no matter which brand the 
insurance is purchased through. It feels a fraudulent attempt has been made, and under the 
terms and conditions if it suspects fraud it has the right to cancel the policy. So, it feels the 
investigators view of the case of allowing it to cancel the policy would be a fairer outcome.
It has said that Business Bs policy wasnt cancelled by Mr A, the claim was just abandoned 
when it had insinuated to Mr A that he wasnt being truthful.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Amtrust has said it can cancel the policy if it suspects fraud and having checked this it is 
included within its terms. However, Im considering if it would be fair in this case as I wouldnt 
expect an insurer to cancel a policy without fair cause to do so - particularly given the 
potential consequences of Mr A having to declare this to future insurers.
Amtrust has relied on evidence from Business A and Business Bs previous claims history 
and has asked me to place weight on a previous claim being abandoned and not cancelled. 
However, from what Ive seen Amtrust were aware at inception of Business Cs policy of 
what had occurred on Business Bs policy - in that it had insinuated Mr A wasnt being 
truthful. As a result, it seems to me that Amtrust had considered the claims history and 
accepted the risk when agreeing to the policy with Business C. Ive seen nothing new 
provided that meant Amtrust was only notified after the claim was made, and in the 
circumstances, I'm not persuaded Amtrust should or would be applying this term fairly or that 
it would be reasonable for Mr C's policy to be cancelled mid-term.
If Amtrusts risk appetite has changed based on circumstances that it was already aware of, 
then I would expect this to be reconsidered at renewal.
I appreciate Mr A says he is paying a contract for his phone whilst being without a working 
phone. However, Ive made a decision that Amtrust has unfairly voided the policy Im not 
deciding on the outcome of the actual claim and so Im not directing Amtrust to do anything 
further on this point.
Putting things right
I direct Amtrust Europe Limited to reinstate the policy and continue with the claims in line 
with the terms and conditions.
 
My final decision
I uphold this complaint for the reasons given above. Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision before 17 May 2021.
 
Angela Casey
Ombudsman