DRN-1994095
The complaint
Mrs W is unhappy with how Lloyds Bank General Insurance Limited (Lloyds) has handled 
a claim she made under her buildings insurance policy.
What happened
In August 2019, Mrs W noticed sewage on her driveway, coming from around the drain 
cover, drain from a sink and washing machine. Mrs Ws son-in-law contacted Lloyds and 
he was advised to contact a drainage specialist (who Ill call company D) who had carried 
out a repair for a similar problem a few months before.
Company D attended and said their repair was fine, so Mrs W made a new claim. Lloyds 
sent an engineer out to carry out an inspection. The finding from this inspection was that 
the underground pipes were pitch fibre and had decayed over time. Based on this, Lloyds 
declined the claim, it said the damage to the drain was not a one-off insurable event and 
had occurred over time. Mrs Ws son-in-law felt the drain should have been covered under 
accidental damage clause as the damage was both unforeseen and unintentional.
In order to put things right, Mrs W wants Lloyds to accept her claim and reimburse her 
the cost of the repairs she paid out.
Our investigator didnt uphold the complaint, so this matter has been passed to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Lloyds declined Mrs Ws claim and relied on the following term:
What doesnt this policy coverA gradually operating cause. This is something 
that happens gradually over a period of time, for example corrosion, damp, 
condensation, decay or decomposition
Its accepted the pitch fibre pipes are badly damaged. The report from Lloyds engineer 
says the pipes were deformed and blistered and indicates there is significant damage to 
several meters of the drain pipe. The deformed pitch fibre pipes are also noted in the 
reports from the repair carried out early in 2019. I think this indicates the damage to the 
pipes wasnt accidental or as a result of a one-off event, and therefore was more likely to 
have occurred gradually.
Mrs Ws son-in-law says the damage should be covered under the accidental 
damage clause in the policy. Ive induced the definition of accidental damage cover 
below:
Accidental damage to services (underground cables, pipes, drains, tanks and 
their inspection covers serving your home and for which you are legally 
responsible).
In this case, the evidence provided indicates its more likely the damage to the pitch fibre 
pipes has occurred gradually, leading to the pipe blistering and being deformed. The 
evidence Ive been provided with indicates the damage to the pipes wasnt accidental, so 
I think Lloyds is entitled to decline Mrs Ws claim on the basis the damage happened 
over a period of time.
Mrs Ws son-in-law says the gradual damage exclusion in Mrs W's policy was a general 
exclusion. And given pitch fibre pipes are known to be made from a material that gradually 
deteriorates, he considers there ought to have been a specific clause in Mrs Ws policy 
terms so they could have considered their options when renewing the policy. However, its 
not within my role to tell an insurer on what basis they should offer cover to customers. My 
role here is to decide if Lloyds acted fairly in declining Mrs Ws claim. And Im satisfied it 
did for the reasons Ive set out.
Im aware the decision Ive reached in this case will likely come as a disappointment to Mrs 
W. But I hope she can understand why Ive concluded this is a fair outcome for the reasons 
Ive explained.
My final decision
I dont uphold Mrs Ws complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs W to accept or 
reject my decision before 6 August 2020.
Emma Hawkins
 
Ombudsman