DRN-3506292
The complaint
Mrs O complains that Barclays Bank UK Plc, trading as Barclaycard, wont refund disputed 
transactions made from her account. 
What happened
Mrs O had a credit card with Barclays. 
Between 4 May 2021 and 11 May 2021 six cash withdrawals totalling £3,000 were 
completed on Mrs Os account, and one further cash withdrawal was declined. 
On 13 May 2021 Mrs O advises she logged into her Barclays online banking, noticed the 
transactions, and reported them to Barclays. 
Mrs O explained that at the time of the transactions she had contractors in her property 
carrying out building work and wasnt in the local area. Mrs O advised that prior to leaving 
the property shed been unable to find her credit card but hadnt shared her PIN with anyone. 
Mrs O provided statements from her current account which she explained showed this.
Barclays looked into Mrs Os complaint. The bank thought on balance Mrs O most likely 
authorised the disputed transactions. But in conclusion felt the service theyd provided 
wasnt satisfactory  and awarded £50 compensation.
Mrs O wasnt happy with Barclays response  and he complained to our service. 
One of our investigators looked into Mrs Os complaint but didnt uphold it. In response they 
said Mrs O most likely authorised the transaction because there was no explanation of a PIN 
compromise. 
Mrs O didnt accept our investigators view, in response she said that shed remembered that 
shed lent her debit card to the contractors and in doing so shared her PIN with them. Mrs O 
explained that the PIN was the same for her credit card and debit card. 
Our investigator reconsidered Mrs Os case but didnt change their outcome. 
As Mrs O didnt accept our investigators opinion its been referred to me for a decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Generally, Barclays can hold Mrs O liable for the disputed transactions if the evidence 
suggests that its more likely than not that she made or authorised them herself.
Im satisfied from the banks technical evidence that Mrs Os genuine card details were used
to make the disputed transactions. But the regulations relevant to this case say that is not,
on its own, enough to enable Barclays to hold her liable. So, I also need to think about 
whether the evidence suggests that its more likely than not that Mrs O consented to the 
transactions being made.
From what Ive seen, I dont think its unreasonable for Barclays to conclude that Mrs O 
authorised he transaction. This is because:
To carry out the disputed transactions a fraudster would need access to Mrs Os card 
and PIN. Mrs O explains that she couldnt find her credit card prior to the disputed 
transactions  and she had building contractors in her house who could have taken it. 
Im satisfied that this is a plausible explanation for how Mrs Os card might have been 
obtained, but the fraudsters also needed access to her PIN. 
The last time Mrs O used her PIN was 28 April 2021, which was almost a week prior 
to the first disputed transaction. Im satisfied its unlikely an opportunistic fraudster 
overlooked Mrs Os PIN on 28 April 2021 then waited until 4 May 2021 before using it 
 and obtaining her card. Mrs O advised our investigator that her PIN was only made 
up of two numbers, and shed shared her debit card  along with the same PIN  with 
the builders. Ive considered Mrs Os explanation, but I find it unlikely. Im surprised 
that Mrs O didnt initially advise our service that shed lent her debit card to builders 
in her property. And even if the builders have been advised Mrs Os PIN for her debit 
card, I think its unlikely theyd assume it was exactly the same for her credit card. 
From the information provided by Barclays I can also see that no PIN errors were 
recorded  which means a fraudster would need to enter it correctly first time. This 
seems unlikely if Mrs O hasnt shared her PIN on her credit card with anyone. 
The transactions dont fit what Id expect from a fraudster  the first withdrawals took 
place on 4 and 5 May 2021, however theres a gap prior to the next withdrawal until 
8 May 2021. If a fraudster managed to obtain Mrs Os PIN Id expect them to 
withdraw funds from Mrs Os account as quickly as possible to avoid detection, and 
to maximise the funds taken. But this didnt happen. And when Mrs O reported the 
fraud over £5,000 remained of her credit limit. 
Mrs Os advised that she wasnt in her local area at the time of the transactions. And 
was hundreds of miles away. Ive seen the photographic evidence provided by 
Mrs O, however Mrs O isnt present in most of them  and none of the photos show 
she wasnt in the area, at the time, where the withdrawals took place. However, even 
if the evidence Mrs O provided showed she couldnt have carried out the transactions 
herself this wouldnt automatically mean Id hold Barclays liable. Barclays are entitled 
to hold Mrs O liable for the transactions if on balance Mrs O carried out the 
transactions herself or consented for someone else to do so. 
For the reasons Ive outlined above I think on balance its more likely than not Mrs O 
authorised the disputed transactions. It follows Barclays can hold her liable. 
My final decision
My final decision is I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs O to accept or 
reject my decision before 5 August 2022.
 
Jeff Burch
Ombudsman