DRN-3574525
The complaint
Mrs K complains NewDay Ltd (NewDay) irresponsibly increased the credit limits on her three 
credit card accounts. 
What happened
Mrs K held three credit card accounts with NewDay under different brand names. Mrs K says 
despite the fact she had been in persistent debt NewDay increased the Amount of credit 
available to her and encouraged her to spend when it should have been looking to help her 
stay out of debt. 
Mrs K says she is now struggling to meet her monthly commitments, and this has created 
much stress and made her unwell. Mrs K wants NewDay to stop the interest on her credit 
card accounts, close the accounts, and compensate her for the stress it has caused her. 
NewDay says it carried out adequate checks when providing the credit card facilities and 
limit increases when it did, on all three of Mrs K credit card accounts. NewDay says it 
considered a wide range of information before agreeing to the credit card accounts and any 
subsequent credit limit increases. NewDay says it sent letters to Mrs K, prior to any credit 
limit increases on her credit card accounts and she had the option to decline them. NewDay 
says it has done nothing wrong. 
Mrs K wasnt happy with NewDays response and referred the matter to this service. 
The investigator looked at all the available information and upheld Mrs Ks complaint. The 
investigator felt NewDay had correctly approved the credit card facilities limit increases 
available to Mrs K, up until the point she informed them her income had substantially 
reduced. The investigator felt at that point NewDay shouldnt have provided any further 
lending to Mrs K and further checks would have revealed that she would not have been able 
to maintain the borrowing from that point. 
The investigator felt NewDay should refund all interest and charges applied from June 2018 
onwards based on the amount lent to Mrs K at that time. In addition, if this results in any 
overpayments NewDay should pay 8% simple interest on that sum. 
NewDay didnt agree with the investigators view and asked for the matter to be referred to 
an ombudsman for a final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I have also upheld this complaint and will explain how I have come to my 
decision.
I can understand that Mrs K has gone through a difficult time financially and that must have 
been a worry to her. When looking at this complaint, I will consider if NewDay took 
reasonable and proportionate checks before providing the three credit card accounts to Mrs 
K and the subsequent increased credit limits on those credit card accounts.
Mrs K complaint centres around the fact NewDay, having known she was struggling 
financially and had written to her regarding persistent debt, went on to provide further credit 
to her, adding to her financial problems and the stress that caused her. 
NewDay have told this service it undertook a series of proportionate checks before agreeing 
to the three credit card accounts Mrs K held with them and have made the point there were 
no indications from the various internal and external sources that she was struggling to meet 
her monthly commitments. To be clear Mrs K holds/held three credit card facilities with New 
Day and I have appended below these and the credit limits and dates agreed : 
Card 1. 
Date Limits agreed 
August  2015   - £900 
November 2015 - £900 to £1,900
April 2016 - £1,900 to £2,500
September 2016 - £2,500 to £3,750
February 2017 - £3,750 to £4,350
August 2020 - £4,350 to £5,100
Card 2.
February 2018   - £900
August 2018 - £900 to £1,500 
Card 3 
June 2018 - £600 
October 2018 - £600 to £1,150
March 2019 - £1,150 to £2,350
July 2019 - £2,350 to £3,850
I understand the points that NewDay make here and it has recently provided this service with 
an extract of data where it suggests Mrs Ks disposable income could meet the minimum 
monthly payments required for Card 3,when it was issued, using a range of different interest 
rate scenarios. 
Like the investigator, while I am satisfied NewDay had carried out reasonable and 
proportionate checks when it provided earlier credit card account uplifts on Card 1 and 2, 
that changed when In June 2018 Mrs K informed NewDay, when applying for Card 3, that 
her own personal income had dropped by over 55%, to circa £21,000. Its reasonable to say 
Mrs K at that point could no longer be classified as a high -income earner, as she had 
previously by NewDay. Its worth mentioning that Im not saying up until that point, NewDay had experienced any 
major problems with the other two credit card accounts Mrs K held with them, that said her 
borrowing was fairly hardcore, evidenced by the fact only three months later it issued 
persistent debt letters to Mrs K. I also understand NewDays reference to other family 
income in June 2018, but Im not fully convinced by this argument, as what is important here, 
is the credit card accounts and any repayment of the capital owing on those, would be Mrs 
Ks responsibility solely. 
So here, NewDay were made aware of a very substantial reduction in Mrs Ks personal 
income, arguably the main source of the cards repayment, and knowing that, I am of the 
view that was the time to have asked for more detailed financial information from Mrs K, to 
confirm she could meet her ongoing financial commitments. While there are no set rules 
governing what checks must be carried out by businesses like NewDay, its reasonable to 
think when it gets information that would suggest a major change in a consumers income 
and potential affordability, that would warrant further investigation. Afterall, were not looking 
at a few hundred pounds of credit here, but several thousand pounds of indebtedness to 
NewDay, excluding any external indebtedness she had. 
I say this because, its one thing to look at industry turnover data and model the ability to 
meet minimum monthly payments, and another to understand, if required, that Mrs K could 
sustainably make payments to reduce the capital over a reasonable period of time if asked 
to. So here, I am satisfied having been made aware of such a major reduction in Mrs Ks 
income in June 2018, NewDay had a responsibility to make further checks to ensure she 
could reasonably maintain her ongoing financial commitments, for example the sight of an 
income and expenditure profile. Given the other indebtedness Mrs K had at this time I am 
satisfied, in all probability if this had been requested, it would have become clear that Mrs K 
was unlikely to have been in a position to meet her ongoing commitments or even get to 
grips with any increased payments to her credit card accounts, suggested by NewDay in its 
own persistent debt letter sent only a few months later. 
Its worth mentioning NewDay refused further credit increases to Card 3 in December 2019, 
Jan 2020 and February 2020, but agreed an increase to Card 1s credit limit later in August 
2020, which doesnt seem to be consistent here, and its hard to think Mrs Ks finances 
would have improved over that period of time. 
Having said that, Mrs K has benefited from the use of the monies she has borrowed so it 
wouldnt be fair of me to ask NewDay to write off these balances as she has requested. 
But here, I support the investigators view that NewDay should now refund any interest and 
charges on any borrowing, above the previous credit limits in place before June 2018, to Mrs 
Ks three credit card accounts. These refunds should be paid back to the respective cards in 
reduction of any outstanding debt. In the case of Card 2, which I understand has now been 
repaid and closed, any interest and charges refunded should be used in permanent 
reduction of any of the remaining credit card accounts, based on the highest interest rate 
outstanding. 
If this should result in any overpayments then these should be refunded to Mrs K, adding 8% 
simple interest.
If an outstanding balance remains after these adjustments have been made, NewDay should 
then contact Mrs K to arrange a suitable repayment plan.
While NewDay will be disappointed with my decision I am satisfied this is a fair outcome 
here.  Putting things right
I instruct NewDay Ltd to refund any interest and charges, charged on any borrowing above 
the previous credit limits in place before June 2018, to all three of Mrs Ks credit card 
accounts. These refunds should be paid back to the respective cards in reduction of any 
outstanding debt. In the case of Card 2, which I understand has now been repaid and 
closed, any interest and charges here should be used in reduction to one of the remaining 
credit card accounts, based on the highest interest rate being charged. 
If this should result in any overpayments, then these should be refunded to Mrs K, adding 
8% simple interest on that sum.
If an outstanding balance remains after these adjustments have been made, NewDay should 
then contact Mrs K to arrange a suitable payment plan.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint.
I instruct NewDay Ltd to refund any interest and charges charged on any borrowing above 
the previous credit limits in place before June 2018, to all three of Mrs Ks credit card 
accounts. These refunds should be paid back to the respective cards in reduction of any 
outstanding debt. In the case of Card 2, which I understand has now been repaid and 
closed, any interest and charges here should be used in reduction to one of the remaining 
credit card accounts, based on the highest interest rate being charged. 
If this should result in any overpayments, then these should be refunded to Mrs K, adding 
8% simple interest on that sum.
If an outstanding balance remains after these adjustments have been made, NewDay should 
contact Mrs K to arrange a suitable payment plan.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs K to accept or 
reject my decision before 2 October 2022.
 
Barry White
Ombudsman