DRN-3804617
The complaint
Mr F complains that Starling Bank Limited wont refund money he lost, as the result of a 
scam. 
What happened
The background to this complaint is well-known to both parties, so I wont repeat it all here, 
But briefly, and based on the submissions of both parties, I understand it to be as follows.
Mr F became aware of a piece of machinery that was available, on a well-known online 
marketplace, that he was interested in buying. Hes told us that the seller had multiple other, 
similar, items for sale. Mr F says he contacted the seller, which was a company, and carried 
out research into them, in order to satisfy himself that the sale was genuine.
Hes said he researched the company, including reviewing them on Companies House and 
checking the IBAN bank account details. Mr F has said he also received a sales invoice and 
contract regarding the purchase. Mr F said hed conducted his due diligence and satisfied 
himself that it was a lawful and legitimate sale. 
Believing everything to be genuine, Mr F agreed to buy the machinery and, on 17 February 
2022, went ahead and transferred a payment for €5,000, to the bank details hed been 
provided with. But, unknown to him at the time, he had been dealing with a fraudster and 
had sent his payment to an account controlled by the fraudster. Mr F realised he had been 
scammed when the item never arrived and all communication ceased. 
Mr F raised the matter with Starling. Starling issued its final response to Mr F on 10 May 
2022, not upholding his complaint. In summary it said, while it was sorry to hear Mr F had 
been the victim of a scam, it was satisfied it had acted accordingly. It said it had provided 
adequate measures and warnings, prior to Mr F making the payment, and had done 
everything it could to try and retrieve the funds.
Unhappy with Starlings response, Mr F then brought his complaint to this service. One of 
our investigators looked into things and didnt think the complaint should be upheld. In 
summary this was because she didnt think further intervention by Starling would have made 
a difference and prevented Mr F from making the payment.
Mr F didnt agree with our investigators view. As agreement couldnt be reached the 
complaint has now been passed to me for a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im very aware that Ive summarised this complaint briefly, in less detail than has been 
provided, and in my own words. No discourtesy is intended by this. Instead, Ive focussed on 
what I think is the heart of the matter here. If theres something Ive not mentioned, it isnt 
because Ive ignored it. I havent. Im satisfied I dont need to comment on every individual 
point or argument to be able to reach what I think is the right outcome. Our rules allow me to 
do this. This simply reflects the informal nature of our service as a free alternative to the 
courts.
In deciding whats fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of a complaint, Im required to 
take into account relevant: law and regulations; regulators rules, guidance and standards; 
codes of practice; and, where appropriate, what I consider to be good industry practice at the 
time. Having done so, I have reached the same conclusions as those of the investigator. 
Im extremely sorry to hear about what happened to Mr F. I can understand entirely why he 
feels so strongly that his money should be returned to him. Its important to clearly 
acknowledge that Mr F has been the victim of a crime here. Mr F has explained about the 
impact this has had on him and I can understand how losing this money has impacted him. 
However, the main cause of these losses were the perpetrators of the fraud. For me to say 
Starling is liable in this type of situation, I would need to find that the bank could and should 
have acted to prevent the eventual loss, or that it failed to meet its obligations in some other 
way. 
I accept that the payment he made out of his Starling account was an authorised transaction, 
even though Mr F was the victim of a scam. He authorised the payment, so Starling had an 
obligation to follow his instruction and under the Payment Services Regulations 2017 he is 
presumed liable for the loss in the first instance. 
A voluntary code exists to provide additional protection against authorised push payment 
scams such as this (the Contingent Reimbursement Model Code  CRM Code). But the 
CRM Code doesnt apply to international payments. That means the CRM Code provisions 
are not relevant to Mr Fs complaint. But the CRM Code is not the full extent of the 
protections that could apply in cases such as this. Taking into account the law, regulators 
rules and guidance, relevant codes of practice and what I consider to have been good 
industry practice at the time, I consider Starling should fairly and reasonably: 
- Have been monitoring accounts and any payments made or received to counter 
various risks, including anti-money laundering, countering the financing of terrorism, 
and preventing fraud and scams.
- Have had systems in place to look out for unusual transactions or other signs that 
might indicate that its customers were at risk of fraud (among other things). This is 
particularly so given the increase in sophisticated fraud and scams in recent years, 
which payment service providers are generally more familiar with than the average 
customer.
- In some circumstances, irrespective of the payment channel used, have taken 
additional steps, or made additional checks, before processing a payment, or in 
some cases declined to make a payment altogether, to help protect customers from 
the possibility of financial harm from fraud.
This means that, particularly with the increase of sophisticated fraud and scams in recent 
years, there are circumstances where a bank should fairly and reasonably take additional 
steps, or make additional checks, before processing a payment, or in some cases decline to 
make a payment altogether, to help protect customers from the possibility of financial harm. 
In this case, I need to decide whether Starling acted fairly and reasonably in its dealings with 
Mr F, when he made the transfer and he reported the fraud, or whether it should have done 
more than it did. Starling has a difficult balance to strike in how it configures its systems to detect unusual 
activity or activity that might otherwise indicate a higher than usual risk of fraud. There is a 
delicate balance to be struck. There are many millions of payments made each day and it 
would not be possible or reasonable to expect a bank to check each one. And, in situations 
where Starling do intervene, I would expect that intervention to be proportionate to the 
circumstances of the payment. 
In this case, I dont consider Starling acted unfairly or unreasonably in allowing the payment 
to be made. Starling did recognise the payment was unusual for Mr F, in comparison to how 
he typically ran his account. In view of this it carried out an additional review of the payment 
and asked Mr F some further questions, before allowing it to be progressed. I can see that 
Mr F answered those questions, based on what he knew at the time, which satisfied Starling 
Mr F wasnt at risk, and so it allowed the payment to be progressed. 
All things considered I think that Starlings intervention, in the individual circumstances of this 
case, was a proportionate intervention and Im not persuaded it needed to do anything more. 
I dont think there was enough going on that I could fairly and reasonably have expected 
Starling to have been concerned that Mr F may have been at risk of financial harm.
Even if I considered Starling should have intervened further and discussed the payment with 
Mr F before allowing it to be progressed, which for the avoidance of doubt I dont, Im not 
persuaded it would have made a difference. I think it more likely than not Mr F would have 
continued to make the payment. I should be clear that I cant know for certain how events 
wouldve transpired if Starling had handled things differently. I must reach a conclusion on 
the balance of probabilities and that conclusion must be informed by the available evidence. 
Having considered this carefully, Im not persuaded that a further intervention by Starling 
wouldve prevented the scam from taking place. While it is now known, with the benefit of 
hindsight the money Mr F sent ended up with a fraudster, I dont think its more likely than 
not that a Starling employee would have been able to identify that Mr F may have been at 
risk of financial harm, by asking him questions. 
If Starling had intervened further and spoken to Mr F I would have expected it to ask some 
further questions about the payment. For example, it could have asked questions such as, 
but not limited to, what the payment was for and whether hed carried out any research. Had 
Starling asked these, or similar questions Im persuaded Mr F would have been able to 
plausibly answer them.
Mr F would have been able to explain, that the payment was to purchase an item and that 
hed been communicating with, who he thought, was a representative of the company. 
Importantly, he would also have been able to explain that hed carried out his own research 
on the company, using open source re-sources to establish the website and sale were 
genuine. Mr F would have been able to explain that hed looked on Companies House and 
that hed checked IBAN details of the bank details hed been provided, and that everything 
looked in order. Alongside this he would have been able to confirm to Starling that hed 
received documentation from the company, by way of a contract and sales invoice for the 
purchase.
Im persuaded Mr F would have been able to speak confidently and plausibly without 
concerning Starling that he might be at risk of financial harm or the victim of a scam. Im 
persuaded, on balance, its more likely than not the answers Mr F is likely to have given 
would have been sufficient to reassure Starling that he wasnt at risk of financial harm.
I would expect Starling to try to recover funds when its notified of a scam. And I can see it 
did so in Mr Fs case. But unfortunately, the recall was rejected by the receiving bank. There was nothing further Starling could do following the receiving banks response. I dont think 
Starling has missed an opportunity to recover the money Mr F sadly lost. 
Its very unfortunate Mr F has lost this money in this way, and I understand the whole 
experience has been deeply upsetting and I have a great deal of sympathy for him. But in 
the circumstances, I dont think I can fairly or reasonably say Starling should have done 
more to prevent Mr F from losing this money. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint against Starling Bank Limited. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr F to accept or 
reject my decision before 26 January 2023.
 
Stephen Wise
Ombudsman