DRN-3709240
The complaint
Mr K complains that U K Insurance Limited (UKI) hasnt paid a claim under the personal 
accident section of his travel insurance policy.
What happened
Mr K held a travel insurance policy through his bank account, provided by UKI. For clarity, 
this complaint is only about his claim for total permanent disability under the personal 
accident section of his policy.
Mr Ks shoulder was injured whilst abroad in November 2019. UKI acknowledged his claim 
for a total permanent disability benefit in January 2021. UKI explained the circumstances in 
which the benefit would be payable, and it asked Mr K to send evidence in support of his 
claim. This included a medical certificate completed by his GP, and details of any disability 
living allowance assessment that had been carried out by DWP and any benefits received.
Mr K sent UKI the original hospital documents about his injury in February 2021 and 
explained he hadnt been able to get in touch with his GP. He also said hed received 
universal credit. UKI responded to explain why this information wasnt enough to show a 
valid claim.
Mr K sent UKI the medical certificate completed by his GP in December 2021. UKI reviewed 
the claim in January 2022 and noted that Mr Ks GP had said Mr K had a significant shoulder 
dislocation and he still had impaired function. UKI asked if Mr K had the other evidence it 
had asked for in January 2021, and it asked Mr K for further evidence to show he had been 
unable to carry out any kind of work for 52 weeks following the injury.
Mr K explained that he hadnt been able to claim for universal credit as his savings were 
over the allowed limit. Mr K said hed already provided the original hospital documents, 
report from his GP, and hed be happy to go through any assessment required to show that 
his shoulder was severely damaged and limited his ability to be gainfully employed.
However, UKI declined Mr Ks claim. It said that it wasnt satisfied the injury led to a total 
permanent disability that prevented Mr K from doing any work of any kind. This was because 
Mr K hadnt provided enough evidence to show he met the policy definition for total 
permanent disability. Unhappy with this, Mr K brought a complaint to our service.
One of our investigators looked into what had happened. Having done so, she didnt think 
UKI had done anything wrong when it declined the claim. This was because Mr K hadnt 
provided enough evidence in support of his claim to show he met the definition for total 
permanent disability. She said that there was no dispute that Mr K had suffered an injury, but 
the evidence didnt show that it was because of this injury that he hadnt been able to do any 
work of any kind. She also thought that the main reason for any claim delays was because 
UKI was waiting for the GP report. Overall, she didnt think there was anything UKI needed 
to do, to put things right.
Mr K didnt agree with our investigators findings. In summary, he said that:
The evidence hes provided confirms that he suffered total permanent disability.
He was unable to work for 52 weeks following the injury, and this can be verified by 
his successful claim for universal credit. But he wasnt able to go through any 
assessments at the time due to limitations caused by Covid-19.
His recovery and ability to have treatment were compromised due to Covid-19.
UKI shouldve asked for all the evidence it needed earlier. He doesnt think its fair for 
UKI to ask for this now, so long after the claim was made.
As no agreement was reached, the complaint has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The personal accident section of Mr Ks policy provides cover where you are accidentally 
injured on your trip and this solely and independently results in your:  total permanent 
disability. 
The policy defines total permanent disability as a total and permanent disability that 
prevents you from doing any work of any kind for 52 consecutive weeks.
Its for Mr K to show that he has a valid claim under his policy. The original hospital 
documents from the time of the incident outline the injury and the recommended treatment. 
The diagnosis is shoulder dislocation and soft tissue sprain on wrist.
The GP report describes Mr Ks injury as significant severe shoulder dislocation. The GP 
considered Mr K to be classified as suffering from a total permanent disability, and the 
details to support this were continued pain and impaired function.
But I think UKI has acted fairly and reasonably in saying Mr K hasnt provided sufficient 
evidence to show his claim meets the definition for total permanent disability. I say this 
because whilst the GP report does confirm the injury, it doesnt outline how this affects Mr K 
in his day-to-day life or explain why this prevents Mr K from doing any work of any kind. 
I note that Mr K has referred to his universal credit claim history. But a claim for universal 
credit in itself doesnt demonstrate total permanent disability, as defined in the policy. I 
understand that Mr K says he wasnt able to go through assessments due to limitations 
caused by Covid-19. He also says Covid-19 affected his ability to receive treatment and, 
therefore, his recovery. But these arent grounds upon which I could fairly ask UKI to accept 
the claim in the absence of reasonable medical evidence confirming that Mr Ks injury totally 
prevents him from doing any work of any kind. 
Overall, Im not persuaded that Mr K has provided sufficient evidence in support of his claim. 
So, I dont think UKI did anything wrong when it declined his claim.
Lastly, I dont think UKI has unfairly delayed Mr Ks claim. It outlined what evidence it 
needed to consider the claim in January 2021, but only part of this was received  and not 
until December 2021. Its also not necessarily unusual for an insurer to require further 
evidence after seeing a GP report. So, I dont think UKI has acted unfairly by asking for 
further evidence after receiving this, and Mr K hadnt been able to provide the other evidence 
it had asked for that couldve reasonably supported his claim.
Im sorry to disappoint Mr K, but I dont think theres anything UKI needs to do to put things 
right.My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold Mr Ks complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr K to accept or 
reject my decision before 9 February 2023.
 
Renja Anderson
Ombudsman