DRN-3479352
The complaint
Mrs B is unhappy with the way that Royal & Sun Alliance Insurance Limited (RSA) handled a 
claim she wanted to make on a personal accident policy. 
What happened
In December 2017 Mrs B had an accident and injured her wrist. She successfully claimed on 
her employers personal accident policy for temporary total disablement (TTD) when she 
was unable to work. 
Mrs B wanted to claim on her policy for permanent total disablement (PTD) following her 
injury as shes explained shes experiencing ongoing issues with her wrist. She says that she 
was told she had three years from the date of the accident to make a claim. Mrs B says she 
tried to make a claim for PTD in August 2020. She says that after nine weeks of confusion 
she was told her claim wasnt valid. She complained to RSA but they maintained their 
decision to decline the claim. However, they said they were willing to consider any further 
medical information Mrs B wanted to submit. Unhappy, Mrs B complained to our service. 
Our investigator looked into what had happened and didnt uphold Mrs Bs complaint. She 
thought that RSA had fairly relied on the clause in the policy which said that Mrs B needed to 
demonstrate she had a valid claim for PTD within two years of the accident. And she thought 
that RSA had reasonably concluded that the available medical evidence wasnt sufficient to 
support a claim for PTD. She also noted that RSA had agreed to consider any further 
medical evidence Mrs B wanted to provide  our investigator thought that was reasonable. 
Mrs B didnt agree and made a number of further comments. She explained that she had to 
wait three months to be told that the claim was out of date and had provided medical 
evidence of a permanent disability. Mrs B says she acted within the time frame she was 
given and explained how her condition affects her. In summary, she says as a result of 
errors by RSA and her employer shes lost out on her claim for PTD. As Mrs B didnt agree 
the case has been referred to me to make a decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The relevant rules and industry guidelines say that RSA has a responsibility to handle claims 
promptly and fairly. And, they shouldnt reject a claim unreasonably. 
The policy terms and conditions  
The policy terms and conditions form the contract of insurance between Mrs Bs employer 
and RSA. The terms say: 
During the Operative Time the Insured Person sustains bodily injury following an 
Accident which within two years is the sole and independent cause of Death or 
Disablement the Company will pay to the Insured the appropriate Benefit shown in 
the Schedule subject to the Maximum Incident Limit (and inner limits where 
applicable) as detailed in the Schedule.
Page 14 of the policy under PERSONAL ACCIDENT INSURANCE SECTION  Continental
scale defines disablement as 
Permanent Total Disablement from the Insured Persons usual occupation in the 
Business.
It also says that: 
B Any Disablement under Benefits 2 to 4 must be proved to the reasonable 
satisfaction of the Company to be permanent and without expectation of 
recovery before the Company will pay the benefit 
C The Company will pay any amount claimed for Benefits 5 or 6 in addition to 
any amount claimed under Benefits 1 to 4 in connection with the same 
Accident. 
Was the claim declined unfairly? 
Im not upholding this complaint as I think RSA fairly declined the claim. I say that because: 
The terms say that Mrs B can claim if she sustained bodily injury following an 
Accident which within two years is the sole and independent cause of Disablement. 
So, I dont think the key issue is whether Mrs B brought her claim to RSA within two 
years or three. 
I think the central issue is whether the medical evidence supports that her injury was 
the sole and independent cause of permanent and total disablement within two years 
of the accident in December 2017. 
Its for Mrs B to demonstrate that she has a valid claim on the policy, not for RSA to 
show that she doesnt. That means Mrs B would need to provide sufficient evidence 
to demonstrate that, by December 2019, she was permanently and totally disabled 
from her insured occupation.
I think RSA fairly concluded that Mrs B hadnt demonstrated to their reasonable 
satisfaction that she was permanently and totally disabled because of her injury. In 
reaching that conclusion Ive considered the medical evidence provided by Mrs B. Ill 
focus on the evidence I think is most relevant to the outcome of this complaint.   
Theres a short note from Mrs Bs doctor dated May 2018 which is around six months 
after her accident. It says that shell be off work until at least June 2018. But the 
report is brief and doesnt set out in any detail what the impact of Mrs Bs condition is 
on her overall ability to work. It doesnt suggest that Mrs B will be permanently 
disabled. So, I dont think it was unreasonable for RSA to conclude this wasnt 
sufficient to demonstrate PTD within two years of the accident. 
Ive taken into account that Mrs B provided further information from her doctor. This 
information was dated January 2022, which is over four years after the accident in 
2017. This letter confirms that Mrs B has ongoing problems with her wrist and that 
she is suffering from a chronic disease. Theres no dispute that Mrs B has ongoing 
problems. But I dont think it was unreasonable for RSA to conclude that this wasnt sufficient to demonstrate PTD within two years of the accident. Its a relatively brief 
report and it is unclear how Mrs Bs condition would specifically impact on her ability 
to work and what treatment options had been, or could be, explored. The report also 
doesnt comment in detail on Mrs Bs condition in December 2017 and the following 
two years. 
I appreciate that Mrs Bs doctor has referred to wanting to register her as having a 
disability in the country where shes been receiving treatment. Mrs B says this is 
evidence that she is permanently disabled. But I must consider the available 
evidence against the relevant policy terms and conditions. And, having done so, I 
dont think RSA reached an unreasonable decision about the claim based on the 
available medical evidence. Theyve also offered to consider any further information 
Mrs B wishes to provide. I think thats reasonable.
Mrs B says shes experienced delays when she wanted to claim. Ive reviewed the 
available evidence and it seems most likely that these delays were caused by 
Mrs Bs employer. Ive not seen any persuasive evidence that RSA caused any 
unreasonable delays. 
Mrs B also complained she didnt receive copies of her policy documentation. Mrs Bs 
employer was the policy holder and I cant explain why she wasnt provided with a 
copy of the documents by her employer. But thats not something RSA was 
responsible for. And, as our investigator explained, The Financial Ombudsman 
Service cant consider Mrs Bs employers actions.
If Mrs B has ongoing concerns about not being provided with the policy documents, 
or delays, shell need to refer these concerns back to her employer. 
My final decision
Im not upholding this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs B to accept or 
reject my decision before 14 September 2022.
 
Anna Wilshaw
Ombudsman