DRN-4353961
The complaint
Ms L and Mr T have complained that Astrenska Insurance Limited declined a claim they 
made on their multi-trip annual travel insurance policy after their flight was cancelled due to 
poor weather.
What happened
Ms L and Mr T were booked on an outbound flight to France on 12 December 2022. They 
arrived at the airport to find that the plane hadnt arrived due to being snowed in elsewhere, 
so the airline cancelled the flight. Ms L was travelling to a medical appointment which she 
didnt want to miss. As such, they accepted a refund from the airline and then took a train to 
London, catching the Eurostar the following morning. They were able to fly back as planned 
using the return part of their tickets. They would like Astrenska to cover the additional cost of 
the train fares, overnight accommodation and Eurostar tickets, less the amount of refund 
they received.
Astrenska declined the claim on the basis that the circumstances did not meet the 
cancellation cover set out in the policys terms and conditions.
Our investigator thought that Astrenska had acted fairly in declining the claim for 
cancellation. But she thought that it should settle the claim under the travel delay section of 
the policy, together with 8% interest up to the date payment is made. The delay period would 
be the difference between the original flight time and the Eurostar departure time.
Ms L and Mr T accepted the investigators finding. But as Astrenska didnt respond to the 
investigators view, the complaint has been passed to me for a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive carefully considered the obligations placed on Astrenska by the Financial Conduct 
Authority (FCA). Its Insurance: Conduct of Business Sourcebook (ICOBS) includes the 
requirement for Astrenska to handle claims promptly and fairly, and to not unreasonably 
decline a claim.
I appreciate Ms L and Mr Ts position that, as the flight was cancelled due to no fault of their 
own, they feel they should be covered. 
The cancellation clause in the policy states:
What Is covered
We will pay you up to the amount shown in your policy Schedule for your share of any 
Irrecoverable unused travel and accommodation (Including excursions), and other pre-paid 
charges which you have paid or are contracted to pay. You are also covered for any 
additional travel expenses Incurred If you are forced to cancel any part of your trip prior to Its 
commencement. This must be as a direct and necessary result of any cause outside of your 
control, which was unforeseen at the start date of your policy or at the time of booking your 
trip, whichever is the later.
Ms L and Mr T had recovered the cost of their flights by accepting a refund from the airline. 
They also didnt have any accommodation costs in France. So, there were no unused costs 
to consider. And, because they were at the airport  therefore, already having commenced 
their trip  they are not entitled to additional travel expenses.
The cost of making additional arrangements to reach the intended destination would be 
covered under the Missed Departure section of the policy. But that only applies when the 
policyholder  and not their flight  is late. I do understand that they had to get to France and 
so did what was necessary to get there on time. But, looking at the terms and conditions of 
the policy, Im satisfied that it was reasonable of Astrenska to decline the claim for the 
additional costs incurred.
With regard to delay, the policy terms state:
Delayed Departure
What is covered
If the ship, aircraft or train that you are booked to travel on is delayed in leaving at its 
schedule time of departure on your outward journey or on the final part of your return journey 
we will:
1. Pay £35 for the first full 12 hours you are delayed and £15 for every full 12-hour 
period you are delayed after that, for each insured person
Had Ms L and Mr T waited for the next available flight, they would likely have been entitled to 
receive the fixed cash benefit for travel delay. Given that it was the lead up to Christmas, 
they say they were told that the airline had no alternative flights available that week. In their 
circumstances, its understandable that they decided not to wait and to make alternative 
arrangements. So, overall, I think it would be fair and reasonable for Astrenska to pay them 
the benefit that they would have been entitled to if they hadnt made their own arrangements.
Putting things right
Astrenska should pay Ms L and Mr T the cash benefit for travel delay, based on the delay 
period being from the original flight time until the Eurostar departure time. It should also add 
8% simple interest a year* from the date of the claim until the payment is made.
*If Astrenska considers its required by HM Revenue & Customs to deduct income tax from 
that interest, it should tell Ms L and Mr T how much its taken off.  It should also give Ms L 
and Mr T a tax deduction certificate if they ask for one, so they can reclaim the tax from HM 
Revenue & Customs if appropriate.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I partly uphold the complaint and require Astrenska 
Insurance Limited to pay compensation as set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms L and Mr T to 
accept or reject my decision before 7 November 2023. Carole Clark
Ombudsman