DRN-2965171
The complaint
Mr H is unhappy with DAS Legal Expenses Insurance Company Limiteds decision to decline 
his claim. 
What happened
Mr H has legal expenses cover provided by his home insurance policy. He made a claim 
following an unsuccessful job application as he wanted to take legal action against his 
prospective employer. However, DAS declined his claim and said there wasnt cover 
available in the circumstances.
Our investigator said that DAS declined the claim fairly because Mr H wasnt offered a 
contract of employment. He said that an application for employment isnt enough to satisfy 
the terms, or that there was an unconditional offer of employment in any form on the horizon.
Mr H didnt agree for a number of reasons, Ive summarised the key arguments below;
The terms refer to covering disputes for future employment and so his claim is within 
the scope of the policy;
He referred to other legally trained parties that also agreed his claim is within the 
policy scope for the same reasons;
He said the investigator has misunderstood the policy terms, in particular, the 
standard understanding of grammar and syntax and
The policy provides cover in similar circumstances where commitments for future 
training courses cannot be fulfilled.
And so, its for me to make a final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided not to uphold it. My reasons for doing so are similar to those 
already explained by our investigator. I note our investigator attempted to explain his 
rationale more clearly by giving a more detailed explanation, however, this appears to have 
driven unnecessary, and complicated arguments in response from Mr H, including 
hypothetical scenarios which I think are arbitrary in the circumstances. Ill explain why.
DAS must not decline a claim unfairly or avoid paying a claim. And so, I carefully thought 
about its reasons for doing so. The policy terms say;
We will cover the costs and expenses for the following:
 A dispute relating to your contract of employment or future employment for
your or their work as an employee
To satisfy this term, Mr H must first show that he had a contract of employment, but for the 
reasons Ive explained, he was unable to do this as his application for employment was 
unsuccessful. This also extends to the future employment part of the terms. Put simply, there 
was no future employment contract between Mr H and his prospective employer for the 
same reasons. I understand the arguments that Mr H has made but there was no contract 
between him and the employer for employment or future employment. 
The terms dont say anything about potential contract of employment or potential future 
employment, which is the only way I think he could successfully argue his case here. Its for 
these reasons I dont uphold this complaint because DAS has declined it fairly in the 
circumstances.    
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint because DAS hasnt made a mistake by declining it. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 4 October 2021.
 
Scott Slade
Ombudsman