DRN-3077184
The complaint
Mr I complains that he was given unsuitable advice by an appointed representative of 
bdhSterling Limited to invest pension funds into an unregulated investment which has since 
lost all its value.
What happened
In 2012, Mr I sought advice on one of his pension plans which was invested in global 
equities, property, fixed interest and cash and worth around £130k. He was interested to see 
whether he could invest it differently as returns had been disappointing. The adviser 
recommended him to transfer the plan into a Self-Invested Personal Pension and invest 
£123k through Global Forestry Investments (GFI) into timber plantations in Brazil. 
At the time Mr I was 57. A fact find from a few years earlier in 2008 said he was on a salary 
of £170k, had a house worth around £1m without a mortgage as well as a second property 
abroad worth £250k and investments in hedge funds and stocks worth around £445k. It 
seems Mr Is circumstances were similar in 2012. He also had a defined benefit pension 
which was due to pay him a guaranteed income of around £40k per year from age 60 and 
another pension worth around £95k.
Mr Is attitude to risk was recorded as aggressive which was described as:
You are seeking higher potential for returns on your investments, and are willing to invest in areas 
that carry greater risk, using all of your assets in this way. This would typically mean a portfolio 
invested completely in equities. An aggressive investor seeking higher returns, but with a short 
investment term may choose to allocate a proportion of their assets in more liquid, lower risk assets 
such as corporate bonds.
Investment returns were not paid as expected and the directors of GFI started to be 
investigated for fraud by the Serious Fraud Office (SFO) a few years later. Mr I was in 
communications with the adviser over several years trying to get his investment back which 
was unsuccessful. The investment is currently recorded with a nil value by the SIPP 
provider.
Mr I made a formal complaint in 2019. bdhSterling said it was brought too late, but an 
ombudsman at this service decided Mr I had already expressed dissatisfaction and made a 
complaint, as defined by the glossary in the FCA handbook, in 2015 which was within the 
prescribed time limits.
One of our investigators then considered the merits of Mr Is complaint and thought it should 
be upheld. He didnt think the advice to invest such a large amount into an unregulated and 
niche investment was suitable in Mr Is circumstances.
bdhSterling didnt agree. They pointed out that Mr I had the willingness and capacity to 
invest adventurously and that he also had the knowledge and experience to understand the 
characteristics of the investment in terms of diversification, liquidity and risk. He had been an 
investment manager of a venture capital business and he had signed a Sophisticated /High 
Net Worth Investor statement.
The investigator still remained of the opinion that the investment was unsuitable and as no 
agreement could be reached the complaint was referred to me for a final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr I has confirmed that he was interested in exploring options to invest his personal pension 
differently and that he was prepared to take more risk with this part of his retirement benefits. 
Its also clear that Mr I had some capacity for loss as he had guaranteed pension benefits 
through an occupational pension and significant other assets.
I think moving his plan to a SIPP which would enable different investment options was 
probably suitable. However, I think the recommendation to invest such a large amount 
exclusively into one niche, unregulated product which had multiple significant risks attached 
was not.
Even though the adviser in his statement to the SFO said this was a high-risk product he 
only promoted to clients who could take such risk, the suitability report issued to Mr I 
described the investment as medium risk. The adviser said he focussed in his advice to 
clients on guaranteed returns (the investment brochures said this would be 10-12.5% a year) 
and that this was an alternative asset class.
From correspondence Ive seen between Mr I and the adviser in 2015 and from what Mr I 
told this service during his complaint its clear the main reasons for investing were the 
promised fixed returns and the fact the investment could be withdrawn (including a 5% uplift) 
after three years. 
Mr I was 57 at the time and wanted to retire at 65, whereas the investment was a long-term 
investment geared at a time frame of 18-25 years. So I dont think this was suitable for 
someone of Mr Is age. The probable need to access funds earlier at any point was 
foreseeable even if he had other assets. And I think it should have been evident from the 
nature of the investment that the withdrawal of funds could have been problematic, even if 
the brochures said investors could have their investments back after three years -with 
interest. Niche investments like this often have liquidity issues as there is generally no 
secondary market. 
I appreciate the adviser said he received some due diligence documents from another firm 
which had introduced him to this investment and he felt the investment stacked up and 
there was no reason to doubt anything. However, I think the promise of fixed returns and 
flexible access to capital with interest after three years should have raised concerns that this 
appeared too good to be true. The adviser said he relied on information that the investment 
had run for two years and other investors had received returns and that other big firms were 
involved. However, the majority of information was provided by one of the directors of GFI 
and the firm who had introduced the adviser to GFI. So I dont think it was enough to mainly 
rely on this information from parties who had a vested interest in this investment. Overall, I 
think the risks of this investment were either not fully understood or underplayed by the 
adviser.
I considered whether Mr I had enough investment experience to understand the concept and 
risk of this investment. Its true that he was working as an investment manager at a venture 
capital firm. However, looking at his experience on LinkedIn, which is what bdhSterling 
referred to, I can see that he had only started this role a month before he received the 
suitability report from the adviser and that had no real background in financial services. His experience was in consultancy, mainly in the public sector.
Its likely Mr I was not completely financially inexperienced. However, Im not convinced that 
Mr I was a sophisticated investor who would have had the necessary knowledge to fully 
understand this investment either through his professional or personal investment 
experience. 
The statement he signed related to sophisticated or high net worth investors. And Mr I 
declared he qualified as such (not specifying which one of those categories), so investment 
materials which hadnt been approved by an authorised person could be promoted to him. 
He was certainly high-net worth and he did have some investments in a hedge fund and 
stocks. These might have been slightly higher risk investments. However, Mr I told us his 
hedge fund was invested since 2001 and not managed by him and I havent seen evidence 
that he was invested in particularly speculative or non-standard and niche investments 
previously. I also note that it was the advisers idea to invest in GFI and not Mr Is. From 
what Ive seen I think Mr I relied on the advisers recommendations and advice.
As I said above I think Mr I was likely interested in hearing about other ways of investing and 
he surely wasnt risk-averse. However, I think the adviser could have achieved Mr Is aims 
without advising him to invest such a large sum into one unregulated, non-standard, long-
term investment which promised guaranteed high returns and downplayed risks. 
Overall, I dont think the advice to invest this way- and certainly not to this extent -was 
suitable for Mr I.
Putting things right
My aim is to put Mr I as far as possible in the position he would be in now if suitable advice 
had been given. He was looking to invest differently, so I think he likely wouldnt have stayed 
in his existing personal pension plan and I think its fairly likely he would have ended up in a 
SIPP. 
It is not possible to say precisely how he would have invested, but I am satisfied that what I 
have set out below is fair and reasonable given Mr Is circumstances and objectives when he 
invested.
To compensate Mr I fairly bdhSterling Limited should:
Compare the performance of Mr Is investment with that of the benchmark shown
below. If the fair value is greater than the actual value, there is a loss and compensation is 
payable. If the actual value is greater than the fair value, no compensation is payable. 
bdhSterling should also pay any interest set out below.
If there is a loss, they should pay this sum into Mr Is pension plan, to increase its value by 
the amount of the compensation and any interest. The payment should allow for the effect of 
charges and any available tax relief. They shouldnt pay the compensation into the pension 
plan if it would conflict with any existing protection or allowance.
If bdhSterling are unable to pay the compensation into Mr Is pension plan, they should pay 
that amount direct to him. But had it been possible to pay into the plan, it would have 
provided a taxable income. Therefore the compensation should be reduced to notionally 
allow for any income tax that would otherwise have been paid.
The notional allowance should be calculated using Mr Is actual or expected marginal rate
of tax at his selected retirement age-presumed to be 40%.However, if Mr I would have been able to take a tax free lump sum, the reduction should be 
applied to 75% of the compensation.
In addition, bdhSterling should pay Mr I £300 for the upset caused by the substantial
financial loss which was incurred due to the unsuitable advice.
investment 
namestatus benchmarkfrom (start 
date)to (end 
date)additional 
interest
GFI 
investmentilliquidFTSE UK 
Private Investor 
Growth Indexdate of 
investmentdate of this 
final 
decision8% simple per 
year from 
date of final 
decision to 
date of 
settlement (if 
compensation 
is not paid 
within 28 days 
of the 
business 
being notified 
of 
acceptance)
Income tax may be payable on any interest paid. If bdhSterling consider that theyre required 
by HM Revenue & Customs to deduct income tax from that interest, they should tell Mr I how 
much theyve taken off. They should also give Mr I a tax deduction certificate if he asks for 
one, so he can reclaim the tax from HM Revenue & Customs if appropriate
Actual value
This means the actual amount payable from the investment at the end date. If, at the end 
date, the investment is illiquid (meaning it cannot be readily sold on the open market), it may 
be difficult to find the actual value of the investment. So, the actual value should be assumed 
to be nil to arrive at fair compensation. bdhSterling should take ownership of the illiquid
investment by paying a commercial value acceptable to the pension provider. This amount
should be deducted from the compensation and the balance paid as above.
If they are unable to purchase the investment the actual value should be assumed to be nil 
for the purpose of calculation. bdhSterling may wish to require that Mr I provides an 
undertaking to pay them any amount he may receive from the investment in the future. That 
undertaking must allow for any tax and charges that would be incurred on drawing the 
receipt from the pension plan. bdhSterling will need to meet any costs in drawing up the 
undertaking.
Fair value
This is what the investment would have been worth at the end date had it produced a return
using the benchmark. Any additional sum paid into the investment should be added to the 
fair value calculation from the point in time when it was actually paid in. Any withdrawal, 
income or other distribution out of the investment should be deducted from the fair value at 
the point it was actually paid so it ceases to accrue any return in the calculation from that 
point on. If there is a large number of regular payments, to keep calculations simpler, Ill 
accept if bdhSterling total all those payments and deduct that figure at the end instead of 
deducting periodically.Why is this remedy suitable?
Ive chosen this method of compensation because:
Mr I wanted capital growth and was willing to accept higher investment risk.
FTSE UK Private Investor Growth Index is made up of a range of indices with 
different asset classes. Its a fair measure for someone who was prepared to take a 
higher than average risk to get a higher return.
The mix and diversification provided within the index is close enough to allow me to 
use it as a reasonable measure of comparison given Mr Is circumstances and risk
attitude.
My final decision
Where I uphold a complaint, I can award fair compensation to be paid by a financial
business of up to £160,000 plus any interest and/or costs/ interest on costs that I think are
appropriate. If I think that fair compensation is more than £160,000 I may recommend that
the business pays the balance.
Decision and award: I uphold the complaint. I think that fair compensation should be
calculated as set out above. My decision is that bdhSterling Limited should pay Mr I the
amount produced by that calculation  up to a maximum of £160,000 plus any interest as set
out above. The calculations should be presented to Mr I in a clear and easy to understand
format.
Recommendation: If the amount produced by the calculation of fair compensation is more
than £160,000 I recommend that bdhSterling Limited pay Mr I the balance. This 
recommendation is not part of my determination or award. bdhSterling Limited dont have to 
do what I recommend. Its unlikely that Mr I can accept my decision and go to court to
ask for the balance. Mr I may want to get independent legal advice before deciding whether
to accept this decision.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr I to accept or 
reject my decision before 25 November 2021.
 
Nina Walter
Ombudsman