DRN-2525579
The complaint
Mr N has complained Barclays Bank UK PLC wont refund him for a payment he made whilst 
under duress.
What happened
In April 2019 Mr N and friends went into a club. After some drinks, he arranged  with one 
friend  to go into a private room with a dancer. He paid £660 on his Barclays debit card for 
a dance. At the end of the dance he was told the payment hadnt been processed, so hed 
have to make the payment again. Mr N was suspicious but wasnt keen on having to deal 
with the club bouncer so using the same card, entered his PIN into the card terminal. He was 
also with a friend and wanted to finish the bottle they had left to drink.
As soon as he realised hed been charged twice, Mr N complained. Barclays raised this as a 
chargeback dispute on the basis thered been a duplicate transaction. The club disputed the 
chargeback and provided evidence of two card terminal slips along with two receipts for 
chips (services) bought at the club. Mr N disputed either of the signatures were his. 
Dissatisfied with Barclays, Mr N brought his complaint to the ombudsman service.
Our investigator didnt think the evidence supported Mr Ns story that hed been duped. He 
felt Mr N had consented to the two transactions in line with the payment services regulations.
Mr N remained unhappy with this outcome. Hes asked an ombudsman to make a decision 
on his complaint.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I explain below why Ive reached the decision I have.
Where there is a dispute about what happened, I have based my decision on the balance of 
probabilities. In other words, on what I consider is most likely to have happened in the light 
of the evidence.
When considering what is fair and reasonable, Im required to take into account: relevant law 
and regulations; regulators rules, guidance and standards; codes of practice; and, where 
appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry practice at the relevant time.
To help me reach a decision, Ive considered evidence provided to us by Barclays as well as 
Mr Ns detailed submissions. Ive also noted the detail in our investigators view of 
18 September 2020 but feel no need to rerun some of the arguments made there. I will, of 
course, refer to those aspects which drive the decision Im making.
Its worth stating upfront that by using his card and PIN, regardless of the amount on the 
terminal or even whether Mr N was so drunk he hadnt noticed what it said, Mr N was 
consenting to the transactions. Mr N has told us himself that he did enter his PIN for both of 
the transactions (timed at 04:08 and 04:48) so I dont think its a stretch to say  under the 
law  he consented to the transactions. The Payment Services Regulations primarily require 
banks to refund customers if they didnt make or authorise payments themselves. I dont 
think theres any dispute in Mr Ns case that he authorised the transactions himself.  
My starting point is therefore as Mr N authorised both transactions, is there any basis for 
asking Barclays to refund him? Barclays did raise a dispute under the chargeback rules.
The chargeback rules are managed by the relevant international card schemes. Theyre not 
a guarantee of a refund. But these rules can offer customers whove bought something 
which turns out to be not what they expected a simple and effective way of being 
reimbursed. Or they can be used in cases like Mr Ns where a duplicate transaction is in 
dispute.
Ive got no ability to change these rules so must review to see whether Barclays applied 
these fairly when looking at what happened. Barclays immediate claim was rejected by the 
club. They provided evidence to back up their claim that Mr N bought  and paid for  two 
lots of services at £660 each.  Barclays could opt to challenge this further but only if they felt 
there was any chance of this being successful. Based on the evidence Barclays was 
presented with, I can see why they felt this was the end of the chargeback process. I dont 
think they did anything wrong in this.
I appreciate the evidence Mr N has submitted. This has backed up his view that the 
signatures on the club receipts arent his. But I dont agree this evidence is as crucial as he 
argues. I say this as he admits paying £660 for one set of chips but neither receipt seems to 
match his signature so this doesnt take us any further. Whilst its clear Mr N entered his PIN 
into the card terminal twice.
I dont doubt for one minute his belief that he was scammed and made to pay for one set of 
services twice. However I dont believe theres any basis for asking Barclays to refund him. 
Firstly Mr N authorised this payment and secondly the club has defended the chargeback 
claim successfully.
I do have leeway under our fair and reasonable remit to consider further whether theres any 
basis for asking Barclays to refund Mr N. Unfortunately as Mr N admits authorising these 
transactions, I really cant see that it would be fair and reasonable to ask Barclays to do 
anything further.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given, my final decision is not to uphold Mr Ns complaint against 
Barclays Bank UK PLC.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr N to accept or 
reject my decision before 23 June 2021.
 
Sandra Quinn
Ombudsman