DRN-2448720
The complaint
Mr and Mrs T are unhappy with the way that U K Insurance Limited handled a claim on their 
travel insurance policy.  
What happened
Mr and Mrs T have a travel insurance policy which is linked to a package bank account. In
January 2019 they were on holiday when Mrs T became unwell. She was diagnosed with a
kidney stone and infection. She was treated in hospital and was discharged following
successful treatment and surgery.
Mr and Mrs T feel they didnt get a lot of support from UKI during the period of time that
Mrs T was unwell. They were unhappy with the hospital taking Mrs Ts passport in order to
secure payment. And they were also unhappy that UKI refused to cover the cost of an
upgraded flight, additional hotel costs and the costs for an excursion they were unable to go
on. They complained to UKI.
In summary, UKI said that Mr and Mrs T had been told not to book the upgraded flights. 
They explained that as Mr and Mrs Ts excursion was on a bed and breakfast basis they 
were only entitled to bed and breakfast at the hotel where unexpectedly spent the final days 
of their holiday. They also explained that associated costs  such as food, taxis and the 
excursion costs werent covered under their policy. However, they did identify some delays 
and customer service failings. So, they offered Mr and Mrs T £100 compensation.
Mr and Mrs T made a complaint to our service. Our investigator looked into what had
happened and upheld their complaint in part. She didnt think that UKI was responsible for
the hospitals actions and theyd taken reasonable steps to validate Mrs Ts claim. And she
explained that some of the costs they wanted to claim werent covered under the policy.
However, she thought that UKI should cover the cost of the upgrade to business class as
UKI had never got back to Mr and Mrs T about whether this was covered. And she thought
they should pay any relevant hospital benefit.
Mr and Mrs T accepted the investigators findings. UKI didnt as they said Mr and Mrs T had
been asked to hold off booking the upgrade and hadnt given their agent 24 hours to respond
before doing so. They also explained the hospital benefit had been settled as part of the
original claim. Our investigator wasnt persuaded by that argument in relation to the upgrade,
highlighting that UKI hadnt got back in touch with Mr and Mrs T.
In November 2020 I issued a provisional decision upholding Mr and Mrs Ts complaint. In 
summary, I said that UKI should cover the cost of the upgraded flights as they hadnt 
contacted Mr and Mrs T to confirm the outcome of their review of the medical information. 
And I also thought that they should consider Mr and Mrs Ts holiday as effectively curtailed 
at the point Mrs T was admitted to hospital and reimburse their costs for a pre-booked trip 
extension. 
Mr and Mrs T accepted my provisional decision. UKI made further comments. In summary 
they said: 
Mr and Mrs T hadnt complained about not being informed about the outcome of the 
medical review 
The emergency assistance line didnt phone people late at night 
Mr and Mrs T could have contacted the assistance line as it is a 24 hour service 
Mr and Mrs T knew before booking the upgrade it may not have been covered. 
So, I now need to make my final decision.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As I outlined in my provisional decision the relevant rules and industry guidelines say that 
UKI has a responsibility to handle claims promptly and fairly. And they shouldnt reject a 
claim unreasonably.
UKI hasnt made any further representations about the effective curtailment of Mr and Mrs 
Ts holiday. So, theres no reason for me to reach a different outcome on that point. I remain 
satisfied that UKI should cover the cost of the trip extension which I understand is £658. 
The only remaining matter in dispute is therefore the flight upgrades. UKIs further 
representations havent changed my thoughts about the outcome of this complaint. I say that 
because: 
I dont agree that Mr and Mrs T need to make a separate complaint about the lack of 
information provided following the medical review. One of the central complaint 
points raised by Mr and Mrs T has always been UKI not covering the cost of the 
upgrade. The level of service provided by UKI during that time is relevant to why Mr 
and Mrs T booked the upgrade 
UKI said that they didnt phone Mr and Mrs T back once the medical review had been 
received as they dont phone customers late at night. It was received at around 9pm 
which I dont think is particularly late. And, it was also open to UKI to email Mr and 
Mrs T with an update
UKI completed the medical review on the evening of 14 January. The claim was 
accepted on the 16 January and Mr and Mrs T were due to return home on 17 
January. They had no update from UKI between the point the medical review was 
completed and their return home in which time they booked the upgrade. As UKI has 
pointed out their emergency assistance facility is a 24/7 service and I dont think this 
lack of communication was appropriate in the circumstances of this case 
UKI says Mr and Mrs T could have contacted them. But I think its reasonable to 
conclude that UKI ought to have been more proactive in contacting Mr and Mrs T 
particularly bearing in mind theyd already been through an upsetting and distressing 
experience due to Mrs Ts healthIn any event the medical review didnt comment in any detail on the consultants 
recommendation that Mr and Mrs T were upgraded. And it doesnt clearly explain 
why the medical team didnt think this was necessary. Mrs T had been hospitalised, 
had abdominal surgery and was recovering from an infection. She was also due to 
return home on a long-haul flight within a few days and whilst still recovering. Im not 
persuaded that it would have been reasonable for her to fly home without an 
upgrade, especially given that the consultant treating her had specifically 
recommended it and theres no persuasive evidence to confirm why it wasnt 
necessary for her.
Putting things right
I think UKI needs to put things right by covering the cost of the flight upgrade and the trip
Extension as Ive outlined above. They should also pay 8% simple interest from the date that 
the claim was paid to the date of settlement.
If UKI considers that its required by HM Revenue & Customs to deduct income tax from that
interest, it should tell Mr and Mrs T how much its taken off. It should also give Mr and Mrs T
a tax deduction certificate if they ask for one, so they can reclaim the tax from HM Revenue
& Customs if appropriate.
My final decision
Im upholding Mr and Mrs Ts complaint about UK Insurance Limited and direct it to put 
things right in the way Ive outlined above. Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman 
Service, Im required to ask Mrs T and Mr T to accept or reject my decision before 
4 February 2021.
 
Anna Wilshaw
Ombudsman