DRN-2500973
The complaint
Mr and Mrs N complain that Lloyds Bank PLC (Lloyds) mis-sold them a monthly premium 
payment protection insurance (PPI) policy.
What happened
In 1996 Mr and Mrs N were applying for a mortgage and the bank recommended they also 
take out PPI to protect their repayments. The PPI covered Mr N only. It cost just over £20 a 
month and would have paid out about £500 a month if Mr N had made a successful claim.
Mr N says he had good sick pay at the time and didnt need the PPI. He says he and Mrs N 
have paid for this insurance for many years without really knowing what it was for. They 
believe Lloyds took out the policy on their behalf, and that the bank was wrong to sell them 
the policy.
Our adjudicator did not uphold the complaint. Mr and Mrs N disagreed with the adjudicators 
opinion so the complaint has been passed to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding Mr and Mrs Ns case
I have decided not to uphold Mr and Mrs Ns complaint and Ive set out below my reasons for 
this.
This is a difficult case to decide because of the lack of available evidence from the time of 
the sale. So Ive based my decision on the evidence I do have and what I think is most likely 
to have happened.
Mr and Mrs N say theyve paid over many years for a product they didnt understand, and 
believe it was taken out by Lloyds on their behalf, as thats what the insurer (which Ill call 
P) told them. That isnt my (or this services) experience of how PPI was sold, even as long 
ago as 1996. PPI is an insurance product sold (often by banks) to individuals to assist them 
if they cant meet payments because they arent able to work for a variety of reasons. It isnt 
a policy taken out by a bank  because a bank couldnt claim if an individual couldnt work. It 
may well be that P provided PPI policies for Lloyds branded mortgages  but the policy was 
in Mr Ns name and paid for by him and Mrs N. 
Mr and Mrs N say P also told them they couldnt have a copy of the insurance policy 
because they were only beneficiaries. I cant comment on whether P was right to say what 
it did, because it wasnt Lloyds that said this  and this decision is, as it must be, only about 
what Lloyds did when it sold the PPI. Lloyds says it cant get a copy of the policy either, 
although I have seen samples of the sort of policy sold about this time. Ive had to rely on the 
information I do have to reach my decision.
Mr and Mrs N say they dont remember much about the sale of the PPI, and dont recall ever 
receiving any information about it. Mr N says hes been made redundant a couple of times 
and might well have claimed on the policy if hed known he could. 
Lloyds doesnt have the actual paperwork for either the mortgage or the PPI. But this isnt 
surprising given the sale took place nearly 25 years ago, and Mr and Mrs N have changed 
their mortgage arrangements several times since then. I wouldnt expect either Mr and Mrs N 
or Lloyds to keep paperwork indefinitely.
Ive seen from bank statements provided by Lloyds that Mr and Mrs N did make regular 
payments to P by direct debit. They must have signed a direct debit mandate for that to 
happen  and this was probably at the same time they applied for the mortgage, as thats 
what usually happened.
Having thought about Mr and Mrs Ns recollections and the paperwork provided by Lloyds, I 
think Lloyds sold this policy to Mr and Mrs N. And from what we know, it would have given 
them a choice about buying it. There isnt much information available, but Lloyds internal 
records do show it recorded answers to the sort of health related questions asked when PPI 
was sold  so it seems some discussion took place. And the policy was in Mr Ns name only 
even though the mortgage was in joint names. That also suggests there was a conversation 
about how the policy should be tailored to meet Mr and Mrs Ns needs.
I think its also likely that Lloyds (or P) sent the relevant literature to Mr and Mrs N after the 
sale. I say that because Ive seen a copy of the covering letter and schedule of insurance 
sent to Mr and Mrs N at the time. The letter is dated at about the same time Mr and Mrs Ns 
mortgage started, and says the insurance has been arranged (that is sold) by Lloyds and is 
underwritten by P. I appreciate Mr and Mrs N dont recall receiving this information  but I 
am satisfied it was sent. This was some time before Mr and Mrs N started paying for the PPI 
as it provided three months free cover.
Overall, I think Lloyds most likely gave Mr and Mrs N enough information for them to know 
they didnt have to buy the PPI, even though I do understand why theyve forgotten this over 
the years.
Lloyds thinks it recommended the PPI to Mr and Mrs N. This means that it needed to ensure 
that it met their needs. From what I know of Mr and Mrs Ns circumstances at the time, I 
think the policy was suitable for them.
- Mr N was eligible for the policy, and it doesnt look like hed have been affected by any of 
the significant limitations or exclusions of the cover, such as those relating to pre-existing 
medical conditions. I cant be sure, from the information Ive been sent, that Mrs N was 
working at the time  if she wasnt then she wouldnt have been eligible for cover.
- Mr N says he would have received some sick pay if he couldnt work. But this policy 
would pay on top of these benefits, and for longer than his sick pay lasted. A mortgage is 
a big commitment, and I think Mr and Mrs N would have had some use for the policy. 
- Lloyds needed to give Mr and Mrs N enough information for them to make an informed 
choice about buying the policy. I dont know exactly when they were told what the PPI 
would cost. But I do think theyd have known it cost something. The policy was competitively priced and apparently affordable, and I dont think when Mr and Mrs N first 
knew the cost affected their decision to buy the PPI. 
- Its possible that Lloyds could have provided more information about the policy, 
particularly in regard to the things that it didnt cover. But Mr N wasnt affected by any of 
these things at the time, so I dont think that more information would have caused him 
and Mrs N to change their minds about buying the policy. So they arent any worse off as 
a result of anything Lloyds may have done wrong. So theres nothing that Lloyds needs 
to do to put things right.
Mr and Mrs N have also said theyre dissatisfied with the way Lloyds handled their complaint 
about the PPI. And I can see that initially Lloyds couldnt find any records of it. I have seen 
records of Lloyds attempts to find a record of the sale, so Im satisfied it did look. Its 
possible, as Mr and Mrs N held their mortgage with a business that eventually became part 
of the Lloyds banking group, that some information was hard to find. But I think, once Lloyds 
knew the details of the insurance, that it handled the complaint reasonably. I accept there 
was a delay  but as Lloyds said, it was handling the last rush of complaints about PPI in the 
run up to the deadline for such complaints.
Finally Mr and Mrs N say they might have claimed on this insurance if theyd known what it 
covered. Its possible they might be able to make a retrospective claim  but theyll need to 
ask P about that.
My final decision
My decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs N and Mr N to 
accept or reject my decision before 4 June 2021.
 
Susan Peters
Ombudsman