DRN-4139665
The complaint
Miss C is unhappy with what Telefonica Seguros y Reaseguros Compania Aseguradora 
S.A.U. did after she made claims on her mobile phone insurance policy. 
What happened
In July 2022 Miss C experienced problems with her phone overheating and claimed on her 
policy with Telefonica. A replacement handset was provided the following day which Miss C 
says was faulty. Telefonica accepts there were then problems with collecting that device. 
And Miss C says further replacements that were then provided were also faulty. Telefonica 
offered a total of £125 in compensation (including amounts for call charges Miss C incurred 
and a partial refund of the excess shed paid). 
Our investigator accepted Miss C wanted Telefonica to provide her with a new phone but 
thought it had acted in line with the terms of the policy in offering refurbished devices. And 
Telefonica had tested one of the phones Miss C said was faulty and hadnt identified a 
problem with it. He agreed there had been failed collections and some poor communication 
with Miss C but thought the compensation it had already paid for this did enough to put 
things right. 
Miss C didnt agree. She highlighted ongoing issues with her current phone and thought the 
compensation should be increased to £250.  She also thought Telefonica should take 
responsibility for her broadband contract being cancelled because of additional charges she 
incurred in calling from her landline when contacting it about this matter. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I appreciate this matter has been distressing for Miss C and I was sorry to learn of the 
impact on her which shes outlined in correspondence with us. And its not in dispute that 
there were issues with the claims process; Telefonica accepted it couldnt evidence attempts 
to collect on some of the days this had been arranged and there was also some poor 
communication with Miss C. 
I accept that will have been inconvenient and distressing for Miss C. But Ive also taken into 
account the relatively short timeframe (around ten days) covered by these failings and that 
Miss C did have a mobile phone which worked, albeit with issues, throughout most of this 
period. And I think the £125 Telefonica has already offered (which includes charges Miss C 
incurred on her landline as reflected in an itemised bill she provided) does enough to put 
things right here. 
I appreciate Miss C wanted Telefonica to provide her with a new phone but her policy gives it 
the option of replacing her phone with a product of the same or a similar specification, as 
determined by Us. Replacement Equipment might be a different colour or model from a 
different manufacturer. It may be new, re-furbished, re-manufactured or re-packaged by a 
repair centre approved by Us.
So I think its acted in line with that in providing her with refurbished devices. Miss C had 
problems with the replacements provided devices but Ive seen notes which dont identify a 
problem with the phone Telefonica tested. And following Miss Cs concerns about the 
devices she was receiving I think Telefonica acted reasonably in bypassing its normal 
procedures and offering a door step phone swap to ensure Miss C was provided more 
quickly with a replacement phone. 
Miss C has also told us about issues with her current phone. Im not clear if these are 
ongoing as she also said she was intending to replace this device. But if there are 
outstanding issues thats something she may wish to let Telefonica know about. Miss C has 
also raised concerns about the cost of screen protectors she bought. Telefonica did agree to 
reimburse her for the cost of some of these in a previous final response so she may also 
wish to provide the supporting information she has about this to it. 
My final decision
Ive decided not to uphold this complaint. Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman 
Service, Im required to ask Miss C to accept or reject my decision before 4 August 2023.
 
James Park
Ombudsman