DRN-3722282
The complaint
Mrs J and Mr Ss complaint is about the way Santander UK Plc dealt with their request to 
port (transfer) their mortgage interest rate product onto a new property. To settle the 
complaint, they would like Santander to reimburse them for their financial losses.
What happened
I will summarise the complaint in less detail than its been presented. There are several 
reasons for this. First of all, the history of the matter is set out in detail in correspondence, 
and in the investigators letter dated 8 February 2022. All parties have a copy of that letter, 
so there is no need for me to repeat the details here. I will instead concentrate on giving the 
reasons for my decision. In addition, our decisions are published, so its important I dont 
include any information that might lead to Mrs J and Mr S being identified. So for these 
reasons, I will keep my summary of what happened quite brief.
After taking advice from their own independent financial adviser, Mrs J and Mr S took out a 
mortgage with Santander in 2019. They borrowed £420,000 over a term of 30 years, the first 
five years being on a fixed rate of 1.79% until 2 November 2024. If the mortgage was 
redeemed within that period, an early repayment charge (ERC) would be payable. The 
mortgage interest rate product was portable  that is, transferable to a new mortgage  
subject to the new application meeting Santanders lending criteria.
In 2020 Mrs J and Mr S decided to move. They found a property they wanted to buy and 
applied to port their mortgage interest rate product to the new property. The property was 
two flats, but Mrs J and Mr S said they intended to convert it into a single house and be used 
as a single dwelling. They say that Santander told them this would not be a problem, as a 
result of which they incurred a valuation fee. 
However, the bank had concerns following the valuation, because the vendor had told the 
valuer that Mrs J and Mr S told the vendor that they would be renting out the property for 
three years. Mrs J and Mr S denied this, but Santander said that if the property was changed 
into a single dwelling, they could reconsider lending on it, but the property wasnt suitable 
security whilst it was still two separate leasehold flats. Santander explained to 
Mrs J and Mr S that it was possible the mortgage could go ahead with a full retention on the 
funds until the work to convert the property into a single dwelling had been completed. 
Mrs J and Mr S sold their existing property on 16 December 2020, paying an ERC of just 
over £20,000 to Santander. They completed their purchase of the two leasehold properties 
on 1 April 2021 with (I assume  I have no details of this) a mortgage from a different lender.
Mrs J and Mr S complained to Santander. They say they were told by Santanders adviser 
that the property was suitable. They also complained about delays by Santander.
Santander didnt uphold the complaint. In its final response letter, the bank noted that 
Mrs J and Mr S had said the property was marketed as two flats but would be converted into 
a single dwelling. Santander said it had made it clear when discussing the application with 
Mrs J and Mr S that the application was subject to valuation.
Santander accepted there had been some delays in the application and offered 
compensation of £150 for this. 
Dissatisfied with Santanders response, the complaint was brought to the Financial 
Ombudsman Service. An investigator looked at what had happened. He thought the 
complaint should be upheld. The investigator said that Mr S had told Santander that he and 
Mrs J were purchasing the freehold in order to convert the property into a single dwelling. 
The investigator noted that Santander had explained that the application was subject to 
valuation, which he was satisfied was reasonable. However, he thought that Santander 
should have been clearer at an earlier point in the application process that the property 
wouldnt be suitable security  and that Mrs J and Mr S should have been told this before the 
valuer was instructed.
The investigator thought Santander should refund the valuation fee and any solicitors fees 
incurred in relation to porting their mortgage. He also thought that any information about the 
porting application should be removed from external databases (e.g. credit reference 
agencies). The investigator didnt think the £150 was sufficient compensation and asked 
Santander to pay a further £150, bringing total compensation to £300.
Neither Mrs J and Mr S nor Santander agreed with the investigators findings. Mr S, who has 
dealt with the complaint throughout, said that if theyd known sooner that the property 
wouldnt be suitable, theyd have looked for one that would meet Santanders lending 
criteria.
Santander didnt agree to refund the fees or pay any additional compensation either. The 
bank said that it had been told by Mr S that the entire property was freehold with no 
leaseholds. However, this was not the case, and so the property didnt meet its lending 
criteria.
 
Provisional decision
On 12 September 2022 I issued a provisional decision in which I made the following findings.
I confirm Ive listened to all the telephone calls, but Im not going to set out all the 
details of what was discussed. All parties have the call recordings to listen to. 
Ive looked at the property listing online. This shows that the property was 
constructed as two self-contained flats, with separate entrances. The estate agents 
particulars say:
The property was constructed as two purpose built flats and can be 
purchased as a single dwelling at £625,000 or as individual flats at £307,500 
for the ground floor and £317,500 for the first floor. It could, with relative ease, 
be converted to provide one substantial family home offering spacious and 
versatile accommodation. Currently each of the light, airy, well-proportioned 
flats offers a comfortable sitting room, well fitted kitchen/breakfast rooms, two 
bedrooms and en-suite facilities.Land Registry data shows that the property was purchased by Mrs J and Mr S as two 
separate leasehold flats, one for £300,000 and one for £325,000. 
The crux of this complaint is that Mr S is adamant that he made it clear to Santander 
before the valuation that this was two flats in one property, and that it would be 
converted into a single dwelling. However, the issue as far as Santander was 
concerned was that there were, in fact, two leasehold titles, and this wasnt made 
clear by Mr S. But once this came to light, it meant that Santander wasnt able to lend 
on this particular property whilst there were two separate leases and leasehold titles.
Im satisfied that Mr S told Santander that the property was entirely freehold. 
Santander asked a number of questions about this and Mr S said each time that the 
flats were on the same deed, and that there was one freehold and no leaseholds. 
I appreciate Mr S isnt a lawyer and so probably didnt understand the technical 
nuances of the transaction. There is, of course, a freehold title to the property, but 
this was subject to the two leasehold titles for each separate flat. What Mr and Mrs S 
were purchasing was the unexpired terms of the two leases (and this is borne out by 
the Land Registry data which shows they purchased the two leasehold flats), as well 
as the freehold title - which would probably have been for a nominal amount, as the 
value in the property came from the unexpired terms of the leases that were at the 
time in existence.
So although I understand that Mr S didnt tell Santander there were two separate 
leasehold titles (probably because he didnt know or, if he did, wasnt aware of the 
implications), this in itself doesnt mean that Santander misled him about approving 
the mortgage. Santander always made it clear that it was subject to valuation and 
lending criteria. 
Santander was also entitled to take into consideration the issued raised by the valuer 
at the time he inspected the property  which is that the vendor said that 
Mrs J and Mr S had told the vendor that their intention was to rent out the property as 
two flats. Although Mrs J and Mr S say this isnt the case, it was something that 
Santander couldnt overlook. I find that Santander was entitled to rely on what it was 
told by its own valuer. 
Im satisfied it was reasonable for Santander to agree to consider the mortgage on 
the basis of a full retention, pending satisfactory conversion of the property into a 
single dwelling, and the leases and leasehold titles extinguished, leaving only the 
freehold title. I appreciate this wasnt acceptable to Mrs J and Mr S, as they wouldnt 
have been able to complete the purchase without the mortgage funds.
Ive noted what Mr S has said  that if hed known about Santanders criteria, he and 
Mrs J could have looked for a more suitable property elsewhere, but werent able to 
do so because of time constraints. However, they knew in early January 2021 that 
the property wasnt suitable, yet didnt complete on their purchase until April 2021. 
Santander has clarified that porting doesnt have to be simultaneous, and that, 
because of extensions granted as a result of the pandemic, they had five months to 
port the mortgage and receive a refund of the ERC. Given this, Im not persuaded 
Mrs J and Mr S couldnt have found another property.
I note that Santander offered £150 for any delays in the application, which I think is 
reasonable in all the circumstances. I dont intend to order Santander to pay anything 
further.Responses to the provisional decision
Santander had nothing further to add. Mrs J and Mr S also had no other points to make other 
than their dissatisfaction with this service. Mrs J said she wasnt finished with the matter and 
would be doing her own external research and investigations.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive reviewed the file again from the outset, re-listened to the telephone calls and re-visited 
my provisional decision. Having done so, I can see no reason to depart from the conclusions 
I reached in my provisional decision.
I think the £150 offered by Santander for delays is fair and reasonable. But for the same 
reasons as given in my provisional decision  which are set out above  I dont find that 
Santander has done anything else that would warrant any other redress or compensation.
In closing, Ive noted what Mrs J has said about carrying out her own research and 
investigations. However, I must make it clear that this decision is our final word on the matter 
and so there is no further opportunity for Mrs J and Mr S to present us with any further 
evidence or arguments. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
This final decision concludes the Financial Ombudsman Services review of this complaint. 
This means that we are unable to consider the complaint any further, nor enter into any 
correspondence about the merits of it.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs J and Mr S to 
accept or reject my decision before 25 October 2022.
 
Jan O'Leary
Ombudsman