DRN-2687467
The complaint
 Mr S complaint about Creation Financial Services Limited (CFS) relates to an increase in 
his credit limit on his credit card account. This was increased twice in 2017/2018, which Mr S 
feels was irresponsible, as well as complaining that he was pressured into setting up a 
payment arrangement. 
He also complains that late payment charges, interest and over limit fees have been applied 
to his account.
What happened
 CFS increased Mr S credit limit in June 2017 from £6,000 to £7,000. It was increased for a 
second time on 1 January 2018 from £7,000 to £8,500. In May and June 2019 Mr S was 
unable to make his full monthly repayment and after that he wasnt able to make any 
repayments.
CFS said that Mr S met their lending criteria for both credit limit increases. They also said 
that when Mr S was in financial difficulty they referred him to their Customer Support Team 
in May 2019, but he was unwilling at that time to provide his income and expenditure details 
and so a temporary payment arrangement for three months was put in place. 
CFS also said that in December 2019 they offered Mr S the opportunity to speak with their 
specialist team dealing with vulnerable customers, but he declined that, and instead 
suggested a payment level of £150 per month which he said was affordable. So, CFS did not 
think they had acted unfairly.
Mr S was unhappy with CFSs final response and so approached this service to see if we 
could assist in resolving the dispute. As our investigator thought CFS hadnt done anything 
wrong, Mr S asked for the complaint to be passed to an Ombudsman for a final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
 Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I issued my Provisional Decision on the 25 February 2021 and both Mr S and CFS have 
responded. CFS have provided more information in the form of two spreadsheets in an 
attempt to further explain how the credit limit increases were approved. Mr S responded to 
clarify that he had been off work from June 2017 until mid-September of that year receiving 
only SSP from his employer. He also notified this service that he had received a letter from a 
debt collection agency acting on behalf of a third party who had recently bought his credit 
card debt from CFS, and that was causing him additional stress.
Dealing with that last point first, it is not something I can consider as it does not relate to this 
complaint against CFS, and it is not something CFS have initiated nor had the opportunity to 
respond to. 
In relation to Mr S health I was aware that he had indicated his health had been affected 
and I have taken that into account. As I said in my provisional decision I was very sorry to 
hear of the impact this matter has had upon Mr S health and I repeat that I do hope he has 
improved. 
There are two parts to Mr S complaint which I shall deal with separately.
Increase in Credit Limit
The relevant rules and guidance say that CFS was required to assess whether Mr S was 
able to repay any borrowing in a sustainable manner. Those rules and guidance are found in 
the Financial Conduct Authoritys (FCA) Consumer Credit sourcebook, along with best 
practice guidance from other organisations. They require businesses to undertake a 
reasonable assessment of a customers creditworthiness before they significantly increase a 
customers credit limit. And also, to consider how any increase may adversely impact a 
customers financial situation, by taking into account;
the information it already has about the customer at the time of the increase
the ability of the customer to make repayments as they fall due
information obtained from a credit reference agency (CRA), and
information on a consumers credit file plus any one of these three:
1) the customers income and financial commitments
2) how they have handled their finances in the past
3) internal credit scoring techniques
In Mr S case the first credit limit was an increase of £1,000 on an existing credit limit of 
£6,000. This is a significant increase. Mr S does not recall being asked any questions by the 
CFS agent about his financial situation at this time. CFS have confirmed that this credit limit 
increase was dealt with over the telephone and they have produced a copy of the agents 
notes. These are brief and in so far as they are relevant indicate that Mr S credit limit was 
increased in accordance with a pre-approved limit. 
CFS did not initially provide any evidence of how that pre-approved limit was calculated. 
What is now produced is a spreadsheet that contains some further information. Of note there 
is a bureau score, a last payment date, information on missed payments which in Mr S case 
show none in the last 12 months. 
CFS have also stated that Mr S passed all the rules they had in place at the time for their 
limit increases and described in general terms what criteria they looked at. Despite this 
further new information, and in the light of the rules and guidance I refer to above, I remain 
of the view that I cannot be satisfied that CFS has undertaken a reasonable assessment of 
Mr S creditworthiness before significantly increasing his credit limit. In these circumstances I 
think they have acted unfairly and irresponsibly.
In relation to the second increase in credit limit I can see that CFS sent Mr S a letter dated 
15 December 2017 informing him that it would be increasing his limit and advising him on 
what to do if he didnt want it. So, I think Mr S had the opportunity to reject the increase if he 
wanted to. CFS has also now produced a second spreadsheet which contains more information than the first. Whilst all this information can be useful, I cannot see it shows how 
CFS assessed Mr S creditworthiness or his ability to make repayments as they fell due.
So, I remain of the view that I again cannot be satisfied that CFS undertook a reasonable 
assessment of his creditworthiness before significantly increasing his credit limit on these 
two occasions. In these circumstances I think they have again acted unfairly and 
irresponsibly.
Payment Arrangement 
This element of the complaint surrounds the telephone call on 17 December 2019. During 
that call Mr S feels he was pressured into agreeing a repayment plan. I have asked CFS to 
produce a copy of the call, but they say they are unable to because the retention period for 
their call recordings is 12 months. 
I can however see that CFS responded to this element of the complaint in its final response 
letter on 24 March 2020 stating it had listened to the call and did not agree that its agent had 
pressurised Mr S. That is the best evidence there is of what happened during the 
conversation on the telephone since there is no other record of what was said. As I cant 
listen to the call, it is impossible for me to make any accurate assessment of it, but based 
upon the account provided in the final response letter which indicates that Mr S agreed to 
the repayment amount and confirmed it was affordable, I am satisfied that there wasnt any 
pressure brought to bear upon Mr S.
I cannot see that CFS have demonstrated that it undertook a reasonable assessment of Mr 
S creditworthiness either in June 2017 or when making the second increase a few months 
later. 
I appreciate I have been told what their general position is regarding increasing credit limits, 
and I also acknowledge Ive been told that the increase was in accordance with a pre-
approved limit. But there is little evidence to support how that limit was arrived at nor what 
was considered in doing so. And there is an absence of any evidence as to what CFS 
enquired of Mr S income and financial commitments. 
I have noted Mr S says he sustained a breakdown in June 2017 followed by a period from 
work. Had CFS followed the rules and guidance set out above they would have learned 
valuable pertinent information regarding his creditworthiness, and considering his account 
history, and the rise in his balance when awarding the second increase at the end of 2017, 
they would have learned his financial position was worsening at that time. 
Putting things right
I require CFS to remove any interest and charges applied after the credit limit increases and 
pay compensation of £200 to Mr S in respect of the trouble and upset caused.
My final decision
 Creation Financial Services Limited shall remove any interest and charges applied to Mr S 
account after each credit limit increase and pay compensation of £200 to Mr S in respect of 
the trouble and upset caused.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 14 April 2021. 
Jonathan Willis
Ombudsman