DRN-1463477
 
The complaint
Mr and Mrs A are unhappy with British Gas Insurance Limited (BG) who declined to pay for a 
new boiler, claimed under their home emergency policy. But later found the fault wasnt 
related to the boiler.  
What happened
In July 2019, Mr and Mrs A reported a fault with their heating system, in that the radiators 
came on without the heating being on. BG sent an engineer and he advised that the boiler 
needed to be replaced. On that advice, Mr and Mrs A obtained a new boiler from a third 
party.
Unfortunately, the issue persisted and Mr and Mrs contacted BG again. Another engineer 
was sent to inspect and found that two printed circuit boards needed to be changed. This 
was done and the problem was fixed.  
Mr and Mrs A were upset that the first engineer had misdiagnosed the problem and on BGs 
advice, Mr and Mrs A had purchased a new boiler. Mr and Mrs contacted BG to complain.  
 BG admitted that the initial fault was misdiagnosed and as a goodwill gesture, offered to pay 
£200.   
Mr and Mrs A were upset by this as they felt BG should pay for the full cost of the boiler. 
They brought their complaint to the service.
Our investigator upheld the complaint and found that BG had acted unfairly.  He said that Mr 
and Mrs A suffered financial loss as a result of BGs misdiagnosis and that the £200 offered 
was not fair. He initially said that BG should pay Mr and Mrs A the full cost of the new boiler.  
BG made further representations, citing the number of times it had advised Mr and Mrs A 
that they would need to change the boiler. The age of the boiler  19 years and that the 
boiler was on a restricted service list. Parts for it, were restricted due to its age. BG 
conceded that the £200 was unfair and increased the offer to £600.  
Our investigator further reviewed BGs representations and agreed that a fairer 
compensation would be the £600 offered by BG.  
Mr and Mrs A didnt agree with our investigator and asked for a decision from an 
ombudsman.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.I have considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of the complaint. Having done so, I will be upholding this 
complaint. I will now give my reasons why.
BG has accepted that its engineer misdiagnosed the original fault and as a result, Mr and 
Mrs A purchased a new boiler. In considering this complaint, I have to see if BG acted fairly 
in their increased offer of compensation.  
Mr and Mrs A have accepted that the age of their old boiler was 19 years. BG said on 
average the life expectancy of a boiler is 15 years.  BG said that the boiler had been on a 
restricted service list, which meant that due to its age, parts for it would be increasingly 
difficult to source as they would become unavailable. The boiler was put
on the list as long ago as 2010. BG also said that over the years it had advised Mr and Mrs 
A that they would need to replace their boiler but they had not followed their 
recommendation. Despite this the boiler was still in working order when Mr and Mrs A 
followed BGs advice and changed it.  
I accept that the boiler was replaced earlier than it would have been, at a cost incurred by Mr 
and Mrs A. The issue is how long would the boiler last before it actually needed to be 
changed? 
Our investigator originally awarded the cost of a new boiler, which effectively meant that BG 
would be making the payment on the basis that the boiler would last another 15 years.  I am 
persuaded by BGs argument that it would be highly unlikely that the old boiler would have 
lasted that long, given that it was coming to the end of its natural life. So I think that it would 
have been unfair for BG to bear the full cost of the boiler. 
But giving Mr and Mrs A the benefit of the doubt, I think that it would be reasonable that their 
boiler couldve lasted another five years.  So on this basis, I think that the increased offer of 
£600 seems a fair one in the circumstances.
Whilst I empathise with Mr and Mrs A at how disappointing this must be, I think that BG has 
acted fairly when it increased the offer. 
Putting things right
 My final decision is that I do uphold this complaint, for the reasons given. 
My final decision
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs A and Mr A to 
accept or reject my decision before 15 May 2020.
Ayisha Savage
Ombudsman