DRN-3228037
The complaint
Mr S complains about the information given to him by Monzo Bank Ltd when he requested a 
Covid payment holiday. 
What happened
In March 2020 Mr S contacted Monzo as he had been told to self-isolate for three months 
and was concerned about how he would pay his loan. Monzo offered to pause the loan 
payments for a short time but told Mr S to return closer to the point he needed the help. 
On 09 April 2020 Mr S contacted Monzo again with a similar question and was told that 
Monzo could give him 60 days breathing space on his loan, but it would be reported to the 
Credit Reference Agencies (CRAs) as a missed payment. Mr S had already told Monzo he 
didnt want any adverse data reported as he was shortly to apply for a mortgage. 
On 16 April 2020 Mr S contacted Monzo to ask if any payment break would impact his credit 
score. Monzo responded to say that the Covid payments holidays being offered to 
consumers at that point wouldnt impact his credit score and could be put in place for up to 
three months. At the time Mr S didnt ask for the Covid payment holiday to be put in place. 
Mr S then complained to Monzo, as he said he was given incorrect information regarding the 
reporting of missed payments to the CRAs. In his complaint, Mr S said it took three attempts 
to get the right information from a Monzo agent. Mr S asked for compensation for the trouble 
and upset the incorrect information had caused him.
Monzo looked into the complaint but didnt uphold it. Monzo said it had given Mr S correct 
information when asked. So, Mr S brought his complaint to our service.
Our investigator looked into the complaint and originally through the complaint should be 
upheld. Our investigator then received some more information after the view that changed 
her mind. Our investigator found that the information Monzo gave Mr S was correct at the 
time he enquired  on all three occasions. 
Mr S didnt agree with the investigators view, so the complaints been passed to me to issue 
a final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Based on the information Ive seen from Mr S and Monzo, Ive decided not to uphold this 
complaint, for largely the same reasons as the investigator. Ill explain why. 
When Mr S contacted Monzo in March 2020, the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) hadnt  
released its guidance on Covid payment holidays or provisions for those struggling 
financially during the pandemic. So, at this point, I wouldve expected Monzo to offer 
financial support from options it already had in place before the Covid pandemic. I can see 
Monzo did this. 
Mr S then contacted Monzo again at the start of April and again before the FCA put 
provisions and guidance in place on 14 April 2020. So, again at this point any plan or 
agreement Monzo made with Mr S to miss or lower his payments on his loan may well have 
had an impact on his credit file. 
When Mr made contact for the third time on 16 April 2020, the FCAs guidance was in place 
and Monzo offered to put Mr S on a Covid payment holiday without it impacting his credit file. 
As with both previous contacts Mr S made, the information the Monzo advisor gave Mr S 
was correct at the time of asking. 
Its worth noting that Monzo havent reported any adverse data to any CRAs and Mr S 
maintained his payments and has now paid the loan off. 
So, taking all the above into consideration, I dont find Monzo have made any errors or acted 
unfairly when it has communication with Mr S. All the information I can see that was passed 
on to Mr S was correct at the time of doing so. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 3 February 2022.
 
Tom Wagstaff
Ombudsman