DRN-3983317
The complaint
Mr D complains that Sanderson Drake Limited (SDL) are asking him to pay a 
disproportionate fee for a successful irresponsible lending complaint.
What happened
In February 2022 Mr D said he instructed SDL to pursue a credit affordability complaint. This 
was about a £5,000 Fixed Sum loan hed taken out in May 2021, repayable over 60 months. 
With the interest added this meant Mr D would have needed to repay £11,350.13 over the 
period of the loan. Mr D said the complaint was initially rejected by the lender and SDL 
referred his complaint to the Financial Ombudsman Service who found in his favour. Mr D 
had to repay the capital advanced to him, but all interest and charges were removed.
Mr D said SDL asked him to pay them a percentage fee which theyd calculated to be 
£2,133.64 based on what they said his redress for the complaint was - £6530.13. Mr D didnt 
agree as he said the percentage fee should be based on the interest hed already paid. Mr D 
said SDLs percentage fee should be calculated on a much lower redress amount of around 
£2,300. He complained to SDL.
SDL said Mr D had agreed to their terms and conditions. Mr D had a successful claim and 
hed received a balance reduction. They said they charged a percentage fee on the total 
amount of redress offered. Mr D had a balance reduction of £6,530.13, so their fee was 
justified.
Mr D didnt agree and referred his complaint to us. 
Our investigator said SDL had acted in accordance with their terms and conditions. And the 
fee they asked Mr D to pay was fair and reasonable.
Mr D said he hadnt agreed to the balance reduction and said hes having to pay more than 
when hed been repaying the loan. He asked for an ombudsman to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I know this will disappoint Mr D but having done so Im not upholding his complaint. I can see 
why Mr D is upset as the interest and charges for the loan have been removed, leaving him 
with a balance of around £2,000 still to pay. And then SDL asked him to pay their fee which 
theyd calculated to be over £2,000. As Mr Ds initial loan was for £5,000, he didnt consider 
hed benefitted from the success of his credit affordability complaint 
While I empathise with the position Mr D finds himself in, for me to say SDL must do 
something different I must first be satisfied that theyve done something wrong. I cant see
that they have here which is why I wont be asking them to do anything else. Ill explain why.
Its not in dispute that Mr D instructed SDL to act on his behalf in making a credit affordability 
complaint with his lender. Ive considered the terms and conditions Mr D agreed to when he 
instructed SDL. 
The agreement Mr D would have had with SDL was on a No win No fee basis. This means 
SDL charged a percentage success fee, not a fee based upon the amount of work they did. 
This meant any work done on any unsuccessful claims would be done for free. Where a 
claim was successful, SDLs fee maybe more or less than the value of the work they actually 
did. This is the risk taken by all parties in this type of agreement.
Mr D isnt disputing that SDL had been instructed by him, and that his complaint was 
successful. So Im satisfied that SDL can charge their percentage fee for Mr Ds successful 
claim. Whats in dispute is the amount SDL has charged for their percentage fee.
Mr Ds credit affordability complaint was successful so while he still needed to repay the 
principle amount of £5,000, the interest and charges for the loan were removed. From the 
loan agreement I can see the total amount Mr D would have had to repay over the period of 
the loan was £11,350.13, as this included interest and charges of £6530.13. 
I know Mr D believes he should only pay SDLs percentage fee on the interest hed already 
paid. But the success of his complaint meant that he didnt have to pay any interest or 
charges on the loan, in effect compensating him £6,530.13. SDLs terms and conditions say:
1.18 Balance Reduction means where you receive no physical money but your outstanding 
balance is reduced with your lender.
And Mr Ds outstanding balance was reduced by the lender from £11,350.13 to £5,000 a 
reduction of  £6,530.13.
As I consider the balance reduction amount to be £6,350.13, Ive looked at the terms and 
conditions about the fee SDL charge, they say:
4.1 We charge a percentage based success fee..
4.2 Our fee is inclusive of VAT and percentage of the total monetary redress offered in a 
Settlement Proposal; this can be a Cash Award (1.17), Balance Reduction (1.18) or 
Combination Award (1.19).
I can see the lender in calculating Mr Ds remaining balance removed in total £6530.13, 
leaving the principle amount of £5,000. The repayments that Mr D had already made to his 
loan £2.238 were offset in full (the interest element of his monthly repayment was removed) 
against the amount lent to him. This left Mr D with an outstanding balance of £2,762. 
The terms and conditions go on to provide monetary examples of how the fee would be 
calculated. And for an award of redress up to £9,999 SDL charged a fee inclusive of VAT of 
33.6%. SDL has charged Mr D a percentage fee of 33.6% inclusive of VAT for a balance 
reduction of £6530.13, which equates to £2133.64.
Mr D said he hasnt benefitted from the success of his complaint and so he doesnt accept 
the resolution for his credit affordability complaint. As the lender has abided by the resolution 
put forward by the Financial Ombudsman Service Mr D would have needed to accept their findings. And prior to SDLs involvement he would have needed to repay his lender over 60 
months £11,350.13. Because his complaint was successful, he now has to repay £5000 
(principle amount) and if I add SDLs fee £2133.64, a total of £7133.64. A difference of 
£4,216.49. 
I know Mr D said he would have settled his loan before the 60 months which would have 
meant he would have paid less interest; I cant know if this would or wouldnt have 
happened. I can only comment on the agreement hed with SDL. And Im satisfied that SDL 
has applied their terms and conditions fairly and reasonably.
SDLs terms and conditions also say:
4.3 Where a full balance reduction takes place, you will not receive any cash and you will 
need to pay our fee by an alternative source or pay us in instalments.
So, I would expect Mr D and SDL to work together to agree a suitable repayment plan for 
SDLs fee as Mr D still has an outstanding balance for the principle amount, he borrowed 
that he has to repay.
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision before 7 April 2023.
 
Anne Scarr
Ombudsman