DRN-2404083
The complaint
Miss C complains that Shop Direct Finance Company Limited (SDFC) didnt treat her fairly 
when she experienced financial difficulties. 
Miss C is represented by Mrs G, but for the purpose of this decision I have referred to 
Miss C throughout.
What happened
Miss C got into financial difficulties and after seeking advice from a debt advice service she 
was told to discuss her situation with SDFC and agree an informal payment arrangement. 
She contacted SDFC on several occasions but her offers of payments werent accepted 
Miss C says SDFC didnt explain clearly why her offers of payments were rejected and didnt 
acknowledge her vulnerability. Instead she kept being contacted to bring her account up to 
date. Miss C says that she was told her account would be passed to a debt collection 
agency which caused further anxiety as she didnt understand the consequences of this. 
Miss C felt under pressure to repay the debt and took out a loan with another creditor. This 
was for £1,000 and she needed a further £200 to be paid to meet the required settlement 
offer. She says that SDFC were aware of her situation and that she had other debts yet still 
accepted the £1,000 which further increased her indebtedness.
SDFC issued a final response letter dated 9 October 2019 and a further final response letter 
dated 13 August 2020. In these letters it said that when Miss C called and made repayment 
offers it gathered financial details and as these showed on each occasion that she had a 
budget deficit it wouldnt have been responsible to set up a payment arrangement on her 
account. It says its advisers tried to explain why Miss Cs repayment offers couldnt be 
accepted and tried to assist Miss C.  
SDFC said Miss C called in May 2019 and a reduced settlement payment was discussed. 
Miss C offered £1,000 but it said this couldnt be accepted and a settlement figure of £1,200 
was agreed. Its adviser asked Miss C about whether this payment would put her into further 
financial difficulties and Miss C said it wouldnt as she would borrow the money interest free 
from a family member. Miss C called on 6 June 2019 and said she could only pay £1,000 at 
that time. It was explained that the settlement offer would only be valid for 28 days and 
Miss C said she would pay the remaining £200 the next week. The £1,000 payment was 
accepted but Miss C then didnt make the additional payment. 
SDFC said in its October 2019 letter, that given the issues Miss C had raised her account 
would be passed to its specialist team and that the administration and interest charges 
would be refunded as a gesture of goodwill from the time Miss C contacted it to explain her 
financial difficulties. Regarding the transfer of the debt, SDFC said that it was explained to 
Miss C that if this happened the third party company would contact her to agree a longer 
term repayment arrangement. 
Our investigator thought that SDFC had treated Miss C positively and sympathetically by 
agreeing to freeze interest and charges on the account and referring Miss C to a debt advice 
service. She didnt think that SDFC was wrong not to set up a payment arrangement given 
Miss C had a budget deficit. Regarding the full and final settlement, our investigator noted 
that this was Miss Cs suggestion and that SDFC checked that the payments wouldnt put 
her in further financial difficulties. She noted that a token payment was discussed but it was 
said this could only be for six months. 
Our investigator said that once SDFC was made aware of Miss Cs mental health issues it 
transferred her account to its specialist team and actions were taken. She noted that since 
Miss C raised her complaint with this service SDFC had defaulted the debt, agreed not to 
sell it and was no longer chasing Miss C for the outstanding balance. However. she did think 
that SDFC could have explained the debt sale process better and the reasons why the 
payment arrangement offers were declined. Because of this she thought that Miss C should 
be paid £100 compensation. 
Miss C didnt accept our investigators view. She said SDFC didnt follow the guidance for 
dealing with a vulnerable consumer in financial difficulties and reiterated that adequate 
explanation wasnt provided as to why repayment offers were declined, a token payment not 
agreed and the consequences of a debt sale process. She says that the anxiety caused by 
the situation on the account and the calls received about bringing the account up to date 
meant she felt pressured to take on further debt. While the outstanding balance was no 
longer being chased, Miss C said that SDFC should also refund the £475 that was paid to 
settle the additional debt she took on to try to settle the account.
SDFC said that when Miss C made it aware of her mental health issues her account was 
referred to its specialist support team. It said the account was closed and default applied so 
that Miss C wasnt required to make any further repayments and was not being pursued 
although the debt was still valid. It said that this was adequate redress and that 
compensation wasnt warranted. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
This complaint is about how Miss C was treated after she contacted SDFC to explain she 
couldnt maintain the payments on her account. When a consumer contacts a creditor and 
lets them know they are experiencing financial difficulties we would expect the creditor to 
treat the consumer in a positive and sympathetic way.
I have listened to the calls that have been provided which took place between 19 February 
2019 and 29 July 2019. The advisers did try to assist Miss C on the calls, and I can hear 
they treated her with sympathy when she was explaining her situation.
When Miss C called in February 2019, an income and expenditure assessment was carried 
out and as this showed Miss C had a budget deficit I find that SDFC acted responsibly by not 
setting up a payment plan at that time, as this could have resulted in Miss C being under 
further pressure to make payments when she may have struggled to pay other priority bills. 
At this time, SDFC placed Miss Cs account on hold and referred her to a free debt advice 
service.
On the call on 6 March 2019, Miss C explained that she had spoken to the debt advice 
service and been told to come back to SDFC. She explained she was told about a debt relief 
order but said this wouldnt work for her. Her income and expenditure were assessed again 
but as she had a monthly deficit a payment plan couldnt be set up. She was referred back to 
the free debt advice service.Up to this stage I think that Miss C was treated fairly. She hadnt said anything about her 
mental health issues, and I do not find that SDFC should have been aware of these. While 
Miss C had explained her financial situation, I find that SDFC had taken reasonable action 
by carrying out income and expenditure assessments and then referring her to the debt 
advice service.
Miss C then called SDFC late in March 2019 to say she was returning to work and wanted to 
discuss making payments towards her account. She was asked to call back, and I can see 
she made a further call on 11 May.
On 11 May call, Miss C is clearly anxious about the situation on her account and asks on 
more than one occasion what she can do. She is clearly trying to reduce the debt she has 
with SDFC and while I agree that SDFC shouldnt set up a payment plan if this is 
unaffordable (as it appeared to be for Miss C) I find it could have done more to assist her at 
this stage. Miss C was referred back to the debt advice service, but she makes it clear she 
has tried this more than once and that she keeps being told to come back to SDFC. While I 
appreciate Miss C hadnt said she was suffering from mental health issues, I think her 
comments and desperation to try to find a resolution should have raised concerns that she 
was becoming increasingly distressed by the situation. I think she sounded vulnerable on the 
call and I think it would have been reasonable to have sought further assistance for her at 
this time.
Miss C then asked about getting a reduced settlement amount for her account. This was 
Miss Cs suggestion and SDFC checked that she wouldnt be increasing her financial 
difficulties by doing this. Miss C said the money would be borrowed from a family member 
and so no interest would be due. Miss Cs initial offer of £1,000 wasnt acceptable but then 
an amount of £1,200 was agreed. 
While I find that SDFC did try to understand whether the settlement payment would increase 
Miss Cs financial difficulties, I think that it should have been concerned that Miss C seemed 
desperate to find a solution. When she made the payment of £1,000 I think if would have 
been reasonable to ask further questions to understand how she was going to make the 
additional £200 payment to ensure the full settlement was paid. Instead the £1,000 was 
accepted and Miss C agreed to make the further payment the following Monday. 
Unfortunately, this didnt happen, and the settlement offered expired.
Overall, I find that SDFC did try to assist Miss C when she explained her financial difficulties. 
Its advisers tried to work with her and carried out income and expenditure assessments. I 
think it was responsible not to provide payment plans when the assessments showed a 
budget deficit. I also acknowledge that a token monthly payment was discussed but it was 
said that this would only be for six months. I agree that this wouldnt be along term solution 
for Miss C and that her circumstances werent likely to change significantly in six months. 
However, I think that further support should have been offered to Miss C to ensure she fully 
understood what would happen to her account if transferred to a third party and what the 
impact would be of the account defaulting. I think by the time of the call in May 2019, SDFC 
should have been concerned about Miss Cs possible vulnerability as she was becoming 
increasingly distressed by not having a plan in place for her debt. I think this resulted in her 
suggesting the settlement payment and I think further options could have been explored at 
this time.
Miss C made the payment of £1,000 and this was her choice. Her account has now been 
defaulted and SDFC said it wont be chasing her for the outstanding debt, I find that this 
resolves part of Miss Cs complaint. However, I do think that Miss C could have been provided with better service in May when she was clearly getting distressed about not being 
able to repay the debt. As Miss C had explained she had tried the debt advice service, and 
this hadnt yielded any results I think SDFC could have taken further action to refer her to a 
specialist team at that time which may have been able to assist her. Because of this I agree 
with our investigators recommendation of £100 compensation.
I understand the comment made about the refund of the £475 that had to be paid to settle 
the amount due to the other creditor. But as it was Miss Cs choice to pay the £1,000 and 
SDFC had asked about the payment source, I do not find I can hold SDFC responsible for 
the costs she incurred doing this.
Putting things right
Shop Direct Finance Company Limited should pay Miss C £100 as compensation for not 
providing the service it should have when Miss C made it clear she wanted to make 
payments towards her debt. 
My final decision
My final decision is that Shop Direct Finance Company Limited should take the actions set 
out above in settlement of this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss C to accept 
or reject my decision before 21 April 2021.
 
Jane Archer
Ombudsman