DRN-4226017
The complaint
Miss C complains that Morses Club PLC lent to her irresponsibly and without carrying out 
proper affordability checks.
What happened
Between April 2016 and October 2017 Morses Club approved five loans for Miss C. 
However, the dispute about the first four loans has been resolved, so this decision will only 
be considering loan five.
Loan five was given in October 2017 for £500 and was scheduled to be repaid at 
approximately £25 per week over a term of 33 weeks. Miss C was unable to maintain the 
repayments and ultimately Morses Club sold the debt to a third party.
When assessing the application, Morses Club asked Miss C about her financial 
circumstances.
The adjudicator thought that Morses Club shouldnt have given Miss C this loan, as by that 
stage she was clearly in a harmful pattern of borrowing. Morses Club didnt accept that view, 
highlighting that Miss Cs disposable income was more than enough to make the 
repayments affordable for her. So, the case has been passed to me for review and decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im going to uphold this complaint broadly for the same reasons as those of 
the adjudicator.
Morses Club is aware of its obligations under the rules and regulations in place at the 
time of this lending decision, including the Consumer Credit Sourcebook (CONC), so I 
wont repeat them here. But, briefly, it was required to carry out sufficient checks to 
ensure that Miss C would be able to repay the borrowing applied for in a sustainable 
way.
Morses Club asked Miss C about her income and expenditure (I&E) and possibly got 
confirmation of her benefit income when considering her loan application. Like the 
adjudicator, Im satisfied that its checks went far enough to demonstrate that the lending 
was not affordable and sustainable for her, based on everything it already knew.
The adjudicator highlighted several points of concern about the pattern of lending in place 
by the time of this loan. Those include the frequency of borrowing, and absence of any 
gaps between loans; increase in amounts being borrowed; and length of the lending 
relationship. I share all these concerns and agree that, taken together, they very strongly 
suggest that the borrower is effectively dependent on high-cost credit.
Morses Club does not accept that, highlighting how its assessment showed that Miss C 
had a healthy disposable income of £161 per week. Therefore the £25 repayment ought to 
have been comfortable for her.
I have looked carefully at the evidence and the I&E completed by Morses Club does not 
make sense, and Morses Clubs total reliance on it in defence of this complaint is not at all 
persuasive.
Miss Cs income was noted as being approximately £291 per week, and her expenditure 
£130. That was composed of £70 for utilities and £60 for groceries. In themselves, those 
look to be at least reasonable, and even generous, amounts. However, Morses Club 
appears to have accepted that Miss C had zero weekly expenditure for anything else  
such as rent, other debts, or childcare. That is particularly concerning as it would seem she 
had previously declared expenditure in those categories, in amounts that would have 
exceeded her supposed disposable income at this point.
Eighteen months earlier, when Morses Club granted loan one to Miss C, its credit check 
revealed that she had nearly £3,500 worth of unsecured debt. Six months earlier, when it 
granted loan four to her, Morses Club seems to have operated on the basis that Miss C 
needed £50 per week in order to service other debts. However, without carrying out a 
further credit check, at the point of loan five, it was happy to accept she had no other debt 
at all.
Taken with the pattern of lending already discussed, I would have expected a responsible 
lender to have looked at the I&E it was completing for this loan and see its implausibility 
and huge shortcomings.
It therefore follows that the evidence in this case leads me to uphold the complaint on the 
basis that Morses Clubs assessments did not demonstrate that the borrowing was 
affordable and sustainable for Miss C. The only reasonable conclusion it could have reached 
was that any further lending was most likely harmful to her, and it should therefore not have 
granted this loan.
Putting things right
In deciding what redress Morses Club should fairly pay in this case Ive thought about what 
might have happened had it stopped lending to Miss C at loan five, as Im satisfied it ought 
to have. Clearly there are a great many possible, and all hypothetical, answers to that 
question. 
For example, having been declined this lending Miss C may have simply left matters there, 
not attempting to obtain the funds from elsewhere  particularly as a relationship existed 
between them and this particular lender which they may not have had with others. If this 
wasnt a viable option, they may have looked to borrow the funds from a friend or relative  
assuming that was even possible.
Or, they may have decided to approach a third-party lender with the same application, or 
indeed a different application (i.e. for more or less borrowing). But even if they had done 
that, the information that would have been available to such a lender and how they would (or 
ought to have) treated an application which may or may not have been the same is 
impossible to now accurately reconstruct. From what Ive seen in this case, I certainly dont 
think I can fairly conclude there was a real and substantial chance that a new lender would 
have been able to lend to Miss C in a compliant way at this time.Having thought about all of these possibilities, Im not persuaded it would be fair or 
reasonable to conclude that Miss C would more likely than not have taken up any one of 
these options. So, it wouldnt be fair to now reduce Morses Clubs liability in this case for 
what Im satisfied it has done wrong and should put right.
Morses Club should buy the debt back, assuming it has in fact sold it, and then take the 
following steps. If it is not able to buy the debt back, then it should liaise with the new debt 
owner to achieve the results outlined below:
A) Morses Club must remove all interest, fees and charges from the loan, and treat any 
repayments made by Miss C as though they had been repayments of the principal on the 
loan. 
B) If this results in Miss C having made overpayments then it must refund these 
overpayments with 8% simple interest* calculated on the overpayments, from the date the 
payments were made, to the date the complaint is settled. 
C) Should there still be an outstanding balance following the actions set out in A, then 
Morses Club should agree a suitable repayment plan with Miss C.
D) The overall pattern of Miss Cs borrowing for loan five means any information recorded 
about it is adverse, so Morses Club must remove this loan entirely from her credit file. 
Morses Club does not have to remove loan five from Miss Cs credit file until it has been 
repaid, but it must still remove any adverse information recorded about this loan.
*HM Revenue & Customs requires Morses Club to deduct tax from this interest. It should
give Miss C a certificate showing how much tax its deducted, if she asks for one.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I uphold this complaint and direct Morses Club PLC to put 
things right as set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss C to accept 
or reject my decision before 29 September 2023. 
Siobhan McBride
Ombudsman