DRN-2890904
The complaint
Ms W complains that Barclays Bank UK PLC defaulted her account after sending 
correspondence about her arrears to the wrong address. She also complains that Barclays 
gave her mixed messages about whether she was still a joint account holder or not after the 
other account holder had asked for her to be removed.
What happened
Ms W had a joint current account with Barclays. I will call the other account holder Mr L. 
They live together. They moved house in 2011, and again in 2013, and Mr L told Barclays 
about both moves. I will refer to the three addresses they lived in, respectively, as the first 
address (until 2011), the second address (2011 to 2013), and the third address (since 2013). 
Each of these addresses appears on the account statements during the relevant periods.
Ms W only used the account for a couple of years. Eventually, she asked Mr L to remove her 
from the account. She says Mr L visited a branch of Barclays in 2016 and asked for this to 
be done. But the bank has no record of that visit, and it is not clear what actually happened. 
Ms W says that when she raised a complaint about the account in 2017 (about another 
issue), Barclays staff told her they could not discuss the account with her, because she was 
not an account holder. She says that when she visited a branch herself in 2019, the bank 
told her that the account appeared to have become a sole account some time between 
March and November 2016.
However, Barclays says its records show that the account continued to be a joint account 
until it was closed in 2017, and it was never changed to a sole account at any time. The 
account statements continued to be addressed to both Ms W and Mr L, at their third 
address, until the account was closed. The account had been overdrawn and in arrears 
throughout 2016, and so Ms W could not have been removed from the account without Mr L 
completing an affordability assessment, which had not been done.
The issue Ms W originally complained about in 2017 was that Barclays had defaulted her 
account without telling her. It transpired that Barclays had sent her arrears letters, the 
account termination notice, and indeed all correspondence addressed to her (except 
statements) to the first address. She had never received these letters, and so she had never 
had the opportunity to pay the arrears and avoid a default. She says that the default on her 
previously excellent credit file has caused her significant hardship. She had tried to buy a car 
on credit, but had ended up having to buy it outright, and her job applications had been 
unsuccessful because she had failed financial screening. She asked for the default to be 
removed. She also complained that Barclays had made it impossible to resolve this matter, 
because Barclays staff had insisted that she had ceased to be an account holder prior to the 
account closing. She later complained that Barclays had sent a letter about her complaint to 
her first address, even though her complaint was about sending letters to the wrong address.
In its final response to Ms Ws complaint, Barclays maintained that the account had always 
been a joint account and that there was no record of any request to remove her. But 
Barclays accepted that Ms W would not have known that, because all correspondence 
addressed directly to her had been sent to her first address. Meanwhile, Mr L had continued 
to receive letters addressed solely to him, at the third address. The bank statements 
addressed to both of them had been sent to the third address as well, but Barclays accepted 
that Mr L had probably been opening these and so Ms W had not seen them. Barclays 
accepted that if Ms W had known about the arrears, she would either have paid them off or 
agreed an arrangement to pay, to avoid a default. Barclays also apologised for sending a 
letter about her complaint to an old address.
In recognition of all of those errors, and the fact that Ms W had been unaware that her 
account was to be defaulted, Barclays cleared the outstanding balance (nearly £1,700) and 
paid her £240 for her inconvenience. In a phone call with Ms W, Barclays complaint handler 
also agreed to remove the default from her credit file  but he was overruled a couple of 
weeks later by another department. The banks Data Exceptions Team insisted that Ms W 
had never updated her address when she had moved house, and so it had sent the arrears 
letters and termination notice to her last known address, which had been the first address. 
(I will explain what they meant by this in the next section.) So the default was updated to 
show as fully settled, but it was not removed.
Ms W brought this complaint to our service, and our investigator upheld it. He said that since 
Barclays had sent the arrears notices and termination notice to the wrong address, Ms W 
had not been made aware that the account would be defaulted. He therefore concluded that 
the default should not have been placed on her credit file in the first place, and so it should 
be removed. He noted the banks argument that Ms W ought to have known she was still a 
joint account holder because the statements had been sent to the correct address, but he 
was not persuaded that this made any difference  she had still been entitled to proper 
notice. He thought that clearing the outstanding balance and the compensation Barclays had 
paid were fair compensation for all of the customer service failings.
Barclays did not agree with the investigators recommendation. It insisted that it had been 
obliged to send the termination notice to Ms Ws last known address, and this had been her 
first address. It had therefore acted correctly, and so the default had been reported 
accurately. It asked for an ombudsmans decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I have decided to uphold it, and to order Barclays to remove the default 
entirely. I will explain why.
The status of the account from 2016
Based on the evidence Barclays has provided, I think it is now clear that the account never 
stopped being a joint account, however unclear the situation may have been earlier. I dont 
know what went wrong in 2016 to prevent Ms W being taken off the account, and I dont 
think it is possible to get to the bottom of that now. But it is clear that the monthly account 
statements continued to be sent to the correct address and that they were addressed to both 
Mr L and Ms W. I accept that Ms W did not see them, and that she believed that she had 
been removed from the account. But I dont think I could fairly conclude that it was Barclays 
fault that this was not done. So I do not uphold this part of Ms Ws complaint.
The default
Barclays has explained that every customers details are recorded in its systems separately, 
each in their own profile. Every profile includes a residential address, which can only be updated by that customer and by no one else, not even by a customer with whom they have 
a joint account. So Mr L could not update Ms Ws residential address by himself.
As well as a customers residential address, their account can also have its own, different 
address, to which statements may be sent. In the case of a joint account, either account 
holder can update the accounts address.
When Mr L notified Barclays that he had moved house in 2011 and in 2013, his residential 
address and the joint account address were both updated together  but Ms Ws residential 
address was not changed. Consequently, their monthly statements were sent to the second 
address until 2013, and to the third address afterwards, and so were any arrears letters 
addressed solely to Mr L, and his termination notice. But for the entire lifetime of the account 
until it was closed, all correspondence addressed solely to Ms W continued to be sent to the 
first address.
I understand that explanation, and I accept that it is true. But I still do not accept that it 
follows that Barclays did enough to notify Ms W that her account was about to be defaulted. 
My reasons are as follows.
Firstly, Ms W did not know that she needed to update her address independently, and 
I would not have expected her to know that. She knew that Mr L had updated the address on 
the joint account in 2011 and in 2013, and I think it was reasonable of her to infer that this 
update applied to both of them. I also think it was foreseeable by Barclays that she would not 
have known that.
Secondly, Ms W and Mr L lived together. So in light of these first and second points, I think 
that when Mr L updated his residential address and the accounts address, it would have 
been reasonable of Barclays to pro-actively contact Ms W and ask her if her old address was 
still valid. In this regard, I note that one of the FCAs Principles of Business is to pay due 
regard to the information needs of its clients, and communicate information to them in a way 
which is clear, fair and not misleading, and I think it failed to do that here.
Thirdly, I find that the notion that the first address was her last known address is only a 
technicality which does not reflect the reality of the situation. Barclays had been told her new 
address.
I accept that Ms W never received any of the letters addressed solely to her after 2011, and 
in particular, she did not receive the termination notice to which she was entitled. I agree that 
Barclays continued to address statements to her and Mr L jointly, and that these went to the 
right address, but I also accept that Ms W did not see them after 2016, since Mr L ran the 
account by himself after she asked him to remove her from the account. I think it is more 
likely than not that if she had received the termination notice, she would have avoided a 
default by either paying the arrears or entering an arrangement to pay. So I conclude that 
but for the banks error in sending the notice to the wrong address, there would have been 
no default to report.
(For completeness, I have noted that Ms W also had two accounts with Barclaycard, and she 
updated her address on both of those accounts each time she moved. Barclaycard sent her 
statements to her correct address. But while Barclaycard and Barclays are part of the same 
banking group, they are separate entities, and they would not normally share their 
customers addresses with each other, or even link their respective customers profiles. I will 
treat this point as mostly neutral, except to say that receiving Barclaycards statements 
would probably have reinforced Ms Ws belief that Barclays knew she had moved. It also 
lends support to my inference that Ms W would have told Barclays she had moved, if she 
had realised that Mr L telling Barclays was not enough.)Putting things right
Since the default should not have been added in the first place, it should be removed, in 
order to put Ms Ws credit file back in the state in which it would have been if that error had 
not occurred. As well as the default, Barclays also added a note to Ms Ws credit file to the 
effect that she had moved home without updating her account with her new address. This 
note should also be removed, as well as the default, along with any other negative 
information about the account relating to anything which happened after 26 May 2017 (the 
date of the termination notice).
Aside from that, I think that clearing the outstanding balance, and the compensation of £240, 
are fair redress for everything, and so I wont order Barclays to pay more than it already has.
My final decision
My decision is that I uphold this complaint in part. I order Barclays Bank UK PLC to remove 
from Ms Ws credit file:
The default,
The note stating that Ms W had failed to update her address, and
Any other negative information about the joint account relating to anything which 
happened after 26 May 2017.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms W to accept or 
reject my decision before 8 September 2021. 
Richard Wood
Ombudsman