DRN-3612190
The complaint
Mr P complains TSB Bank plc stopped his debit card without sending a text message, as 
theyd done previously.   
What happened
Mr P holds a current account with TSB. 
Early in May 2022, he was using his card to fund gambling transactions. He says this is 
something he does on a regular basis. There are occasions when TSB require additional 
authentication and verification before transactions are authorised. He says TSB normally 
send him a text message advising of this so that hes able to respond. On this occasion, TSB 
didnt do that.
Mr P attempted to call TSB. But he had to wait an extended period to speak to someone and 
had to stop his gambling activities. As a result, Mr P feels he was financially impacted. 
The following day, Mr P complained to TSB. He wasnt happy they hadnt sent him a text 
message. He was also unhappy with the time hed spent on the telephone trying to speak to 
their fraud team 
TSB responded to Mr Ps complaint in a letter two days later. They said there were 
occasions when a requested payment requires a higher level of security. In this case, a text 
message wouldnt normally be sent, and they would wait for the customer to contact them 
before verifying its authenticity. They didnt agree theyd done anything wrong.
But TSB did accept Mr P had experienced very long wait times when trying to speak to their 
fraud department. They explained why that might be, apologised and paid Mr P £40 as 
compensation for the distress and inconvenience caused.
Unhappy with TSBs response, Mr P referred his complaint to this service. He said he was a 
regular gambler and the nature of this gambling activity usually resulted in early losses that 
are subsequently recovered. He thought TSBs actions meant he was unable to do that here 
which had impacted him financially. He said hed contacted TSB previously to explain his 
activities so they could record this on his file with them. 
Having looked at all the information available, our investigator didnt think TSB had done 
anything wrong or treated Mr P unfairly or unreasonably. Our investigator said TSBs 
account terms and conditions meant they could stop payments to request and undertake the 
checks they did here. And in any event, he thought there was no guarantee Mr P would 
definitely have recovered the losses hed accumulated. He also thought the compensation 
paid fairly reflected the inconvenience caused by the delays Mr P experienced on the 
telephone.
Mr P didnt agree with our investigators findings. He didnt think our investigator had fully 
understood the nature of his gambling activity. He also suggested that if the higher security 
checks TSB carried out were as a consequence of the amount(s) involved, hed already had 
a similar amount previously approved without problem.
As an agreement couldnt be reached, Mr Ps complaint has been passed to me to consider 
further and reach a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
All banks and financial businesses have an implied duty to exercise reasonable care and 
skill when acting on their customers instructions. This includes not completing transactions 
where there are reasonable grounds to believe there may be an attempt to misappropriate 
funds. In recent court cases, its been suggested that this duty arises once a business has 
been put on enquiry that there may be reasonable grounds (although not necessarily proof) 
for this belief.
TSB, like many financial businesses, have systems that enable them to swiftly identify 
potential situations that could put both themselves and their customers at risk of financial 
harm. There are reports that suggest attempts to defraud bank accounts have risen 
significantly since the start of the global pandemic. As a result, banks systems and 
processes have become more complex and rigorous to ensure all parties are protected as 
far as possible.
The terms and conditions that apply to Mr Ps account make provision for them to stop a 
transaction or block a bank account in certain circumstances. Their current terms and 
conditions are available on their website here https://www.tsb.co.uk/current-
accounts/classic-plus-account-terms-and-conditions.pdf. Specifically, they are covered in 
Section 3 on page 15 of this document. The important point is that TSB are able to take 
steps where they reasonably suspect there could be a problem. Their terms also say we 
might not be able to tell you if that means we might compromise our security measures.
In Mr Ps case, the transaction was flagged by TSBs systems for a higher-level security 
check. This is apparently different from their usual checks. And the referral wasnt 
specifically triggered by the amount involved. In such situations, TSBs policy is to not 
contact the customer, but wait for them to contact TSB.
It isnt the role of this service to ask a business to alter its policies and procedures or impose 
improvements on the level of service offered to their customers. These aspects fall firmly 
within the remit of the regulator  in this case, the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA). But it 
is our role to examine and decide whether a business has been fair and reasonable in the 
manner in which those policies and procedures are applied in the individual circumstances of 
Mr Ps experience with them.
TSBs security systems flagged Mr Ps transaction for a higher-level security check. 
Whatever the reason, TSB are often not able to provide specific details. These may be 
business sensitive to either TSB or organisations that feed information into their security 
systems. But where a potential problem is flagged, TSB are obliged to act upon it and 
respond appropriately. And from the information Ive seen, thats what they did here.
TSB have acknowledged that Mr P had to wait an extended period to speak to their fraud 
department. Theyve apologised for that and paid compensation of £40. And I think that 
response feels fair here.
I realise Mr P will be disappointed, but I cant reasonably say that TSB have done anything 
wrong here. So, I wont be asking them to do anything more.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold Mr Ps complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision before 29 December 2022.
 Dave Morgan
Ombudsman