DRN-3278896
The complaint
Mr H complains that Studio Retail Limited (Studio) provided him with increasing credit that 
he couldnt afford and which led to him missing payments, incurring charges and overall debt 
problems.
What happened
In February 2011 Studio approved Mr H for a catalogue shopping account with a limit of £80. 
This limit was increased by Studio multiple times until it reached £1,180 by March 2013. 
There were various problems with the account, and Studio began decreasing Mr Hs credit 
limit in June 2013. Ultimately the account was frozen in 2017 and sold on to a debt collection 
agency in 2018.
Mr H complained to Studio that the credit limit increases had caused him financial difficulties, 
expressed as debt problems in his original complaint to the business in February 2020. 
Studio initially said that Mr H had brought his complaint too late, so it wouldnt look into it, at 
which point Mr H brought his case to this service. Our adjudicator thought that Mr H hadnt 
raised his concerns too late, and so the case was in our jurisdiction.
Studio then provided what evidence it could about Mr Hs account, and the adjudicator 
investigated the complaint. He concluded that there was insufficient evidence available to 
conclude that the credit limit increases should not have been given. However, he initially 
thought that Studio should have frozen the account earlier than it did, namely in the summer 
of 2014, and so stopped adding interest and further charges. Studio didnt accept that, and 
some back and forth followed. Ultimately, the adjudicators original view, that the account 
should have been frozen in August 2014, was reinforced further, but Studio still didnt 
accept, and asked that the case be the subject of a final decision by an Ombudsman.
As there is no longer a dispute about the credit limit increases, I wont be commenting on 
them.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im upholding it and Ill explain why.
Firstly, Studio has asked for clarification on why the matter of its management of Mr Hs 
account  what it terms a forbearance complaint  has been considered at all. It says that 
Mr H has only complained about credit limit increases, and so it does not know why we have 
looked into anything beyond that. Further, it asserts that it has had no opportunity to 
investigate this element
I have several points to make in response:
I have no doubt that Studio is well aware of the Financial Ombudsman Services 
inquisitorial remit. Put simply, that means that our investigations are not confined to 
the letter of what a consumer complains about. We take a holistic look at a 
businesss actions in relation to the product or action that has been complained 
about.
In any event, I am satisfied that, whilst Mr H didnt explicitly raise a forbearance 
complaint, his testimony has consistently referred to financial difficulties which arose 
from this account: what he called debt problems. So I dont accept that his 
complaint is limited to the credit limit increases.
I am more than a little perplexed at Studios assertion that it has had no 
opportunity to investigate this element. As mentioned above, I believe that Mr H 
did refer to these matters in his original complaint of February 2020. That is over two 
years ago. Should Studio have required this element to be explicitly highlighted to it, 
that happened in November 2021 when the adjudicator explored it in depth in his 
view. That was nearly four months ago, and indeed Studio responded to the issue in 
detail. How it responded without investigating, I have no idea. But I am entirely clear 
that it has had ample opportunity to consider this issue and respond.
There is essentially only one issue in dispute in this case: whether, as a responsible lender, 
Studio should have frozen the account and stopped charging interest sooner than it did.
The adjudicator thought that Studio should have frozen this account in August 2014, and I 
agree for broadly the same reasons. In short, whilst Mr H didnt tell Studio until 2017 that he 
was in financial difficulty, Studio had a responsibility to monitor the account for signs of 
problems. And I conclude that there were sufficient signs by August 2014 to have made 
Studio aware that all was not well and to therefore take different actions in its management 
of Mr Hs account.
Key signs of problems were:
Multiple and repeated payment problems on the account, especially arrears, in the 
preceding ten months. Studio highlights that Mr H offered a range of reasons for 
these arrears, which in my view reinforces the concern  essentially Mr H was 
providing differing excuses, of variable plausibility, on a regular basis, which is 
consistent with an individual experiencing problems.
Studios decisions to reduce Mr Hs credit limit from June 2013 onwards. These 
decisions can only have been the result of regular account checking, as Studio 
accepts. The actual results of those checks are no longer available, but it is a 
reasonable assumption that they revealed concerns  there is no other plausible 
explanation for Studios actions.
Studio says that it wouldnt have been fair to stop Mr H buying things on this account, as he 
was buying essentials, which would have been much more expensive if purchased on 
the high street, and the cost could not have been spread. I am not a retail expert, and the 
price point of Studios goods is not relevant anyway. It is Studios actions as a regulated 
lender that are in question and the subject of my decision. For the reasons Ive explained, 
there were sufficient signs by August 2014 that Mr H was having persistent difficulties in 
successfully managing this credit facility to warrant action from Studio. The account should 
have been frozen in August 2014, not left to run until 2017. It therefore follows that I uphold 
this complaint.Putting things right
I require Studio to take the following steps.
Remove all interest and charges (including any BNPL interest) incurred on the 
account since 14 August 2014.
Calculate the balance on that date after those adjustments, and ensure any 
repayment made by Mr H since then is used to reduce that balance.
If that calculation means the adjusted balance would have been cleared, Studio must 
refund any remaining sums to Mr H with 8% simple interest*, calculated from the date 
of overpayment to the date of settlement.
If this rework means that Mr H owes no more money, Studio must remove adverse 
information about this account from 14 August 2014 onwards from Mr Hs credit file.
If after the adjustment an outstanding balance remains, Studio must try to arrange an 
affordable repayment plan with Mr. This may involve Studio repurchasing the debt 
from a third party, or liaising with that third party to ensure the above steps are 
undertaken. Once the balance has been fully cleared, any adverse information about 
the account should be removed from Mr Hs credit file.
*HM Revenue and Customs requires Studio to deduct tax from any award of interest. It must 
give Mr H a certificate showing how much tax has been taken off if he asks for one. If it 
intends to apply the refund to reduce an outstanding balance, it must do so after deducting 
the tax.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I uphold this complaint and direct Studio Retail Limited to put 
things right as set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 13 April 2022. 
Siobhan McBride
Ombudsman