DRN-2807580
The complaint
Ms F complains Zurich Assurance Ltd (Zurich) unfairly suspended her income protection 
benefits. Her complaint is brought on her behalf by a representative. But for ease, I will refer 
to all submissions as having been made by Ms F herself. 
What happened
Ms F holds an income protection policy through her employer. She became unwell and 
originally stopped working in November 2016, and Zurich accepted the claim. She was 
diagnosed with Sleep Apnoea (since resolved) and later Chronic fatigue Syndrome / Myalgic 
Encephalomyelitis (CFS).
Ms F returned to work on a gradual basis in April 2017, but didnt reach her full-time hours. 
Zurich arranged an Independent Medical Exam (IME) in November 2017. And Ms F 
continued to work reduced hours until April 2018, when she stopped working due to illness.
Ms F was diagnosed with CFS in April 2018 by Dr J, and Dr B. Dr J recommended she 
should remain off work for eight to twelve weeks. And said he provisionally agreed with a 
phased return to work. Ms F also saw Dr W, a consultant physician, in May 2018. He said 
Ms F should have three months of complete rest, and if after this time she was feeling better, 
he thought she could return to work gradually.
Ms F continued to see Dr J and Dr W during in the months that followed, and both said she 
was unfit for work.
Zurichs CMO contacted Dr J. He said he thought Ms F was able to begin a gradual return of 
one hour per day from home from mid-November 2018. He said this approach was in line 
with NICE guidelines and rehabilitation support would be provided. And it asked Dr J to 
advise if this would be detrimental to her health.
After seeing Ms F in November, Dr J summarised her recent symptoms, including an 
increase in noise and light sensitivity. He said shed reported having to virtually cut out all 
use of computer / phone screens and said when reading from printed documents, she 
couldnt concentrate for more than 20 minutes.
at the present time, she is certainly not capable of doing any task consistent with the 
previous role which is obviously at a high functioning level. I have encouraged her to try 
your suggested plan... The nature of this work however would at the present time need to be 
significantly less than her previous high level role. I confess to having my doubts as to 
whether she will be able to manage this at the present time but equally I accept that it is 
important for her to try and if at all possible, to begin the rehabilitation programme.
Ms F also had a further consultation with Dr W in November. He said In my opinion the 
duration of her condition makes it very unlikely that she will be able to return to work or 
undertake any work-related activity for the foreseeable future And he recommended early 
retirement on the grounds of ill health.
Ms F had also been seeing another specialist abroad during 2018  Dr D. In December his 
report stated She suffers from a chronic condition which impairs her daily functioning 
significantly. At this moment she cannot resume work. It is not possible at this moment to set 
a date or time when she will be able to do so.
Zurich said its CMO still thought Ms F was capable of beginning a gradual phased return to 
work. And said it placed greater reliance on Dr Js reports.
Ms F complained in January 2019, and provided a copy of her latest report from Dr W. He 
said she continued to have difficulties with short-term memory and focus, as well as feelings 
of muscle weakness and sensitivity to noise and light. He said Ms F would be unable to 
return to work and retirement due to ill health should be considered.
Zurich wrote to Dr W. It said its proposal for Ms Fs return to work was in line with NICE 
guidelines and although these were under review, they were still in place and valid.
The NICE guidelines for CFS state Healthcare professionals should proactively advise 
about fitness for work and education, and recommend flexible adjustments or adaptations to 
work or studies to help people with CFS/ME to return to them when they are ready and fit 
enough. And:
Healthcare professionals should recognise that the person with CFS/ME is in charge of the 
aims of the programme. The choice of the programme, its components, and progression 
throughout the programme should be mutually agreed and based on:
the person's age, preferences and needs
the person's skills and abilities in managing their condition, and their goals (such as 
improvement or treatment of deterioration of symptoms, prevention of relapse or 
maintenance)
the severity and complexity of symptoms
physical and cognitive functioning.
Cognitive behavioural therapy (CBT) and/or graded exercise therapy (GET) should be 
offered to people with mild or moderate CFS/ME and provided to those who choose these 
approaches, because currently these are the interventions for which there is the clearest 
research evidence of benefit.
Dr W responded to Zurich in April. He said Ms Fs illness had been ongoing since 2015 and 
had worsened the following year. He said shed not improved in any significant way. He 
thought a gradual return wouldnt be helpful and could worsen her prognosis.
Further reports from Dr D and Dr W in April and May 2019 continued to state Ms F was 
unable to work.
Zurich responded to Ms Fs complaint and said it thought she hadnt taken reasonable steps 
to manage her recovery and the medical evidence showed she was capable of attempting a 
return to work, but was unwilling to do so. And it said Ms Fs overseas travel - noted on her 
medical records - called her level of function into question.
Zurich said Dr J had agreed Ms F should be treated in line with the NICE guidelines and supported her gradual return to work, but Ms F had stopped attending his clinic. It said it 
didnt accept Dr Ws views on her treatment. It said it thought its proposal for a gradual 
return to work had been reasonable. And it said it had made an alternative offer to Ms Fs 
employer if it could no longer accommodate her return to work.
Unhappy with Zurichs response, Ms F brought her complaint to this service. She said Zurich 
had incorrectly interpreted the medical reports about her ability to return to work and unfairly 
concluded that her overseas travel indicated she had a greater level of functional capacity.
She also said she thought Zurichs CMO hadnt fairly considered the opinion of CFS experts 
in relation to her treatment.
And the case was passed to me for a decision.
My provisional decision
I issued a provisional decision and in summary I said:
Zurich originally accepted Ms Fs incapacity claim, but it was suspended at the end of 2018. 
So I focussed my review on the events leading up to this.
Zurich has a responsibility to handle claims promptly and fairly. And it shouldnt turn down a 
claim unreasonably. When making a claim, its for Ms F to demonstrate that she meets the 
definition of incapacity, and she was originally able to do that. But as Zurich suspended the 
claim, it has to show that Ms F no longer meets the definition of incapacity, or hasnt 
complied with the requirements of the policy.
The policy defines incapacity as follows.
an illness or injury that causes the Member to be unable to work and is applicable under this 
policy. The Member must be under the regular supervision and treatment of a Medical 
Practitioner. We can ask for medical evidence at regular intervals throughout a claim.
the Member cannot perform the Material And Substantial Duties of their employment and 
they are not doing any paid work
And in section 11 the policy specifies the following requirement.
The Member's illness or injury must satisfy the Incapacity definition in the policy schedule. 
The Member must be under the regular supervision and treatment of a Medical Practitioner 
and must be taking reasonable steps to manage their condition or help their recovery.
Firstly, I considered the comments from both parties on the NICE guidelines for treating 
CFS. Although these particular guidelines are under review, theyve not yet been changed. 
So I didnt think it was unreasonable for Zurich to rely on the version in place.
I then went on to consider each of Zurichs reasons for suspending the claim, alongside the 
evidence available, to decide whether or not I thought itd acted fairly.
Ms F hasnt engaged with a graded return to work
Considering the gradual nature of the return Zurich proposed, I didnt think this was 
unreasonable. However, I didnt think the medical evidence supported Ms F being fit to begin 
a phased return at the end of 2018.Zurich said it felt that the overwhelming medical consensus was that a slow and gradual 
return to work was within your capabilities and medically supported. And it said it placed 
more reliance on the opinion of Dr J, as he had been Ms Fs treating consultant since she 
was first diagnosed with CFS and his treatment recommendations were in line with NICE 
guidelines.
Initially Dr J recommended Ms F take 8  12 weeks off work, followed by a gradual return. In 
June and August, he said she was unfit for work. And he said this would remain the case 
until he reviewed her again in November. Zurich agreed Ms F was unfit to commence a 
return to work before November, but said it thought she would be able to do so at that time.
After reviewing Ms F in November, Dr J stated some of her symptoms had worsened. He 
said hed encouraged her to try the gradual return to work. But he also said he had doubts 
as to whether or not she would be able to manage it at that time.
In May 2018 Dr W recommended three months of complete rest followed by a gradual return 
to work if Ms F was feeling better. In August he recommended a further three months away 
from work. And in November he said her condition had worsened, she was unlikely to be 
able to return to work. He recommended early retirement due to ill health. And in December, 
Dr D said Ms F was unable to work, and couldnt predict when she would be able to.
The reports from Dr W and Dr D showed they didnt think Ms F was fit for work at all. And Dr 
Js reports showed he thought Ms F was unfit to return up until November 2018. And in his 
next report he still expressed his doubts about her ability to manage a return to work, 
although he did say he thought she should try. And I noted the NICE guidelines reference 
patients should return to work when they are ready and fit enough.
So, based on the reports Id seen, I wasnt persuaded Ms F was deemed medically fit to 
begin a phased return to work and I didnt think Zurichs assessment that she refused to 
engage with a return to work plan was fair. There were a number of reports, all from 
specialists operating at a senior level. And in the round, the majority seemed to agree Ms F 
wasnt ready to return to work. I recognised Zurichs CMO held a differing opinion, but I was 
more persuaded by the reports from the doctors who had consulted with Ms F in person over 
a long period of time.
Zurich said Dr J had supported Ms Fs return to work, but she had chosen to stop seeing 
him. I didnt think Ms Fs choice of medical professionals made a difference in these 
particular circumstances. She continued to see Dr W and Dr D. And in Dr Ws original report, 
he supported a gradual return to work after a period of rest. Dr J and Dr W were in 
agreement that Ms F was unfit to work between May and November 2018. And Dr Js report 
in November 2018, which said he recommended Ms F try a gradual return to work, also 
expressed his reservations about her worsening symptoms and the likely success of a 
return.
Ms F has travelled abroad, indicating a higher level of functional capacity
Ms F is a foreign national and has said she has no family in the UK. Shes said she travelled 
to stay with relatives who assisted her with her daily living. And some of the trips she made 
were to consult with Dr D  and she said where possible she consults with him virtually.
I thought Ms Fs reasons for travelling were plausible and her explanations were consistent. 
So I was persuaded to accept what shed said.
I didnt think Zurich had done enough to evidence that Ms Fs ability to travel meant she was 
fit to return to work. And to investigate this further, I thought Zurich could have arranged anIME. In addition, I thought it was also important to recognise this is an own occupation 
policy. And I wasnt persuaded by the connection Zurich attempted to make to Ms Fs 
travelling, because I found the medical evidence to be persuasive enough to support that Ms 
F was simply too unwell to return to work in any capacity.
Ms F hasnt taken reasonable steps to aid her recovery, such as CBT and GET
I didnt think it would be fair to expect Ms F to have commenced CBT or GET following the 
Independent medical Exam (IME) which took place with Dr V in November 2017, as this was 
stated as an option if she were to be diagnosed with CFS. And after she was diagnosed, Ms 
F received conflicting advice from the specialists she saw with one strongly advocating 
against these therapies.
Having reviewed the NICE guidelines, I said these state in reference to both CBT and GET, 
that the programme should be based on factors including the patients preferences and the 
severity and complexity of their symptoms. So I was satisfied that treatment should be 
tailored to the individual and these therapies wouldnt be applicable in every case.
Based on the evidence Id seen, I was satisfied Ms F had been having regular consultations 
with medical professionals and followed the majority of the advice given, so I wasnt 
persuaded she failed to take reasonable steps to aid her recovery.
Costs of medical reports
I said the costs Ms F incurred in evidencing her continued incapacity are not something 
which I can reasonably hold Zurich accountable for.
In summary, I was persuaded the benefit payments should be reinstated, as I thought 
Zurichs suspension of the claim was unfair. And I considered the impact this had on Ms F. 
Id thought about the financial difficulties she explained, and the effects Dr W said the 
ongoing claim suspension had on her wellbeing. And because of this, I thought Zurich 
should also pay Ms F £500 in compensation in view of the distress and inconvenience 
caused.
The response to my provisional decision
Ms F responded and said she accepted my provisional decision.
Zurich also responded, but said it disagreed. In summary it made the following points:
Ms F went off work completely in April 2018, as soon as she was diagnosed with CFS 
but prior to this had been working around 20 hours per week;
Ms F has been selective in choice of medical professionals and Zurich disagrees that 
this doesnt make a difference. It questioned why Ms F saw Dr W as well as Dr J, and 
why she later began seeing a third specialist - Dr D - considering he is based abroad. 
And it says it believes Ms F stopped seeing Dr J because hed recommended she 
could return to work;
Ms F should have tried GET and CBT and Zurich questions why she would not want to 
try these therapies to aid her recovery;
it agrees Dr J wasnt overly optimistic about the success of a return to work, but said there were signs of improvement and Ms F should try. Zurich said it doesnt think Dr J 
would have said this if Ms F were incapable of a return to work;

it maintained there was a disconnect between Ms F being able to undertake long-haul 
travel but not a return to work. And it said the statements from her family are not 
impartial; and
Ms Fs previous return to work was successful and Zurichs CMO believes another 
graded return would have been successful over 12 months, if coupled with GET and 
CBT.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive also considered again my provisional findings in light of the responses.
Zurich has said Ms F was completing a phased return prior to her diagnosis of CFS, but 
stopped working after this. Dr Js reported dated 11 April 2018 stated hed suggested Ms F 
requires a prolonged period off work. And Ms F said On [Dr Js] advice I wound down and 
stopped work within about two weeks. So I dont think its unreasonable that Ms F stopped 
working at this time, considering the comments from Dr J.
Zurich maintains Ms F has been selective in her choice of medical professionals, and 
questions why she was under the care of more than one doctor at the same time. Ms F said 
she contacted four CFS specialists in April 2018  Dr J, Dr B, Dr W and Dr D.  She 
contacted these doctors at around the same time, and went on to have consultations with all 
of them. So I dont think this shows Ms F had a particular preference for any one of these 
doctors. Or that she contacted any of them after already having other specialists in place. It 
seems more likely to me that Ms F contacted several doctors who she believed were 
specialists in CFS, in order to secure appointments as soon as possible. And her taking 
appointments with all of these doctors isnt something I find unreasonable  in fact I think this 
shows Ms F was keen to access treatment for her condition.
Dr D is based abroad, and Zurich questioned Ms Fs choice to consult with him considering 
her symptoms and that she would need to travel to see him. Based on the reports Ive seen, 
Ms F was following specific advice from Dr D around diet, medication and supplements in 
relation to her condition, some of which had not been prescribed by the other doctors shed 
seen. Ms F has said she consulted virtually with Dr D where possible, and travelled to see 
him only once every six months. So although Ms F occasionally had to travel to consult with 
Dr D, I think its reasonable that she would choose to do so if she thought his treatment 
would be of benefit to her, and added to the other treatment she was receiving.
Zurich said it believes Ms F stopped seeing Dr J because hed recommended she could 
return to work. In December 2018 Ms F told Zurich she was continuing to consult with Dr W 
and Dr D and gave details of the reasons she believed them to be specialists in CFS. She 
said she didnt intend to continue with Dr J as he has not had any practical suggestions for 
my care since before the summer.
Although I understand Zurich thinks Ms F stopped seeing Dr J because he had given some 
support to her returning to work, Ive not seen any persuasive evidence which shows this is 
the case. As I set out in my provisional decision, Dr J said he thought Ms F should try toreturn to work, but he also said he had doubts about her capability to do so. Also Dr W had 
previously said he thought Ms F would be able to return to work in his earlier reports, yet she 
continued under his care. So Im still not persuaded Ms Fs choice to stop seeing Dr J makes 
a difference in these circumstances.
Zurich has questioned why Ms F would not have tried GET and CBT in an attempt to aid her 
recovery. As I covered in my provisional decision, Ms F was given differing and conflicting 
advice about these therapies by her treating doctors following her diagnosis of CFS. I think 
Ms F is entitled to rely on the recommendations of her treating doctors, and so I still dont 
think its unreasonable that she followed the advice of Dr W, who recommended strongly 
against GET and CBT.
Ive considered Zurichs comments about Ms Fs long-haul travel since her CFS diagnosis, 
but these havent changed my mind. Im aware of the possibility that statements from family 
may not be impartial, and took this into account. However I also considered Ms Fs testimony 
about her reasons for travelling and the measures she takes to accomplish this in relation to 
her symptoms. And that this travel enables her to spend weeks at a time receiving support 
with her daily living. I still find this to be consistent and plausible. And I think its fair to say 
the functional capacity required for travelling on a flight, compared to Ms F carrying out the 
duties of her particular job role, are not going to be the same. So Im still of the opinion that 
Zurich hasnt done enough to evidence that Ms Fs travelling meant she was fit to return to 
work.
Zurich has said Ms Fs previous return to work in 2017 was successful and believes a further 
graded return over 12 months would have been successful coupled with GET and CBT. Ive 
thought about this, but I dont think Zurich has been able to evidence that this is what would 
have happened. The previous return to work was before Ms F was diagnosed with CFS, and 
was following her recovery from a different condition. And during this return, Ms F didnt 
reach her full-time hours. So Im not persuaded by what Zurich has said about its 
expectations of the success of the second return to work.
Zurich also raised some points about events prior to Ms Fs CFS diagnosis, however I dont 
think these points make a significant difference to the outcome of this complaint. This is 
because, as I said in my provisional decision, Ive focussed on the events after this time, and 
leading up to the suspension of the claim. I think this is the period most relevant to the crux 
of this complaint, as prior to this, Zurich had accepted and was continuing to pay the claim.
The points Zurich has raised havent changed my mind, so I see no reason to depart from 
the conclusions set out in my provisional decision and summarised above.
Our award limit
In this case, I can award fair compensation to be paid by Zurich up to £150,000, plus any 
interest that I consider appropriate. And if I think that fair compensation is more than
£150,000, I can recommend that the business pays the balance.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given, its my final decision that I uphold this complaint. And I direct 
Zurich Assurance Limited to do the following:
reinstate the benefit payments;make a payment to cover all missed payments dating back to the last payment made;
add interest at 8% simple to the back-dated payments from the date they should 
have originally been paid to the date of settlement; and
pay £500 in compensation due to the distress and inconvenience caused.
If the amount of the backdated payments (not including interest) together with the £500 
compensation, should exceed £150,000, I recommend Zurich Assurance Limited should also 
pay Ms F the balance.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms F to accept or 
reject my decision before 7 June 2021.
 
Gemma Warner
Ombudsman