DRN-3453489
The complaint
Mrs H complains that Home Retail Group Card Services Limited, trading as Argos, acted 
irresponsibly by increasing the limit on her credit card several times. She says the lending 
was unaffordable for her.
Mrs H is represented in this complaint by her daughter. For ease, Ill refer to anything said by 
her daughter as being said by Mrs H.
What happened
In April 2013, Mrs H took out a credit card with Argos and was given a credit limit of £2,000. 
The credit limit was increased several times over the next few years and by August 2016 it 
was £3,960.
In September 2020, Mrs H complained that the lending was unaffordable. Argos said that 
prior to any credit limit increase, it does checks to ensure the increase is suitable for the 
customer. It said Mrs Hs other credit commitments were also taken into consideration. It 
said there was no evidence that Mrs H had requested to opt out of automatic credit limit 
increases or had said that she wanted to lower the credit limit on the account.
I issued a provisional decision on 17 March 2022 where I explained why I intended to uphold 
Mrs Hs complaint in part. In that decision I said:
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Based on what Ive seen so far, I intend to uphold Mrs Hs complaint in part. Ill explain why.
Initial lending decision and first three credit limit increases
The rules applying to this service say that, unless a business consents or there are 
exceptional circumstances, I cant look at a complaint made more than six years after the 
event being complained about  or (if later) more than three years after the complainant was 
aware, or ought reasonably to have been aware, of cause for complaint. This is Dispute 
Resolution rule 2.8.2R(2)  which can be found online in the Financial Conduct Authoritys 
handbook. 
Mrs Hs complaint was made in September 2020. This is more than six years after Argos 
gave her the credit card  in April 2013. Its also more than six years after the credit limit 
increases that took place in November 2013, March 2014 and July 2014. So, I need to think 
about when Mrs H was aware, or ought reasonably to have been aware, she had cause to 
complain.
In order for Mrs H to have been aware, or it to be the case that she ought reasonably to have 
been aware, of cause for complaint, it would have to be the case that she was aware, or 
ought reasonably to have been aware that:
there was a problem  in this case that the lending was unaffordable;
the unaffordable lending caused her loss; and
Argoss actions (or its failure to act) may have caused the loss.
Mrs Hs daughter has told us that she and her mother first noticed the lending was 
unaffordable in around mid-2017. Around that time, Mrs Hs daughter started to make 
payments on the card to help Mrs H with her financial situation. So, Im satisfied that Mrs H 
ought to have realised that the lending was unaffordable, and this was causing her loss in 
mid-2017.
 
As Argos had issued the credit card and increased the credit limits, I think Mrs H ought 
reasonably to have realised that Argos might have had at least some responsibility for her 
problem too. So, I think Mrs H is likely to have been aware (or ought reasonably to have 
been aware) that she had cause to complain more than three years before she made the 
complaint. 
Argos hasnt given us consent to look into events that occurred more than six years before 
Mrs H made her complaint. I also havent been made aware of any exceptional 
circumstances that meant Mrs H couldnt have complained to Argos sooner. So, Im unable 
to consider Argoss initial lending decision or the credit limit increases that took place in 2013 
and 2014, because the complaint has been made too late.
Subsequent credit limit increases
The relevant rules, regulations and guidance required Argos to carry out reasonable and 
proportionate checks to ensure Mrs H would be able to afford to make the repayments in a 
sustainable manner. 
The checks needed to be borrower-focused. It wasnt enough for Argos to think only about 
the likelihood of getting its money back. It also had to ensure that Mrs H was in a position to 
repay what she borrowed in a reasonable period of time, without undue difficulty (for 
example by getting into further debt).
There isnt a set list of checks that lenders need to carry out, but they should be 
proportionate, taking a number of factors into consideration. These factors include the 
amount, type and cost of the credit as well as the personal circumstances of the consumer.
Argos says that before each credit limit increase it used internal and external information to 
ensure the lending is affordable. Its told us it uses data from credit reference agencies to 
score a customer on indebtedness and risk. Argos has shared the scores given to Mrs H at 
the time of the increases, but it hasnt provided information to show how it arrived at these 
scores.
Argos increased Mrs Hs credit limit from £2,750 to £3,300 in January 2016. Given the 
amount of credit Argos was considering extending to Mrs H, Im not persuaded that the 
checks it carried out were proportionate. So, Ive gone on to consider what Argos would 
likely have seen if it had carried out further checks. 
Ive had a look at Mrs Hs bank statements and credit file to get a picture of her financial 
circumstances prior to the credit limit increase. 
Mrs H says shes on a basic state pension. Her bank statements show her average income 
for November and December 2015 was around £782.
Mrs Hs credit file shows that she had three other credit cards with a combined credit limit of 
£3,950 and a loan with repayments of £109 a month. Mrs Hs credit file shows she also had a hire purchase agreement and her bank statements indicate she was paying £140.77 a 
month towards this. 
From what I can see Mrs H was committed to using around a third of her monthly income for 
her loan and hire purchase agreement repayments. She also had access to a high amount 
of credit, relative to her income, from her credit cards. 
I appreciate that different checks show different things. But I think that if Argos had carried 
out what Id consider to be proportionate checks, it would likely have concluded that Mrs H 
would have been unlikely to sustainably repay a balance of £3,300 within a reasonable 
period of time. So, I dont think Argoss decision to increase Mrs Hs credit limit In January 
2016 was responsible.  
Argos also doesnt appear to have carried out proportionate checks when it subsequently 
increased Mrs Hs credit limit to £3,960 in August 2016, and it doesnt look like her financial 
circumstances had improved. So, I think this further credit limit increase was also 
irresponsible.
I set out what I intended to direct Argos to do to put things right. And I gave both parties the 
opportunity to send me any further information or comments they wanted me to consider 
before I issued my final decision.
Responses
Mrs H and Argos both agreed with the findings Id reached in my provisional decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As both parties agree with the conclusions I reached in my provisional decision, I see no 
reason to change them. 
Putting things right
Mrs H has had the benefit of the funds she borrowed, so I think its fair that she repays them. 
But shes incurred additional interest and charges as a result of Argos lending to her 
irresponsibly. So, Argos should:
Refund all interest and charges incurred on a balance above £2,750 to Mrs Hs 
account. 
If these refunds result in the account having a credit balance, Argos must pay this to 
Mrs H along with 8% simple interest per year* from the date the credit balance arose 
to the date of settlement.
If an outstanding balance remains on the account after the adjustments have been 
made, Argos should take a sympathetic view when seeking to agree a suitable 
repayment plan with Mrs H.  
Remove any adverse information recorded on Mrs Hs credit file relating to the 
account after the credit limit increase in January 2016.
*HM Revenue & Customs requires Argos to deduct tax from this interest. Argos should give Mrs H a 
certificate showing how much tax its deducted, if she asks for one. My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I uphold Mrs Hs complaint and direct Home Retail Group 
Card Services Limited, trading as Argos, to put things right by doing as Ive said above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs H to accept or 
reject my decision before 26 May 2022.
 
Anne Muscroft
Ombudsman