DRN-3594506
The complaint
Mrs C and Mr C have complained about U K Insurance Limited trading as Direct Line (UKI)s 
decision to reject a claim Mrs C made under their home insurance policy. 
What happened
Mrs C made claims under their home insurance policy in 2019 for storm damage. These 
claims were declined by UKI. Mrs C raised a complaint about UKIs decision to reject one of 
the claims. UKI responded to the complaint. This isnt the complaint this service has been 
asked to look at, but is relevant by way of background to this case
In June 2021 Mrs C contacted UKI as there was water ingress to her property. UKI 
instructed a loss adjuster (LA) to visit the property. The LA recommended the claim be 
declined. 
Unhappy with the standard of the inspection, Mrs C raised a complaint. UKI arranged for a 
second inspection to be carried out and a more detailed report was provided in July 2021. 
Having reviewed the second report, UKI declined the claim. It said that the damage being 
claimed for wasnt caused by a one off storm event. For some poor service and the 
inconvenience of having two LA visits due to the first visit being inadequate, UKI paid Mrs C 
£250 compensation. 
Mrs C remained unhappy and brought her complaint to us. Our investigator thought UKI had 
acted reasonably in declining the claim for storm damage. She thought the second LA report 
was persuasive and it was fair for UKI to rely on it when reaching its decision. The second 
LA report with photos highlighted previous patch repairs and existing issues with the roof.
Mr C said Mrs C doesnt agree and wants an ombudsman to decide. In summary Mr C says 
they broke holes into the roof to find out where the leak was coming from and this is the 
cause of the internal damage, not as described by the LA. The roof was completely replaced 
the year before and areas the LA saw were where Mr C had patched leaks while trying to get 
hold of the roofer. 
Mr C says he was added to the policy without consent. This is a new issue which doesnt 
form part of the complaint. So Mr C will need to raise that with UKI. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr and Mrs Cs policy with UKI says it will cover insured perils such as storm. It isnt enough 
to say that because storm conditions occurred around the time of the damage, a claim is 
valid. Sometimes a storm can highlight a pre-existing issue. 
Insurance policies arent designed to cover every eventuality. So its not unusual for insurers 
to have limitations and exclusions to the cover they provide. UKIs policy excludes cover for 
damage caused by poor or faulty workmanship as well as gradual wear and tear. 
We ask three questions when considering storm damage claims to help decide whether an 
insurer has acted in a fair and reasonable way. These are: 
 Do we agree that storm conditions occurred on or around the date the damage is 
said to have happened?
 If so, is the damage being claimed for consistent with damage that a storm typically 
causes? and;
 Were storm conditions the main cause of the damage? 
If the answer to all these questions is 'yes' then we think the claim is likely to succeed. But, if 
the answer to any of the above questions is 'no' - the claim for storm damage is unlikely to 
be covered.
UKI accepts there were storm conditions in June 2021. So as this point isnt in dispute, the 
answer to the first question is yes. 
Mrs C told the LA that a roofer had carried out repairs to replace the roof the year before  
so in 2020. Photos provided by the LA of the roof show multiple areas of poor repair and 
gaps or unfinished works to mortar and flashing on the roof. When inspecting internal 
damage, the LA found the internal damage wasnt new. There was some evidence of mould 
and previous paint repairs had been carried out to affected areas and these were a different 
colour to the rest of the area. 
The LA commented in the report that he advised Mrs C to contact the roofer as the works 
should be under guarantee. In the complaint form to us, Mrs C advised that they arranged 
for a new roof to be installed after UKI declined claims made in 2019. But they can no longer 
locate the contractor who carried out the roof replacement. Mrs C is unhappy that UKI wont 
meet the claim. 
But I dont think UKI has acted unreasonably. I dont think there is any evidence to show that 
the damage being claimed for was consistent with damage a storm typically causes. A roof 
in good condition is expected to withstand heavy rain. And I dont think the evidence shows 
storm conditions was the main cause of damage.
The evidence available shows the roof  despite having been apparently replaced the year 
before  to be in poor condition. So I cant say that UKI is responsible for the repairs as the 
policy excludes cover for damage caused by poor workmanship. 
I understand Mrs C will be very disappointed with my decision. But I think UKI has acted in a 
fair way and in line with the policy. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs C and Mr C to 
accept or reject my decision before 25 August 2022.
 
Geraldine Newbold
Ombudsman