DRN-4209881
The complaint
Ms T complains that TSB Bank plc (TSB) wouldnt remove her name from a joint account 
without the overdraft being paid off and the other partys consent. She says this negatively 
impacted her both personally and financially and wants a refund of all the overdraft charges 
applied to the account from February 2018.
 
What happened
Mr and Ms T held sole accounts with overdraft facilities with TSB that became joint accounts 
in November 2014. 
Following a breakdown in the relationship in February 2018 Ms T says she had a meeting at 
her local branch of TSB where she opened a separate account. Ms T says she wanted to 
have the overdraft transferred over from the joint account ending 6368 to her sole account 
as it was before. She wished to have financial independence as she says she was the victim 
of domestic abuse.
Ms T says she was told this wasnt possible as the overdrafts needed to be paid off and that 
the other party would need to consent to remove both overdrafts and closing both accounts. 
TSB has confirmed that Ms T visited a branch and opened a sole account in her name and 
agrees that it could not have removed either party from the joint accounts while they were 
overdrawn. It says if there had been a clear discussion about domestic abuse, its more than 
likely it would have puts the accounts in dispute but that this didnt happen. Instead, TSB 
says a note on its system said both joint accounts were to be closed shortly, so it is possible 
the accounts were left as they were to make the process easier. TSB says that it wasnt 
possible to remove a party from a joint account without consent until 2021.
The bank statements show that in June 2018 a transfer was made of £2,500 into joint 
account ending 6368 which cleared the overdraft, but TSB did not receive a request to close 
the account or for Ms Ts name to be removed. Ms T continued to use this account and Mr 
did not.
In January 2021 Ms T applied for an overdraft online and was declined. Following this TSB 
said it could close the joint account ending 6368 and have Ms T removed from the other joint 
account without Mrs authorisation providing she paid off the overdraft on account ending 
6368. Ms T says she borrowed money to do this and the account was closed without Mrs 
consent but he was notified about what had been done.
Ms T complains she was left with a £2,000 overdraft to pay off on the joint account ending 
6368 and that the charges on the account caused her financial difficulty. Ms T wants a 
refund of all the charges for the overdraft and interest from February 2018 until closure.
One of our adjudicators looked into Ms Ts concerns and reached the conclusion that we 
couldnt look into her complaint regarding the poor customer service she received as it had 
been referred to us too late. And they didnt think TSB had acted unfairly in applying charges 
to the joint account as they didnt think there were any signs of financial difficulty especially 
as Ms T had access to funds that couldve been used to clear the overdraft or significantly 
reduce it. 
Ms T disagreed. She says she couldnt pay off the overdraft and close the account as she 
was concerned her ex partner would withdraw the money once the overdraft was paid off. 
Ms T has asked for an ombudsmans decision.
Why we can only look at part of Ms Ts complaint
I cant look at all the complaints referred to me. The rules applying to this service say that 
where a business doesnt agree  I cant look into a complaint if its been referred to us more
than six months after the business sends the consumer its final response letter, telling them
they can refer their complaint to us. This is Dispute Resolution rule 2.8.2R(1)  and it can be
found online in the Financial Conduct Authoritys handbook.
Ms T has previously raised complaints surrounding the customer service she received from 
TSB surrounding an overdraft application. One of these complaints was settled over the 
phone and TSB issued a final response letter to the other complaint on 12 February 2021. 
TSB say its final response to these complaints included the referral rights setting out the six 
month time limit. This means Ms T had until August 2021 to refer these matters to the 
service. But didnt do so until November 2022. So I conclude these complaints were referred 
to us out of time under the rules that I have to apply.
Im allowed to investigate complaints referred outside of the time limit if Im satisfied the
delay was due to exceptional circumstances. But having considered all Ms T has said I 
havent seen anything which I think wouldve prevented her from bringing her complaint 
sooner if shed chosen to do so. So I dont think that exceptional circumstances apply here.
And as such my decision is Im unable to look into Ms Ts complaint regarding her overdraft 
application and poor customer service she received in 2021. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I hope that Ms T wont take it as a discourtesy that Ive condensed her complaint in the way 
that I have. Ours is an informal dispute resolution service, and Ive concentrated on what I 
consider to be the crux of the complaint. Our rules allow me to do that. And the crux of Ms 
Ts complaint is that TSB wouldnt remove her or Mrs name from a joint account ending 
6368 without the overdraft being paid off or without his consent. And that the overdraft 
charges applied to the account caused her financial difficulty and were unfair given her 
circumstances.
It might help if I explain that my role here is to look at the problems Ms T has experienced 
and see if TSB has done anything wrong. If it has, I would seek  if possible - to put Ms T 
back in the position she wouldve been in if the mistakes hadnt happened. And I may award 
compensation that I think is fair and reasonable.
Ms T is unhappy that TSB wouldnt remove her name from account ending 6368 without the 
overdraft being paid off and wouldnt take Mrs name off without his consent.Firstly, I wouldnt expect a bank to remove a joint partys name from an account without the 
overdraft being paid off as it is a debt that both the parties to the account are joint and 
severally liable for. So I dont think it would be fair to ask TSB to remove a party from the 
account which would result in it only being able to pursue one party to a debt that was 
incurred jointly.  
And from what Ive seen it appears that the overdraft was paid off in June 2018 and Ms T 
could have then approached TSB to have her name taken off the account with the other 
partys consent, or stopped using the account, but for reasons that are unclear this didnt 
happen. Instead, she carried on using the account and overdraft facility. So I dont think 
there has been an error on TSBs part here and I dont think Ms T has been treated unfairly.
Ms T complains about the interest and charges incurred on the overdraft on account ending 
6368 when she was in difficult financial circumstances. TSB wont have acted fairly and 
reasonably towards Ms T if it applied any interest, fees and charges to the account in 
circumstances where it was aware, or it ought fairly and reasonably to have been aware Ms 
T was experiencing financial difficulty.
So Ive considered whether there were instances where TSB didnt treat Ms T fairly and 
reasonably. I dont think that TSB did treat Ms T unfairly or unreasonably here though. I say 
this because having looked at Ms Ts statements I dont think there was enough to suggest 
that TSB ought to have realised she might have been experiencing financial difficulty. 
As already stated above the overdraft was cleared in June 2018 and Ms T couldve at that 
point stopped using the overdraft facility but this didnt happen. Instead, Ms T carried on 
using the account and overdraft facility.
Ms T may argue her regular use of her overdraft was in itself an indication that she was 
struggling. But while Im not seeking to make retrospective value judgements over Ms Ts 
expenditure, nonetheless there are significant amounts of non-committed, non-contractual 
and discretionary transactions  in particular regular spending on retail, takeout and other 
leisure activities. It is also noteworthy the account was kept within its limit and was often at 
the lower end of it. 
There were regular credits into the account and often large amounts were transferred out. 
And Ms T had access to money in other accounts which she couldve used to bring the 
overdraft down or pay it off.  I accept this doesnt necessarily mean that Ms T wasnt 
experiencing financial difficulty. But there isnt enough on the bank statements themselves 
which ought to have alerted TSB to any potential financial difficulty. 
So, in these circumstances I dont think that it was unreasonable for TSB to proceed with 
adding the interest, fees and charges it did in light of how Ms Ts account was being used. 
So taking everything into consideration I dont think TSB treated Ms T unfairly or 
unreasonably which means that Im not upholding this complaint. My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I do not uphold Ms Ts complaint against TSB Bank plc.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms T to accept or 
reject my decision before 17 August 2023.
 
Caroline Davies
Ombudsman