DRN-3766664
The complaint
Mr M complained about delays that occurred during the process of arranging an ISA transfer 
from Financial Administration Services Limited (trading as Fidelity) to a third party, which 
Mr M wanted to make his new ISA provider. 
Fidelity admitted delays and service failings in respect of which it paid Mr M £600 
compensation and refunded a £31.92 service fee. 
Mr M didnt feel this was sufficient redress, in particular since Fidelity had also offered to 
provide redress for investment loss caused by its admitted delays, but later said it wasnt 
responsible for investment loss as this wasnt due to delays on the part of Fidelity. 
What happened
Mr M held a Fidelity stocks and shares ISA. 
On 28 August 2020, Fidelity received a valuation request from the third party to start the ISA 
transfer process. Fidelity sent the valuation on 2 September 2020.
When Mr M contacted Fidelity the following week, on 9 September, Fidelity told him it hadnt 
received any acceptance yet from the third party provider.
When the transfer failed to progress, Mr M complained to Fidelity on 8 December 2020. 
Fidelity chased up the new provider the same day and was told it had a huge backlog of 
cases as a result of the pandemic but it had received Fidelitys valuation and would be 
sending an acceptance soon.
Fidelity told us that two weeks later, on 22 December, it received a new valuation request 
which the new provider now required due to the time that had elapsed since the previous 
valuation. Fidelity sent the new provider an updated valuation a couple of days later, on 
24 December 2020. 
On 19 January 2021, Fidelity offered to pay Mr M £75 compensation to reflect delay resulting 
from the fact it hadnt chased the new provider for an acceptance sooner. Mr M wasnt happy 
with this response and he raised further customer service issues.
The following week, on 25 January, Fidelity received an acceptance from the third party and 
processed this the next day.
In July 2021, Fidelity offered to pay Mr M an increased amount of compensation  in total, 
£375.
 
Around mid-August 2021, Mr M spoke to Fidelity about his concerns and asked for £500 
compensation plus the refund of the service fee to be reimbursed to his ISA account. He told 
Fidelity he also wanted corrections to be completed on the funds hed switched to 
investment trusts after the transfer completed, on various dates throughout February-June 
2021. By the end of the month, Fidelity had provided a written response to Mr M covering the 
points hed raised and confirming it would pay him £500 compensation and refund the 
service fee as hed requested. It told him however that it was unable to place corrections for 
any switches which weren't placed shortly after Fidelity had completed the transfers to the 
new provider because it had been his choice not to reinvest while he said he was awaiting 
the outcome of his complaint. Fidelity said it should previously have been clearer about this 
and was sorry for any confusion caused. 
In September 2021, Fidelity reimbursed the service fee as hed asked it to do. Mr M also 
provided Fidelity with further information on his switches and was sent information about 
potential deal correction. Mr M sent a series of secure messages about this throughout 
September, October and November, to which Fidelity failed to respond.
On 10 December 2021, Fidelity called Mr M to discuss everything and this resulted in action 
being taken to chase the pending deal correction review.
On19 January 2022, Fidelity told Mr M that after looking into everything again, whilst it hadnt 
chased up the third party providers acceptance of its initial valuation, ultimately this hadnt 
impacted on how long it took his transfer to complete. Fidelity said that the delay was due to 
the new provider having a backlog and it had said it would send its acceptance when it 
could. So Fidelity said it wouldnt offer a deal correction related to the time the transfer took 
to complete.
Correspondence between the parties continued. In July 2022, Fidelity told Mr M it had 
incorrectly told him that it had not responded to requests from the third party when it had in 
fact provided responses to all its requests. Fidelity apologised for not having responded to 
Mr Ms messages during September-November and acknowledged that this wouldve 
caused him frustration. It also said it was sorry for the shortfalls in the service hed received 
and the quality of information hed been given which fell below the level of service Fidelity 
aimed to provide and offered Mr M a further £100 compensation. 
Mr M didnt feel this went far enough to address his complaint and when Fidelity confirmed it 
had nothing further to add to what it said already, Mr M brought his complaint to this service. 
In particular, he told us he wanted Fidelity to honour its offer to carry out a deal correction as 
he blamed Fidelity for investment loss.  
One of our investigators looked into what happened. He felt that Fidelity had already done 
enough to put things right and as it had paid fair redress for what happened he didnt uphold 
the complaint. In brief summary, the investigator thought that the investment loss Mr M was 
claiming wasnt due to Fidelity not chasing the new provider for a response to their valuation. 
He said that although there was a delay in the transfer completing and Mr M switching funds, 
Fidelitys wasnt solely or even mostly responsible for this, so it wouldnt be fair or 
reasonable to tell Fidelity it should pay the correction. 
Mr M disagreed. He mentioned the following main points:
hed been told that the third party lost Fidelitys original valuation sent in September 
and because Fidelitys automated inbox used for receiving messages was full and 
the second request from the new provider was missed Fidelity didnt respond to 
requests to resend the valuation. Mr M put things this way: Fidelity was directly 
responsible for the delay because (the third party) could not process the application 
without the valuation from Fidelity. Whilst it is not Fidelitys fault that the original letter 
was lost, it is reasonable to expect the request from (the third party) to resend the 
valuation was completed within a reasonable timewhilst Mr M agreed it wasnt reasonable to seek adverse price correction for funds 
switched several weeks after the transfer, the reason why the majority of fund 
switches werent completed straight away was because the transfer had taken so 
long. Mr M said he could provide evidence of funds that were switched roughly within 
a week of being transferred across the platform, and this was a reasonable delay, 
given the process had taken roughly 4 months since the start
the investigator hadnt obtained all the relevant paperwork or addressed Mr Ms 
argument that the course of action agreed by both parties had formed a contractual 
agreement which Fidelity had breached unfairly after expectations were agreed. 
Mr M said that he   cannot be satisfied the investigation has been conducted 
rigorously
So, as the complaint isnt resolved, it comes to me to make a decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im sorry that Mr M doesnt feel the investigator conducted a sufficiently in-depth 
investigation and I appreciate how strongly Mr M feels about this complaint. We provide an 
informal complaints handling service and this is reflected in the approach taken to his 
complaint. Id like to assure him that Ive carried out an independent review and having done 
so, Ive reached the same conclusion as our investigator. Ill explain how I've reached my 
decision.
Its part of my role to identify and concentrate on the core issues I need to address in order 
to reach a fair outcome. This means I wont necessarily mention everything Mr M has 
brought to my attention and Ive expressed some of his concerns in my own words. But I will 
comment on everything that makes a difference to the outcome of the complaint and try and 
deal with his main complaint issues.  
As I understand it, the crux of Mr Ms complaint is that Fidelity should stand by its offer to 
cover his investment loss, at least in respect of those funds he switched with a week or so 
of the transfer completing. 
I can tell Fidelity to pay compensation or take other steps to put things right if I am 
satisfied that Fidelity did something wrong or acted unfairly or unreasonably and this led to 
Mr M suffering some detriment and/or financial loss. 
Here, although Fidelity admitted it should have followed up its valuation more quickly when 
it didnt hear back from Mr Ms new provider, I dont find that this made any overall 
difference to how long it took the transfer actually to complete. The real problem here was 
that Mr Ms new provider was working through a substantial backlog of cases  and also, it 
seems the initial valuation Fidelity sent appears to have been lost, which Mr M 
acknowledges wasnt Fidelitys fault. 
Keeping in mind that when the new provider did make contact, Fidelity seems to have 
responded reasonably promptly to all the requests it knew about, I dont find that even if 
Fidelity had chased up its initial valuation sent in September 2020, or not had any 
problems with its inbox, this would have likely resulted in Mr Ms new provider prioritising 
his transfer or being able to complete it significantly sooner. I think its also worth mentioning that theres an onus on the acquiring provider to ensure it 
has taken necessary steps to progress a transfer within a reasonable timescale. All in all, 
I dont think theres anything to suggest that even if Fidelity had taken a more proactive 
role generally during the transfer, or replied any quicker to the new provider, this wouldve 
impacted significantly on the time it took the transfers to complete. 
It follows that, as I havent found that lack of action on Fidelitys part was the root cause of 
the transfer delays, I cant find that Fidelity is responsible for any resulting investment loss. 
So, I cant fairly or reasonably require Fidelity to pay Mr M the redress he seeks for 
investment loss.
I appreciate that Mr M feels that Fidelity is contractually obliged to honour the offer it made 
in respect of covering at least some of his investment loss. But deciding whether theres 
been a breach of contract isnt within my remit  only a court can do this. 
Fidelity has already admitted there were various shortcomings in the service it provided to 
Mr M throughout this matter, so I dont need to make any findings about whats already 
been agreed. Fidelity has apologised and compensated Mr M £600 and refunded a service 
fee. I can see how Fidelitys handling of matters wouldve caused Mr M some distress and 
inconvenience but I think the payments it has made are fair compensation for this. Fidelity 
has paid an amount that is in line with the level of award I consider fair to reflect the extent 
and impact on Mr M of the service failings on Fidelitys part. I dont think it would be fair to 
ask Fidelity to make any additional payment here.
My final decision
For the reasons I have set out above, I dont uphold this complaint.  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 16 May 2023.
 
Susan Webb
Ombudsman