DRN-3325977
The complaint
Mrs A complains that Revolut Ltd (Revolut) have not refunded her in full after she fell victim 
to a scam. 
What happened
The background to this complaint is well known to both parties, so I will not repeat it in detail 
here. But in summary and based on the submissions of both parties, I understand it to be as 
follows. On 4 June 2021 Mrs A received a call from someone saying that they were from 
HMRC and that she owed them unpaid taxes. The caller told Mrs A that the outstanding tax 
had to be paid immediately or she would be prosecuted and could lose her home, her car, 
her possessions, and may even be imprisoned. 
The caller knew her name but didnt take her through any further security checks to verify 
her identity  or theirs. Mrs A was employed, and her employers paid her taxes. But she 
explained she was not thinking straight due to recent bereavement, so she believed what 
she was told by the caller. She felt impelled to resolve things by doing what she was being 
told to do by who she thought was HMRC  sending the unpaid taxes. But unbeknownst to 
Mrs A at the time, she was speaking with a fraudster. 
Believing the call to be genuine, Mrs A went ahead and followed the fraudsters instructions 
to set up an account with Revolut and make payments. She made some payments directly 
from her normal bank account, but was told to set up and make her payments through a 
Revolut account as it would be quicker. Mrs A then sent two payments from her Revolut 
account under the fraudsters instructions, for £1,998 and £1,002. 
It was only when her normal bank blocked a further payment attempt to the fraudster and 
contacted her that she realised she had fallen victim to a scam. Mrs A said she reported the 
scam to Revolut through their online chat function. There were no agents available to speak 
to at first, but she was contacted by agents of Revolut over the following two days. But 
Revolut said when she first contacted them to report the scam on 5 June 2021, she didnt 
provide enough details for them to act further on her behalf, so the investigation didnt start 
until theyd received further contact and information from Mrs A on 13 June 2021. By this 
point the transfer was already sent, but they did contact the beneficiary bank. Unfortunately, 
on 8 July the beneficiary bank confirmed that the beneficiary account had been emptied so 
there were no remaining funds available to return to Mrs A. So, Revolut informed Mrs A that 
she wouldnt be receiving a refund. 
Revolut explained that they had acted correctly in Mrs As case  they had quickly acted on 
the information she had provided them and followed all the correct processes. They said the 
payments had been authorised by Mrs A, and that they provided numerous warnings 
throughout the payment process. 
But Mrs A remained unhappy  she felt that Revolut could have acted faster and this could 
have meant some of her funds were recovered. So she bought her complaint to our service. 
In the time between Mrs A bringing the complaint to our service and one of our investigators 
offering their opinion on her complaint, Revolut offered to refund £1,800 including 8% simple 
interest of Mrs As losses as a gesture of good will  with no admission of fault on their part. 
Our investigator looked at what happened, and thought this was a fair offer in the 
circumstances of the complaint. They thought that there was nothing to suggest that Revolut 
should be required to provide her with a full refund because: 
There was nothing sufficiently unusual or out of character about the transactions that 
Revolut ought to have been on notice that there was a risk fraud might be taking 
place, such that they may have performed some kind of intervention  particularly as 
this was a new account; 
Revolut had done what was required of them to try and recover Mrs As funds once 
they became aware of the scam but the money had already been removed from the 
receiving account. 
Mrs A remained dissatisfied. Our investigator explained that whilst separate transactions had 
been refunded in full by her normal bank, Revolut are not bound by the same rules are they 
are a different type of business  an e-money provider. And they confirmed they felt the offer 
was fair  and in fact more than we would likely recommend Revolut pay. They explained 
that they had contacted the beneficiary bank who confirmed that the funds were removed 
from the account very quickly on 4 June  so even if Revolut had contacted them sooner, the 
outcome would remain the same as no funds remained by the time Mrs A first contacted 
Revolut. She still didnt agree with our investigators opinion  so the case was passed to me 
to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I have reached the same conclusion as our investigator and for broadly the 
same reasons. Ill explain why. 
It is common ground that the transactions were authorised payments, even though Mrs A 
was the victim of a sophisticated scam. She used the Revolut banking application and her 
security information to make the payments. So, although she didnt intend the money to go 
to the fraudsters, under the relevant regulations and the terms and conditions of her account, 
Mrs A is presumed liable for the loss in the first instance. 
However, taking into account the law, regulators rules and guidance, relevant codes of 
practice and what I consider to have been good industry practice at the time. As such I think 
Revolut should fairly and reasonably: 
Have been monitoring accounts and any payments made or received to counter 
various risks, including anti-money laundering, countering the financing of terrorism, 
and preventing fraud and scams. 
Have had systems in place to look out for unusual transactions or other signs that 
might indicate that its customers were at risk of fraud (among other things). This is 
particularly so given the increase in sophisticated fraud and scams in recent years, 
which banks are generally more familiar with than the average customer. 
In some circumstances, irrespective of the payment channel used, have taken 
additional steps, or make additional checks, before processing a payment, or in some 
cases declined to make a payment altogether, to help protect customers from the 
possibility of financial harm from fraud.
Mrs A opened her Revolut account in order to make the payments to the fraudster. This 
means there was no previous account history to assess against to determine what normal 
spending looked like on Mrs As account. And I have not seen anything to suggest Revolut 
should have been alerted to the fact Mrs A was at risk of fraud or financial harm. The 
payments werent unusually or suspiciously large. Further, it is not unusual for customers to 
use services such as those provided by Revolut to send payments in this way. Both the account opening and the payments were completed online, with no contact with Revolut  so 
the payment process didnt include any discussion about the purpose of the payment. When 
considering all of this, I dont think that Revolut should have reasonably had any concerns 
about these payments, such that they may have intervened or done more here. Banks are 
expected to carry out the payment instructions they receive from their customers  and I 
dont think these payments ought to fall under any exceptions to this rule. 
Ive also considered Revoluts attempts to recover the funds Mrs A lost to the scammer. I 
have seen evidence that shows that Revolut contacted the beneficiary bank shortly after 
they were notified of the details of the scam on 13 June. Mrs A did contact them on 5 June 
regarding the two payments she had made from her account, asking if they could be 
refunded  according to the electronic records this was shortly after 11.00pm. But Revolut 
said they did not have the relevant details to start their investigation at this stage. I can see 
that she only received messages from an automated chat function on this date, and didnt 
receive any response from an agent until the 6 and 7 June. But, even if they had spoken to 
Mrs A on the day she first contacted them, and had then contacted the beneficiary bank, I 
am satisfied that they would have had no more success in recalling the funds. I say this 
because I have seen evidence that the fraudster, or someone acting on their behalf, moved 
the money from the beneficiary account shortly after it was received  between 1.30pm and 
1.50pm - before the first contact was made by Mrs A to Revolut. So, whilst an earlier 
response from Revolut to Mrs A would have been preferable, I am confident it would have 
made no difference in Revoluts success in recovering the funds.  
So, in considering all of the circumstances of the case I dont find that Revolut did anything 
wrong here  I dont think that Mrs As loss was caused by any specific failing on behalf of 
Revolut and so I cannot fairly ask them to refund her. And by extension I cannot find that 
any award should be made in recognition of the distress and inconvenience suffered by 
Mrs A. The fault, and loss, here lies with the fraudsters themselves. So I think that Revolut 
have acted fairly in offering Mrs A £1,800 as a gesture of good will, with no admission of 
fault on their part. 
My final decision
The offer made by Revolut of £1,800 is fair and reasonable in the circumstances of the 
complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs A to accept or 
reject my decision before 26 April 2022.
 
Katherine Jones
Ombudsman