DRN-1865060
 
The complaint
Mr K complains about the time taken by Henderson Investment Funds Limited (the business) 
to transfer his Stocks and Shares ISA holdings to a new provider (the transferee). 
Mr K wants £500 compensation. 
 
What happened
On 22 August 2019, Mr K emailed the business enquiring about transferring his funds to a 
new provider. On 29 August 2019, the business notified Mr K that the funds could be sent 
electronically. In a separate email Mr K said that he intended to go ahead with the transfer. 
On 6 September 2019 the transferee sent the signed transfer forms to the business, which 
on the same day arranged for Mr Ks ISA holdings to be sold at that days valuation. But the 
business didnt send the funds to the transferee until 12 September 2019. Mr K said this 
meant he was without access to his funds for six days. 
The transferee confirmed that it received the cheque on 13 September, but the cheque didnt 
clear until 18 September, which according to Mr K meant the funds were disinvested for a 
total of 12 days (from 6 September 2019) and he was without access to his money for this 
whole period.  
One of our investigators considered the complaint but didnt think it should be upheld. In 
summary, she said:
 
The settlement period can only be worked out using working days, so the business 
took four days (not six). Weekends and other non-working days dont count towards 
this transactional period. 
Because theres no single definition of what a settlement period should be, 
businesses will set their own processing times based on whats reasonable. 
The business confirmed that it applied a four-day settlement period to the transaction 
day, since it must give the trustees of the funds a reasonable amount of time to sell 
the shares, in order to raise funds for the transfer. She doesnt think this is an 
unreasonable amount of time to ensure all shares are sold.  
Mr K wasnt financially disadvantaged by the process, as his share was sold at the 
same days valuation when his transfer form was received. It was unfortunate that his 
transfer form was received on a weekend, but there was nothing the business could 
do about this. 
The business did nothing wrong by sending the cheque by post to the transferee.   Although prior to arranging the transfer the business said that it can transfer an 
investment electronically, section seven of its terms makes clear that when 
transferring to another fund manager, the funds are paid by cheque. 
The Direct Credit Form, which suggests that customers can benefit from a faster 
BACS payment service, only refers to the payment of income and withdrawal 
payments from invested funds. It cant be used to transfer funds from one ISA 
provider to another. 
 
Mr K disagreed with the investigators view. In short, he made the following key points:
 
He said that he didnt have access to his funds for 12 days between 6 September to 
18 September, and his money was disinvested for this period, meaning it wasnt 
invested in a stocks and shares ISA. 
He doesnt think the investigator knows the difference between a cash ISA and a 
stocks and shares ISA. He transfers cash ISAs all the time and knows that the 
interest is continuous, however the longer it takes for a stocks and shares ISA to 
transfer to a new provider, the longer his money is disinvested, and hes financially 
disadvantaged by this.  
He asked the business a question and in response it said 'can transfer an investment 
electronically' but the investigator seems think this fake news is acceptable. 
He doesnt agree with the investigators analysis of the Direct Credit Form as he 
wasnt suggesting that it could be used to transfer funds between providers. He was 
simply saying that even the business literature advocates using electronic transfer. 
He doesnt agree with the business reasons for using a cheque to transfer funds. He 
doesnt accept that it reduces delays, especially in this day when money is easily 
transferred electronically. He says its stance is hypocritical compared to what it says 
about BACS transfers. 
 
The investigator having considered the additional points wasnt persuaded to change her 
view.  
As no agreement has been reached the matter has been passed to me for review. 
 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the investigators conclusions for much the same reasons. Im 
not going to uphold this complaint. 
On the face of the evidence, and on balance, despite what Mr K says, Im not persuaded that 
the business behaved unreasonably in following his instructions to transfer his stocks and 
shares ISA.   
But before I explain further why this is the case, I think its important for me to note I very 
much recognise Mr Ks strength of feeling about this matter. He has provided detailed submissions to support the complaint, which Ive read and 
considered carefully. However, I hope he wont take the fact my findings focus on what I 
consider to be the central issues, and not in as much detail, as a discourtesy.
The purpose of my decision isnt to address every single point raised. My role is to consider 
the evidence presented by him and the business, and reach what I think is an independent, 
fair and reasonable decision based on the facts of the case.
In deciding whats fair and reasonable, I must consider the relevant law, regulation and best 
industry practice but Im not bound by it. Its for me to decide, based on the information Ive 
been given, whats more likely than not to have happened.
Even though there isnt an industry wide definition for a settlement period, I dont think a four 
(working) day settlement period is unreasonable. So, I dont think its done anything wrong 
by not having a shorter settlement period. 
Although Mr K was told that an investment can be transferred electronically, he wasnt 
guaranteed that it would be, if he decided to go ahead with the transfer. 
I note that this wasnt an in specie transfer (which I assume was an option open to Mr K)  
where his existing holdings would be transferred over  instead Mr K chose to sell his 
holdings and transfer the cash. Nevertheless, in the circumstances Im unable to say that
Mr K was financially disadvantaged by the process, as his share was sold at the same days 
valuation, when his transfer form was received. I also note his transfer form was received on 
a weekend, which probably meant it couldnt move things along, but I cant blame the 
business for this. 
I understand that section seven of the terms made clear that when transferring to another 
fund manager the funds will be paid by cheque. So, in the circumstances I dont think the 
business has behaved unreasonably by doing so. 
Im mindful of the points Mr H makes about the Direct Credit Form and BACS payments but 
this feature doesnt apply to payment of funds from one provider to another. But regardless 
of the advantages of transferring funds electronically, in this instance I dont think the two 
scenarios are comparable as the business had its reasons for sending a cheque with other 
documentation. I note the business says: 
 
As part of the transfer to a new plan manager, we send a covering letter showing 
clients details and tax years. This assists the new plan manager and complies with 
ISA requirements. With the covering letter, we include a cheque as historically we 
have encountered issues transferring to other plan managers bank details and a 
cheque minimizes any unnecessary delays.
 
It seems Mr K understands this, even though he remains unhappy with the business desire 
to pay funds in a cheque whilst promoting the advantages of a BACS transfer.
I appreciate that it took a further few days for the cheque to clear but Im unable to hold the 
business responsible for the length of time taken by a third-party business to clear the 
cheque. I appreciate Mr K will be unhappy Ive reached the same conclusion as the investigator. 
Furthermore, I realise my decision isn't what he wants to hear. But on the face of the 
available evidence, Im unable to uphold this complaint and give him what he wants. 
 
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr K to accept or 
reject my decision before 12August2020.
Dara Islam
Ombudsman