DRN-3379440
The complaint
The executors of the estate of Mrs F complain that Barclays Bank UK PLC has provided 
misleading and unreliable information about an outstanding debt.
What happened
The late Mrs F had a Resolve loan account with Barclays. Sadly, Mrs F passed away in 
2021. Ms D and Ms M (the Executors) were appointed as executors of Mrs Fs estate and 
Probate was subsequently granted to them.
The Executors started to investigate their late mothers financial affairs. They wrote to 
Barclays and asked it to look into a loan which their mother had been paying off. They 
thought that the loan may have been mis-sold. Barclays sent a final response letter dated 7 
April 2021. It denied that the loan had been mis-sold but it said the loan was shown as 
written off and therefore no further action would be taken. 
On 27 April 2021, the Executors received a letter from an agency (P) appointed by Barclays. 
It said that the loan was still outstanding and that a balance of £7,355.44 was due and 
owing. The Executors challenged this. P responded by telling them it had no record of the 
debt having been written off but it would investigate further. The Executors then received a 
letter from P quoting the loan account number and a balance outstanding of £5,479.94. 
Barclays subsequently informed the Executors that the correct amount outstanding was 
£7,355.44.
The Executors referred their complaint about what Barclays had told them about the debt 
having been written off, to our service. 
Our investigator asked Barclays for more information about the discrepancies. It said the 
debt had not been written off. The information in its final response letter was incorrect 
because it had mis-interpreted the information on its systems. It also said that it had 
provided incorrect information to P about the outstanding balance. It provided statements to 
confirm that the correct balance outstanding was £7,355.44.
Our investigator considered what Barclays had said. He was satisfied on balance that the 
debt had not been written off and that the balance outstanding was £7,355.44. He didnt 
think that, although Barclays had made an error in its final response letter, that meant the 
debt should be written off.
He noted that Barclays had accepted that its service was poor and had offered to pay the 
Executors £50 by way of compensation. He said that under our Rules, he couldnt instruct it 
to pay anything further as he could only award compensation for any loss suffered by the 
eligible complainant  that was the late Mrs F.
The Executors did not agree. They said that they could have no trust or confidence in any 
information Barclays provided. They thought it should honour what it had said in its final 
response letter and write the debt off. They also queried what had happened to the credit 
balances in two other accounts their late mother had held with Barclays.
Our investigator explained that Barclays had told us that the credit balances had been set-off 
against other debts Mrs F owed. But, he didnt change his view about how the complaint 
should be resolved.
Because the Executors disagreed, the complaint has been passed to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
At the outset, I wish to express my sincere condolences to the Executors on the death of 
their mother. 
The complaint in this case relates to a Resolve loan granted to the late Mrs F. In its final 
response letter dated 7 April 2021, Barclays told the Executors the loan it had provided to 
the late Mrs F had been written off. It now says that this information was incorrect and it 
wants the Executors to repay the loan from Mrs Fs estate.
The Executors have challenged what Barclays has said. They rely mainly on the following 
arguments:
Barclays shouldnt be able to go back on what it told the Executors about the loan 
having been written off;
The amount of the loan outstanding is in doubt. Not only did Barclays say it had been 
written off but its agent, P, initially said the amount outstanding was £7,355.44 and 
then subsequently said the amount outstanding was £5,479.94. Barclays now says 
that the correct amount is £7,355.44
Ive thought firstly about the information Barclays provided in its letter dated 7 April 2021. It 
says the information in that letter was mistaken. Where incorrect information has been 
provided, we look to see whether the receiver of that information has relied on the 
information and whether any loss has been incurred as a result.
In this case, the Executors became aware, when they received the letter from P dated 21 
April 2021 that the information in the previous letter was now in doubt. That was very shortly 
after theyd received the incorrect information. I havent seen anything to indicate that theyd 
taken any actions in reliance on the information received in the letter dated 7 April prior to 21 
April 2021 or that the estate of Mrs F suffered any loss as a result of the incorrect 
information provided by Barclays. So, I dont think it would be fair or reasonable, in these 
circumstances, to require Barclays to have to write off the loan.
Ive then looked at the subsequent letters received from P. I can understand why the 
information in these letters confused the Executors and also why it caused them to doubt the 
reliance they could place on the amount that Barclays told them was outstanding on the 
loan.
It is important, particularly where there has been a bereavement, that a bank and its agents 
should take care to ensure that all of the information provided to the representatives of the 
estate is accurate. It is regrettable that didnt happen here. But, despite that, and although I 
know it will come as a disappointment to the Executors, Im persuaded that the correct 
amount outstanding on the Resolve loan is £7,355.44. Ill explain why.Barclays has explained that the late Mrs F had a Resolve loan with Barclays. Its provided a 
copy of the loan agreement entered into in January 2011. The loan amount is recorded as 
£16,900 repayable over 120 months at £140.84 per month. The Executors have told us that 
Mrs F was experiencing personal and financial difficulties and she approached an 
organisation which assisted her to arrange a debt management plan in or about 2016.
Barclays has provided copy statements for the Resolve Loan. These statements are for the 
period since August 2018. I havent received any statements prior to that date.
Ive noted that the account number on each of these statements is **0494. I am satisfied on 
balance that this loan account number relates to the Resolve loan taken out in January 
2011. I say that because the statements include details of the original loan to which the 
account relates and these details align with the information on the Resolve loan agreement 
dated January 2011. I can see that the payments being made to this account in the period 
after August 2018 were less than the amount set out in the original agreement  which may 
be because Mrs F had entered into a debt management plan. The payments were being 
made monthly by direct debit and the monthly payments changed over time as follows:
August 2018 - £22.29
November 2018 - £13.41
December 2019 - £16.87
The interest rate being applied to the account during the period covered by the statements 
was 0%. The statements also provide the outstanding balance. I have checked the opening 
and closing balances on each statement provided and I havent found any discrepancies. 
The last statement is dated 8 February 2021 when the outstanding balance is recorded as 
£7,355.44.
So, having considered everything here, Im not persuaded that Barclays needs to take any 
further action to resolve this complaint. It has offered to pay the Executors £50 for the 
distress and inconvenience they experienced as a result of what happened. As our 
investigator explained, our service cannot award compensation to the Executors or require 
Barclays to increase the amount of compensation it has offered to pay them. The reason for 
that is because the Executors are not the eligible complainant under our Rules. The eligible 
complainant here is the estate of Mrs F. I can only award compensation if the estate of Mrs F 
has suffered any loss and for the reasons set out above, Ive decided that the estate of 
Mrs F hasnt suffered any loss. 
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I do not uphold this complaint about Barclays Bank UK PLC.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask the estate of Mrs F 
to accept or reject my decision before 7 October 2022.
 
Irene Martin
Ombudsman