DRN-2877523
The complaint
This is a complaint that Lloyds Bank PLC mis-sold Mr R payment protection insurance (PPI).
What happened
This complaint is about a monthly premium PPI policy taken out with a mortgage in 2001. 
Our adjudicator said the complaint shouldnt be upheld. Mr R disagreed with the 
adjudicators opinion and so the complaint has been passed to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding this case. 
Ive decided not to uphold this complaint. I will explain why.
Mr R says the bank manager and the in-house mortgage broker insisted that he take PPI. 
Mr R says it was clear he wouldnt have got the mortgage without PPI. He says he was given 
no choice. 
The difficulty I have with this is that I wouldnt expect someone to recall in detail everything 
that happened about 20 years ago, when the application was made. So it wouldnt normally 
be fair to rely only on what Mr R now remembers, and there would need to be reasonable 
supporting of evidence to show what happened. And I dont have other evidence to show 
that Lloyds made Mr R feel he had to take PPI. 
And I can see there is a letter to Mr R, dated 1 February 2001 which says:
Thank you for applying for C&G Payment Protection Plus Insurance.
Please check the enclosed Policy Schedule to make sure that your policy details are 
correct and that the cover is right for you.
If you're dissatisfied, please return the documents within 30 days of receiving them, 
along with a note from you asking us to cancel the policy.
In this letter Lloyds is actively reminding Mr R that he doesnt have to have the PPI and can 
cancel it. This does support Lloyds claim that the PPI would have been presented as a 
choice. 
Ive looked to see whether there are other reasons the PPI might have been mis-sold  but 
having done so, I dont think they apply. I will explain.
I think Lloyds Bank recommended the PPI to Mr R, and this means we would judge its sales 
process by a higher standard  it had to make sure the PPI was suitable for Mr Rs particular 
circumstances. However, it looks to me as though a recommendation would have been a 
suitable one, based on what Ive seen of Mr Rs situation at the time: 
Its likely Mr R was eligible for the policy, so he would have been entitled to make a 
claim if needed. 
The PPI would have paid benefits at the same time as Mr R received any employer 
sick pay, and potentially for longer. It would have paid unemployment benefits in 
addition to any redundancy pay. And it would have put off the time when Mr R would 
need to fall back on any savings or other means he may have had for paying the 
mortgage and other living costs. This all would have put Mr R in a more secure 
position, if hed eventually lost income due to long term sickness or unemployment. 
Ive not been told anything to suggest he couldnt afford the PPI when he took it out. 
And Mr R could have cancelled the policy if this changed later on. 
There are some things the PPI didnt cover (exclusions). But I dont have any 
evidence that Mr R would have been affected by any of these.
So I think the PPI would have been potentially useful, and so a recommendation was 
suitable. It would then be up to Mr R to decide whether he wanted to accept the 
recommendation and agree to buy the PPI.
Overall, I dont have good evidence that the PPI was mis-sold. 
Mr R has said that, at some point, he suffered a very serious illness and, when he went to 
make a claim, he was told he didnt have PPI. He says this had very serious consequences 
for him because he couldnt pay his mortgage. I dont know when this happened, although 
its almost certain to have been some time after this mortgage and PPI were taken out in 
2001. I can see that, a few years later, he took out a buy to let mortgage which appears not 
to have had PPI attached to it. I dont know whether this was the mortgage that caused him 
these problems, or whether he took out a later mortgage on his home without PPI, or 
whether at some point he cancelled his PPI. Or it might indeed be that Lloyds, or the insurer, 
made a serious error sometime later.
However, Ive not looked into that issue here  as far as I can see, Lloyds havent at this 
stage investigated that, and I dont have enough evidence to consider it now. In this decision 
today Ive considered only whether the PPI was mis-sold. If Mr R wants the other issue 
investigated, he would need first to pursue it with Lloyds. 
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, Im not upholding this complaint about the sale of the PPI that 
started in 2001. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision before 16 August 2021.
 
Timothy Bailey
Ombudsman