DRN-4318179
The complaint
Mr M has complained that PSI-Pay Ltd closed his account unfairly. He feels he was treated 
in a discriminatory way due to his race and disability.
What happened
The details of the complaint are well known to both parties, so I will not repeat them again 
here. Instead, I will focus on giving the reasons for my decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the investigators findings for broadly the same reasons. I will 
explain why. Im aware that Ive summarised this complaint very briefly, in far less detail than 
has been provided, and in my own words. No discourtesy is intended by this. Instead, Ive 
focussed on what I think is the heart of the matter here: did PSI act unfairly and 
unreasonably when it closed Mr Ms account. 
The starting point for me to consider is the terms and conditions of the account. Having done 
so, I can see that under section 9.e it says:
At our sole discretion, we may terminate this Agreement with at least 2 months notice
As such, PSI is entitled to close an account if it wishes to do so, without providing an 
explanation as long as it gives two months notice. PSI notified Mr M of its intention to close 
the account on 30 March 2023. As such the account was due to close on 29 May 2023. 
However, due to Mr Ms circumstances, I can see that PSI extended this by an extra month 
and actually gave Mr M three months notice. As such, the account was closed on 29 June 
2023. Therefore, I am satisfied PSI acted in accordance with its terms and conditions and 
provided Mr M with extra time due to his circumstances. I can also see that PSI also said it 
was happy to provide Mr M with further information about alternative bank accounts which 
he could apply for.
However, Mr M says that he feels PSI took the decision to close his account due to his race 
and disability. This service is unable to make a finding on whether something constitutes 
discrimination as per the Equality Act 2010. This is because we are an informal, free 
alternative to the courts and only a court of law can make a legal finding based on the 
definitions set out within that Act. I know Mr M will be frustrated by this. However, I can 
consider if PSI treated Mr M fairly.
As I have explained above, PSI doesnt need to provide a reason for why it chose to close 
Mr Ms account, as long as it provides him with two months notice. That said, PSI did say it 
felt that the account and its limitations no longer met Mr Ms needs. And given that Mr M has 
made several complaints regarding PSIs processes and procedures, I think it is a 
reasonable conclusion to reach. 
Having reviewed the file, I can see that PSI have acted on some of Mr Ms complaints and 
made changes to its processes, in some cases it has made reasonable adjustments, but has 
also explained that some changes Mr M has requested it cant amend. And I dont think its 
unreasonable. I say this because The Equality Act says that businesses have a duty to make 
reasonable adjustments for customers who are placed at a substantial disadvantage due to 
their disability. However, in law, PSI is only required to make adjustments which are 
reasonable, and ones that dont fundamentally alter the nature of its service. Thats relevant 
law and Ive taken it into account when reaching my decision.
As some of the request Mr M made couldnt be actioned, PSI felt it was no longer meeting 
his needs and decided to close the account in line with the terms and conditions. As such, I 
cant conclude PSI acted unfairly or unreasonably when it took the decision to close Mr Ms 
account. It follows, that I wont be asking PSI to do anything further.
My final decision
My final decisions is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 14 January 2024.
 
Jade Rowe
Ombudsman