DRN-2082996
The complaint
Mrs L has complained about a loan granted to her by Provident Personal Credit Limited 
trading as Satsuma (Satsuma or the lender). Mrs L says the loan wasnt affordable 
for her and Satsuma didnt review her circumstances before lending to her.
What happened
Satsuma agreed a loan of £700 for Mrs L on 9 October 2018. It was to be repaid with 12 
monthly instalments of about £116. Mrs L made two repayments before getting into 
difficulty. I understand the loan was passed to a third party debt collection agency in June 
2019.
Our adjudicator didnt uphold Mrs Ls complaint and she asked for an ombudsman to 
review it and come to a final decision on the matter. So the complaint came to me, as an 
ombudsman, to resolve.
I issued my provisional decision on 13 July 2020, explaining why I planned to uphold 
Mrs Ls complaint. Mrs L agreed with my provisional decision but Satsuma didnt respond 
to it. 
In my provisional decision, I said that I understood Mrs L took out home credit loans from 
Provident Personal Credit Limited in 2015 and 2016. She was unable to repay everything 
she borrowed and made a complaint in late 2017, in which she told it about her financial 
difficulties including that she had lost her home. Provident Personal Credit Limited upheld 
her complaint in part. I am not making any finding about those loans in my decision as 
they have already been dealt with. However, I have borne this history in mind when 
making my decision about the loan agreed in 2018.
This is now my final decision on the matter. If Mrs L accepts this it will be legally binding 
on both parties.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As before, I have also taken into account the law, any relevant regulatory rules and good 
industry practice at the time. As neither party has provided any new information for me to 
consider, I see no need to depart from my provisional conclusions but for completeness I will 
set them out here again.  
The Financial Conduct Authority was the regulator when Mrs L took out her loan. The 
relevant rules and guidance set out in its Consumer Credit Sourcebook said that 
Satsuma needed to check that Mrs L could afford to meet her repayments in a 
sustainable manner. This meant Mrs L being able to meet her repayments out of her 
normal income without having to go without or borrow further.
The regulations werent prescriptive about what checks Satsuma needed to carry out in 
order to reasonably assess whether or not Mrs L would be able to meet her 
repayments sustainably. But the regulations said that such checks needed to be 
proportionate. This suggests that the same checks might not be the appropriate thing to 
do for all consumers, or for the same consumer in all circumstances.
In general, Id expect a lender to require more assurance the greater the potential risk to 
the consumer of not being able to repay the credit in a sustainable way. So, for example, 
Id expect a lender to seek more assurance by carrying out more detailed checks
- the lower a consumers income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
make any loan repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of 
income);
- the higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more 
difficult to meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income);
- the greater the number and frequency of loans, and the longer the period of 
time during which a customer has been given loans (reflecting the risk that 
repeated refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become, or was 
becoming, unsustainable).
Satsuma says it asked Mrs L for information about her income and expenses when she 
applied for the loan. The lender recorded her monthly income as £1,400 and her 
monthly expenses as £600, which included £150 of existing credit repayments. It said 
an additional £500 of safeguards were applied to the total expenditure figure Mrs L 
supplied to reflect electronic information gathered from a credit reference agency and 
based on its own internal models. This included a further £350 on repaying existing 
credit. Satsuma estimated that Mrs L had a disposable income of about £300 each 
month to meet her loan repayments.
I dont think it was fair of Satsuma to agree this loan for Mrs L without further checks, for 
instance verifying what shed said about her income and expenditure. Mrs L would have to 
meet her loan repayments for 12 months and its own checks had revealed she spent more 
than double what shed declared on repaying existing credit each month, over a third of 
her income. Furthermore, she had not been able to repay her home credit loans in 2017 
and had explained why. I think its likely that Satsuma knew about Mrs Ls previous 
financial difficulty and that she had been in the vulnerable position of losing her home.
Mrs L has provided a copy of her credit file from 24 August 2018 and I can see from this 
that she was managing over £8,000 of active debt, borrowing from a number of other 
short term and high cost lenders and making repayments via a third party debt collection 
agency around that time. Her file shows almost £12,000 of defaulted debt and two active 
county court judgements, the latest of which had been awarded in March 2018 for over 
£2,500.
I think its likely Satsuma would have found out that Mrs L would not have been able to 
sustainably repay further credit, had it gathered a better picture of her finances before 
lending to her. So, I think Satsuma was irresponsible to agree this loan for Mrs L and I 
am upholding her complaint.
Putting things right
As Ive explained above, I find that Satsuma was irresponsible to have agreed a loan 
for Mrs L in October 2018.
This Services approach to putting things right where we find a loan has been irresponsibly given is to require the lender to refund any interest and charges paid plus 
compensatory interest or, in the case of unpaid loans, to treat the repayments made as 
payments towards the capital borrowed. We generally leave it to the borrower to fully 
repay the capital amount, because they have had the benefit of this money.
However, in this case Satsuma should have foreseen that Mrs L would have difficulty 
meeting her repayments given her history of significant financial difficulty. So I think 
the fairest thing to do to resolve this complaint is for Satsuma to:
a) remove any interest and charges that form part of the outstanding balance 
on this loan; and
b) treat any payments Mrs L has made as payments towards the capital amount; and
c) write off the outstanding capital amount so that Mrs L no longer owes any 
money for this loan; and
d) remove any adverse information about the loan from Mrs Ls credit file, 
once the account has been settled.
According to the account information the lender provided, it seems Mrs L hadnt fully 
repaid her loan and her debt was sold to a third party collection agency. Satsuma either 
needs to buy back this debt to achieve the above steps or work with the current debt 
owner to do so.
My final decision
As Ive explained, Im upholding Mrs Ls complaint about by Provident Personal Credit 
Limited trading as Satsuma and require it to put things right for her as Ive set out above. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs L to accept or 
reject my decision before 11 September 2020.
 
Michelle Boundy
Ombudsman