DRN-2697405
The complaint
Mr R is unhappy that Zenith Insurance plc (Zenith) refused to cancel his claim under his car 
insurance after his car was found. He also complains about Zeniths handling of his claim. Mr 
R wants his car returned to him or to have the option of buying back his car.   
All references to Zenith include agents appointed to act on Zeniths behalf. 
What happened
Mr R bought a car on finance which was stolen in September 2020. He reported this to 
Zenith and the claim was settled in October with a payment made to the finance provider. 
The settlement didnt clear the outstanding amount owed by Mr R so he was required to 
continue making payments. Mr Rs car was found and delivered to Zenith. Mr R asked Zenith 
if they would return the car to him if the finance provider agreed to refund the settlement. Mr 
R says Zenith refused as they had already settled the claim.   
Mr R complained and Zenith explained the car belonged to them after they paid the pre-
incident value settlement to the finance provider. They said Mr R was unable to buy the car 
back from them and noted Mr R had told them he would find out from the finance provider 
whether they were prepared to refund the settlement. Zenith said, as they didnt hear back 
from Mr R, the car was salvaged. They didnt uphold the complaint.  
Our investigator looked into things for Mr R. She thought Zenith hadnt acted unreasonably 
in refusing to let Mr R buy the car back. Mr R disagreed so the matter has come to me for a 
decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided not to uphold the complaint. I understand Mr R will be 
disappointed by this but Ill explain why I have made this decision. 
My starting point is Mr Rs car insurance policy. This sets out the terms and conditions and 
says Mr R is covered for theft of his car. And, in such an event, Zenith will pay an amount of 
cash equivalent to the loss. The policy says if Mr Rs car is stolen and has not been 
recovered at the time of settlement, the lost car becomes our property once the claim is 
met under the policy. 
I can see from the timeline of events, Zenith settle the claim by paying the finance company 
£3,450. They explain to Mr R that he is responsible for the outstanding balance owed to the 
finance provider. They also explain, should Mr Rs car be recovered, it will become their 
property. 
At this point, Mr Rs car hasnt been recovered. This happens later, so, in line with the terms 
and conditions, I think its correct for Zenith to say the car is their property after the claim is 
settled. I understand Mr R wishes to have his car back but this decision rests with Zenith. 
And, I dont think its unfair or unreasonable for them to refuse. 
Mr R feels hes been misled and was told there was a possibility he could have his car back, 
only to then be told that he couldnt. I note Zenith do say to Mr R that, if there is a possibility 
of returning his car, it needs to be agreed with the finance provider as they still have an 
interest in it. During a later call, Zenith explain its unlikely the finance provider would agree 
to return the settlement sum. They ask Mr R to return to them if the finance provider agrees 
to return the settlement sum. Mr R has told our investigator he contacted the finance 
provider and they refused to return the settlement amount to Zenith. I cant see Mr R is ever 
given a guarantee that Zenith will return the car to him. The possibility of this is discussed, 
but it does appear this is something which could only be considered further if the finance 
provider agreed to return the settlement. So, I cant say Zenith have acted unreasonably. 
 
Mr R says hes been left in a position where he no longer has a car but is expected to pay 
the outstanding balance to the finance provider. Mr R says he wants the remaining balance 
cleared. I can see, at the point the claim is settled, Mr R had an outstanding balance of over 
£1,700 to pay the finance provider. The policy says We are not liable for any amount you 
are contractually obliged to pay under any lease or finance agreement, you have entered 
into, over and above the cost of replacing your vehicle. Taking this into account, I dont think 
Zenith have acted unfairly. Theyve settled Mr Rs claim by paying the market value  which 
was agreed by Mr R. And, the terms and conditions dont hold Zenith responsible for any 
outstanding balance owed to a finance company after settlement. 
Mr R says, when he reported the theft to Zenith, they insisted he make a claim immediately. 
He says the policy doesnt set out a timeframe for how long a car needs to be unrecovered 
before a claim can be made. Mr R says he wouldve preferred to have waited to see if the 
police could recover his car. Mr Rs car was stolen on 7 September and wasnt recovered 
until 31 October  over seven weeks later. I havent listened to this call but even if Zenith 
were suggesting Mr R make a claim, the final decision rests with Mr R. And, while I can 
understand why a consumer might want to wait a few days, I think, on the balance of 
probabilities, its more likely than not Mr R wouldnt have waited seven weeks to make a 
claim. In addition to this, claim notes provided by Zenith show that Mr R told Zenith the 
police arent actively searching for his car. During a later call, Mr R queries how long it takes 
for a car to be recovered and Zenith explain this cant be predicted. So, the position Mr R 
was in at that time, was that he had no car, there was uncertainty on whether his car will be 
found and he would still be expected to make payments to the finance provider. So, in these 
circumstances, I dont think it was unreasonable if Zenith did suggest the option of making a 
claim. 
The information provided by Zenith shows that Mr R was very much engaged in the claim. 
This includes providing information requested by Zenith and agreeing a settlement value. 
So, even if Zenith did suggest Mr R make a claim, its clear this is a process which Mr R was 
involved in and agreed with. I do understand Mr Rs frustration here though, given that his 
car is found shortly after his claim is settled. Unfortunately, this is a risk a consumer faces 
when their car is stolen. Its difficult to predict if, and when, a car might be found so they 
must decide whether to proceed with a claim or whether to wait to see if their car is found. 
Mr R says he was still very much in shock and distress and he says Zenith used this to 
pressure him into making a claim. I have considered this, but Im not persuaded this 
demonstrates Zenith have acted unreasonably. 
From the point Mr R reports the incident to Zenith, the claim isnt settled until around six 
weeks later. Over this period, theres a number of contacts during which Mr R wouldve had 
an opportunity to ask Zenith to place his claim on hold if he did want to allow the police further time to locate his car. I cant see thats happened here. In the circumstances of this 
case, and in light of the points Ive made above, I dont think it was unreasonable for Zenith 
to discuss the option of making a claim.    
Mr R says, following the theft of his car, he was stranded 80 miles from home with his 
pregnant wife and young child. He says he wasnt offered a courtesy car and, if this wasnt 
on his policy, he wouldve paid extra to add this on. He says Zenith told him they would only 
do this if his car was recovered and repaired. Mr Rs policy does make provision for a 
courtesy car but its only in the event Mr Rs car is to be repaired. That wasnt the case here 
and while I do sympathise with the position Mr R found himself and his family in following the 
theft, Zenith have acted in line with the terms and conditions.   
I can see Mr R has recently received a fine for his car not being taxed. I think its important to 
note that the DVLA say the car hasnt been taxed or declared off-road since early 
September. At this point, Mr R is still the registered keeper as the claim isnt settled until 
October. So, it was initially Mr Rs responsibility to either pay the tax or declare his car off-
road. After the claim is settled, the cars ownership changes and I think its reasonable to say 
this responsibility then rests with Zenith. I understand Mr R is appealing this with the DVLA. 
So, while I cant comment on what the outcome of that will be, Mr R can raise this directly 
with Zenith if the DVLA still proceed with a fine.  
In summary, I dont think Zenith have acted unfairly or unreasonably in not returning Mr Rs 
car or giving him the option to buy his car back.  
My final decision
For the reasons I have given, it is my final decision that the complaint is not upheld. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision before 2 June 2021.
 
Paviter Dhaddy
Ombudsman