DRN-2897607
The complaint
Mr W has complained that Aviva Insurance Limited (Aviva) wouldnt provide him with an 
allowance towards the cost of a replacement tap chosen and purchased by him in place of a 
tap offered by Aviva under his HomeCare policy.
What happened
In December 2020, Mr W called Aviva about a leaking kitchen tap. Avivas engineer 
appeared to fix the problem but in January 2021 the handle fell off, so he called Aviva again. 
Its engineer said it couldnt be repaired and that he needed a new tap. He offered to fit a tap 
which he had on his van but as it didnt look anything like the existing one, Mr W declined it. 
He was told hed need to purchase a new tap which Aviva would fit for him. He asked if an 
allowance would be made in respect of the value of the replacement tap offered by Aviva, 
but was told this wasnt possible. 
Mr W complained to Aviva, and Aviva rejected Mr Ws complaint. He argues that the policy 
says that it covers the repair of dripping or seized taps, and parts and labour up to £4,000, 
and that therefore Aviva should cover the cost of the tap of his choice and its fitting.
Aviva has said in its final response that we dont replace a like for like tap and we will only 
replace standard tap (sic).
Mr W wasnt satisfied with Avivas response to his complaint, so he brought it to this service. 
Our investigators view was that Aviva hadnt done anything wrong in requiring Mr W to 
supply his own tap if he didnt wish to accept the tap that Aviva wouldve provided.
Mr W wasnt happy with our investigators view and asked that it be referred to an 
ombudsman for a final decision from this service.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im not going to uphold Mr Ws complaint and Ill explain why.
Mr W has made a number of references to what his HomeServe policy says and what it 
doesnt say. Ive looked at the policy to see whether Mr Ws interpretation is correct and 
reasonable, and in particular whether there is any reference to reimbursement for the cost of 
customer supplied parts. 
Under the heading General Exclusions, the policy says that Aviva will not be liable for any 
of the following:
(j) any parts not supplied and chosen by us. Subject to any applicable regulations, our 
engineer can fit on alternative part (that complies with British Standards) supplied by 
you at the time of the visit (e.g. a switch or tap) however this part will not be guaranteed. 
That exclusion means that Aviva will only pay for parts that it has supplied and chosen, and 
not parts supplied and chosen by the customer. With some exceptions, Aviva will fit any 
such parts but the part wont be guaranteed. 
I also think that Mr Ws interpretation of the policy could lead to a clearly unfair situation for 
Aviva. It would mean that a customer could choose not to accept a tap offered by Aviva and 
could purchase a very expensive one, one much more expensive than the one being 
replaced, and Aviva would have to reimburse its cost to its customer, subject only to a 
maximum claim of £4,000. To my mind that cannot be right.
My conclusion is that Aviva acted reasonably and in line with the policy terms and conditions 
in telling Mr W that if he wanted a different style of tap to the one it was offering for free, he 
could source and purchase this himself and Aviva would fit it for free. I believe this is what 
has happened.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above, Im not upholding Mr Ws complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 11 August 2021.
 
Nigel Bremner
Ombudsman