DRN-2944146
The complaint
Ms D is complaining Calpe Insurance Company Limited (Calpe) has settled a claim a third 
party made on her car insurance policy. Shes also unhappy with the amount it paid out.
What happened
In April 2020 a third party contacted Calpe to say theyd been involved in an accident 
involving Ms D. The third party said Ms D had driven into the back of his stationary vehicle. 
Calpe contacted Ms D to discuss the claim, but Ms D denied any involvement and said she 
was at home at the time. Calpe emailed Ms D to say it would investigate the allegations. 
Ms D replied to again say she denied being involved. However a couple of days later she 
contacted Calpe again to say she now remembered the incident, but she said the third party 
had reversed into her.
Calpe arranged for an inspection of her car which confirmed some light damage to the front 
bumper which the engineer thought was consistent with the accident circumstances. The 
third party later claimed for his losses which included damage to his car, hire car charges, 
personal injury and lost earnings.
Calpe ultimately decided to settle the third partys claim. It wrote to Ms D to say it had paid 
out £3,664.05 for the third partys claim. It said Ms D had a £3,000 all sections excess which 
it said meant she had to pay the first £3,000 of any claim on the policy. It said the damage to 
her car would cost £673.84 to repair, so it reduced this from the excess and it said she owed 
£2,326.16. Ms D didnt agree with this and maintained she wasnt at fault for the accident 
and thought the third party was making a fraudulent claim.
Our investigator didnt uphold this complaint. She was satisfied Calpe had investigated this 
matter fairly and she said it was entitled to settle the claim if it thought it was in its best 
interests to do so.
Ms D didnt agree with the investigator, so the complaints been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive decided to not uphold this complaint and Ill now explain why.
I should first explain that this service isnt able to say whos at fault for causing an accident, 
as that is the responsibility of the courts. Our role is to look at whether Calpe has carried out 
a fair investigation, reviewed all the evidence it has and come to a reasonable decision.
Ms Ds policy, like all other car insurance policies, allowed Calpe to conduct the defence, 
admit negligence for any accident or claim on Your [Ms Ds] behalf. It further sets out that if 
there is a dispute between the Underwriters [Calpe] and the Insured Person [Ms D], the 
settlement of the claim shall be as if it were made with the agreement of the Insured Person, 
regardless that such settlement may be made without admission of liability. We [Calpe] will 
settle all claims on the best terms available and keep the claim payment to a minimum as 
much as is possible. You [Ms D] will be liable to pay/repay Your Excess Amount on the basis 
of such settlement notwithstanding that you may not agree with the level of third party
damage or injury which has been incurred, claimed and paid for. 
So the terms of the policy entitled Calpe to settle the claim on the best terms it thought fit. 
And it had the ultimate and final say in how to settle a claim. But it needed to exercise this 
right fairly and reasonably, taking into account everything both parties had provided.
I appreciate Ms D feels strongly that the third party has made a fraudulent claim. As I said 
above, its not my role to say whether a claim is fraudulent or not. My role is to consider 
whether Calpe has considered everything before coming to its final conclusion to settle the 
third partys claim. I am satisfied from Calpes internal records that it did consider Ms Ds 
version of events that the third party drove into her. But, ultimately, Calpe was of the opinion 
that, had the claim proceeded to court, it thought Ms D was likely to be held liable. Calpe is 
entitled to consider the likely outcome of going to court and I dont think it acted unfairly in 
deciding to settle the third partys claim.
Ive also thought about Ms Ds unhappiness with the amount that Calpe has paid out. The 
third party claimed for damage to his vehicle, hire charges and personal injury. I can see that 
Calpe did defend the costs claimed and was able to negotiate a reduced claim settlement  
particularly in respect to the hire car charges. So Im satisfied it did act fairly in looking to 
keep the costs down. Ultimately the third party did evidence his car was repaired and he was 
provided with a hire vehicle at the time.
The terms of Ms Ds policy sets out she is liable for the first £3,000 of any claim  including 
regards to any claim for a third partys losses. So Calpe was entitled to require her to pay 
this and I cant say its treated her unfairly in this regard. I note Ms D says she is in financial 
difficulties and cant pay this. Shell need to discuss this with Calpe to arrange a suitable 
repayment schedule.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive set out above, its my final decision that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms D to accept or 
reject my decision before 1 February 2022. 
Guy Mitchell
Ombudsman