DRN-2914915
The complaint
Mr P complains that AA Underwriting Insurance Company Limited (AA) undervalued his car 
when he claimed on his motor insurance policy.
What happened
In January 2021 Mr Ps car was stolen. Mr P claimed under his motor insurance policy with 
AA. AA assessed the market value of Mr Ps car to be £19,880. It paid him that amount, less 
the excess payable by Mr P under the policy.
Mr P says AAs valuation falls short of the amount hed need in order to buy a comparable 
vehicle. He believes that the true market value is around £3,500 more than AAs valuation. 
Hes referred to adverts for similar vehicles for sale for significantly more than the amount 
AA valued the car at.
One of our investigators considered the complaint. He didnt think it should be upheld. In 
summary, he said hed considered motor trade valuation guides, and taking those into 
account, he thought AAs valuation was fair.
Mr P disagreed with the investigators view, so the complaints been passed to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided not to uphold the complaint. Ill explain why.
I should say at the outset that my role isnt to place a value on Mr Ps vehicle. Instead, I need 
to decide whether AAs settlement figure is within a fair and reasonable range, and in line 
with the terms and conditions of Mr Ps policy. So my starting point is to look at the policy 
wording.
The policy provided that AA wouldnt pay more than the market value of vehicle at the time 
of the loss, less the total excess payable. This is a term we see in most motor insurance 
policies.
Market value is defined in the policy document as The cost of replacing the Insured Car 
with one of the same make, model, age, mileage, specification and condition at the date of 
accident or loss. 
We think the fairest way for an insurer to decide the market value of a vehicle is to look at 
the main motor trade guides for valuing second-hand vehicles. We find these persuasive 
because their valuations are based on nationwide research and likely sales figures. The 
guides refer to advertised and auction prices to work out what the likely selling price for the 
same vehicle would be. If a guide price is significantly higher or lower than the others, we 
may think its reasonable to ignore it.
Establishing the replacement cost of a stolen vehicle isnt an exact science. Its usually 
possible to find adverts for cars for sale for a significantly higher price than someone would 
actually have to pay if they shopped around.
AA based its valuation of Mr Ps car on the retail values shown in two of the motor trade 
guides. Ive seen copies of the valuations it got. They took into account the approximate 
mileage of Mr Ps vehicle. They were:
Glasss: £19,760 
CAP: £20,000
The valuation AA placed on Mr Ps car was mid-way between these two figures.
Im satisfied that AA used the guides correctly, and that it was reasonable of it to rely on the 
valuations shown in the guides when assessing the value of Mr Ps car. 
In addition to the trade guides that AA consulted, we usually also look at the Cazana motor 
trade guide. Our investigator got a valuation of £21,243 from the Cazana guide. Taking the 
Cazana valuation into account, the average of the three valuations is £20,334. Its true that 
thats higher than AAs valuation figure. But the valuation AA placed on Mr Ps car fell within 
the range of the three figures. So I cant say that its unfair or unreasonable. 
Based on our research, and looking at what AA has done, Im satisfied that AAs valuation of 
Mr Ps vehicle is fair and reasonable, takes into account the specification of Mr Ps car and is 
in line with the terms of his motor insurance policy.
I know that my decision will come as a disappointment to Mr P. I realise that he feels 
strongly that the valuations given by the motor trade guides dont accurately represent the 
market value of his car. But Im satisfied that it was reasonable of AA to calculate its 
valuation in the way that it did. And I cant fairly require it to do more.
My final decision
My decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision before 14 October 2021.
 
Juliet Collins
Ombudsman