DRN-4495319
The complaint
Miss Q complains about the service AXA Insurance UK Plc trading as Swiftcover (AXA) 
gave her and that it rejected a claim under her motor insurance policy. When I mention AXA 
I also mean its suppliers.
What happened
Miss Q had a motor insurance policy with AXA covering her car.
Her car was substantially damaged when being driven by a family member of Miss Q. This 
family member wasnt insured to drive her car under AXAs policy.
AXA rejected the claim as the family member wasnt covered.
The car was then released by the police and AXAs claims handler arranged to have the car 
recovered and it was valued by AXAs supplier. AXA paid £402.96 to Miss Q, which was the 
salvage value of the car after deduction of Miss Qs excess. It also transferred ownership of 
the car to one of its suppliers which acts as a vehicle breaker.
It told her it was going to settle her claim for the damage to her car, but this was an error.
Miss Q remained unhappy and brought her complaint to this service. She asks that AXA pay 
her claim.
Our investigator looked into her complaint and thought it would be upheld in part. She 
thought AXA didnt need to pay Miss Qs claim for damage, but it should pay Miss Q £100 for 
its poor service during the claim. She also said it should either return the damaged car to 
her, or make a payment in respect of its salvage value.
AXA agreed with the view. But it didnt clarify what it would do with the damaged car.
Because it didnt respond, this complaint has been passed to me for a final decision.
I issued a provisional decision to allow both parties to consider the matter further:
The accident
I can see from the file of evidence I have that Miss Qs car was damaged in an incident while 
being driven by her family member. I can also see that this family member wasnt insured 
under the policy she had with AXA.
I understand Miss Qs frustration as she was told by AXA that her claim for damage to her 
car was going to be covered. It offered the payment on a without prejudice basis. What this 
means is that AXA are prepared to pay, but the payment is subject to further information 
coming to light that means it may have to ask for its money back, or the amount to be 
adjusted. This can happen in insurance payments as claims are investigated further. In this 
case, AXA shouldnt have said it would pay, as the claim had already been repudiated.
For Miss Q, what that means is AXA doesnt need to settle her claim for damage to her car 
under the terms of its policy as the driver wasnt covered. So Im not proposing to uphold this 
aspect of Miss Qs complaint.
But I dont think it was good service of AXA to say it would pay the claim and Ill talk about 
this later.
The salvage
Its my understanding that AXA said Miss Qs car was damaged beyond economical repair 
and it was a category B write off. What that means is the car can only be used for parts and 
can never be driven again. It can only be transferred to an appropriately licenced company 
for those purposes.
Its also my understanding that Miss Q wouldnt be able to take her car back because of 
these requirements, so it seems to me that the fair thing to do is that AXA arrange for the car 
to be disposed of, and then make a payment to Miss Q for the amount it receives as 
salvage.
Its important that I say Miss Q apparently had a finance arrangement relating to the car. So 
Id reasonably expect AXA to make any payment for the salvage to the finance company if 
thats appropriate.
Its my understanding that AXA has already paid Miss Q £402.96 for this salvage value, after 
deduction of her £200 excess. Because this payment wasnt under the terms of her policy 
with AXA, it shouldnt have deducted the excess.
So it needs to pay her £200 in respect of this deduction it shouldnt have made. Interest at 
8% simple should be added from the date the initial £402.96 was made, to the date this 
payment is made.
Claims service
I can see from AXAs file that it says: Claims handler made a major mistake by instructing 
[supplier] when [Miss Q] doesn't qualify for us to indemnify.
When our investigator sent her view, AXA agreed with the £100 distress and inconvenience 
she awarded but then it didnt respond further.
Ive looked at Miss Qs evidence. Its clear to me that shes found the entire process very 
distressing and shes been dealing with significant personal issues during the same time.
Part of that distress is likely due to her car being written off and finding out that she wasnt 
going to be covered by AXA due to the driver not being covered, but I also think a 
considerable amount of distress has resulted from AXAs failure to deal with her claim 
effectively and communicate with her.
I can also see Miss Q has had a significant amount of inconvenience due to being without a 
car for an extended period, but I cant reasonably say thats AXAs fault as it was Miss Qs 
family member who crashed her car. AXA didnt cover that person, so its not caused most of 
her inconvenience.
Taking everything into account, Ive considered the impact of AXAs initial poor claims 
handling and the ongoing lack of responses and thought about an appropriate level of 
compensation. Ive looked at this services recommendations and I think £300 is the right amount to award Miss Q.
Responses to my provisional decision
AXA accepted my provisional decision. Miss Q didnt accept it. She says AXA told her that 
her claim was going to be paid and that its procedures and communication with her was poor 
throughout the process of her claim and the complaint.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I read Miss Qs response to my provisional decision carefully and I understand shes taken 
legal advice about the situation she is in. If Miss Q doesnt accept my decision then shes 
free to take legal action against AXA and this is her right.
I explained in my provisional decision that AXA made mistakes during her claim, and those 
mistakes led to the distress that Ive decided she should receive compensation for.
But I cant agree with her that AXA need to pay her claim. Her car wasnt insured when it 
was crashed. So it wouldnt be fair that I ask AXA to pay her claim.
Ive said that I think AXA need to repay her the amount of her policy excess it deducted from 
the salvage figure, as the damage wasnt covered under her insurance policy and shouldnt 
have been deducted, and this will stand. 
Because AXA has accepted my provisional decision and Miss Q hasnt provided any further 
evidence, my final decision and reasoning remains the same as my provisional decision.
My final decision
ts my final decision that I uphold this complaint in part. I direct AXA Insurance UK Plc 
trading as Swiftcover to:
Pay Miss Q the £200 it deducted from her salvage payment. Interest at 8% simple 
should be added to this from the date AXA made the initial payment to her, to the 
date it makes this payment.
Pay Miss Q £300 for her distress caused by its poor service.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss Q to accept 
or reject my decision before 2 January 2024.
 
Richard Sowden
Ombudsman