DRN-3203877
The complaint
Ms R complains that Saffron Building Society were unable to offer the service to port her 
mortgage and borrow additional funds. She has said because of this she will incur an early 
repayment charge (ERC) if she moves house.
What happened
Ms R took out a repayment mortgage with Saffron in 2018. The mortgage was for a total of 
£148,149 over a term of 23 years. It had an initial fixed rate of 2.87% until 30 June 2021 
when it would revert to Saffrons standard variable rate (SVR). An early repayment charge 
(ERC) was applicable for the time the fixed rate applied.
In July 2020, Ms R spoke with Saffron as she wanted to port her mortgage to a new property 
and take additional borrowing  taking advantage of the stamp duty holiday. She was 
informed by Saffron that its mortgage advisor had left the business and it currently couldnt 
offer a service where she could port her mortgage or take additional borrowing. This was 
because she would need to speak with a mortgage advisor to do so. 
Instead, Saffron said it could refer Ms R to a broker who could advise her about different 
lenders free of charge. However, it clarified that if Ms R were to redeem her mortgage early 
and switch lenders the ERC would be applied. Unhappy, Ms R raised a complaint.  
Saffron considered the complaint and didnt uphold it. It said porting is subject to the terms 
and conditions of the mortgage and its lending policy at the time. And it was unable to 
approve Ms Rs application at the time because the advice service was not something it 
could currently offer. It also outlined that Ms Rs mortgage states an ERC would be applied if 
she re-mortgaged to another lender before 30 June 2021. 
Our investigator considered the complaint and didnt think Saffron had acted unfairly. They 
said that Saffron didnt have any advisors available but had offered an alternative option 
(being referred to a broker free of charge) to avoid any adverse impact on Ms R. They also 
explained that the ERC formed part of Ms Rs agreement and it would be reasonable for 
Saffron to charge this if she repaid the mortgage early. 
Ms R disagreed stating that the terms of her mortgage allowed her to port the mortgage to 
another property  where she wouldnt incur an ERC. She said Saffron hadnt offered any 
alternative way of moving to a new house without paying the ERC, which was unfair and has 
had a detrimental impact on her. 
The investigator agreed that the terms of the mortgage allowed Ms R to port her mortgage 
but explained this was subject to the terms and conditions of the mortgage and the lending 
policy at the time. They didnt think Ms R should be adversely impacted by Saffron being 
unable to provide an advised service. But didnt think she had been because at the time she 
spoke to Saffron, Ms R hadnt yet made an offer on a property. As Saffron had since 
resumed the advised service she didnt think it would be fair to ask it to waive the ERC.
Ms R disagreed and asked for an ombudsmans decision. 
I issued a provisional decision on this complaint on 18 October 2021 where I said:
Saffron hasnt agreed to our service considering any events that occurred after it issued its 
final response on 31 July 2020, as it hasnt had the opportunity to respond first. Therefore, 
my decision will only consider the complaint points Ms R raised before this date. 
Ms Rs mortgage offer outlines under section 10 that the mortgage product she agreed to is 
portable and that she may be able to keep the product if she moves to a new property  as 
long as she met the terms and conditions of the mortgage and Saffrons lending policy at the 
time. Porting and additional borrowing is not guaranteed and would always be subject to 
application. 
When Ms R contacted Saffron to port her mortgage and take additional borrowing, it was 
unable to process her request as it currently didnt have a mortgage advisor employed to 
consider the application and provide advice. I can see Saffron informed Ms R of this and 
referred her to a broker who could provide advice and arrange a new mortgage with an 
alternative lender  but couldnt provide advice on porting and taking additional borrowing 
with Saffron. It also confirmed that if she decided to arrange a new mortgage through the 
broker during the fixed rate period an ERC would be payable. 
Saffron has explained that not having a mortgage advisor available to process porting and 
additional borrowing applications was an unexpected change within the business. Saffron 
has said it treated all its customers consistently during the time an advisor was unavailable 
and provided the alternative option  speaking to a recommended broker free of charge. 
Whilst I understand not having a mortgage advisor may have been unexpected, I do think 
this has unfairly impacted Ms R. Saffrons inability to consider Ms Rs application to port her 
mortgage and take additional borrowing is not the same as considering an application, and 
then declining it because it didnt meet Saffrons lending criteria. The mortgage offer Ms R 
agreed to outlines under section 10 and 12 that it allows porting and additional borrowing 
respectively  subject to Saffrons lending policy at the time. Not having an advisor available 
to complete an application to port and take additional borrowing isnt part of Saffrons lending 
policy. Therefore, Ms R has been unfairly impacted by this inability to process her application 
because she has been denied the opportunity to apply to port her mortgage and take 
additional borrowing. She was left with only one option if she wanted to move property  
move to another lender and incur an ERC  which impacted her plans.
I can see that Ms R hasnt proceeded with her plans to move property during the time an 
ERC was applicable, so she hasnt been impacted by this charge, insofar as she hasnt 
actually paid it. However, I do think Ms R has experienced distress and inconvenience 
because of Saffrons actions. I think it would have been distressing to find out that porting 
her mortgage and applying for additional borrowing was no longer an option available to her. 
I also think Ms R was inconvenienced by Saffron not having the ability to process her 
request during the time it didnt have an advisor  between July 2020 and October 2020  
because it prevented her from proceeding with her plans to move property. Taking this all 
into consideration, I think Saffron should pay an award of £200 compensation to recognise 
this distress and inconvenience. 
I note from Ms Rs correspondence to our service that shes raised concerns about missing 
the stamp duty holiday and the costs this will incur. I appreciate Ms Rs concerns but its not 
something I think Saffron can be held responsible for. I say this because although Ms R was 
unable to proceed with an application with Saffron when she initially contacted it, there is no 
guarantee that if she was able to complete an application it would have been successful. It 
should also be noted that Ms R was able to proceed with an application when the stamp duty holiday was still in place, after October 2020, when Saffron informed her it had the facility to 
process porting and additional borrowing applications again. I can see that Ms R did contact 
Saffron, but the application didnt proceed as Ms R was looking for short term financing 
which wasnt something Saffron offered. Ms Rs choice not to proceed with any such 
application, with any other lender, was ultimately her own decision.  
I understand that Ms R wanted to wait for the outcome of the complaint before proceeding 
with her plans to move property. As our investigator explained there is no guarantee that our 
service would agree with her complaint and ask Saffron to waive the ERC. 
As Ive said, I understand that since Saffron have had a mortgage advisor available, Ms R 
has tried to submit an application which hasnt proceeded. As these events happened after 
Saffron issued its final response on 31 July 2020 they have not been considered as part of 
this complaint. If Ms R remains unhappy that Saffron wouldnt proceed with an application, 
she should contact Saffron in the first instance. 
I invited both parties to let me have any further comments and evidence they wanted to 
provide by 15 November 2021. 
Saffron responded saying it acknowledged the disappointment Ms R would have 
experienced because it didnt have an advisor in place, but it explained its sales policy 
(which sits alongside its lending policy) is clear that advice must be provided if porting and 
additional borrowing is requested. It didnt think it should be penalised for not having an 
advisor and for meeting its regulatory obligations about providing advice in certain situations, 
as prescribed within the Mortgage and Home Finance: Conduct of Business sourcebook 
(MCOB).
Ms R didnt respond to my provisional decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I appreciate Saffrons comments about needing to provide advice to Ms R about porting her 
mortgage and taking additional borrowing, to ensure it met its regulatory obligations under 
MCOB. However, it doesnt change my opinion for this complaint. 
As explained in my provisional decision, Ms Rs mortgage offer outlined under section 10 
and 12 that it allows porting and additional borrowing respectively  subject to Saffrons 
lending policy at the time of an application. 
Therefore, when Ms R agreed to this mortgage, I think it reasonable that she would expect to 
be able to have an application to port her mortgage and take additional borrowing assessed 
in line with Saffrons lending criteria  if this is what she chose to do at a later date. 
This is not to say that I would expect Saffron necessarily to agree to Ms Rs application to 
port her mortgage and take additional borrowing, or that I think it should process an 
application without providing advice. But I do think it should have been able to offer the 
facility to assess any such application from Ms R  which in this instance, it hasnt been able 
to do. 
As Saffron was unable to process such an application, as it didnt have an advisor available, 
Ms R has been unfairly impacted because she has been denied the opportunity to apply to 
port her mortgage and take additional borrowing. This left her with only one option if she wanted to move property  move to another lender and incur an ERC  which as Ive said, 
impacted her plans.
I think finding out she no longer could apply to port her mortgage and take additional 
borrowing caused Ms R distress and inconvenience. I also think she was inconvenienced by 
Saffron not having an advisor  between July 2020 and October 2020  as it prevented her 
from proceeding with her plans to move property. To recognise this, I think Saffron should 
pay Ms R £200 compensation. 
I dont agree Saffron is being unfairly penalised by having to make this payment. I say this 
because this payment is to recognise the distress and inconvenience Saffron caused Ms R 
by being unable to process and assess her application  its not a penalty.
My final decision
My decision is that Saffron Building Society should pay Ms R £200 for the distress and 
inconvenience.
  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms R to accept or 
reject my decision before 5 January 2022.
 
Robert Woodhart
Ombudsman