DRN-3369373
The complaint
Mr F complains about not being permitted to trade shares using his Trading 212 Limited 
share trading account. As a consequence, he says hes suffered significant financial losses. 
What happened
Mr F says that on 28 January 2021, he couldnt access his account which prevented him 
from trading on GameStop (GME). This resulted in him being unable to buy and sell GME 
shares on the specific days, which meant he lost out financially. 
Trading 212 explained that there was a period of downtime on the trading platform, for some 
users on 27 January 2021. This was due to unprecedented demand on the service 
corresponding with the opening of the US market. This particularly effected GME (and AMC) 
shares. 
Trading 212 also explained that on 28 January 2021 it made the decision to prevent clients 
from purchasing and selling GME shares (and some other instruments) which were 
experiencing irregular volatility. 
It said these actions had to be taken due to reasons outside of its control. It doesnt accept 
that it had breached its terms and conditions, and it wasnt the only busines taking this sort 
of action either. 
Mr F still feels that Trading 212 have acted against the industry regulator  the Financial 
Conduct Authority (the FCA)  regulations, and that it doesnt have the right to mitigate 
consumer risk. To put things right, Mr F would like compensation for losses arising from his 
inability to trade. 
One of our investigators considered the complaint but didnt think it should be upheld. In 
summary, she said:
Mr F wouldve agreed to Trading 212s terms and conditions before setting up his 
account. 
In January 2021, several social media platforms cited high interest in certain shares, 
in particular GME (and AMC), which resulted in the stock market being extremely 
volatile. 
The unprecedented interest in GME caused an extreme strain on the entire trade 
execution ecosystem worldwide and affected almost every trading platform. 
Trading 212 has an obligation to its clients to take reasonable steps to execute 
orders. It has some discretion  subject to terms and conditions  not to execute 
orders but it must apply this fairly.   
Trading 212 explained that outsized trading volumes in shares like GME (and AMC) 
generated substantial risk exposures at firms that clear these trades. Many big 
brokers, including Trading 212s execution intermediary had to stop accepting buy 
orders until additional funds could be cleared and transferred. This means that 
Trading 212 was restricted from accessing shares by its liquidity provider, and 
therefore was unable to offer these shares on its platform.  
Based on evidence supplied by Trading 212, it seems there was a period of around 
five hours on 27 January 2021 when it couldnt trade on behalf of its clients. The 
business (repeatedly) contacted its liquidity broker to try and resolve the issue after it 
was made aware. Trading 212 took reasonable steps to execute trades  so meeting 
its obligations to its clients  but there was nothing more it could do. 
On 28 January 2021, due to increased capital requirements of the broker, it informed 
Trading 212 that GME shares would be restricted to sell only. 
The evidence provided by Mr F included a spreadsheet which shows he bought GME 
shares on 25,26,27 and 29 January and then sold some of these shares, but not until 
5 March 2021. Mr F also sent screenshots of the Trading 212 app showing GME in 
reduce mode only, and the business advising that new positions couldnt be opened 
and that only reduce or closure was possible. This confirms that the sell only 
restriction applied at the time. 
The terms and conditions show how Trading 212 can act when matters are outside of 
its control:
oClause 5.12 states: We shall have the right to introduce new Financial 
instruments and Market Hours for trading at the Trading Platform and to 
suspend and/or remove from the Trading Platform any Financial instrument 
and Market Hours at our sole discretion. 
oClause 5.4 states: We shall not accept Instructions to Deal when: the 
relevant market is closed for trading; or you do not have enough money in 
your account to execute the Transaction; or there are events described as 
Force Majeure in Clause 25.
Trading 212 also provided a statement from the FCA, published on 29 January 2021, 
which said: Broking firms are not obliged to offer trading facilities to clients. They 
might withdraw their services, in line with customer term and conditions if, for 
instance, they consider it necessary or prudent to do so. Firms are exposed to 
greater risk and therefore more likely to need to take such actions during periods of 
abnormally high transaction volumes and price volatility. 
Trading 212 suspended trading of all specific shares due to unforeseeable and 
volatile market conditions. The business hasnt breached its regulatory obligations 
and customer terms and conditions and did all it reasonably could for its clients.      
Mr F disagreed with the investigators view and asked for an ombudsmans decision. In 
summary, he made the following key points:
Its a shame that the FCA is in on it, along with the broker. 
If broking firms arent obliged to offer trading facilities to clients, whats the point of 
them?
Just because the business has terms and conditions allowing them to suspend their 
service, whenever its convenient to them, doesnt make it legal. Especially when it 
only suspends part of its service. 
He wouldnt have a problem if Trading 212 suspended all of its service and restored 
his buy/sell ratio. Instead the business suppressed all buying power, rather than stop 
all trading until normal market conditions were restored. 
Hes lost tons of money and doesnt believe the business has acted in his best 
interest.
A similar case that went to court was upheld against the broker. His case is identical 
to that case apart from the trader being Trading 212.  
As no agreement has been reached the matter has been passed to me for review. What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the investigators conclusion for substantially the same 
reasons. The view covers all the pertinent points leaving little for me to comment upon. Im 
not going to uphold this complaint. 
On the face of the evidence, and on balance, despite what Mr F says, Im unable to safely 
say that the business behaved unreasonably. In other words, in the circumstances, and on 
balance, Im satisfied that it behaved fairly, in accordance with its terms and conditions, and 
in line with the FCA statement issued at the time.
 
Before I explain why this is the case, I think its important for me to note I very much 
recognise Mr Fs strength of feeling about this matter. Hes provided submissions to support 
the complaint, which Ive read and considered carefully. However, I hope he wont take the 
fact my findings focus on what I consider to be the central issues, and not in as much detail, 
as a discourtesy. 
The purpose of my decision isnt to address every single point raised. My role is to consider 
the evidence presented by Mr F, and Trading 212, and reach what I think is an independent, 
fair and reasonable decision based on the facts of the case. 
In deciding whats fair and reasonable, I must consider the relevant law, regulation and best 
industry practice, but its for me to decide, based on the available information Ive been 
given, whats more likely than not to have happened.
On the face of the evidence, and on balance, Im satisfied that the business behaved in the 
way that it did, in response to what could only be described as unprecedented 
circumstances, during which even the FCA issued guidance permitting businesss like 
Trading 212 to act in the way that it did  rather than it behaving in a way that was merely 
convenient to it, because it was permitted to do so by the virtue of its terms and conditions. 
I note that the unprecedented interest and market activity in GME caused an extreme strain 
on the entire trade execution ecosystem worldwide and affected almost every trading 
platform. I note Mr F concedes it was two days with the most trading volume ever in the 
history of GME, so Im sure hell agree that the circumstances were far from normal market 
conditions.
I note Trading 212 explained that outsized trading volumes in shares like GME (and AMC) 
generated substantial risk exposures at firms that clear these trades (my emphasis). So 
that many big brokers, including Trading 212s execution intermediary, had to stop accepting 
buy orders until additional funds could be cleared and transferred. This means that Trading 
212 was restricted from accessing shares by its liquidity provider, and therefore was unable 
to offer these shares on its platform. I appreciate that Mr F doesnt necessarily agree with 
this, but this explains why the business behaved in the way that it did, rather than this being 
just a whim of its own.  
I aware that Mr F has his own theories about why the FCA was involved, and why Trading 
212 set GME to close (sell) only. Im mindful he probably thinks that it was done to try and 
deliberately reduce the share prices for two days (or some other way to influence the GME 
share price) thus affecting the value of his own portfolio  but thats not something I am able 
to comment upon in this decision. Given the unique and unprecedented set of circumstances, I cant see how the FCA, as the industry regulator, couldnt have got involved 
and issued an urgent statement in January 2021.  
I note Trading 212 has an obligation to its clients to take reasonable steps to execute 
orders, but I dont think its actions in this instance contravened that obligation. In other 
words, Im satisfied that Trading 212 did what it reasonably could to try and carry out its 
customers instructions, but due to circumstances outside of its control, simply couldnt fulfil 
them. In the circumstances I cant blame Trading 212 for this. 
I note that as result of the restrictions on 27 January 2021 (mentioned by the investigator 
above), Trading 212 repeatedly contacted its liquidity broker to try and resolve the issue after 
it was made aware. This is an example of Trading 212 taking reasonable steps to execute 
trades  and in my opinion meeting its obligations to its clients  but there was nothing more 
it could do. 
   
I also note, Trading 212 didnt guarantee that it will execute every order, under all 
circumstances, so it hasnt done anything wrong by not being able to do so in this instance. 
As long it has acted fairly, which Im satisfied it has, I dont think Trading 212 has done 
anything wrong. Besides, its terms and conditions, which its entitled to set and which Mr F 
agreed to at the outset, allowed it to suspend trades.  
I note Mr F is unhappy that the business suspended only part of its service, removing the 
ability to buy GME shares. Firstly, I think thats a decision that the business is entitled to 
make, in the reasonable exercise of its legitimate commercial judgement. Its not something 
that I can get involved in. Secondly, and in any event, I think Trading 212 probably had very 
little practical choice in the matter in this instance, as it was reacting to an unprecedented 
global event which was outside of its control.
Im mindful that many big brokers, including Trading 212s execution intermediary had to 
stop accepting buy orders until additional funds could be cleared and transferred. This 
means that Trading 212 was restricted from accessing shares by its liquidity provider, and 
therefore was unable to offer these shares on its platform.  
I appreciate what Mr F says about the question of legality, Im aware of the case link that 
hes provided. I note that case was decided through by the Financial Industry Regulatory 
Authority  through arbitration and mediation  in the USA against a different broker, 
applying a different set of rules and regulations, which isnt something Im bound by.  
Regardless of what that panel found, Im not specifically looking at the legality of the 
businesss actions, in the same way that a court or arbitration panel might. As an informal 
service which is an alternative to the courts, we decide what is fair and reasonable based on 
all the circumstances.
Im aware Mr F says that the basis of his complaint is that no broker should be able to make 
the decision to remove just one side of the trading process (buying or selling). But despite 
what he says, in the circumstances, and on balance, Im broadly satisfied that the business 
acted reasonably and in accordance with its terms and conditions. On balance, Im not sure 
that it couldve done things differently. 
 
I appreciate Mr F will be thoroughly unhappy that Ive reached the same conclusion as the 
investigator. On the face of the available evidence, and on balance, Im unable to uphold this 
complaint and give him what he wants.My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr F to accept or 
reject my decision before 14 October 2022.
 
Dara Islam
Ombudsman