DRN-1428022
 
The complaint
Miss G complains that she was mis-sold payment protection insurance (PPI).
Its been agreed in this case that AXA France IARD as the insurer should accept 
responsibility for the complaint. To keep things simple Ill refer to AXA in my decision. 
What happened
This complaint is about a monthly premium policy bought in July 2003 when Miss G took out 
a store card during a meeting in store.
I understand the PPI policy cost no more than £1.50 per £100 of Miss Gs statement balance 
at the point of sale. If shed made a successful accident, sickness or unemployment claim 
the policy wouldve paid 15% of her outstanding monthly balance on the store card until the 
balance was cleared, or she returned to work.
Our adjudicator upheld Miss Gs complaint. She thought that AXA hadnt properly explained 
that the policy didnt cover pre-existing medical conditions. And, as Miss G suffered from a 
pre-existing medical condition, when she took out the policy - one shed had since childhood 
- she thought that she wouldnt have taken it out if AXA had made this information clear 
enough.
AXA didnt agree so the complaint comes to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Weve set out our general approach to 
complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
Miss Gs case. Ive decided to uphold Miss Gs complaint for the same reasons as set out by 
our adjudicator.
Based on the evidence available to me, it seems that the policy wouldnt have paid out if 
Miss G had been off work due to a pre-existing medical condition. This is a significant 
limitation and should have been drawn to her attention at the point of sale. 
This matters because Miss G has told us she was diagnosed with a medical condition, and 
although she had surgery as a child, its a medical condition she still has today. And the 
nature of the condition was such that it could worsen, and it could lead to other 
complications, which might result in extended periods of time off work. 
I accept that the policy wouldve still covered Miss G for time off work due to other 
conditions, as well as providing other benefits. But I dont think that the other benefits offered 
by the policy would have been enough to convince Miss G to take out the cover despite the 
terms relating to pre-existing medical conditions. So, taking everything into account, I dont think Miss G wouldve bought the policy if shed 
been properly informed. So I think Miss G has lost out because of what AXA did wrong.
I think that Miss G wouldve still taken out the store card, but without the PPI policy. It follows 
that I uphold this complaint and ask AXA to put things right as set out below.
Putting things right
AXA should put Miss G in the financial position shed be in now if she hadnt taken out PPI. I 
understand the account is now closed. So, if possible:
 
A. AXA should find out how much Miss G would have owed when she closed her store 
card account if the policy hadnt been added. And it should remove the PPI premiums 
added, as well as any interest charged on those premiums. It should also remove 
any charges that were caused by the mis-sale of the PPI  as well as any interest 
added to those charges. AXA should then refund the difference between what Miss G 
owed when she closed her account and what she would have owed if she hadnt had 
PPI.
 
B. AXA should add simple interest on the difference between what Miss G would have 
owed when she closed her account from when she closed it until she gets the refund. 
The interest rate should be 15% a year until April 1993 and 8% a year from then on.
 
C. If  when AXA works out what Miss G would have owed each month without PPI  
Miss G paid more than enough to clear her balance, AXA should also pay simple 
interest on the extra Miss G paid. And it should carry on paying interest until the point 
when Miss G wouldve owed AXA something on her store card. The interest rate 
should be 15% a year until April 1993 and 8% a year from then on.
 
AXA may not be able to work out A, B and C if it doesnt know when the PPI premiums were 
added, how much the PPI premiums were and/or how much interest was charged on those 
premiums. So if AXA cant do A, B and C, it should:
 
D. use what it knows about Miss G  and, if necessary, consumers who took out the 
same type of PPI policy for the same length of time  to estimate how much she paid 
for PPI (including interest)  and pay this to Miss G instead of A, B and C.
 
E. AXA should add simple interest on this amount (D) from the date the account was 
closed until the date Miss G gets her refund. The interest rate should be 15% a year 
until April 1993 and 8% a year from then on.
 
F. AXA should tell Miss G what its done to work out her compensation  and if it has to 
estimate how much she paid for PPI, it should explain why and give Miss G the 
chance to provide any missing information.
  HM Revenue & Customs requires AXA to take off tax from this interest. AXA must give 
Miss G a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if she asks for one. 
My final decision
For the reason above, my final decision is that Miss Gs complaint should be upheld. AXA 
France IARD must pay Miss Gs compensation as Ive set out above. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss G to accept 
or reject my decision before 1 May 2020.
Andrew Macnamara
Ombudsman