DRN-4473364
The complaint
Mrs R complains Santander UK Plc blocked an incoming payment in February 2022. She 
would like compensation for the time she didnt have access to her funds.
What happened
The facts which led to Mrs R bringing her complaint to our service are well known to both 
parties so Im not repeating them in full here. In summary:
Mrs R had an account with Santander. On 25 February 2022 Mrs R received a 
payment into her account of £73,799.
The payment came via a Russian bank. Santander blocked the payment.
Mrs R said Santander didnt acknowledge that the payment had arrived for a 
whole month.
Mrs R told Santander it was her husbands salary.
Santander wrote to Mrs R advising her to contact the Office of Financial 
Sanctions Implementation (OFSI).
On 24 March 2022 the UK government-imposed sanctions on Alfa Bank. The 
sending bank for the payment
On 28 March 2022 Santander requested proof of entitlement to the funds. Mrs R 
provided information on 29 March 2022.
On 26 April 2022 Santander said Mrs R would need a licence from OFSI to 
release the funds.
On 28 June 2022 Santander wrote to Mrs R suggesting she apply to OFSI for a 
licence in order to release the funds.
Mrs R contacted OFSI on 15 August 2022 to apply for a license to release the 
funds
OFSI advised on 7 November 2022 that they were considering her application.
Mr R complained to our service. One of our investigators looked into the complaint. She 
thought Santander were acting fairly when they blocked the payment into the account and 
requested she apply for an OFSI licence.
In April 2023 Mrs R engaged a barrister to contact OFSI to expedite her licence. Mrs R has 
said she chased OFSI 14 times without getting a response. Following her barristers 
involvement OFSI requested payment information which was provided to it. OFSI sent Mrs R 
a letter stating that no licence was needed as sanctions hadnt engaged at the time the 
payment was received by Santander.
Following the view, in 19 May 2023, OFSI advised Mrs R that no licence was needed as the 
sanctions hadnt engaged at the time the money was sent to Santander.
On 28 July 2023 Santander released the payment and provided interest of £75.68.
Mrs R was unhappy with the view. She maintained that a licence wasnt needed to release 
her funds and that Santander hadnt done any checks on the payments or asked for any 
information but merely blocked the payment.
As there was no agreement the matter has come to me to decide.
In my provisional decision I said:
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so Ive reached a different conclusion to the investigator, and Ill explain why 
below.
Santander has a wide variety of legal and regulatory obligations it must follow when 
providing accounts to its customers. These obligations are ongoing and are not only relevant 
when an account is opened. In Mrs Rs case, Santander explained its part of their 
responsibility to carry out enhanced checks on payments to and from countries like Russia 
as they are considered high risk due to financial sanctions in place.
Sanctions can be very broad and relate to countries, individuals, trade and transactions. 
Santander is expected to take measures to comply with current sanctions, which means it 
has extensive things it needs to be aware of and monitor. Sanctions are just one of the many 
things Santander must take into account to ensure its doing what it should. And, if it didnt 
review accounts and the activity taking place on them, it could risk serious penalties. So, 
having a sanctions policy or other policies to mitigate against potential risks isnt by itself 
wrong.
Santander have said they blocked Mrs Rs incoming payment because it originated from 
Russia. The payment was made on 25 February 2022. The UK prime minister announced on 
22 February 2022 that a regime of sanctions would be implemented against Russia due to 
the invasion of Ukraine.
The advice regarding the possibility of delays to payments from Russia and Ukraine was 
published on Santanders website on 18 March 2022. But by then Mrs Rs payment had 
already been delayed by nearly a month.
From the evidence provided by Santander I can see that the funds arrived on 25 February 
2022 and that the concerns they refer to are a match with the sending bank Alfa bank. I can 
see from the timeline provided that Santander reviewed the payment on 18 April 2022. By 
that stage sanctions had been put in place regarding the sending bank. Santander have said 
that all payments involving Russia were held once the invasion of Ukraine happened whilst 
they decided on their approach.
I appreciate Santander were trying to decide their approach to payments received involving 
Russia. But the funds that arrived into Mrs Rs account werent at the time they arrived 
sanctioned funds and it should have become rapidly clear that Mrs R wasnt a sanctioned 
individual.Mrs R has said she was willing to provide information and I can see that when Santander 
requested proof from her, she provided it straight away. Mrs R insisted she wasnt caught by 
the sanctions regime, and she has provided information why not. Mrs R was not a 
sanctioned individual and neither was Mrs Rs husband who the funds originated from.
I accept that Santander would need to carry out checks regardless of where the funds 
originated from but there were delays in dealing with this payment. The payment wasnt 
reviewed until 18 April 2022. Santander didnt ask any questions regarding the payment and 
the origin of funds for well over a month. So, Im not satisfied that Santander acted fairly 
when they blocked Mrs Rs payment and didnt request any information or review the matter 
promptly.
Santander have said that they required Mr R to obtain a licence from OFSI in order for 
Santander to release the payment into Mrs Rs account.
In correspondence Santander has said the payment was blocked because it originated from 
Alfa bank. However, according to information on government websites, Alfa bank didnt 
become a sanctioned entity until 24 March 2022. A month after the payment was received by 
Santander. Looking at the evidence I am not satisfied that the payment was caught by the 
sanctions against Alfa bank.
In addition, Mrs R has said that Santander said she should apply for a licence from OFSI in 
order that they may release her funds. Mrs R followed Santanders advice and contacted 
OFSI. It told her she should be covered by a general permission as the money was personal 
funds going to an individual. However, Santander said it should be a specific licence as the 
payment was over £50,000.
Santander wouldnt release the funds without a licence from OFSI even though Mrs R said 
all along that the payment wasnt caught by sanctions. Mrs R therefore had to apply for a 
licence from OFSI in order to seek the release of her funds.
Following on from the application process OFSI confirmed that no licence was necessary as 
sanctions were not engaged at the time the payment came into Mrs Rs account.
Santander credited Mrs R with her funds on 28 July 2023.
From reviewing all the evidence Im satisfied that Santander caused delays in the review of 
the incoming payment. I appreciate that the situation was changing quickly but Santander 
werent proactive in their approach to reviewing this payment. Mrs R has had confirmation 
from OFSI that the sanctions werent engaged when the payment was received. From this it 
follows that Mrs R was deprived of her funds unnecessarily for over a year.
Although Mrs R has received her funds now, I think there were delays, so I think Santander 
should pay Mrs R 8% interest on her funds. The funds were received in her account on 25 
February 2022, but Santander would have needed to carry out checks, so Im proposing to 
award interest from 11 March 2022 to 27 July 2023. I say this because Mrs R didnt have the 
use of her funds for all that time, and this was due to Santanders delay.
In addition, Mrs R has said she had to engage legal advice at a cost of £6,000 in order to 
help secure the OFSI licence at Santanders insistence in order to release the funds. 
I think that Santander should also meet these costs as it appears from the evidence that a 
licence wasnt in fact necessary in this case. I can see from the evidence provided to me by 
Mrs R that she applied for a licence herself without legal help and she chased OFSI for 
information for many months. Mrs R has said that once she realised that a licence from OFSI would be the only way of getting her money and that OFSI didnt engage with individuals as 
promptly if they didnt have legal representation. Mrs R sought advice. Her barrister wrote to 
OFSI on 25 April 2023 and by 19 May OFSI had provided a response. So, Im satisfied that 
the legal advice was necessarily incurred.
Mrs R was made to follow the licencing process through the insistence of Santander, and I 
am satisfied she sought the help of legal counsel as a last resort after months of chasing and 
waiting for a response. I think Santander should cover these costs as Mrs R wouldnt have 
incurred them but for Santanders insistence on obtaining a licence.
Due to Santanders position Mrs R has had a great deal of unnecessary distress and 
inconvenience. Firstly, by being told that the payment hadnt arrived when it had. Secondly 
by being told that the payment couldnt be released because it originated from a sanctioned 
bank when the bank wasnt sanctioned at the time of the receipt of the payment. And thirdly 
by being made to apply for a specific licence when one was not needed. Mrs R has 
explained her understanding of the sanctions regime and has maintained that she was not 
subject to sanctions as an individual with a UK passport. She has had over a year of distress 
and inconvenience which could have been avoided. Because of the prolonged nature of the 
distress and inconvenience I am minded to award Mrs R £750 in compensation.
Even though OFSI confirmed that no licence was needed in May 2023 it still took Santander 
until 27 July 2023 to release the funds. Santander have offered no explanation why it took as 
long as it did to release the funds following the confirmation from OFSI. Because of this I am 
minded to award interest at 8% simple for this period of delay.
Santander have offered Mrs R £75.68 interest. Although I appreciate that Santander have 
provided interest on the funds, this service awards interest at a rate of 8% simple for the time 
a customer has been deprived of the use of their funds because of an error of the business. 
In this case I am minded to award interest for the time Mrs R didnt have access to her 
funds. I consider that Santander were entitled to carry out a review of the funds and 
ascertain the origin of funds and Mrs Rs proof of entitlement. Therefore, I consider that Mrs 
R should have been able to access her funds from 11 March 2022.
Santander have relied on their terms and conditions to deny liability for losses. They have 
quoted from term 22B which says they were unable to provide a service because of a 
situation beyond their control. I have looked at the terms and I think it would be unfair for 
Santander to rely on this term. I say this because looking at the timeline and the information 
provided by Santander to this service, the delays occurred because of Santanders actions 
and not in fact because of a situation beyond their control. I accept that the war in Ukraine 
was not something that Santander could control. However, that isnt what caused the delay 
in processing this payment. As Ive already said Santander could have been more proactive 
in reviewing the payment and asking Mrs R for relevant information.
Santander have said it took them two months to define their approach to payments from 
Russia. I think this resulted in an unnecessary delay. Santander blocked Mrs Rs funds and 
told her to get a licence when she didnt need one. Mrs R has said that other regulated 
financial institutions in the UK were crediting personal transfers from Russia in February 
2022, which makes me suggest other options were open to Santander. Even once the 
sanctions were in place, I would have expected Santander to review Mrs Rs payment and 
the information she provided and provide her access to her funds. Even if Santander did 
review Mrs Rs payment, they concluded wrongly that she needed a licence to access her 
funds this resulted in Mrs R not having access to her funds for over a year through no fault of 
her own.
In summary for the reasons stated above I am minded to uphold the complaint.Responses to my provisional decision
Mrs R has accepted my provisional decision. Santander have also accepted my provisional 
decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Although Mrs R and Santander have not provided any further comments, I have 
nevertheless re-considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide what is fair 
and reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. I have seen nothing to change my 
mind and so my provisional findings stand.
My final decision
For the reasons mentioned above I uphold this complaint and direct Santander UK Plc to 
pay Mrs R:
£750 compensation for the inconvenience caused to her
8% interest on the retained funds from 11 March 2022 to 27 July 2023 minus 
£75.68 if this has already been paid to Mrs R.
£6,000 compensation for the legal fees she incurred
Santander UK Plc must pay the compensation within 28 days of the date on which we tell it 
Mrs R accepts my final decision. If it pays later than this, it must also pay interest on the 
compensation from the date of my final decision to the date of payment at 8% a year simple.
If Santander UK Plc considers that its required by HM Revenue & Customs to deduct 
income tax from that interest, it should tell Mrs R how much its taken off. It should also give 
Mrs R a tax deduction certificate if she asks/ask for one, so she can reclaim the tax from HM 
Revenue & Customs if appropriate.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs R to accept or 
reject my decision before 21 December 2023.
 
Esperanza Fuentes
Ombudsman