DRN-4036815
The complaint
Mr B complains that there were delays by Barclays Bank UK PLC (Barclays) in processing 
his application to port his mortgage, which meant he had to move to a different lender and 
pay an early repayment charge (ERC) of around £27,000.
What happened
Mr B took out a mortgage with Barclays in October 2018 which was fixed until 31 October 
2023. The mortgage offer set out that there would be an ERC of 3% repayable if the 
mortgage was redeemed before 31 October 2023. 
Mr B applied to port his mortgage with Barclays to a new property as he wished to downsize 
and wanted to avoid paying an ERC. The application was submitted on 25 April 2022. The 
broker (who represents Mr B in bringing this complaint) says that he chased the progress of 
the application numerous times. However, the application got lost in the system and there 
was no progress for 11 weeks. 
The broker says that he had taken the precaution of applying for a mortgage with another 
lender for Mr B due to a number of recent bad experiences with Barclays. As Mr B was 
worried about losing the new property, after 11 weeks of no progress he decided to take the 
mortgage with the other lender. This meant that Mr B had to pay a large ERC as he had to 
pay off the Barclays mortgage before the end of the existing term. 
Barclays contacted Mr Bs broker on 1 July 2022 saying that it needed to complete a 
valuation. However, the broker says in the complaint form to this service that as there was 
no guarantee of an offer, the house sale was very near exchange and they had lost 
confidence in Barclays, he went ahead with the other lender. The broker later confirmed that 
on 28 June 2022 completion was set for 3 August 2022. Mr B also says that he complained 
to Barclays but it didnt send him a final response letter.  
Mr B would like the ERC to be refunded as he says that, had Barclays not lost the 
application and had issued the porting offer as they should have, then he would not have 
had to pay the ERC.
Barclays accepts that there was a delay on its part. It said that the application was reviewed 
by its Senior Underwriting Team on 19 May 2022 and then returned to the Underwriting 
Team to progress the case. The case was accessed by the underwriter on 27 May 2022 but 
not progressed. Barclays says there was no clear indication as to why the case was not 
progressed on 27 May 2022. An internal escalation was received and chased but no further 
action was taken until the case was reviewed on 1 July 2022, which resulted in the valuation 
being instructed. 
As the broker indicated on 2 July 2022 that Mr B had decided to go with another lender, 
Barclays says that the valuation was suspended at this point and confirmation was sought as 
to whether Mr B wished to proceed with the application. On 11 July 2022 the broker 
confirmed that Mr B was going to complete with the offer from the other lender so the 
application was not progressed any further.  
Barclays therefore says that it would not be liable for the ERC as it doesnt feel that it forced 
Mr B to move to another lender. However, it does accept that there were some delays with 
the mortgage application on its part and has offered Mr B £350 to apologise for the distress 
and inconvenience caused. 
Our investigator looked into the complaint and found that Barclays offer of £350 for the 
delay in dealing with Mr Bs porting application was in line with this services approach to 
compensation for distress or inconvenience. She didnt recommend that Barclays refund the 
ERC as she found no evidence that Mr B incurred the ERC directly as a result of Barclays 
error. This was because she wasnt persuaded that Barclays wouldnt have been able to 
complete the valuation and produce a mortgage offer in time for Mr Bs anticipated 
completion date of 3 August 2022. Further, even if she thought it likely that Barclays would 
have failed to do this in time, it was Mr Bs choice to exchange without a mortgage offer in 
place from Barclays.
Mr B disagrees with this so the case has come to me to make a decision. He disagrees that 
Barclays would have been in a position to produce a mortgage offer in time for completion 
on 3 August 2022 and says that had he waited for Barclays there is no way exchange would 
have taken place on that date, which would have had serious financial and emotional 
consequences. Mr B says that he had no choice but to exchange with another lender 
because of Barclays failures and delays and that the idea that he should have waited for a 
mortgage offer from Barclays before exchanging contracts or that he could have exchanged 
contracts without a mortgage offer in place is preposterous.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having carefully considered all the evidence and arguments, I agree with the investigators 
view for broadly the same reasons and Ive explained my reasons further below.
It is clear from Mr Bs mortgage offer that he was required to pay an ERC if he redeemed his 
mortgage with Barclays before 31 October 2023. 
The application to port his mortgage to a new property was submitted on 25 April 2022 and I 
can see that the broker was in contact with Barclays prior to this in relation to the porting 
criteria. I can also see that the broker corresponded with Barclays between 10 and 19 May 
2022 in relation to requests for further information following the submission, which was 
provided albeit the broker questioned the necessity for this. On 11 May 2022 the broker 
stated that his client was in a hurry and he chased this and requested that the application 
be prioritised and escalated in subsequent correspondence up until 19 May 2022. 
The next correspondence I have seen is an email from Barclays on 1 July 2022 confirming 
that it had all the supporting documents to help it make a decision on Mr Bs application and 
that it now needed to arrange a valuation on the property. 
The broker responded on 2 July 2022 to question why the application had taken so long and 
said that Mr B had had to go with another lender as, despite constant chasing on many 
occasions we have had to give up on you. On 4 July 2022, Barclays asked the broker if Mr 
B wished to proceed with the application or not. The broker responded saying Please at 
least get them the offer but it is very likely they will go elsewhere as they are about to 
complete.
Barclays responded on 8 July 2022 and accepted that there had been delays. It stated that 
as the broker indicated on 2 July 2022 that Mr B had decided to go with another lender, the 
Underwriting Team had placed a suspension on the valuation instruction until it received 
formal confirmation that the application was still going ahead. When it had emailed the 
broker to ask if the application was proceeding on 4 July 2022, he said that Mr B was likely 
to go elsewhere so the suspension remained in place. Barclays asked the broker again to formally confirm whether Mr B would be pursuing the application so the valuation could be 
arranged. 
The broker responded on 11 July stating that Mr B had had to exchange and would complete 
based on the mortgage offer from the other lender. He asked for Barclays to waive the ERC 
as Barclays inefficiency had caused considerable stress and near loss of the sale, which 
would have left them in serious financial difficulties.
Having looked at the timeline for Mr Bs application with the other lender, this was made on 
the same date as the Barclays application  25 April 2022  with an offer being issued on 18 
May 2022. As set out above, I havent seen any correspondence between Mr B or the broker 
and Barclays after 19 May 2022 until Barclays sent its email to arrange a valuation on 1 July 
2022. So it seems likely that, once the other lender had provided its offer on 18 May, Mr B 
made a decision to go with that as it is clear from the brokers correspondence with Barclays 
that he was in a hurry. 
It is not clear whether exchange of contracts formally took place on 28 June 2022 as, on the 
complaint form to this service, the broker has said that the house sale was very near 
exchange on 1 July 2022 so they went ahead with the other lender. However, in subsequent 
correspondence the broker has said that by the time of exchange they had not heard from 
Barclays. In any event, it is clear that Mr B had made the decision to go with the other lender 
by 28 June 2022 as the broker has said that completion was set for 3 August 2020 with the 
other lender on that date.
I have considered the information and it appears to me that  notwithstanding the delay 
between 19 May 2022 and 1 July 2022  all of the necessary documentation had been 
received by Barclays and the application considered by an underwriter by 1 July 2022 and 
the decision was then subject to a valuation taking place. The only reason that the valuation 
did not take place and the application did not progress any further is because the broker 
indicated that Mr B had already decided to go with another lender. When later asked to 
formally confirm whether Mr B wished to pursue the application, the broker indicated that he 
would complete based on the mortgage offer from the other lender.
I can understand why Mr B had lost confidence in Barclays due to the delay in progressing 
his application. However, I think it more likely than not that Barclays would have been able to 
provide a mortgage offer before the anticipated completion date of 3 August 2022 if the 
application had been allowed to progress. So I cant say that it was Barclays actions which 
led to Mr B having to pay the ERC as Mr B effectively chose to withdraw his application at 
this stage. 
I also note that it wasnt the case that Mr B only applied to another lender when his 
application with Barclays was delayed. The application to the other lender was submitted on 
the same date as the porting application with Barclays so it seems that Mr B was prepared to 
move to another lender throughout the process if necessary rather than wait for an offer from 
Barclays as he was in a hurry to complete.  
Mr B has said that he hadnt heard from Barclays by the time of exchange. He says that if he 
hadnt exchanged with the other lender he would have been in a position where he 
potentially lost the sale or, alternatively, he would have had to sell his property without 
having a property to move in to. I have considered this but  at the time Barclays were ready 
to progress the application on 1 July 2022  Mr B already had an offer in place and it seems 
he had already exchanged contracts. So I dont think there was a risk of either not 
exchanging or having to exchange without a mortgage offer at that stage, as Mr B already 
had a mortgage offer from another lender. In light of this, I dont think his position would have 
been negatively impacted by allowing the Barclays application to progress. 
Overall, the terms of the mortgage were clear in that Mr B would be liable to pay an ERC if 
he redeemed his mortgage with Barclays early and it was his choice to use the other lender rather than wait for an offer for Barclays. Therefore, I will not be asking Barclays to refund 
the ERC paid by Mr B.
Notwithstanding this, I recognise that there was a delay of around six weeks in Barclays 
progressing Mr Bs application as very little happened between 19 May 2022 and 1 July 
2022. I can appreciate that this was frustrating for him when he was in a hurry to complete 
the purchase of his new property. Barclays has offered Mr B £350 in compensation for the 
distress and inconvenience caused by this and I think this is fair and reasonable in the 
circumstances.
Mr Bs broker has said that he spent between 15 and 20 hours chasing Barclays which 
would be closer to £3,500 based on his hourly rate. I havent seen any evidence to suggest 
that the broker charged Mr B for time chasing applications so this would also not have 
related in any financial loss to Mr B. I understand that Mr B would like more compensation 
but, having regard to the fact that I am only able to take into account the effect of the delay 
on Mr B personally and not to the broker, I feel that £350 is a fair amount in all the 
circumstances. So I will not be asking Barclays to increase its offer. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained above, I dont uphold this complaint and dont require 
Barclays Bank UK PLC to do anything further.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 12 May 2023.
 
Rachel Ellis
Ombudsman