DRN-3250416
The complaint
Mr F complains that West Bay Insurance Plc (WBI) unfairly avoided his motorcycle 
insurance policy after he made a claim following the theft of his motorcycle.
References to WBI include its agents.
What happened
In April 2021, Mr F made a claim under his motorcycle insurance policy with WBI after his 
motorcycle was stolen from a parking bay. 
WBI asked Mr F to provide images to show where his motorcycle was stored at his home. 
After receiving photographs from Mr F, WBI said it was declaring his insurance void from the 
inception date for careless misrepresentation. It said that when Mr F had taken out the 
policy, he had provided inaccurate information. Mr F had said that the vehicle was garaged 
at his home address, but it had turned out that it wasnt.
Mr F complained to WBI, but it maintained its position. It said if it had been aware that the 
motorcycle wasnt stored in a garage overnight when Mr F had taken out the policy, it would 
have considered it to be an unacceptable risk. 
Mr F remained unhappy, so he asked our service to consider his complaint. Our investigator 
looked into his concerns, but she didnt think his complaint should be upheld. She thought 
WBI had acted fairly, in line with the relevant legislation, when it avoided Mr Fs policy and 
declined his claim.
Mr F disagreed with our investigators view. He said he believed he had taken reasonable 
care not to make a misrepresentation when he took out the policy. His previous policy had 
been underwritten by the same insurer. Hed assumed WBI would be consistent in its 
acceptance / underwriting terms. 
Mr F said that the definitions werent immediately visible when he applied for the policy 
online. They were behind a drop-down menu. As WBI had previously accepted his 
circumstances as a locked garage / building, he did not expect its definitions to change.
Mr F said WBI had not offered to refund his premium as it should have done for a careless 
misrepresentation. He also felt that cancelling all cover was disproportionate as it only 
affected the theft risk on the policy. There could have been more damaging consequences 
for him if he had been involved in an accident. He also felt it was worth noting that the 
circumstances of his loss werent affected by the garaging provisions as the bike was stolen 
from outside his office.
As Mr F disagreed with our investigators view, his complaint has been passed to me to 
decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided not to uphold Mr Fs complaint. Ill explain why.
The relevant law in this case is The Consumer Insurance (Disclosure and Representations) 
Act 2012 (CIDRA). This requires consumers to take reasonable care not to make a 
misrepresentation when taking out a consumer insurance contract (a policy). The standard 
of care is that of a reasonable consumer.
 
And if a consumer fails to do this, the insurer has certain remedies provided the 
misrepresentation is - what CIDRA describes as - a qualifying misrepresentation. For it to be 
a qualifying misrepresentation the insurer has to show it would have offered the policy on 
different terms or not at all if the consumer hadnt made the misrepresentation. 
CIDRA sets out a number of considerations for deciding whether the consumer failed to take 
reasonable care. And the remedy available to the insurer under CIDRA depends on whether 
the qualifying misrepresentation was deliberate or reckless, or careless.
Reasonable care
WBI says Mr F failed to take reasonable care not to make a representation when he said his 
motorcycle was kept in a locked garage in his online application for the policy. 
Mr F applied for the insurance via a comparison site. WBI has sent us screenshots of the 
online application form. There are several options to select for overnight storage. Mr F has 
commented that the definitions for each option werent immediately available. They were 
behind a drop-down menu.
 
When determining whether a consumer took reasonable care, the law gives examples of 
things that ought to be taken into account. One of these examples is any relevant 
explanatory material  like guidance alongside questions at the point of sale. I can see a ? 
indicating there was further information to help answer the question. And by clicking on the 
?, the definitions for each overnight storage option would appear. So, Im satisfied that Mr 
F was asked a clear question about where the motorcycle was stored overnight, and he was 
also given enough information to help him to answer it accurately.
Locked garage is defined as: A locked structure for housing motor vehicles, such as cars 
or motorbikes. It should be constructed of brick, concrete, steel or stone and on private 
property. This should be a garage used only for you and people living with you, not a shared 
garage for multiple residences.
One of the other options to answer the question was kept on private property which is 
defined as: If you keep your bike on private property which isnt a garage, drive, locked 
compound or car park, as an example this would cover keeping your in bike your rear 
garden, or inside your home. Private property does not have public access.
Mr F says his motorcycle was stored in his front garden, behind a wall and hedge, and 
wasnt visible from the road. Given the definitions above, I think its reasonable for WBI to 
expect him to have answered the question as kept on private property rather than locked 
garage.Mr F feels he took reasonable care when applying for the insurance because his current 
policy was underwritten by WBI. He says hed assumed it would be consistent in its 
acceptance / underwriting terms. 
Hes provided a copy of his insurance proposal form with WBI from 2017, where the question 
is this vehicle kept in a garage overnight? is answered as yes with the handwritten 
comment behind a brick wall / locked gate not visible from the road. Mr F says he declared 
his motorcycle as garaged on the form because hed previously had written acceptance of 
his parking arrangements from WBI.
Mr F says WBI should reasonably have been expected to know how his motorcycle was 
stored because his previous policy was underwritten by it. But WBI says Mr Fs application 
was considered to be new business rather than a renewal. I acknowledge what Mr F has 
said about WBI having details of his previous policy because hed provided these in 
connection with his no claims bonus. But I dont think this is enough to say that WBI should 
have realised that the information Mr F supplied on the online application was inaccurate. 
Even if Mr F had been renewing his previous policy, the duty for him to take reasonable care 
not to misrepresent would still have applied. So, having considered Mr Fs points, I think it 
was fair for WBI to have concluded that Mr F failed to take reasonable care not to make a 
misrepresentation when he applied for the policy.
Qualifying misrepresentation
If a consumer fails to take reasonable care, the insurer has certain remedies providing the 
misrepresentation is, what CIDRA describes as a qualifying representation. For it to be a 
qualifying misrepresentation the insurer has to show it would have offered the policy on 
different terms or not at all if the consumer hadnt made the misrepresentation. 
WBI has provided evidence of its underwriting criteria, which shows that it would have 
declined cover if it had been made aware that the motorcycle wasnt kept in a locked garage 
overnight. So, Im satisfied that Mr Fs misrepresentation was a qualifying one.
The remedy available to the insurer under CIDRA depends on whether the qualifying 
misrepresentation was deliberate or reckless, or careless.
WBI has treated the misrepresentation made by Mr F as careless rather than deliberate or 
reckless. I think this is fair. If a qualifying breach is careless and the insurer wouldnt have 
provided the insurance on any terms, it may avoid the policy and refuse all claims, but it 
must return the premiums. 
Mr F has commented that WBI didnt offer to refund his premium. But in a letter (dated 27 
April 2021) advising Mr F of its decision to declare his insurance void from inception, WBI 
says:
As the contract of insurance no longer exists, you are entitled to a refund of premium, minus 
any applicable fees charged by us or your broker. We will contact your brokers and authorise 
a release of premium.
Mr F says he didnt receive this letter and only found out that his policy had been avoided 
after repeatedly chasing both WBI and his broker. WBI has noted emailing Mr Fs broker on 
27 April 2021 requesting that they advise Mr F of the avoidance and to send him the letter. 
Its also noted (on 24 May 2021) that the brokers called as Mr F was unaware of the 
avoidance and WBI re-sent the void letter to the brokers. So, I dont think WBI is likely to be 
responsible for Mr F not being made aware that it was willing to refund his premiums. I appreciate Mr F feels that fees shouldnt be deducted from the refund of his premium. But 
the terms and conditions of the policy say that if there is misrepresentation the insurer may:
Cancel or void your policy (treat it as if it never existed), including all other policies which 
you have with them, and apply a cancellation premium charge.
So, Im satisfied that the policys terms and conditions allow WBI to apply a cancellation 
charge. 
Mr F says he believes WBIs decision to cancel all cover was disproportionate because it 
only affected theft on the policy. Hes also commented that the circumstances of his 
loss/claim were not affected by the garaging provisions as the motorcycle was stolen from 
outside of his office.
As Ive explained, CIDRA entitles an insurer to cancel a policy from the start if it can show it 
wouldnt have offered the policy at all, so I cant say its actions were disproportionate. It 
follows that Im also satisfied that it was fair for WBI to have declined the claim, regardless of 
where the motorcycle was stolen from. I say this because there was effectively no policy in 
force when the theft occurred.
I know my answer will be disappointing for Mr F, but overall, I think WBI has acted fairly and 
reasonably, in line with the relevant law and the policys terms and conditions.
 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I dont uphold Mr Fs complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr F to accept or 
reject my decision before 5 April 2022.
 
Anne Muscroft
Ombudsman