DRN-3615615
The complaint
Mr G complains about how Capital One (Europe) plc have handled a disputed payment and 
the customer service he received in relation to this.
What happened
In December 2020 Mr G noticed unexpected activity on his account and contacted 
Capital One. Capital One initially removed this from Mr Gs credit card account but then 
re-applied a £1,575 debit in February 2020 after the merchant defended the relevant 
chargeback claim.
The merchant was a car hire company, and Mr G says that while he had used that company 
in the past, he didnt owe them any money.
Mr G complained, saying he didnt authorise this payment and it shouldnt have been 
allowed. He also cancelled a direct debit that was in place to make repayments to his credit 
card. Mr G explained he didnt want Capital One to incorrectly take a higher payment 
towards the disputed amount on his account.
In March 2021, Capital One re-credited £1,575 to Mr Gs credit card and removed 
associated interest and charges. It accepted it could have had a better conversation with 
Mr G earlier on and paid Mr G £50 compensation. However, Capital One didnt remove 
interest or fees associated with the remaining balance or missed re-payments. Capital One 
has recorded the missed payments on Mr Gs credit file and the account has since defaulted.
Mr G says Capital One didnt have a proper process in place considering his disability under 
the Equality Act and that it has harassed him with the quantity of correspondence sent about 
his account. Capital One says it stopped calling Mr G once it became aware of his condition 
and the stress its calls were causing him, but that it needed to write to / email Mr G about the 
state of his account to make him aware of important information such as payments due, 
arrears and his default notice.
When Mr G complained to our service, the investigator upheld the complaint. They thought 
Capital One ought to increase the compensation by £100 (a total of £150) to reflect the 
impact the matter had on Mr G. Capital One agreed to this, but Mr G didnt think it went far 
enough. So, the complaint has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree that Capital One paying Mr G a further £100 is a fair way to settle 
this complaint. Ill explain why.
When Mr G initially reported his concerns about the payments attempted by a car rental 
company, Capital One re-credited Mr Gs account while it investigated the matter. I can see 
why, based on the information provided by the car rental company, Capital One initially held 
Mr G liable. This is because the company was able to show that Mr G had a previous 
relationship with it, had previously provided his credit card information to it, and a signed 
agreement referencing when it could take further payments. However, upon further review 
and information provided by Mr G, Capital One took the decision to write off the amount and 
reimburse Mr G for any associated interest and charges. I think this was a fair way to resolve 
the matter.
I dont think Capital One needed to reimburse interest or charges applied as a result of no 
payments being made to the account by Mr G - there was a genuine outstanding balance 
and so Mr G was required to make repayments to the account. If Mr G didnt want to repay 
the full balance as he had chosen to do in the past, he could have changed his direct debit 
or manually made payments for the minimum amount due or repaid only the balance that he 
wasnt disputing. Whilst he might have offered to do this, he didnt make any re-payments in 
for some months. It follows that any accurate reporting of Mr Gs account to credit reference 
agencies is also fair  when a payment is in dispute this doesnt affect a customers 
obligations to make repayments under the credit agreement towards a genuine debt.
Ive gone on to think about what Mr G has raised in relation to his disability and how this 
matter has affected him. Mr G says Capital One should have had a process in place to deal 
with him differently in light of his disability. It isnt our role to set a businesss policies or 
procedures, or to penalise businesses. But I have considered how Capital One 
communicated with Mr G and the impact any delays or mistakes had on Mr G in light of his 
disability.
Having done so, I agree £150 is a more appropriate amount of compensation in the 
circumstances. Mr G has explained that it took him longer to deal with the matter due to his 
disability and that hes spent days on this as a result. Our service wouldnt normally apply a 
day rate to the time a customer has spent trying to put matters right. I think £150 is a fair 
amount considering the time Mr G has described spending on the matter  as the issue was 
put right in March 2021. 
Generally speaking, when someone informs a business that they have a disability that can 
impact their mental health wed expect the business to consider how best to communicate 
with them. Capital One did that here and stopped calling him when it became aware of how 
this impacted him  so it has listened and adapted to Mr Gs needs. I dont think it would 
have been reasonable for Capital One to completely cease providing updates to Mr G in 
relation to his account as he did need to be made aware of the impact non-payment was 
having on his account. I cant see that Mr G made any other specific requests about how 
Capital One should interact with him.
Putting things right
For the reasons Ive explained, Capital One should pay Mr G a further £100 compensation  
this is in addition to the £50 its already applied to his account.
My final decision
My final decision is that Capital One (Europe) Plc should pay Mr G a further £100 
compensation.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 September 2022.
 Stephanie Mitchell
Ombudsman