DRN-3368824
The complaint
Mr Us representative, a Claims Management Company (CMC), complains on his behalf that 
he was given unsuitable investment advice  to invest in a Unit Trust, and a Guaranteed 
Equity Bond (GEB)  by Nationwide Building Society, referred to as Nationwide or the 
business.     
In short, the CMC said:
The target rate (of 7.5%) a year for the Unit Trust was only a target, and too risky 
compared to a fixed rate bond offering 5.3% a year guaranteed. 
The GEB was too risky and complex.
Although Mr U had £70,000 in savings and investments, he had little disposable 
income. 
What happened
In November 2006, Mr U was advised to invest £5,000 into the Unit Trust (invested in the 
low-risk target return fund) and £5,000 into the GEB for a term of five years. 
Nationwide didnt uphold the complaint. In summary, it said:
The recommendation was suitable.
Mr U had previous investment experience investing in stocks shares ISA. 
By investing in the Unit Trust and GEB he was diversifying his portfolio and 
spreading risk. 
A detailed fact find assessment was carried and the risks were made clear to him. 
A five-year fixed rate bond wasnt available at the time. A three-year fixed rate bond 
was available, but he wanted to invest for five years or more  the GEB met that 
requirement. 
He signed the relevant documentation. He understood the risks involved including 
that returns werent guaranteed. 
He had sufficient cash reserve after investing.
The recommendation met his low-risk attitude to investing. 
He was given cancellation rights and could cancel the investment if he was unhappy 
with it.   
One of our investigators considered the complaint and also didnt think it should be upheld. 
In summary, he said:
Mr U had capacity to invest. He was in a position to invest some of his money to 
achieve his objective for capital growth for five years or so.
He was employed, had no debts or planned expenditure and had savings. 
He had a combination of risk based and capital protected investments with other 
providers and wasnt expecting any changes to his circumstances. 
Hes seen nothing to suggest that he shouldnt have invested in risk-based 
investments or didnt understand what was going on.    
The comparison with a fixed rate deposit bond, 15 years after the advice was given 
isnt reasonable. 
In terms of risk, Mr U was aware that the investments carried risk and the returns 
werent guaranteed. 
Mr U was recorded as a low-risk investor. The fact find made clear that he was 
prepared to accept some risk.
Mr U had £70,386 in savings and investments. After investing £10,000, his portfolio 
was made up of the following:
o£45,383 (65%) in cash-based savings, made up of ISAs, deposit accounts 
and fixed rate bonds. 
o£15,000 (21%) in risk-based investments with capital security. 
o£10,000 (14%) in risk-based investment made up of the Equity based ISA. 
With more than 85% of his money in capital secure investments the portfolio didnt 
exceed Mr Us low risk attitude. It didnt carry more risk than he was willing to accept. 
Mr U had a similar investment with another business. Therefore, its likely he made 
an informed choice in this instance. 
Mr U was recommended to invest £10,000 in a two-year fixed rate bond offering 
5.10% gross, or £10,000 into a three-year loyalty fixed rate bond offering 5.3% gross, 
but he chose to invest in the Unit Trust and GEB. 
In terms of capacity for loss, Mr U had 65% of his total savings in cash. He wouldnt 
be significantly affected if hed made a loss. 
His monthly outgoings included an element of savings, so his cash reserve was 
increasing. 
The CMC disagreed with the investigators view and asked for an ombudsmans decision. In 
summary, it said:
The point of sale documents state you [Mr U] told me you save £170 per month into 
the Co-Op Mini Equity ISA as an alternative to a pension. Mr U didnt have a private 
or company pension. So, this contribution shouldnt count as disposable income. If he 
spent this money, hed only have the state pension to fall back on. 
It didnt make the complaint using the benefit of hindsight. The GEB had little chance 
of beating the fixed rate bond from the outset.
Its not complaining because the product unexpectedly performed badly due to the 
markets. Mr U was sold a product that was projected to do worse than cash.   
The investigator having considered the additional points wasnt persuaded to change his 
view. He maintains that Mr U had capacity to invest and it was affordable. Mr U also had 
previous investment experience from investing in similar products and was spreading his 
money with another provider thereby spreading risk and reward. 
The investigator also said that a comparison with a fixed rate bond after all these years is 
unfair. Mr U is likely to have been aware of alternatives and made an informed decision to 
proceed with the GEB. Hes sorry Mr U received the worst case scenario but that doesnt 
make the recommendation unsuitable. 
The CMC maintains that if Mr U had been given clear information he wouldnt have 
purchased the investment. 
As no agreement has been reached, the matter has been passed to me for review.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the investigators conclusions for much the same reasons. Im 
not going to uphold this complaint. 
On the face of the evidence, and on balance, despite what the CMC says, Im unable to 
safely say that the recommendation to invest in the Unit Trust and GEB was unsuitable. 
Before I explain further why this is the case, I think its important for me to recognise the 
strength of feeling Mr U has about this matter. The CMC has provided submissions to 
support the complaint, which Ive read and considered carefully. However, I hope Mr U wont 
take the fact my findings focus on what I consider to be the central issues, and not in as 
much detail, as a discourtesy. 
The purpose of my decision isnt to address every single point raised under a separate 
subject heading  its not what Im required to do  in order to reach a decision in this case. I 
appreciate this can be frustrating, but it doesnt mean Im not considering the pertinent 
points.
My role is to consider the evidence presented by the CMC and Nationwide, and reach what I 
think is an independent, fair and reasonable decision based on the facts of the case. In 
deciding whats fair and reasonable, I must consider the relevant law, regulation and best 
industry practice, but unlike a court or tribunal Im not bound by this. Its for me to decide, 
based on the information Ive been given, whats more likely than not to have happened. 
Im mindful that in 2006 Mr U was in his late-50s, in permanent employment with eight years 
before retirement age, and in receipt of a salary. He was also married, in good health and 
without any financial debt (including a mortgage), any financial dependants or commitments. 
I also note he had no planned expenditure and his circumstances were unlikely to change. 
I also note that Mr U had over £70,000 in savings and investments, including a stocks and 
shares ISA and structured capital protected investments. He also had life cover worth 
£50,000. In the circumstances, I think Mr U was in a reasonably good position to invest and 
take a risk with a portion of his money from his savings, which Im satisfied he wasnt reliant 
upon at the time and probably unlikely to need anytime soon. 
The above notwithstanding, Im satisfied that Mr Us attitude to risk was discussed and that 
he was willing to take a risk to meet his objective for capital growth in respect of the Unit 
Trust and the GEB (over a term of years)  which I think presented a limited exposure to 
risk. 
In the circumstances, Im satisfied that Mr U was aware, not only from this sale but from 
previous investment experience, that his investments could go up as well as down, and he 
was willing to take a measured risk to meet his objective for capital growth.  
In other words, whilst Mr U may not have been an experienced investor Im satisfied that he 
had meaningful investment experience and that by investing in the Unit Trust and GEB he 
was further diversifying his portfolio and the risk. So, on balance Im broadly satisfied that the 
recommendation met his objective for potential growth whilst not taking more risk than he 
was comfortable with. 
Im satisfied he was aware, or ought reasonably to have been aware, that aside from the 
guarantee offered by the GEB  neither investment offered a guarantee with regards to what 
he might get by way of return and he was comfortable with that. So, in the circumstances Im 
unable to say that the recommendation was unsuitable for Mr U.  Ive seen nothing to suggest that Mr U was risk averse or didnt want to take any risk with his 
money in order meet his objective. Despite what the CMC says, on a balance of 
probabilities, I cant say that its more likely than not Mr U wouldve invested in a fixed rate 
bond - because alternative fixed rate bonds were discussed but he still opted for the GEB 
with a five year term. Like the investigator Im satisfied that Mr U made an informed decision 
to go with the recommendation, based mainly on his need to invest for a term of five years. 
Im aware that a five-year fixed rate bond had previously been offered by the business, but it 
wasnt available at the time because it had stopped being offered as of July 2006, four 
months prior to Mr U being advised. So, in the circumstances I cant blame the business for 
not offering something it didnt have and/or Mr U choosing to go with a different investment.     
Despite what the CMC says about performance, this is down to several factors, including 
adverse market conditions which are beyond the control of the business. Without the benefit 
of hindsight, the business couldnt have been able to predict what would happen with the 
Unit Trust and/or GEB, or control the financial market, including the crash of 2008/9, which is 
likely to have had an impact on growth rates/returns and for which the business isnt 
responsible.
Despite what the CMC says, (poor) performance isnt generally of itself evidence of 
unsuitable advice. Im unable to say that the recommendation was inherently wrong, and that 
Mr U shouldnt have been advised to invest in the Unit Trust or GEB.   
Despite what the CMC says about the GEB, I note it provided capital protection with an 
opportunity for growth. On balance Im satisfied that the adviser explained how the product 
worked and only recommended a small amount of the available capital should be invested. 
In my view, this was not unsuitable. 
I dont agree with the CMC that the question of suitability solely rests on whether there was a 
reasonable chance of the product performing in excess of the minimum returns or on fixed 
rate bonds. Whilst the illustration wouldve shown the likely rates of return, I think there was 
the prospect that Mr U would receive a greater return subject to the markets.
I note what the CMC said about the level at which the FTSE would've needed to have 
performed to outstrip the guarantees available with fixed rate bonds. But if it hadn't been for 
the financial crisis on 2008/09 its arguable there was a chance the performance of the FTSE 
could have provided Mr U with a better return. 
Despite what the CMC says, Im also satisfied that Mr U was left with access to a reasonable 
amount of cash for any emergencies or unforeseeable expenses. The fact that he was 
contributing some money towards a pension doesnt change my decision with regards to the 
suitability of this recommendation. I note the business says Mr U had a deferred pension and 
opted out of joining his employers pension scheme. Its seems he was following his own 
plan. 
In summary, Ive not seen enough persuasive evidence that the Unit Trust and GEB were 
unsuitable for Mr U in 2006. 
I appreciate Mr U will be disappointed Ive reached the same conclusion as the investigator. 
Furthermore, I realise my decision isnt what he wants to hear. Whilst I appreciate his 
frustration, Im not persuaded to require Nationwide to do anything.My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr U to accept or 
reject my decision before 16 August 2022.
 
Dara Islam
Ombudsman