DRN-4018139
The complaint
Miss R has complained about how Lloyds Bank General Insurance Limited (Lloyds) settled a 
claim under a home contents policy.
What happened
Miss R found sewage leaking into her home. She contacted the water company, who dealt 
with the leak. She asked the water company how to claim for her losses and was advised to 
contact her home insurer. Miss R contacted Lloyds and provided a video of the flooding 
because she had disposed of the damaged items in her home. Lloyds could only see a few 
items in the video. So, it offered Miss R £147.99 to settle the claim, once the £100 excess 
had been deducted.
When Miss R complained, Lloyds maintained its decision on how to settle the claim. It said 
items had been disposed of without adequate evidence for the claims team to offer 
settlement for them. It said without further evidence it wasnt able to offer settlement.
So, Miss R complained to this service. Our investigator didnt uphold the complaint. She said 
Lloyds had offered a fair settlement for the items that could be shown to be damaged.
As Miss R didnt agree, the complaint was referred to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I dont uphold this complaint. I will explain why.
Following the leak, Miss R disposed of a large number of items. Miss R explained this was 
because she hadnt expected to claim on her insurance, as she thought the water company 
would deal with it. However, the water company told Miss R she would need to claim on her 
home insurance. The policy said that policyholders shouldnt throw away damages items 
until Lloyds said so.
Miss R claimed for a range of items. Lloyds only agreed to pay for a small number of them. It 
later agreed to cover items such as the carpet on the stairs. However, there were other items 
it didnt agree to pay for. From what Ive seen, a number of items had been disposed of, so it 
wasnt possible for Lloyds to accurately assess them or the level of damage. Lloyds was also 
of the view that some of the items could have been cleaned. Miss R wanted Lloyds to pay for 
some art canvasses and art materials that were a part of some university coursework. She 
later said she had planned to sell the canvasses for £150 each. Lloyds didnt see evidence 
related to the potential sale or value of the items and didnt think it was possible to put a 
value on the canvasses.
A key area of concern for Miss R was a collection of ceramic teddies. Miss R initially thought 
these had been disposed of following the water leak. However, she was able to get them 
back from the person who was going to throw them away. Miss R told Lloyds she thought 
the teddies were worth about £5-6,000. However, following some further research, she later 
said they were worth about £8-9,000. 
When Lloyds offered a settlement for the teddies, it was only willing to pay for the boxes, as 
the teddies hadnt been damaged. It worked out the overall value of the teddies, which it 
calculated to be £1,105 and it offered £150 for the loss of value to them because the teddies 
no longer had their boxes. Im aware that at one point Lloyds said £150 would be enough to 
replace the boxes, rather than it being based on the loss of value. 
Im also aware there is a significant difference in the value Miss R and Lloyds put on the 
teddies. Ive looked at the examples Miss R provided for the value of some of the teddies in 
her collection. She provided listings from online auction sites that showed some of the 
teddies for sale. Im mindful that someone trying to sell an item at a particular price doesnt 
mean it sold for that. I also saw a range of prices for similar items, some of which were much 
closer to Lloyds figure. Lloyds based its price on some websites that sold a range of the 
teddies at a fixed price. Overall, Im more persuaded by Lloyds valuation. I think the amount 
it offered towards the teddies and its reasons for this were reasonable in the circumstances.
When Lloyds responded to Miss Rs complaint, it said if items were disposed of without 
adequate evidence it wasnt able to offer settlement for them. It also said that if Miss R had 
further information to help it to assess the claim, she could provide it. Im aware Miss R has 
said she didnt realise she was going to need to make a claim, which has made it more 
difficult for her to provide further evidence. However, this wasnt down to the actions of 
Lloyds, so I cant hold it responsible for that. Based on everything Ive seen, I think Lloyds 
provided a reasonable settlement based on the available information and the terms and 
conditions of the policy. As a result, I dont uphold this complaint or require Lloyds to do 
anything further.
My final decision
For the reasons I have given, it is my final decision that this complaint is not upheld.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss R to accept 
or reject my decision before 20 June 2023.
 
Louise O'Sullivan
Ombudsman