DRN-4188837
The complaint
Ms H has complained about the handling of her personal pension by ReAssure Limited. She 
says, in summary, that some of her contributions are missing.
What happened
Ms H has two personal pension policies with ReAssure, one of which is a contracted-out 
policy. Although Ms H has complained about various issues which relate to both policies, it is 
the contracted-out policy that is now the focus of Ms Hs attention. Specifically, Ms H thinks 
that it is missing contributions, and its value should therefore be higher than is being shown 
on ReAssures statements. She says ReAssure is at fault for the shortfall. 
ReAssure didnt think it had done anything wrong. Our investigator agreed. Ms H wanted an 
ombudsman to make a final decision on the matter.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive come to the same conclusion as our investigator. ReAssure hasnt 
done anything wrong here. 
Before I explain why Ive come to that conclusion, its worth noting that Ms H has, at various 
points, raised a number of concerns about ReAssure. But it is her contracted-out policy, and 
her belief that it is missing contributions, that continues to concern her. It is therefore this 
issue which Ive focussed on in my decision. For the avoidance of doubt, I have considered 
everything Ms H has said and all the evidence she has provided.
Ms H is concerned by discrepancies between information she received from HMRC and her 
pension statements from ReAssure. In particular, she points to a HMRC Request for 
contracted-out information document which refers to a ReAssure policy and a period 
running from 6 April 1991 to 5 April 2012. In Ms Hs view, this shows premiums should have 
been applied to her contracted-out policy until at least 2012. However, a ReAssure pension 
statement dated 22 October 2022 shows the most recent payment into Ms Hs contracted-
out policy was on 1 August 2005; evidence, in Ms Hs view, of ReAssures failure to credit 
her policy with premiums for at least the period between 2005 and 2012. Ms H also thinks 
premiums should have been paid after 2012 which, in her view, would be in line with the 
terms of her contract.
I disagree. First of all, it strikes me as being inconsistent to argue, as Ms H has done, that 
the HMRC document in question is evidence that contributions should have been paid up to 
2012 because thats the end date quoted in that document, but to overlook that same 
document when arguing contributions should also have been paid beyond 2012. But putting 
this to one side, in my view the HMRC document isnt evidence that contributions should 
have been paid into her contracted-out policy for the entire period between 1991 and 2012. 
Im satisfied it just shows Ms H opened a contracted-out pension scheme in the tax year 
starting 6 April 1991 and the policy stopped being a vehicle for contracted-out contributions 
in 2012 when the government removed this as an option. I think it would be wrong to infer 
from the HMRC document anything about exactly when, and how often, contributions were 
made to Ms Hs ReAssure policy.
Furthermore, Ms Hs National Insurance record, which HMRC provided to Ms H on 
21 March 2023, shows no National Insurance contributions were made after the 2004-05 tax 
year. In itself, I consider this is persuasive evidence that there are no missing payments into 
Ms Hs pension for the period after 2005 because without National Insurance contributions 
there would be no rebates to be paid into the pension. This would also align with ReAssures 
statement showing the latest payment into the pension as being in August 2005, which, in 
the circumstances, strikes me as being the most likely scenario here.
It wouldnt be fair to ask a business to make good missing contributions to a pension 
without persuasive evidence of what those missing contributions were and why its the 
business  rather than, say, an employer  thats at fault. Im sorry to disappoint Ms H but I 
dont think there is any persuasive evidence that there are contributions missing from her 
contracted out policy or that ReAssure has done anything wrong here. It follows that I dont 
uphold Ms Hs complaint.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I dont uphold Ms Hs complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms H to accept or 
reject my decision before 3 November 2023.
 
Christian Wood
Ombudsman