DRN-4431577
The complaint
Ms K and X held a joint account with Citibank UK Limited. They complain that a payment to 
that account was blocked, and that Citibank did not keep them properly informed about the 
reasons for that, or about what it was doing to trace the payment. They seek compensation 
of £1,000. 
What happened
Ms K and X are married and live in the UK; they are both UK citizens. They occasionally 
receive payments from Ms Ks father, who is Russian and lives in Moscow. 
On 17 March 2022 Ms Ks father instructed his bank in Russia to make a transfer of 
US$5,000 to Ms Ks and Xs account with Citibank. When, by early April, the payment had 
not arrived, X contacted Citibank to try to find out what had happened to it. He followed up 
on that query on several further occasions. 
Citibank wrote to X on 5 May. It said the funds had been held for review. It apologised for the 
delay in dealing with Xs enquiry and offered £50 in recognition of that. Ms K and X did not 
accept the banks offer and referred the matter to this service at the end of May 2022.
On 15 June 2022 Citibank wrote to X again. In its letter, it apologised that it had not 
contacted him and Ms K to request further information it needed to release the funds. It 
offered a further £50 by way of compensation  which Ms K and X again did not accept. 
Citibank said it was treating the matter as resolved. 
X said however that the matter was not resolved; the payment had still not been received. 
In September 2022 Ms Ks father  who had sent the money  identified why the payment 
had not been completed. He has a name very similar to that of a Russian individual who is 
subject to US sanctions as a result of Russias invasion of Ukraine. Those sanctions were 
put in place very soon after the payment instruction was given. The funds had therefore 
been held by Citibanks intermediary. An application for the release of the funds was made 
to the Office of Foreign Assets Control, part of the US Treasury. I am not aware whether the 
funds have been released, although  as I shall explain  it makes no difference to the 
outcome of this complaint.
By way of further background, Citibank gave notice in April 2023 that it was closing Ms Ks 
and Xs account. It said it was doing so as it wanted to focus on clients with complex wealth 
management needs. This does not however form any part of this complaint, and I mention it 
as background information only. 
One of our investigators considered what had happened and issued a preliminary view. She 
said, in summary, that she could not ask the bank to complete the payment. She did 
however think that it could have done more to chase the intermediary and should have kept 
Ms K and X better informed. She recommended that Citibank pay £250 by way of 
compensation. 
Ms K and X accepted the investigators recommendation, and provided their new account 
details, so payment could be made   at the same time making a general observation about 
the level of awards made by the Financial Ombudsman Service. Citibank did not accept the 
recommendation, however. It said it was not privy for the reasons for the delay. The case 
was therefore passed to me for further review. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As the investigator noted, it is not the fault of Citibank that the payment could not be 
completed. It appeared initially that the sender might be a sanctioned individual, so further 
checks were needed. That was out of Citibanks control. And I note that the account terms in 
any event allowed the bank to withhold payments (including receipts) if, for example, it 
appeared that allowing a payment might breach rules or regulations. 
In response to the investigators view, Citibank said that it would not be privy to the reasons 
why a payment had been delayed, nor would it know about the progress of the payment. It 
should not be liable, as this was in incoming payment. I can see Citibanks point here; it was 
not responsible for any delay, as the payment was held up before it reached Citibank. 
However, Citibank did acknowledge delays on its part, both in correspondence with its 
customers and with this service. In its letters of 5 May and 16 June 2022, it noted delays and 
that it had not asked for further information it needed from Ms K and X. On both occasions it 
offered compensation. I do not believe it did so purely as a gesture of goodwill to resolve the 
complaint; it did so because it accepted it had done something wrong. 
Further, Citibank said to this service in a letter of 10 May 2023:
Whilst we did obtain some information from the client, due to a breakdown in 
communication this was not passed on to the intermediary bank.
We accept that the levels of customer service have not met our expected standards, 
however, we feel that as this complaint relates to an incoming transfer the information 
required for this to be released ought to have been provided by the remitting bank.    
Not all errors automatically merit compensation, and I think it unlikely that Citibanks 
admitted errors here have made any real difference to the receipt of the payment. 
Nevertheless, I agree with the investigator that the bank could, and should, have done more 
to keep its customers informed about what it was doing  even if it was unable to provide as 
much detail as they would have liked. 
Ms K and X were understandably concerned when the payment was not received as 
expected. I do not hold Citibank responsible for that. I do believe however that Citibanks 
actions caused them additional distress and inconvenience for which they should be 
compensated. I dont believe that the offer of £100 in total goes far enough; I agree with the 
investigator that a total payment of £250 would be more appropriate in this case.
My final decision 
For these reasons, my final decision is that, to resolve this complaint in full, Citibank UK 
Limited should pay Ms K and X £250. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms K and X to 
accept or reject my decision before 29 November 2023. Mike Ingram
Ombudsman