DRN-3807876
The complaint
Ms S complains that DAS Legal Expenses Insurance Company Limited unfairly declined a 
claim under her legal expenses insurance policy. 
What happened
Ms S purchased a property and subsequently discovered there had been a leak which had 
caused wet rot. She made a claim under her legal expenses insurance policy to pursue 
action against the vendor, solicitor, and surveyor. 
It took several weeks for DAS to confirm that Ms S had a valid policy in place which covered 
the date of the insured event. It explained that because it doesnt sell the policies, it doesnt 
hold policy records until a claim has been made. It offered £50 compensation for the 
inconvenience caused by this delay, which Ms S accepted. 
Once the policy had been validated, DAS considered the claim. It said there was no cover 
for a claim against the vendor as it was caught by an exclusion. But there was potential 
cover for claims against the solicitor and the surveyor. So it instructed its panel solicitors to 
complete a legal assessment on the merits of those claims. 
The panel solicitors were of the opinion that claims against the solicitor and the surveyor 
didnt enjoy reasonable prospects of success. So DAS declined to cover these claims as 
well. 
Ms S wasnt happy, so she raised a complaint which she brought to our service. But our 
investigator didnt uphold it. She was satisfied DAS had dealt with the claims in accordance 
with the policy terms and conditions and that its decision wasnt unfair. 
As Ms S didnt agree, the complaint has been passed to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Policy exclusion
The terms and conditions of Ms S legal expenses policy says it will cover contract disputes, 
described as:
A dispute arising from an agreement which you have entered into in a personal capacity 
for:
a) Buying or hiring goods or services
b) Selling goods.
The property itself wouldnt fall within what is considered to be goods or services. 
Furthermore, the contract disputes section has the following exclusion:
What is not covered
A claim relating toa dispute over the sale, purchase terms of a lease, licence, or 
tenancy of land or buildings. However, we will cover a dispute with a professional 
advisor in connection with these matters.
As Ms S claim against the vendor would be related to the sale of the property, Im satisfied 
the claim doesnt fall within the description of cover and is caught by the policy exclusion. 
For that reason, I dont consider DAS decision to decline this part of the claim to be incorrect 
or unfair. 
Ms S claims against the solicitor and surveyor did fall within the contract dispute section of 
cover because she paid for them both to provide her with a service. And whilst the claims 
relate to the sale of property, the policy specifically states it will cover disputes with a 
professional advisor in connection with these matters. So it was correct for DAS to consider 
covering these claims. 
Prospects of success
The policys terms and conditions say that claims must have reasonable prospects of 
success which are defined as being at least 51% chance of winning.
This is a requirement of virtually all legal expenses policies, and we dont think its unfair. 
Court action can be expensive. A privately paying customer wouldnt generally want to bear 
the cost if advised its unlikely to succeed. And we wouldnt expect a legal expenses insurer 
to either.
Where an insurer has declined or withdrawn funding in such a case, it isnt for us to evaluate 
the merits of the underlying claim. Instead, we look at whether the insurer has acted fairly. 
As long as theyve obtained advice from suitably qualified lawyers, we wont generally 
question their reliance on that advice, unless we think it was obviously wrong or based on 
factual mistakes.
In this case, DAS obtained a legal assessment from one of its panel firms of solicitors who 
said the claims against the solicitor and the surveyor didnt enjoy reasonable prospects of 
success. Im satisfied the advice is well-reasoned, and its been obtained from a suitably 
qualified lawyer. So I havent seen anything to persuade me that DAS couldnt rely on it. 
Rather, its up to Ms S to obtain a contrary legal opinion on the merits of her claim, at her 
own cost, if she wants to challenge this further. If such an opinion is supportive then Id 
expect DAS to reconsider the claim. But on the information available at this time, Im 
satisfied DAS decision to decline these claims was in line with the policy terms and fair in 
the circumstances.
Delays
Ms S first made her claim on 24 June, but it took DAS until 6 July to confirm that she had a 
valid policy in place. 
DAS has explained that as it doesnt sell the legal expenses policies, which are attached to 
home insurance policies underwritten by another insurer, it doesnt hold policy details on its 
system until a claim is made. I can see from DAS file that it made enquiries with Ms S 
insurers for some time, but it took 12 days to get this information.DAS has apologised for this delay and offered £50 compensation in recognition of the 
distress and inconvenience this wouldve caused Ms S. DAS say Ms S accepted this offer 
and payment was made by BACS in July.
Im aware that Ms S is worried about the damage to her property and the potential damage 
that could occur the longer the wet rot is left unrepaired. But Im satisfied this offer reflects 
the impact Ms S wouldve experienced over the 12 days, taking into consideration that the 
delay was outside of DAS control. So Im not asking it to pay any more.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms S to accept or 
reject my decision before 30 December 2022.
 
Sheryl Sibley
Ombudsman