DRN-3301066
The complaint
Mrs M complains about Prestige Underwriting Services Ltds handling and proposed 
settlement of her Buildings Insurance Claim.
All references to Prestige also include its agents.
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here. Instead Ill focus on giving my reasons for my decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the conclusions reached by the investigator for these reasons:
Prestige have objected to our service commenting on the issues relating to cracking 
at the property within this complaint. It says it doesnt form part of the original 
complaint made by Mrs M.
However, I can see Mrs M raised the issue regarding the cracks within her original 
complaint letter of February 2021. This being one of the reasons why she disputes 
the cash settlement offered by Prestige. 
I can also see this is also mentioned within internal communication by Prestige at the 
time. So, Im satisfied our service can consider this issue as part of this complaint.
Prestige carried out drainage repairs at the property, and this was believed to repair 
the cause of the subsidence. 
In December 2019, Prestige reported cracking was below 5mm and the 
recommended scope of work for repairs was based on this.
Mrs M said the damage is ongoing and cracks have since grown larger, beyond 
10mm, of which she has provided supporting photos
Mrs M has provided a report from her own surveyor indicating further movement has 
occurred, and detailing what damage they believe looks to have happened before 
and after the repairs were carried out.
Prestige have said it suspects the bearing strata below the foundations has been 
further disturbed and could result in further movement. But I havent seen anything to 
show further investigation has been carried out to confirm or monitor further 
movement
Based on the information Ive seen; I think Prestige needed to do more here. 
Sufficient evidence has been presented that suggests further movement has 
occurred following repairs. In the circumstances I would expect Prestige to 
investigate this issue as it needs to ensure the repairs it carries out are lasting and 
effective.
So I think Prestige needs to carry out further investigations to ensure the subsidence 
has stopped following drainage repairs. If the movement hasnt stopped. Prestige will 
need to consider what further mitigation works are required and ensure its stopped, 
before looking at damage repairs or reviewing any potential cash settlement.
Alternatively, if Prestige investigate and believe no further action is needed, it will 
need to explain why it thinks this. If Mrs M is unhappy with Prestiges response, she 
may consider bringing a new complaint to our service.
As Ive set out above, Mrs M raised issues relating to the cracks growing larger in her 
complaint letter to Prestige in February 2021
Prestige have indicated to our service they are willing to investigate this, but to date 
this doesnt appear to have happened
As Mrs M has mentioned there were further issues which potentially related to the 
claim, I would have expected Prestige to have investigated this at the time,
I can understand why the cracks getting bigger would have concerned Mrs M and I 
think the lack of action would have caused her worry. 
So I do agree compensation is due. Considering what Ive set out above, I think the 
£500 compensation recommended by our investigator is in the range of what I think 
is reasonable in the circumstances and reflects the inconvenience caused.
Putting things right
To put things right, I direct Prestige to:
Investigate and report on the further cracking and movement issues reported by 
Mrs M.
Pay Mrs M £500 compensation.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold Mrs Ms complaint.
I direct Prestige Underwriting Services Ltd to do as Ive set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs M to accept or 
reject my decision before 20 April 2022.
 
Michael Baronti
Ombudsman