DRN-2954001
The complaint
Mr S complains that delays in Volkswagen Financial Services (UK) Limited (VFS) updating 
payment information on his credit file have caused him inconvenience and costs. Hes 
unhappy with the steps VFS has offered to take to resolve matters.
What happened
Mr S took out car finance with VFS. His scheduled monthly payments were due to start the 
next month. But within a couple of weeks Mr S decided to return the car and asked VFS for a 
settlement figure. Mr S settled the balance, but not before his first payment fell due. Because 
his direct debit was cancelled, VFS noted the missed payment on Mr Ss credit file.
The payment that was missed was covered by Mr Ss settlement about a week later. But 
VFS took several months to update Mr Ss credit file to reflect this. Mr S says that in the 
meantime he was unable to get a mortgage loan and this caused him inconvenience, as well 
as impacting on his financial position as he instead had to continue to pay rent. He sought 
compensation from VFS.
VFS acknowledged its delay in updating the payment record on Mr Ss credit file. It offered to 
pay him £40 compensation, later increased to £100 along with a refund of £45 Mr S paid in 
fees for monitoring his credit file. VFS also said that it would consider any evidence Mr S 
sent it to show hed been declined for a mortgage loan as a result of what it had recorded.
Mr S didnt think what VFS proposed went far enough, and pointed out hed had a mortgage 
loan agreed in principle just before he took out the finance with VFS. Hed been accepted for 
a mortgage loan after his credit file was updated, so he felt this demonstrated the impact of 
the information recorded by VFS. He referred his complaint to us.
Our investigator thought VFS had made a fair offer based on the available evidence. She 
noted the possibility that the VFS payment information contributed to Mr Ss mortgage loan 
application being declined. But she also considered other factors could have contributed to 
this, and that there wasnt enough to show the mortgage loan application would otherwise 
have been approved.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Theres no question here that VFS did something wrong in respect of the information it 
recorded on Mr Ss credit file  its acknowledged this and offered to compensate Mr S. In 
general, where a business does something wrong Id expect it  where possible  to correct 
the matter and to consider the impact that error had on its customer, making an appropriate 
offer of compensation. The issue at hand in Mr Ss case, then, is whether VFS ought to do 
more than it has already offered in order to put things right.
I dont think theres any doubt VFS ought to have dealt with the credit file correction more 
quickly than it did. It has recognised that Mr S incurred some costs in monitoring his credit 
file for a few months, and I think its right that VFS compensates Mr S for this.
In terms of further loss, Ive reviewed the copy Mr S sent me of his credit file. I can see that 
there were other factors on that file that might have had an impact on his ability to get the 
best rate for his mortgage. For example, Mr S had made an arrangement to pay outstanding 
balances with his utility providers, which was reflected on his credit file. It seems likely that 
the delay in VFS amending his file would have had some impact. After all, Mr S has noted 
that once the file was updated, his mortgage loan application was approved.
But thats not enough to be able to say that because of the actions of VFS, Mr S incurred 
additional rent costs. The letter hes provided from his mortgage broker isnt in my view 
sufficiently conclusive to establish the loss hes claiming in this respect. Further. there would 
always have been a period between Mr S applying for a mortgage loan and leaving his 
rented property, during which hed have still been paying rent. Im not persuaded theres 
enough here to say VFS should compensate Mr S for his rent payments.
I do think Mr S was put to some inconvenience in chasing the correction, and that would no 
doubt have caused him unnecessary worry. Ive thought about what VFS has offered to pay 
him in recognition of this, and while I appreciate he doesnt agree, I think its a fair proposal 
overall.
My final decision
Volkswagen Financial Services (UK) Limited has made a reasonable offer to pay Mr S £145 
in settlement of his complaint. I dont require it to increase that offer. So my final decision is 
that it should pay Mr S £145.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 27 September 2021.
 
Niall Taylor
Ombudsman