DRN-2609935
The complaint
Mr M complains that the hire purchase agreement (HPA) he entered into with MotoNovo 
Finance Limited hasnt been ended even though he returned the car that was subject to the 
agreement.
What happened
Mr M entered into a HPA (the agreement) with MotoNovo in September 2019 to acquire a 
car. He has explained that due to issues with the car he rejected it within the first 30 days. 
He says the dealer accepted the return of the car and he was told his agreement would be 
settled but this didnt happen. Mr M says that the third party buyer refunded him the 
payments he had made under the finance agreement until March 2020 but then stopped. 
Mr M says he is being chased by Motonovo for payments and late markers have been 
applied to his credit file. He says MotoNovo says it doesnt know where the car is, but he 
was told it had been sold.
Mr M contacted MotoNovo in May 2020 and explained the situation with the car. A complaint 
was raised on 4 June and MotoNovo says it received information from Mr M in July 2020 
including an email from the dealer saying it was no longer trading and that the third party 
buyer should have closed the agreement. MotoNovo issued a final response letter saying 
that funds hadnt been received to close the agreement and that as it had no link to the third 
party buyer it was unaware of the cars location. Because of this it didnt uphold Mr Ms 
complaint and suggested he seek legal action as it thought this was a legal dispute between 
him and the third party buyer.
Our investigator didnt uphold this complaint. He said that when a car is rejected the dealer 
will usually work with the finance provider to ensure the finance agreement is settled. 
However, in this case MotoNovo hadnt been told the car had been rejected and it wasnt 
until May 2020 it became aware of this by which time the car had been sold to a third party. 
He said that as MotoNovo hadnt received the funds to settle the agreement and wasnt 
aware of the cars location, MotoNovo remained the legal owner of the car and therefore 
wasnt acting unreasonably by continuing to request payments from Mr M.
Mr M didnt accept our investigators view. He said he didnt sell the car but rejected it within 
30 days. He dealt with the dealer through this process and was told his agreement would be 
cancelled. He said he had done what was required of him under the Consumer Rights Act 
2015 (CRA 2015).
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr M entered a HPA with MotoNovo in September 2019 to acquire a used car. The 
agreement sets out the payments required and the agreements duration. It also says that 
the car will not become the property of Mr M until all payments have been made and that 
Mr M isnt allowed to sell the car before this time. 
Mr M has explained that he returned the car to the dealer as he had experienced to many 
issues with it. Under CRA 2015, Mr M would have had a short term right to reject the car 
within the first 30 days had faults been identified. In this case I have no further evidence of 
any faults, but it appears that the dealer accepted the rejection of the car. In such 
circumstances it would be usual for the dealer to contact the finance provider had Mr M not 
already done this. However, this didnt happen and MotoNovo was unaware that the car had 
been rejected and wasnt provided any further information regarding the grounds for 
rejection.
As MotoNovo was unaware of the rejection of the car and the agreement hadnt been 
settled, it continued as the owner of the car and it was reasonable that it continued to expect 
repayments from Mr M has the hirer under the agreement. 
Mr M has explained that the dealer sold the car to a third party buyer and has provided 
evidence to show that he continued to make the repayments under the agreement but that 
between December 2019 and March 2020 these were being refunded to him by the third 
party buyer. This is not a usual situation and not an arrangement Motonovo was party to or 
aware of. Mr M would be in breach of his agreement by selling the car with the finance still 
outstanding and I would have expected the agreement with Motonovo to have been settled 
before this happened. 
Mr M has said that the third party buyer then stopped making the refunds and so he was 
paying for a car he didnt have in his possession. It isnt fair that Mr M continued to pay for a 
car he had returned however this doesnt mean that MotoNovo did something wrong. I 
appreciate that Mr M expected the agreement to be settled following his return of the car 
(although he then didnt raise concerns about the payments continuing to be taken and 
refunded). However, as MotoNovo werent made aware that the car had been returned until 
after its sale and the agreement hadnt been settled, I do not find I can say it has done 
anything wrong by expecting the repayments to continue.
Mr M has provided a copy of an email from the dealer saying it was no longer trading and 
the third party buyer had been expected to settle the agreement. While I appreciate Mr M 
thinks MotoNovo should accept the agreement as settled, I need to be fair to both parties to 
the dispute and while I dont think it fair that Mr M pays for a car he has returned, I also dont 
find it fair in this case that MotoNovo is required to settle the agreement when the funds 
havent been paid nor the car returned to it. 
Therefore, while I can understand how upsetting this issue must be for Mr M, I do not find 
that MotoNovo has done anything wrong in this case and so I do not find I can uphold his 
complaint. Given the issue raised, I think that MotoNovo should work with Mr M if he needs 
assistance while pursuing his case through other channels.My final decision
My final decision is that I cannot say MotoNovo Finance Limited has done anything wrong in 
this case and therefore I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 May 2021.
 
Jane Archer
Ombudsman