DRN-2502817
The complaint
Mr P says The Royal Bank of Scotland plc (RBS) (when it was trading as MINT) mis-sold 
him a payment protection insurance (PPI) policy. 
What happened
Mr P bought the policy in 2003 at the same time as taking out a credit card. 
Our adjudicator didnt uphold the complaint. Mr P disagreed with the adjudicators opinion so 
the complaint has been passed to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding Mr Ps case.
Ive decided the PPI wasnt mis-sold and Ive set out my reasons below.
I think RBS made Mr P aware that the PPI was optional and that he chose to take it. I 
say this because Mr P did tick the box on the credit card application form to show that 
he wanted the cover.
RBS didnt recommend the PPI to Mr P so it didnt have to check if it was suitable for 
him. Mr P had to decide that for himself.
But even if RBS had recommended the policy, it doesnt look as though it was 
unsuitable for Mr P. Even though he says he was entitled to sick pay from his 
employer, and had some savings, the policy wouldve paid out in addition to his 
employer benefits. Having the policy in place wouldve meant Mr P could use his 
employer sick pay and savings to cover other expenses. So I think the policy wouldve 
been useful to Mr P, despite is existing arrangements.
Its possible the information RBS gave Mr P about the PPI wasnt as clear as it should 
have been. But its unlikely Mr P would have been affected by any of the main things 
the policy didnt cover. And the policy was competitively priced and had a reasonable 
benefit. So I dont think better information wouldve stopped him buying it. 
Which means RBS does not have to refund all of the cost of the PPI to Mr P.
 
But RBS has paid back some of the cost of the PPI to Mr P because:
 RBS got a high level of commission and profit share (more than 50% of the PPI 
premium) - so it should have told Mr P about that. Because RBS didnt tell Mr P, that 
was unfair. 
 To put that right, RBS has paid back the amount of commission and profit share that 
was above 50% of the PPI premium - and I think that is fair in this case.
My final decision
The PPI policy wasnt mis-sold  so The Royal Bank of Scotland plc does not have to pay
back all of the cost of the PPI to Mr P. But The Royal Bank of Scotland plc does have to
pay back to Mr P any commission and profit share it got that was more than 50% of the PPI
premium, if it hasnt already done so. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision before 8 April 2021.
 
Caroline Stirling
Ombudsman