DRN-3518621
Complaint
Mr C is unhappy that TSB Bank plc wont refund payments that were made from his account 
that he says he didnt authorise.
Background
Mr C has an account with TSB. From 2019 until early 2020, he says that he his abusive ex-
partner carried out multiple transactions on his account fraudulently. Some of these were 
made using Mr Cs debit card, and some were made via online banking. He reported them to 
TSB. It investigated but said it wouldnt refund the transactions.
It said many of the transactions were similar to authentic historic transactions and were 
made using the same device or IP address. Furthermore, many of the internet banking 
transfers were made during the same online banking session as other payments that he 
didnt dispute. It also said that Mr C had shared the security credentials for his account with 
his ex-partner and that this meant that hed breached the terms and conditions of his 
account.
Mr C was unhappy with the response he received from TSB. He referred a complaint to this 
service. It was looked at by an Investigator who didnt uphold it. The Investigator said that it 
was reasonable for TSB to treat the payments as having been authorised by Mr C. She said 
that hed shared his security credentials with his ex-partner which meant that the payments 
wouldve appeared authorised from TSBs perspective. 
Mr C didnt agree with the Investigators opinion. He said that he hadnt shared his security 
credentials with anyone, but his ex-partner still controlled his personal finances. He 
explained to us in detail the appalling conduct he was subjected to. He also said that his ex-
partner was able to make it look as if the account was being operated normally because he 
was familiar with the type of transactions Mr C would typically make.
As Mr C disagreed with the Investigators opinion, the complaint has been passed to me to 
consider and issue a final decision.
Findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I should be clear at the outset that it isnt my role to determine whether Mr Cs ex-partner 
committed a crime. My role is to determine the extent of the banks liability for the 
transactions. 
The regulations that apply to this case (the Payment Services Regulations 2017) say that 
TSB generally cant hold Mr C liable for any transactions he didnt authorise. Its clear from 
what Mr C has told us that he didnt consent on an individual basis to every transaction that 
was made from his account. However, it is possible for him to give someone else authorise 
to carry out transactions so that he would be legally responsible for them, even if he didnt 
physically make them or give explicit permission for each individual one. TSB can hold a 
customer responsible for any spending that happened because they gave someone else 
permission to carry out transactions on their behalf. The legal term for this is apparent 
authority. So even though Mr C didnt agree to or know about these payments, providing his 
ex-partner with the ability to make some payments served to, in effect, authorise the further 
spending he went on to undertake.
I cant know for sure if thats what happened here. TSB has said that Mr C shared his 
security credentials, but Mr C denies that. Its clear that his ex-partner was aware of his 
security credentials, but that doesnt automatically mean that he shared them. Its possible 
that they were able to learn them without them being deliberately shared. 
If he did share them, Im satisfied it would be fair and reasonable for TSB to hold him liable 
for these payments on the basis that they were authorised. However, even if I dont think he 
did share them, he was aware that they were in his ex-partners possession for a long period 
of time and allowed that situation to continue. The regulations say that a customer should 
keep their security credentials safe and notify the bank without delay if theyve been misused 
or misappropriated. In this case, Mr C didnt tell TSB at the time. I recognise that the only 
reason he didnt do so was because he was being coerced. Its perfectly understandable that 
he wouldnt do so. Unfortunately, that doesnt override his obligations under the regulations 
and so TSB isnt obliged to refund him.
Other considerations
Although in general terms TSB was required to process authorised payments as requested 
by its customers, it nonetheless had some additional obligations to intervene to protect its 
customers from financial harm due to fraud. It was required to be on the lookout for 
transactions that had an increased risk of being connected with fraud  for example, 
payments that were unusual or out of character. It now looks clear that Mr C was an ongoing 
victim of a fraud throughout this period. But the question I must address is whether it 
shouldve been clear to TSB that he was at risk of financial harm such that it shouldve 
intervened and questioned individual payments.
Unfortunately, I dont think there was any reason for TSB to have assumed that these 
payments might have related to fraud. They werent particularly large, and they followed the 
same pattern as previous payments made from the account. Although I understand the point 
Mr C has made about his ex-partner mimicking his own spending patterns, it doesnt mean it 
was unreasonable for TSB to have judged it as not being likely to be fraudulent. 
I realise that my decision will come as an enormous disappointment to Mr C and that he 
feels strongly about his complaint. Hes been through an appalling ordeal and he has my 
total sympathy. His reasons for not wanting to notify TSB about the misuse of his account 
make sense. However, I have to look at whether TSB did anything wrong in processing 
these payments or in failing to step in to carry out checks before allowing them to be 
processed. Overall, Im satisfied that it didnt make any error in doing so.Final decision
For the reasons Ive explained above, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 1 November 2022.
 
James Kimmitt
Ombudsman