DRN-4330195
The complaint
Mr M and Mr M complain about AXA Insurance UK Plcs handling of their buildings 
insurance claim.
Mr M and Mr M are being represented in their complaint by G. For ease, I will refer to them 
below.  
All references to AXA also include its appointed agents.
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here. Instead, Ill focus on giving my reasons for my decision.
In its final response, AXA offered Mr M and Mr M £25 compensation for a delay in 
responding to their complaint. As complaint handling isnt an activity the regulator authorises, 
it isnt something we can investigate. So, I will not comment on this point in my findings.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
G has made several detailed points. Were an informal dispute resolution service, set up as 
a free alternative to the courts. In deciding this complaint Ive focused on what I consider to 
be the heart of the matter rather than commenting on every issue in turn. 
This isnt intended as a discourtesy to G, or to Mr M and Mr M.  Rather it reflects the informal 
nature of our service, its remit and my role in it. So, if I dont mention any particular point or 
piece of evidence, it isnt because I havent seen it or thought about it. Its just that I dont 
feel I need to reference it to explain my decision. But I can confirm I have thoroughly read 
and considered all the evidence presented by all parties.
Having done so, I do not uphold the complaint for these reasons:
The reports from AXA and G are broadly similar in the damage reported. However, G 
has provided a quote from their preferred contractor which differs significantly from 
AXAs quoted cost for the works.
Mr M and Mr M expressed a desire to use their own contractor due to negative 
experiences with past contractors. G also raised concerns with the contractor AXA 
intended to use for works and provided examples of negative reviews posted online.
Im sorry to hear of Mr M and Mr Ms previous experiences with other contractors. 
However, these dont appear to relate to this particular contractor, so I dont think it 
fair or reasonable to ask AXA to pay their preferred contractors costs for this reason. 
I acknowledge the reviews G has sent, but these are two screenshots with minor 
detail and its not enough to persuade me this meant there would be issues with the 
works, or contractor, AXA was intending to instruct.
AXA said it was able to do repairs. Im aware G says they had concerns it couldnt, 
but Ive not seen anything that persuades me this was the case. G says they offered 
to meet AXA on site to discuss the works further, but AXA never acknowledged this 
point. A scope of work had already been prepared and I can see it had already made 
its position clear to G it felt the work set out was sufficient. So, I dont feel AXA 
needed to further attend site.
While G did ask AXA to instruct its contractors in May 2022. I can see an ongoing 
matter existed about Alternative Accommodation (AA). And it was Gs position that 
AA should be provided while works were ongoing and the dispute around works 
continued.
AXA provided comments from more than one source internally that it didnt feel the 
property was unhabitable. The policy does set out it will cover the costs of AA while 
the buildings cannot be lived in. But Ive not seen anything that persuades me the 
work required would mean the property couldnt be lived in. 
The work is largely confined to the lounge and one bedroom, out of the six reported 
in the property. While there may be some inconvenience whilst work is undertaken, 
this is to be expected. And there is still access to normal everyday living facilities 
such as a kitchen and bathrooms.
I understand another reason for using Mr M and Mr Ms preferred contractors, and 
the discussion regarding AA, was for religious considerations. But I can see AXA 
offered reasonable adjustments of completing works at suitable times when no one 
was in the property. Which I think is reasonable in the circumstances.
So, I dont agree AXA was required to provide AA. 
G may have not expressly asked for a cash settlement, but if they did want to use 
their own contractor, as AXA could have completed the work, it would only be liable 
to pay its own costs under the policy terms. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold Mr M and Mr Ms complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M and Mr M to 
accept or reject my decision before 2 November 2023.
 
Michael Baronti
Ombudsman