DRN-1571370
 
The complaint
Ms T complains that Bank of Scotland plc mis-sold her a payment protection insurance (PPI) 
policy. 
What happened
Ms T took out the PPI in 2001 in connection with a credit card.
Our adjudicator didnt recommend the complaint should be upheld. Ms T didnt agree with 
the adjudicators conclusions, so the complaint has been passed to me. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding Ms Ts case.
Ive decided the policy wasnt mis-sold. I've set out my reasons below:
Ms T says she thought she had to buy the PPI to get the credit card she wanted, and 
that Bank of Scotland didn't give her a proper choice. But I think Bank of Scotland did 
make it clear that Ms T didnt have to take out the PPI. I say this because Ms T had 
to sign a separate section of the credit card application form to show that she wanted 
the cover. So I think Ms T wouldve realised she had a choice about whether or not to 
buy the PPI. 
Ms T applied for her credit card by post, so Bank of Scotland didn't recommend the 
PPI to her. That meant Bank of Scotland didn't have to check whether the policy was 
suitable for Ms T, or whether she had any other means to cover her credit card 
repayments. But even if Bank of Scotland had recommended the PPI to Ms T, it 
doesn't look as though it was unsuitable for her, based on what Ive seen of her 
circumstances at the time. Ms T has said she was entitled to sick pay from her 
employer if she couldnt work because of sickness or accident. But the policy 
wouldve paid out in addition to her employer benefits and would do so, it seems, for 
longer. Having the policy in place wouldve meant Ms T could use her employer 
benefits to pay for other expenses. So I think Ms T wouldve had some use for the 
policy, despite her existing arrangements. 
Its possible the information Bank of Scotland gave Ms T about the PPI wasnt as 
clear as it shouldve been. But she chose to take it out - so it looks like she wanted 
this type of cover. In addition, its unlikely Ms T would have been affected by any of 
the main things the policy didnt cover. It also looks like it was affordable. So I dont 
think better information about the PPI would have put Ms T off taking out the cover. 
 
Which means Bank of Scotland doesnt have to pay back all of the cost of the PPI to Ms T.But Bank of Scotland has paid back some of the cost of the PPI to Ms T because: 
Bank of Scotland got a high level of commission and profit share (more than 50% of 
the PPI premium) - so it should have told Ms T about that. Because Bank of Scotland 
didnt tell Ms T, that was unfair. 
To put that right, RBS has paid back the amount of commission and profit share that 
was above 50% of the PPI premium - and I think that is fair in this case.
 
My final decision
The PPI policy wasnt mis-sold  so Bank of Scotland plc does not have to pay back all of 
the cost of the PPI to Ms T.
But Bank of Scotland plc does have to pay back to Ms T any commission and profit share it 
got that was more than 50% of the PPI premium. I understand it has already done this, so I 
dont award any further compensation. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms T to accept or 
reject my decision before 21 April 2020.
Caroline Stirling
Ombudsman