DRN-3845774
The complaint
Miss B complains about HDI Global Specialty SE (HDI) for declining her claim for damage 
to her home following an ingress of water. She wants HDI to settle her claim for repairs to 
her home. 
What happened
Miss B lives in a semi-detached property with a converted and tanked cellar which she uses 
for storage. She insured her home and contents with HDI. This included cover for escape of 
water, and for trace and access to find the source of any leak. 
In November 2021, Miss B went into her cellar and discovered that the laminate floor was 
saturated with water. She removed the laminate to try to find the source of the water and 
believed that this was coming from the party wall between her and her neighbours homes. 
That property was tenanted and, when she contacted the owner, they did not acknowledge 
any issue and denied having a cellar.
Miss B submitted a claim on her home insurance. HDI assigned her claim to a third party to 
handle the claim. For the purposes of this complaint I will attribute all actions of the third 
party to HDI. 
HDIs loss adjuster attended the property a few days later. They produced a report. 
The report detailed that there was video and photographic evidence further supporting our 
physical inspection suggesting moisture is penetrating through the shared wall to the 
neighbouring property. 
It stated that the loss adjuster had requested that Miss B contact the company who installed 
the tanking and obtain a report on why the tanking had failed however in the event that 
[Miss B] is unsuccessful we would look to obtain a report from an approved specialist given 
the possible third-party involvement with the neighbouring property.
It stated We note that in the first instance we would look to outline the cause of damage to 
assist with any potential subrogation effort and to confirm policy cover,... It then stated that 
At this stage we cannot confirm whether the policy will respond..
HDI removed Miss Bs possessions into storage and for assessment as part of her claim. 
In January 2022, HDI wrote to Miss B declining her buildings claim. The decision set out that 
the policy had exclusions which would prevent a claim from being accepted. An example 
would be wear and tear, or gradual deterioration.
It stated that the professional opinion outlined that the tanking system was not fully 
functioning and appeared to have reached the end of its life. It stated that there was no 
evidence of a one-off peril causing damage to the tanking system, and that the claim was 
therefore not covered. It also ruled out the buildings damage being treated as accidental 
damage as it said that the damage to the building had occurred gradually. 
HDI then said that it would be able to cover the cost of repair or replacement of contents that 
had been damaged by this sudden presence of water. 
Miss B complained to HDI. HDI sent its final response in February 2022 maintaining its 
decision to decline the buildings claim. It acknowledged that the contents claim was ongoing 
and that this was delayed. HDI offered Miss B £200 compensation to reflect failings in 
service that she had experienced. 
Miss B was not happy and contacted us. 
HDI subsequently offered Miss B a settlement of her contents that were damaged by the 
sudden presence of water, for around £4450, minus her excess. 
Miss B later observed work ongoing outside her neighbours property by drainage and leak 
detection contractors and she took photographs of this. The work appeared to involve 
underground pipes and water being pumped away from the property. Miss B has reported 
that since this time the water ingress into her cellar has stopped. 
Our investigator looked into this matter and set out her view to the parties. This was that HDI 
had unfairly declined the buildings claim. She considered that the loss adjuster had observed 
that the water may be coming from the neighbouring property and had advised that further 
investigations needed to take place. As HDI had not undertaken those investigations, she 
was not persuaded that it had fairly concluded that there was no insured peril. She 
recommended that HDI settle the claim and increase its compensation to Miss B.
HDI did not accept that view and asked for an ombudsman decision.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
My colleague has previously set out a thorough and considered view, analysing the policy 
cover, and the exclusions which HDI relied upon. 
To summarise her view, the policy covered damage caused by an escape of water from a 
fixed water appliance, and there were no specific exclusions relating to escape of water 
which HDI had applied to this claim. 
The policy included general exclusions, rejecting damage which occurred gradually over 
time, or damage which occurred due to wear and tear. My colleague did not consider that 
HDI had demonstrated that these exclusions applied to Miss Bs situation. 
I agree with her view, and I consider that HDI has not approached this claim in a reasonable 
way. 
Firstly, HDI asked Miss B to obtain a report on the adequacy of the tanking. I cannot see that 
this was justified as this did not affect the cause of the water, and it could only be relevant in 
respect of loss or mitigation of loss. The first step ought to have been assessing the cause of 
the water, both for the claim and so that it could be stopped from causing further damage. 
In this instance, there is no evidence that the damage to Miss Bs building occurred gradually 
over time. If damage had occurred over time, we would expect that a loss adjuster would 
observe this and explain how they supported their view, such as if they saw signs of mould 
or rot. No such evidence was included in the loss adjusters report and I therefore understand that no evidence of gradual damage was observed during that visit. 
Instead, the evidence supports that the cellar experienced a sudden ingress of water, which 
breached the tanking, penetrated the walls and caused damage. HDI has accepted, in 
respect of Miss Bs contents claim, that the damage met its policy definition for accidental 
damage, which is damage caused by an unintentional and one off incident. 
HDI ultimately concluded that Miss B had not demonstrated that there was an insured peril. I 
do not agree. She had shown that water entered her cellar, suddenly, and she and the loss 
adjuster both observed that this came through the party wall with her neighbours home. She 
has also provided evidence indicating that repairs have taken place at the neighbouring 
property, and that this has stopped the water ingress. This all points to an escape of water in 
the neighbouring property. Without the co-operation of her neighbour, I do not see what 
more she could be reasonably expected to demonstrate. 
HDI then concluded that it is more likely than not that the damage was caused by the tanking 
failing. HDI has not provided evidence for this and HDI did not out the further assessment of 
the cause of the water ingress as recommended by the loss adjuster at their initial visit. 
To be clear, I have not seen any evidence that the tanking was defective. In fact, the account 
of Miss B - that the water ingress has stopped since works were carried out next door - 
suggests that the tanking remains functional and effective for keeping out ordinary levels of 
ground water. 
I therefore do not think it reasonable for HDI to rely on its assertion that the tanking was 
responsible for the water penetration, without evidence. 
In any event, the tanking clearly was not the source of the water, or the cause of the 
damage. 
HDI has made various submissions arguing that it is pertinent whether the water in this case 
was ground water or water coming from a pipe, and HDI discusses whether water from a 
pipe may become ground water and then penetrate the property. HDI also discusses the 
expectations of a tanking system, and what it ought to reasonably withstand. 
I do not consider it necessary to go into these arguments as they all rely on speculation 
about how the water came to be penetrating Miss Bs cellar. 
HDI had an opportunity to investigate the cause of the water, and chose not do so. On the 
basis that it elected not to carry out recommended investigations and then based its decision 
to decline on speculation, I agree that its decision to decline was unfair and I uphold Miss Bs 
complaint. 
Putting things right
I agree with my colleagues view that HDI should now settle the claim in line with the other 
policy terms. 
I do not think it fair to allow HDI to now consider further policy exclusions as its decision not 
to carry out trace and access meant that the water ingress continued for much longer than it 
might have done, and likely caused greater damage than it might have done if investigated 
and halted sooner. It should therefore meet Miss Bs claim in full. In reimbursing any costs 
which Miss B has incurred, HDI must also add interest at the rate of 8% per annum from the 
date of payment up until the date of settlement. I also agree with my colleagues assessment of the distress and inconvenience 
compensation which should be paid to Miss B. This is reasonable and in line with other 
awards we would make in similar circumstances. 
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I uphold Miss Bs complaint and direct HDI Global Specialty 
SE to:
settle Miss Bs buildings claim in full; 
when reimbursing any costs which Miss B has already incurred, to add to this interest 
at the rate of 8% per annum; and
pay to Miss B a total of £400 compensation for her distress and inconvenience.  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss B to accept 
or reject my decision before 11 January 2023.
 
Laura Garvin-Smith
Ombudsman