DRN-3185004
The complaint
Mr and Mrs P complain that U K Insurance Limited (UKI) hasnt fairly handled a claim they 
made of their home insurance policy, leading to a settlement offer based on an insufficient 
remedial solution and delays.
What happened
In June 2018, Mr and Mrs P made a claim after their home was affected by contaminated 
effluent.
An ombudsman colleague issued a final decision in September 2021. That complaint dealt 
with matters up to April 2020, when an updated settlement offer was put to Mr and Mrs P. 
The complaint Im considering here, is for events that have happened since April 2020.
A loss adjuster has handled the claim on UKIs behalf, but for ease, I will simply refer to UKI 
when referring to the actions of its loss adjuster.
In April 2020, UKI confirmed its limit of liability was £509,065. This was based on the cost of 
a sterilisation and sealing solution, that had been proposed by UKIs appointed third party 
(which Ill refer to as S1). UKI explained it could arrange for the repairs to commence, or 
cash settle the claim.
In view of Mr and Mrs Ps ongoing concerns and questions about the proposed works, it was 
agreed that S1 would re-attend the site. In June 2020, UKI provided S1s response to the 
questions raised by Mr and Mrs P. UKI maintained its previous offer.
Mr and Mrs P didnt consider their concerns had been sufficiently addressed. In July 2020, 
UKI responded further, setting out its position on the various issues raised. UKI concluded 
that Mr and Mrs P needed to either proceed with S1 as per its proposed schedule, accept 
the cash settlement offer, or submit a counter offer.
Mr and Mrs P noted that they werent challenging the principles of the proposed sterilisation 
repair scheme, but they were simply asking questions to seek clarity on it and the schedule 
of works. They confirmed their intention to appoint their own expert, to quantify the cost of 
returning the property to its pre-incident condition.
Further correspondence followed after July 2020, in which UKI continued to respond to the 
concerns raised by Mr and Mrs P in respect of the proposed remediation and schedule of 
works. Mr and Mrs P went on to appoint their own soil contamination specialist (which Ill 
refer to as S2). S2 attended the site in January and February 2021, and its interim report 
was provided to UKI in late-March 2021. 
In May 2021, after reviewing S2s report, UKI noted that S2 had conducted the sampling that 
was recommended as the initial action in S1s proposed works. UKI said the results showed 
bacteria remained across the property, despite it being expected that concentrations would 
reduce. UKI also said S2s recommendations were consistent with the options previously 
discussed, in relation to further work, i.e. further sampling, followed by limited excavation 
and in-situ treatment. UKI noted there now seemed to be an agreement in relation to the 
remedial solution.
UKI noted that it would await S2s remaining test results, and confirmation of the proposed 
treatment chemical. UKI also said it would make sense for S2 to present its cost proposal
for the soil elements; and it asked Mr and Mrs P to obtain a scope and quotation for the 
repairs to the main dwelling.
Mr and Mrs P disputed the sampling conducted by S2 had previously been recommended by 
S1. They also said S1s proposed remedial action was based on the wrong causation; and it 
had denied the requirement to liaise with the Local Authority and that a remediation or 
verification certificate was required. 
Mr and Mrs P also said that S2s findings highlighted the need for 37% more material, or 260 
tons of contamination, to be removed. They said this exceeds the recommendations of UKIs 
appointed specialist contaminated land consultant (which Ill refer to as E), which they say 
S1 had significantly scaled down.
In response, UKI highlighted an email from March 2020, which confirmed under its proposed 
remediation works, site wide sampling, testing and reporting on the existing soil conditions 
would be carried out. UKI noted this would have highlighted that the contamination hadnt 
degraded as had initially been expected, and an appropriate scheme to remediate would 
have been drawn up.
UKI also said that, during the works, the appointed contractor would have liaised with the 
Local Authority; and the contractor would have produced a validation report, following 
sampling after the remedial works, to validate completion.
In June 2021, Mr and Mrs P reiterated the points they had previously made. In July 2021, 
UKI responded. UKI thought the parties should move on from S1s scope of works; and 
utilise the experts, S2, appointed by Mr and Mrs P. UKI noted that S1 was no longer 
involved, and the claim needs to move forward rather than going over old ground.
UKI considered the remediation risk assessment from S2 to be appropriate, and it said it just 
needs S2s costs for consideration. UKI accepted that a structural engineers opinion would 
be required. UKI said if S2 is to proceed as the principal designer, it would normally specify 
the scope of work and appoint a structural engineer to advise on a safe method of those 
works. UKI said S2 would also be able to provide the necessary validation sampling on 
completion of the works. 
Mr and Mrs P put forward their chosen structural engineer firm (which Ill refer to as M). They 
noted that they considered M to be the preferred lead as project manager and architect, if 
required for the wider restoration activity. UKI agreed up to 40 hours work, so the 
remediation solution could be designed. In October 2021, our investigator issued her findings. To summarise, she concluded UKI had 
done enough at this time. She said UKI had fairly considered the expert information provided 
by Mr and Mrs P, and noted it was prepared to work with S2 and M. She also didnt think it 
was unreasonable for UKI to want to validate any solution and/or costs going forward. 
Because Mr and Mrs P remained unhappy with our investigators findings, the complaint has 
been passed to me to decide.
After our investigator provided her findings, Mr and Mrs P provided her with email exchanges 
from between September and November 2021. The email exchanges set out the following:
- S2 has quoted for the below ground works, for £661,677 excluding VAT. The costing 
for building works is ongoing, but early indications are £450-600,000 excluding such 
fittings as kitchen units and bathroom suites. The costing for landscaping is also 
ongoing, but the early indication is £63,000. Both the building and landscaping 
estimations are exclusive of VAT. This information was provided to UKI in 
September 2021.
- In October 2021, Mr and Mrs P provided UKI with Ms report. Mr and Mrs P noted 
that M had commented it would be structurally difficult to install a gas protection 
membrane into the existing house and the option of complete demolition and 
rebuilding is understood to offer considerable savings. They said that M was 
awaiting UKIs approval to co-ordinate the necessary activity. 
- In response, UKI noted that S2 had previously recommended chemical treatment and 
the fitting of a membrane under the property; and for the digging out and replacement 
of soils externally  a solution which UKI had agreed with. UKI expressed surprise at 
the costs now proposed, and that M was now advising to demolish the property to 
facilitate excavation of the site. 
- UKI noted it had fitted membranes for contamination on many occasions, without the 
need for demolition. As such, UKI appointed an independent lead expert to provide 
an opinion on the findings of S2 and M. UKI said the independent expert could also 
lead a team to undertake the works should this be required.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive carefully considered Mr and Mrs Ps submissions. The claim has moved on significantly 
since April 2020 and they have raised many points of concern since then. However, its not 
my role to comment on every point made. Its for me to determine the crux of the complaint, 
and to address the issues I consider relevant to its outcome. Given the present position of 
the claim, I dont consider it necessary for me to reach a finding on all the points that have 
been raised since April 2020. Where I havent directly commented on a point, this isnt 
intended as a discourtesy to Mr and Mrs P. But rather, this simply reflects the informal 
nature of our service, its remit and my role in it.
Its evident the claim is significant and relatively complex. Its not uncommon for there to be 
opposing professional viewpoints, in respect of the remedial solution and costings. But the 
question I need to answer here, is whether UKI has treated Mr and Mrs P fairly during the 
process.UKI appointed E (a suitably qualified specialist) to investigate the site, and S1 to draw up a 
remedial solution in view of Es findings. The correspondence Ive seen from UKI, prior to 
S2s investigations, confirmed the contamination was expected to breakdown, but further 
testing would be completed to confirm this. Ive no reason to believe UKI wouldnt have 
undertaken further testing and adapted its remedial works accordingly. 
I acknowledge Mr and Mrs P feel strongly that UKI hasnt understood whats required; and its 
investigations and proposed solution havent been technically competent, or compliant with 
the relevant environmental legislation and guidelines. Ive also seen its taken them a lot of 
effort to voice their concerns. 
I also accept that Mr and Mrs P had genuine concerns and questions. Given their journey 
before April 2020, its understandable they wanted reassurance and clarification before 
agreeing to works. Its also understandable that they want to take all possible steps to 
prevent any issues arising with their home in the future.
However, whilst I dont doubt the process has been frustrating, time consuming and stressful 
for Mr and Mrs P, overall, Im not persuaded UKI has acted unfairly or can reasonably be 
held responsible for the delays since April 2020. Ill explain why.
I havent seen anything that leads me to believe S1s proposed solution and schedule wasnt 
intended to deliver an effective and lasting repair. I cant reasonably decide that the solution 
would have failed, or wouldnt have been adapted appropriately, as works progressed. UKI 
would have been well aware, that should its remedial works not provide an effective and 
lasting repair, it would be liable for the issues that arise.
Ultimately, in April 2020, UKI proposed a remedial solution and repair scheme it considered 
suitable in the first instance. Whilst Mr and Mrs P challenged UKIs proposed approach, as 
they were entitled to do so, Ive seen that UKI has endeavoured to address their concerns 
and questions. UKI has also continued to cover alternative accommodation costs despite 
offering to start works 19 months ago, invited a counter proposal, covered Ms fees, and 
reimbursed S2s fees. So, in conclusion, despite the frustration experienced by 
Mr and Mrs P, I dont consider UKI has treated them unfairly.
A secondary complaint point is about UKIs decision not to pursue the relevant third parties 
for the incident that caused the damage. However, UKI has explained to Mr and Mr P that, 
based on previous legal cases, theres isnt any prospect of success. In any event, such 
matters are a commercial decision for UKI.
In respect of the claim settlement, thats not something I can reasonably decide here, at this 
stage. Given the amount of the recent quote and estimations, and Mr and Mrs Ps preferred 
remedial solution having changed to demolition, I consider it entirely appropriate for UKI to 
have the opportunity to review the findings of S2 and M.
Once UKI has reviewed the recent reports and costing from S2 and M, should Mr and Mrs P 
not be happy with the settlement options UKI offers, they can make a new complaint about 
that matter. As previously explained by our investigator, a complaint about the claim 
settlement may be impacted by our monetary award limits. 
My final decision
Im sorry to disappoint Mr and Mrs P, but for the reasons set out above, I dont uphold this 
complaint.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr and Mrs P to 
accept or reject my decision before 24 December 2021.
 
Vince Martin
Ombudsman