DRN-3643829
The complaint
Miss W complained that Gain Credit LLC (trading as Lending Stream) provided her with 
unaffordable loans.
What happened
Miss W complained about instalment loans she took out with Lending Stream as follows:
Loan Date taken Number of 
monthly 
InstalmentsLoan 
amount 
Miss W 
borrowedTypical 
monthly 
repaymentTotal 
amount 
repayable 
over 6mths 
loan termLoan status
1 13-09-2021 6 £120 £42.98 £240 Paid early on 25-11-
2021 
2 16-11-2021 6 £250 £88.41 £500 Outstanding and in 
arrears
3 19-11-2021 6 £200 £69.43 £400 Outstanding and in 
arrears
4 01-12-2021 6 £320 £102.81 £615.55 Outstanding and in 
arrears
Miss W mainly complained that these loans were unaffordable and she didnt think that 
Lending Stream should have given them to her.
In its final response letter, Lending Stream didnt uphold Miss Ws complaint about 
loans 1 and 2. But it said that it could now see that it might not have been a good idea to 
provide loans 3 and 4. 
So it set out the steps it planned to take to put things right if Miss W accepted what it said  
which effectively amounted to Miss W having to repay the outstanding balance on loan 2 but 
only the actual loan amounts she had borrowed in the first place when she took out 
loans 3 and 4 and nothing extra (so no interest would be payable by her) for loans 3 and 4. 
Miss W wasnt happy with this response and she brought her complaint to this Service. 
One of our adjudicators reviewed what Miss W and Lending Stream told us about these 
loans. Our adjudicator said she was satisfied that Lending Streams offer to put things right 
in relation to loans 3 and 4 was in line with what wed expect a lender to do in these 
circumstances, so she concentrated on looking at loans 1 and 2.
Overall, taking into account the loan amounts, what was apparent about Miss Ws 
circumstances at the time and her history with the lender, our adjudicator didn't think it 
wouldve been proportionate for Lending Stream to ask Miss W for the amount of information 
needed to show the lending was unsustainable when it provided loans 1 and 2. 
And our adjudicator didnt think that there was anything in the information Miss W provided 
or the information Lending Stream shouldve been aware of at the time of these first two 
loans, which meant it wouldve been proportionate to start verifying what Miss W had told 
Lending Stream. She didnt think either that, when Miss W was taking out loans 1 and 2, the 
number of loans she took, the amounts they were for or how long she had been borrowing 
meant her loan history at that stage should have alerted Lending Stream to any financial 
difficulty.  
So our adjudicator didnt uphold Miss Ws complaint.  
Miss W disagreed and asked an ombudsman to look at her complaint. In summary, Miss W 
mainly felt it was unfair and unreasonable that she should have to pay back anything at all, 
especially where it was agreed that loans shouldnt have been provided to her. And she 
disputed the loan amounts and felt that the redress didnt seem to reflect what she actually 
borrowed. She said that, at the very least, she should only pay exactly the amount that she 
borrowed and that entered her bank account.
The complaint came to me to decide. I issued a provisional decision. 
What I said in my provisional decision
Here are some of the main things I said. 
Lending Stream provided Miss W with high-interest loans intended for short-term use, so it 
needed to make sure that it didnt provide the loans irresponsibly. 
Lending Stream was required to carry out proportionate checks to be able to understand 
whether any lending was sustainable for Miss W before providing it. 
Our website sets out what we typically think about when deciding whether a lenders checks 
were proportionate. 
Generally, we think its reasonable for a lenders checks to be less thorough  in terms of 
how much information it gathers and what it does to verify that information  in the early 
stages of a lending relationship. But we might think it needed to do more if, for example, a 
borrowers income was low or the amount lent was high. 
And the longer the lending relationship goes on, the greater the risk of it becoming 
unsustainable and the borrower experiencing financial difficulty. So wed expect a lender to 
be able to show that it didnt continue to lend to a customer irresponsibly. 
Having carefully thought about everything Ive seen and been told, Im not planning on 
upholding Miss Ws complaint. Heres why I say this.
Lending Stream says it agreed to Miss Ws application after carrying out checks which 
included asking Miss W to declare her income and tell Lending Stream what she spent on 
her monthly outgoings such as food, household bills and other payments. It also took into 
account statistical information to compare Miss Ws income and expenditure against national 
data showing typical spending for someone in the same situation to try and ensure it had a 
realistic understanding of her financial situation.
Lending Stream also asked Miss W about any other credit expenses and did its own credit 
checks to understand her credit history and see what existing credit commitments were 
recorded. Lending Stream says the information it gathered about Miss W showed that all 
these loans shouldve been affordable for her.  Ive looked at each loan in turn.
loan 1
I dont think Lending Stream was wrong to lend Miss W loan 1. This was her first loan with 
Lending Stream and it was for a relatively small amount. I think Lending Stream was broadly 
entitled to rely on the information Miss W provided. This suggested that she was well able to 
afford this borrowing. Her declared income was £1,934. Based on what she said, Lending 
Stream worked out that her normal monthly expenditure was around £467 and after also 
paying for her existing credit commitments, this left her with more than £1,000 surplus cash. 
So I think it's fair to say that the monthly repayments for this loan looked comfortably 
affordable for Miss W.
Lending Stream has provided a summary of the credit checks it carried out for each loan. 
I can see from this that when she applied for loan 1, Lending Stream was aware that its 
checks showed Miss W had recently run into payment problems on an existing credit 
account  and during the previous three years she had six defaults recorded.
But it isnt unusual for applicants for this type of lending to have a credit history showing 
other borrowing or an impaired credit record  and these things wouldnt necessarily be good 
enough reasons to prompt a responsible lender to decline a loan application that otherwise 
looked affordable. 
Looked at overall, I dont think there was enough evidence to suggest that Miss W was in 
serious financial difficulty or that Lending Stream saw anything in its checks that indicated 
Miss W wasnt likely to be able to sustainably afford the monthly repayments for this loan. 
At this early stage, Miss W didn't have any track record with the lender that shouldve alerted 
Lending Stream to any underlying money problems. I cant see that there was anything in 
the information Miss W provided or the information Lending Stream shouldve been aware 
of, which meant that Lending Stream shouldve taken more steps to verify the information 
Miss W had declared. 
So, for all these reasons, I dont uphold Miss Ws complaint about loan 1.
loan 2
Miss W took out the second loan shortly before she repaid loan 1  and it was for double the 
amount she borrowed when she took out loan 1. But I dont think that this was enough to 
make Lending Stream think that it shouldnt have kept lending to Miss W at that stage. 
Lending Stream asked Miss W to update the information she provided about her finances 
each time she applied for a new loan. Her financial situation overall was much the same as 
when she applied for loan 1 and the loan repayments still looked to be affordable for Miss W. 
There wasnt anything to indicate to Lending Stream that Miss W had found it hard to 
manage the loan repayments for loan 1  or that paying for this loan (even when she still 
needed to pay for loan 1) was likely to become a problem. 
So I dont feel I've seen enough to be able to uphold Miss Ws complaint about loan 2.
To sum up, for loans 1 and 2, bearing in mind the amount of the total monthly repayments 
she had to make for each of her loans, the questions Lending Stream asked Miss W and 
keeping in mind that these were Miss Ws first two loans, I dont think it was unreasonable for Lending Stream to rely on the level of information Miss W was providing and what its own 
checks revealed. I think its reasonable to say that Lending Stream was entitled to decide 
Miss Ws lending applications based on the information it had available at the time. And its 
lending decisions dont seem unreasonable to me looking at the information it relied on when 
deciding whether to provide these loans.  
I accept that in reality Miss Ws financial situation possibly wasnt fully reflected either in the 
information she provided, or the other information Lending Stream says it obtained. But in 
order to uphold her about complaint about loans 1 and 2, I have to be able to say a lender 
did something wrong. And, in this case, I dont think that Lending Stream did anything wrong 
in deciding to lend loans 1 and 2 to Miss W. 
So theres nothing it needs to do to put things right in relation to these loans. 
loans 3 and 4
As Lending Stream has already agreed to refund all interest and charges in relation to 
loans 3 and 4 and to amend Miss Ws credit file in line with what we would expect a lender to 
do in these circumstances, I dont need to consider these loans further. 
Thats because Lending Stream has already said it will do everything that we would tell it to 
do if we upheld Miss Ws complaint about loans 3 and 4  so theres nothing further for us to 
do in this situation. 
If Miss W hasnt yet done so and she would like to take up this offer then she should contact 
Lending Stream direct to make the arrangements.
In coming to my provisional decision, Ive taken into account everything Miss W has said, 
including her comments sent in response to our adjudicators opinion. 
I appreciate that there may have been some confusion about the loan amounts. In her view 
letter, for instance, the adjudicator included the loan amounts Miss  W had applied for rather 
than the actual loan amounts provided and paid to her  which I have set out in the table 
above. I hope this helps make things clearer. 
And despite what Miss W feels about loans unfairly provided, I agree with our adjudicator, 
given that Miss W had the benefit of spending loans 3 and 4, its fair and reasonable to 
expect her to pay that money back, even if these loans shouldnt have been provided in the 
first place. 
To be clear, if Miss W ever made any loan repayments towards loans 3 and 4 that included 
interest, she would get the interest part of those repayments back  with interest paid to her 
on top of this, as Lending Stream explained in its final response letter.  
Lending Stream has since said Miss W still hasnt paid anything towards loans 3 and 4. So 
there is no interest refund due to Miss W in those circumstances. But I can see why the 
redress proposals set out in its final response letter mightve been confusing as these 
allowed for the situation where Miss W mightve made some repayments which wouldve 
included interest. 
I would just mention that when Miss W repaid loan 1 ahead of the contractual end date, she 
wasnt charged the full amount of interest she would otherwise have paid if the loan had run 
for the contractual loan term  with the interest rebate, the cost of that borrowing was just 
£69.58 as opposed to the £120 in interest she had signed up to repay over 6 months. I hope what I've said in my provisional decision helps make clear why I dont think it would 
be fair and reasonable for me to require Lending Stream to write off the full amount of 
loans 3 and 4 or tell it to remove all information about these loans from her credit file as 
Miss W has asked.
I appreciate that this isnt the outcome that Miss W is hoping for  but I hope that setting out 
the reasons as Ive done will help explain how Ive reached my decision.
If Miss W is still struggling with debt and would like to talk to someone about her situation or 
get help to manage her finances theres more information about how to get free advice and 
assistance on our website  or we can provide contact details if she gives us a call. And I 
would just take this opportunity to remind Lending Stream that it should look for constructive 
solutions to assist Miss W if she still needs further time to pay and treat her positively and 
sympathetically in any discussions.
What the parties said in response to my provisional decision 
Miss W says she still cant understand why she has to pay back loans that were unaffordable 
for her. 
Lending Stream has acknowledged my provisional decision.
As I have heard from both parties in response to my provisional decision I think its 
reasonable for me to proceed with my review of this complaint. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about short-term lending - including all of 
the relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice - on our website and Ive taken this 
into account in deciding this complaint. 
I appreciate that Miss W feels strongly about what happened and she holds a different view 
to me. 
I would like to assure her that Ive taken carefully into account everything thats been said, 
including her comments in response to my provisional decision. 
Miss W hasnt provided me with any new information. 
Ive explained in my provisional decision why its fair and reasonable that she should only 
repay the principal amounts that she borrowed. 
To be clear, Miss W had the use and benefit of money loaned to her. 
Even if a loan was unaffordable and shouldnt have been provided it doesnt mean its fair 
she can effectively keep the loan money. Our approach to redress is to put the parties back, 
as closely as possible, to a position they would have been in if the unaffordable loans hadnt 
been provided  because this is what should have happened. 
This means its fair that Miss W should pay back the loan money she received. And its fair that the lender cant benefit from any fees, charges or interest for lending money 
it shouldnt have provided. 
This is what is reflected in the redress Lending Stream has already offered. 
I hope that setting things out this way helps explain things.
After taking carefully into account everything thats been said in response to my provisional 
decision, and as no further comments have been received in response to my provisional 
decision that change what I think about this case, I still think its fair not to uphold this 
complaint for the reasons I explained in my provisional decision. 
My final decision
For these reasons, I dont uphold Miss Ws complaint about loans 1 and 2. And as Gain 
Credit LLC (trading as Lending Stream has already offered to pay fair redress to Miss W in 
respect of loans 3 and 4, I make no further directions.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss W to accept 
or reject my decision before 8 September 2022.
 
Susan Webb
Ombudsman