DRN-2874632
The complaint
Mr R complains that Automobile Association Insurance Services Limited (AA) caused him 
distress by selling his data to a third party after hed been involved in a motor incident. 
Hes represented throughout by his son, Mr R.
What happened
Mr R had an existing breakdown policy with the AA as part of his bank account benefits. In 
mid-January 2021, Mr R was involved in a motor incident, so he called the AA to recover his 
vehicle. The AA said Mr Rs incident wasnt covered under the policy, but they could still 
recover the vehicle for a £300 fee, which Mr R agreed to, and the vehicle was recovered 
successfully. 
Shortly after this, Mr R started receiving unsolicited calls from a third-party telling him he 
should make a claim for the incident. Mr R asked the third party what information they had 
about the incident and where theyd obtained the information from. 
The third-party had details of Mr R, his vehicle and the incident. They also confirmed the 
details had been received from the AA. Mr R was distressed the AA had given his personal 
information to a third-party, so he called them to complain. Mr R said he wanted his £300 
recovery fee refunded because of the impact of the calls. 
AA didnt uphold the complaint. They said there was no evidence of a data protection breach 
and they didnt share details with third-parties as they had their own accident assistance 
team. Mr R didnt agree and asked this service to look into the complaint.
Our investigator didnt recommend the complaint was upheld. She said that as part of the 
terms and conditions of Mr Rs policy, hed agreed his details could be stored and shared as 
needed. This included a list of the types of third-parties they may share information with such 
as police and IT companies. So she was satisfied they acted in-line with these terms. 
The investigator also said whilst she recognised Mr R told us no other company would have 
been aware of the incident, she hadnt seen any evidence which directly linked the AA to the 
data breach. And as they didnt have a business relationship there wasnt a reason for them 
to provide the details to the third-party. So she felt she couldnt reasonably hold the AA 
responsible for the data breach as the third-party could have obtained Mr Rs details 
elsewhere. She also said it wouldnt be fair to ask the AA to refund the £300 recovery fee as 
theyd delivered the service Mr R had paid for as agreed.
Mr R didnt agree. He felt the investigator was being lenient towards AA and didnt agree the 
third-party could have obtained such specific information about the incident from anyone but 
the AA. He felt that just because the AA didnt have a business relationship with the third-
party didnt mean they hadnt shared the details. So he asked for an ombudsman to look into 
the complaint. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided not to uphold it. Ill explain why.
Mr R has told us hes upset his personal data has been given to a third-party and hes now 
not confident answering calls to any unknown numbers. The AA have told us theyve carried 
out their investigation and havent found any evidence they gave Mr Rs details to a third-
party, and they would have no reason to do so.
When using customers personal information, the main data protection laws - the General 
Data Protection Regulation (GDPR) and the Data Protection Act 2018 (DPA)  set out a 
number of obligations on businesses on how they should deal with this information. As an 
example, they are required to keep the information secure and delete it when its no longer 
required. So what I need to look at here is if there is any evidence the AA didnt meet these 
obligations.   
AA have provided us with copies of their system notes showing various calls to different 
departments and the individuals specifically involved with Mr Rs breakdown. Ive seen notes 
that the policy was looked at and they cross-referred each team to see if there would be any 
reason to contact the third party who Mr R said had called him. These notes are 
comprehensive and are soon after Mr R contacted the AA about the calls he received. So 
based on what Ive seen, I think the AA completed a thorough investigation in a timely 
manner and I havent seen anything that suggests they shared Mr Rs information or that 
they didnt take his complaint seriously.
Weve also contacted the third-party regulated business Mr R said had contacted him to see 
if we could get confirmation on how they had got his details. However, the business said 
they hadnt contacted Mr R as they dont offer the service, he said the unsolicited call was 
about. We also asked why AA hadnt contacted the third-party, but they explained this would 
have been a breach of data in itself, as they dont have a business relationship with the third 
party, so they wouldnt have been able to do this as part of their investigation  despite the 
information Mr R had given them.
So Ive looked at other avenues to see if it was possible for AA to have created the data 
breach elsewhere. Mr R is provided with the services from AA as part of his packaged bank 
account, however looking at the case notes AA have provided, Ive seen that its not part of 
their process to update the bank to confirm the service has been used. The only time the 
bank would have been updated is if the consumer  in this case Mr R  contacted the bank 
themselves. 
I acknowledge Mr R feels confident his details could only have been shared by the AA. 
However, I havent seen any evidence thats the case and I think its also worth noting here 
that details can be obtained in many different ways  not just from a business or person 
providing them. 
It is possible the information could have been stored on a third-party system so when Mr R 
made the call from his mobile to the AA for example, this could have flagged to a third-party. 
Alternatively if Mr R used the internet to obtain the contact details for the AA when he 
suffered the breakdown, this could have flagged in his search history. But, based on the 
evidence available, I havent seen anything that suggests the AA were responsible for how 
the third-party obtained Mr Rs details. So I cant reasonably hold them responsible.  
Ive seen that the investigator gave Mr R details of the Information Commissioners Office 
(ICO) so he can raise this matter with them. Its for the ICO to consider whether data protection law has been breached. They can decide whether the AA broke the law, but they 
cant award compensation  and Mr R would need to go to them directly.
In terms of the £300 Mr R paid for the recovery of his vehicle. Ive looked Mr Rs policy 
booklet for his breakdown cover and Ive seen under the Additional exclusions section it 
says for car breakdown cover that it Does not provide recovery for any vehicle following an 
accident. Ive also seen the AAs case notes which show Mr R was made aware that the 
incident which took place wouldnt be covered under his policy  which is why he was 
required to pay for the recovery. 
As the AA acted in line with the policy and were clear about the fees involved before 
providing the service, I dont think theyve done anything wrong here. So I wont be asking 
them to do anything more. 
I understand Mr R will be disappointed with my decision, but it doesnt change my conclusion 
that I dont have enough evidence to say the AA have done anything wrong. So I cant 
reasonably hold them responsible for the unsolicited third-party contacting Mr R.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision before 27 August 2021.
 
Jenny Lomax
Ombudsman