DRN-1291548
 
Complaint
Miss D complains that Bank of Scotland plc (BoS) mis-sold her a monthly premium mortgage 
payment protection insurance (PPI) policy.
Background
Miss D was sold a PPI policy in 2002 during a meeting. The PPI would have provided a 
monthly benefit for up to 24 months per claim if Miss D was off work sick or lost her job.
Our adjudicator didnt think Miss Ds complaint should be upheld. Miss D didnt agree with 
our adjudicator and so the complaint has been passed to me to decide.
My findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding Miss Ds case.
Having done that, Ive decided not to uphold Miss Ds complaint. I will now explain why.
First of all Ive considered whether Miss D was eligible under the policy. Based on Miss Ds 
age, employment and residence at the time of the sale, Im satisfied she was eligible for the 
policy. 
BoS had to make it clear to Miss D that the PPI was optional and needed her consent before 
it could be applied to Miss Ds account. Miss D says that although she was aware she had 
been sold insurance, she was not told it was optional and that had the policy been discussed 
with her she would have refused it as she had sufficient existing repayment provisions and 
so didnt have a need for the policy.
I cant know for sure what took place during the sale. And given the length of time since the 
sale, understandably BoS no longer have the documents from the time of the sale. Equally 
understandably Miss D does not now recollect what actually happened during the sale. So I 
have thought about everything Miss D and BoS have told us and used my understanding of 
how PPI was sold at the time to decide what is more likely to have happened.
From my experience of how BoS sold these policies during face to face meetings - including 
the documents Ive seen previously in other cases from around the time of this sale - PPI 
was presented as optional and would only have been applied to the account if the consumer 
had chosen to take it out. And I havent seen sufficient evidence to be able to conclude that 
this didnt happen on this particular occasion.
So, while I appreciate what Miss D has told us, I cant say its more likely that BoS didnt 
present the policy as optional or that it was added to her account without her consent. BoS accept they advised Miss D to take PPI. This means they had to check it was suitable 
for her. Miss D says it wasnt suitable for her. She believes the PPI duplicated cover she 
already had in place and that she didnt need the policy as she wasnt at threat of 
redundancy and hadnt had prolonged periods of time off sick. 
I dont know if BoS took all the steps they should have to check if the PPI was suitable for 
Miss D but I do think the policy was suitable for Miss D. I say this because:
 
Miss D has told us about her generous sick pay entitlement and that she would have 
been entitled to redundancy pay. However, the PPI would have paid out in addition to 
these benefits and would have done so for a longer period of time than her sick pay. 
The PPI was protecting a valuable asset and Miss D could have used her sick pay for 
other essential living expenses while the PPI took care of her mortgage repayments. 
The PPI would have been particularly useful when Miss Ds sick pay reduced to half 
pay (after six months full pay).
 
I appreciate what Miss D says about her good health and job security, however, this 
couldnt have been guaranteed and the point of PPI was to provide her with cover for 
the unexpected.
 
Miss D doesnt appear to have been affected by the terms in the policy which would 
have made it difficult for her to make a successful claim under the policy. 
 
I havent seen any evidence which would suggest the PPI was unaffordable for Miss 
D at the time of the sale.
 
Miss D could have cancelled the PPI at any time without losing out financially if she 
no longer wanted or needed it.
 
As well as checking that the PPI was suitable for Miss D, BoS also had to give her clear 
information about the PPI  in particular about the costs, benefits and main exclusions in the 
policy  so that she could make an informed decision about whether or not to take it out.
Its possible the information BoS gave Miss D wasnt as clear as it should have been but this 
in itself doesnt mean the policy was mis-sold as I have to go on and consider whether better 
information would have put her off taking it out. And I dont think it would have. I say this for 
the same reasons I think the PPI was suitable for her.
So having taken everything into consideration, I dont think BoS mis-sold Miss D this PPI 
policy.
My final decision
I dont uphold Miss Ds complaint against Bank of Scotland plc.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss D to accept 
or reject my decision before 20 April 2020.Navneet Sher
Ombudsman