DRN-2359868
The complaint
Mr and Mrs V have complained about Red Sands Insurance Company (Europe) Limited
which provides an insurance backed guarantee for their conservatory.
What happened
Mr and Mrs V had a conservatory installed in 2010. It came with a ten-year guarantee. In late 
2017 they noticed water was coming in. They contacted Red Sands and it sent a 
conservatory specialist to assess the problem. The assessor wasnt sure why water was 
getting in but Mr and Mrs V had provided an estimate for repair  which involved removing 
some external fixtures before reinstating them  so Red Sands decided to allow that work to 
go ahead and paid for it. 
In 2019 Mr and Mrs V noticed leaks from the roof again. They contacted Red Sands, told it 
there were new leaks and another assessor attended. The assessor said the sealant on the 
roof had perished. Red Sands said this damage was excluded from the cover so it wouldnt 
pay for a further repair. And it said this indicated that perished sealant was likely the cause 
of the damage in 2017 as well. Mr and Mrs V complained to this service. 
Our investigator felt that Red Sands had assessed both claims fairly. He wasnt persuaded 
to uphold Mr and Mrs Vs complaint. 
Mr and Mrs V said this left them in a difficult position  Red Sands findings meant they 
couldnt claim on their home insurance for the damage but neither can they afford to re-roof 
the conservatory. They dont feel it is likely sealant had perished in the short period following 
the previous repair which took place in early 2018 and believe there must be another cause 
of damage. They said they were concerned that the second assessors report was so short  
just a couple of lines  when he had been at the property for some time. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Whilst I regret the upset I know this will cause Mr and Mrs V, Im not persuaded to uphold 
their complaint. Ill explain. 
It is usually up to the policyholder to show, at least on the face of it, that the problem they 
have is covered by the insurance they wish to claim on. This policy offers cover for the cost 
of repairing defects in or damage to the conservatory caused by either; defective work or 
materials when it was built; or as a result of the installer not complying with building 
regulations (insured cause). However, here it seems that in 2017 Red Sands afforded 
Mr and Mrs V some benefit of doubt by not insisting that they establish that water was 
getting in by means of an insured cause. Rather when it couldnt establish exactly what had 
allowed water to ingress the property, it chose to accept and settle the claim. I think it acted 
fairly and reasonably in this respect.
But Red Sands didnt undertake the repair itself. Rather, in line with the policy wording, it 
agreed to pay Mr and Mrs Vs chosen contractor to complete the work. So if that repair has 
failed, as Red Sands has suggested (and it isnt clear to me how much of the roof was 
re-sealed following the repairs in 2017), Red Sands isnt liable for that. Its liability for that 
issue ended with its claim settlement payment. Whilst Mr and Mrs V dont believe the repair 
has failed, they havent shown us any evidence to support this, or which might give me 
cause to think they are correct in feeling that the brevity of the assessors report means it is 
likely flawed. Nor have they shown us any evidence which might make me think the original 
cause of the leak was never found and the work Red Sands paid for was just the most 
efficient way of preventing further water getting in in that area. Evidence like this might show 
that there is still a problem with the conservatory that is covered by the guarantee Red 
Sands provides. But currently there is no expert evidence which challenges that of Red 
Sands which says the cause of the 2017 and 2019 water ingress is failed sealant on the 
roof.
Sealant fails over time. It is a gradual process of wear and tear until eventually it fails to 
function and/or perishes. The policy provided by Red Sands specifically excludes cover for 
damage or defects which are caused by fair wear and tear. From the evidence available 
I cant reasonably conclude that Red Sands has acted unfairly by seeking to rely on this 
exclusion to avoid liability for the water ingress Mr and Mrs V have experienced through their 
conservatory roof. 
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint. I dont make any award against Red Sands Insurance 
Company (Europe) Limited.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs V and Mr V to 
accept or reject my decision before 30 December 2020. 
Fiona Robinson
Ombudsman