DRN-1476786
 
The complaint
Mr and Mrs P complain that Lloyds Bank PLC (when it was trading as C&G Cheltenham and 
Gloucester) mis-sold them payment protection insurance (PPI).
As Lloyds Bank PLC is responsible for dealing with this complaint, Ill just refer to Lloyds as 
the seller in my decision. 
What happened
In 2000, Mr and Mrs P took out a mortgage and PPI to protect their monthly mortgage 
repayments if they couldnt work. 
Although they took out more borrowing later on, they didn't take out any further PPI. So in 
my decision Im looking at how they were sold PPI at the start of their mortgage.
Our adjudicator looked at this complaint and didnt think it should be upheld. Mr and Mrs P 
disagree and theyd like an ombudsman to review whats happened. 
In brief summary, Mr and Mrs P mainly say PPI wasnt something they wanted or needed 
and they had no idea that they had PPI. They told us that if theyd known this then they 
would have claimed on the policy when Mr P became disabled from work. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding this case. 
Ive decided not to uphold this complaint. Ill explain my reasons.
Mr and Mrs P took out the mortgage in joint names and they both had PPI, so Ive looked at 
both their circumstances when the policy was taken out. 
Although Mr and Mrs P say that PPI isnt something they ever would've wanted, what they 
say isnt enough on its own for me to be able to uphold their complaint. I have to look at all 
the available information and decide what I think is most likely. 
I think Lloyds probably did make Mr and Mrs P aware that the PPI was optional and that they 
chose to have it. I say this because I can see that theres a section on their mortgage 
application that asks if they want to have PPI. There are Yes and No tick boxes and on Mr 
and Mrs Ps application the Yes option is ticked to include the cover. Mr and Mrs P couldve 
ticked the No box instead to indicate that they didnt want PPI  this option has been left 
blank on their completed mortgage application.Ive taken into account that Mr and Mrs P are concerned that they didn't fill in details on the 
form themselves, and they say they knew nothing about PPI being included.
But its not unsurprising if the mortgage advisor they spoke to also assisted them by filling in 
the mortgage paperwork. I would expect this reflected what Mr and Mrs P told the advisor at 
the time. 
I think its reasonable to think that Mr and Mrs P wouldve carefully read through the 
completed application before signing at the end to say they agreed with the information on 
the form  and the declaration they signed at the end of their completed mortgage 
application does say that they have personally provided the information on the form and 
checked it. 
During their mortgage application process, Mr and Mrs P also completed a separate 
application for PPI. They indicated they wanted to set the policy up to cover them both. They 
provided details of the loan they wanted to cover. They opted to split the policy benefits 
proportionally. So it looks to me as if Mr and Mrs P decided to take out this insurance and 
discussed how they wanted to share the cover between them. 
It looks like Mr and Mrs P both signed the PPI application confirming they wanted to apply 
for the cover. And they also set up payment arrangements at their bank to cover the monthly 
PPI cost. I dont know exactly what was discussed about the PPI. But I think Mr and Mrs P 
wouldve understood from the paperwork they had to complete to take it out that it was up to 
them to say if they wanted to have PPI. 
As this happened so long ago, its easy to understand how Mr and Mrs P couldve forgotten 
some of these details now. And I cant be sure what was discussed between them and 
Lloyds at the time they took out the PPI. But I dont think the evidence is strong enough for 
me safely to say that Lloyds didnt make it clear that it was open to Mr and Mrs P not to 
choose PPI if they didnt want to have it, or that it was added to their mortgage account 
without making them aware, just based on what they say now.
Looking at the paperwork they completed, I find on balance that Lloyds did do enough to 
make Mr and Mrs P aware that the PPI was optional and that it was added to their mortgage 
account when Mr and Mrs P chose to have it.
Lloyds says it recommended PPI to Mr and Mrs P. If a financial business makes a 
recommendation about PPI it has to take reasonable steps to make sure the cover it 
recommends is suitable as well as giving important policy information in a clear way. 
Looking at Mr and Mrs Ps circumstances at the time, I think PPI was suitable for them.
Mr and Mrs P were both eligible for the policy given their circumstances and the PPI terms 
and conditions that applied. And the way the benefit was split between them seems 
reasonable as they were both responsible for paying the mortgage.
Both Mr and Mrs P couldve relied on getting good sick pay. But this doesnt mean that PPI 
wasnt suitable for them. The policy wouldve covered their mortgage repayments (plus some 
extra) and paid out on top of any sick pay and for longer - up to 12 months per claim. I think 
this couldve been a useful benefit at whats likely to have been a difficult time for 
Mr and Mrs P  especially if they mightve faced extra costs as a result of one (or both of 
them) being ill or having a disability. 
The policy wouldve also paid out in the event that Mr P or Mrs P became unexpectedly 
unemployed. Repeat claims were possible under the policy after a qualifying period back at work. In this 
way, the policy offered them long term cover for their mortgage. 
Relying on family to help out in the event of money problems isnt as dependable as taking 
out PPI as everyones circumstances can change unexpectedly. 
Ive taken into account that Mr and Mrs P had some savings. But there was no guarantee 
when Mr and Mrs P took out this mortgage that they would always have savings to rely on. 
Having PPI meant Mr and Mrs P could also keep any investments secure in the long term as 
they wouldnt have been forced to use this money to pay the mortgage. And, bearing in mind 
that it appears they didnt put all their money towards keeping down the cost of borrowing, I 
think they couldve valued the protection PPI offered if it meant they could keep savings 
intact to provide financial security.  
Being entitled to redundancy benefits wouldnt have helped Mr and Mrs P if either or both of 
them was off work sick. And PPI wouldve paid out in addition to any redundancy money 
they mightve got if theyd lost their jobs, giving them some additional financial security in 
those circumstances.
So I think PPI offered Mr and Mrs P useful protection.
There were some things the policy didnt cover. But Mr and Mrs P were both in full time 
employment and in good health when they took out the PPI. And it doesnt look as if they 
were affected by any of the main conditions limiting the policys benefits. So, even if all the 
policy terms and conditions werent explained as clearly as they shouldve been, I dont think 
having more information about what wasnt covered wouldve put them off taking it out. 
Based on all the information I've seen, I think Mr and Mrs P chose to take out the policy. So 
it appears to me they did want to have this type of cover when they set up their mortgage. 
I think Mr and Mrs P wouldve understood they were paying for the cover when they set up 
separate payment arrangements for the policy. And it doesnt look as if the policy was an 
expense they couldnt afford  so the cost didnt make it unsuitable for them.  
This means, on balance, I dont find that Mr and Mrs P lost out as a result of anything that 
Lloyds may have done wrong when it sold them PPI. 
Taking all their circumstances into account, even if there were failings in the way Lloyds sold 
them PPI, I dont think that better information wouldve put Mr and Mrs P off having it. So 
I dont find they are worse off as a result of anything that Lloyds mightve done wrong. And 
theres nothing it needs to do to put things right. 
I've taken into account that Mr and Mrs P dont recognise their signatures on the PPI 
application  but thats not something I can comment on in my decision. If they think theres 
been some fraud here then that would have to be a matter for the police. 
Ive also taken into account what Mr and Mrs P said about the way a different PPI case was 
dealt with. But each complaint is looked at on its own merits - Ive looked at the 
circumstances that apply in this particular case and what happened on the other case 
doesnt change my conclusion here. 
I appreciate that Mr and Mrs P are unhappy with the service received from Lloyds in the 
course of it responding to their complaint. It is clear this has caused them some frustration. 
And I am sorry if this has added to their anxiety generally about whats happened. But, 
overall, I dont consider theres sufficient reason to award Mr and Mrs P compensation for 
this.Although Mr P didn't claim on policy when became injured at work and unable to continue 
working, it isnt a reason for me to uphold this complaint. Mr and Mrs P may wish to 
approach the insurer to see if it would be prepared to accept and consider a retrospective 
claim (although they should be aware that if a successful claim is made its possible this 
might mean that any benefit money received in respect of Mr Ps disablement and inability to 
work might be reviewed and adjusted).
If Mr P pursues a retrospective claim and finds that he has concerns in this regard, then he 
should first tell the insurer why hes unhappy, and if unable to reach a satisfactory 
conclusion, he may be able to bring a complaint relating to the retrospective claim to this 
Service as a separate matter. 
In coming to my decision, Ive also thought about whether Lloyds needs to give back to 
Mr and Mrs P some of the commission they paid. The Supreme Court ruling and new rules 
and guidance dont apply to certain types of mortgage agreement  including a regulated 
mortgage. As Mr and Mrs Ps mortgage became a regulated mortgage before 6 April 2008 
they dont apply. So Lloyds doesnt need to refund any of the commission Mr and Mrs P paid 
for the PPI they had with that mortgage.
Even if it might seem that I haven't addressed every point mentioned, Id like to reassure 
Mr and Mrs P that Ive thought carefully about everything that they have said, including the 
detailed comments made in response to our adjudicators view. I appreciate they feel 
strongly about this complaint. I understand that what Ive said will come as a disappointment. 
In my decision I've dealt with all the main points that have an impact on the outcome of this 
complaint and I hope that setting out the reasons as Ive done will help explain how Ive 
reached my decision.
My final decision
 For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P and Mrs P to 
accept or reject my decision before 24 March 2020.
Susan Webb
Ombudsman