DRN-3552113
The complaint
This complaint is about a joint mortgage Mr and Mrs W hold with Bank of Ireland (UK) Plc 
(BOI). Mr W, who has dealt with the complaint throughout, is unhappy that BOI wouldnt offer 
a new mortgage interest rate until 2020. Mr and Mrs W want BOI to compensate them for 
their financial loss due to not switching to a lower interest rate sooner.
What happened
I will summarise the complaint in less detail than its been presented. There are several 
reasons for this. First of all, the history of the matter is set out in detail in correspondence, 
and in the investigators letter dated 10 June 2022. All parties have a copy of that letter, so 
there is no need for me to repeat the details here. I will instead concentrate on giving the 
reasons for my decision. In addition, our decisions are published, so its important I dont 
include any information that might lead to Mr and Mrs W being identified. So for these 
reasons, I will keep my summary of what happened quite brief.
Briefly, this complaint is about events that have occurred since 2015. I am not looking at 
earlier events because in 2015 Mr and Mrs W complained to the Financial Ombudsman 
Service that they had been refused a product switch and we issued our findings on that 
complaint on 15 December 2015. Consequently, I will only look at matters arising since that 
date, although I will refer to historic matters by way of background.
Mr and Mrs W have a mortgage with BOI taken out in 2003. The mortgage has four sub-
accounts, some of which BOI says were unregulated. In 2015 a product switch was declined. 
That was because, in order to switch onto a new product, BOI said it would be necessary to 
re-arrange the mortgage onto a new, fully-regulated product. BOI needed permission from a 
second charge holder to postpone its charge behind that of BOI, but this was refused. As a 
result, no switch could take place in 2015. I said above, we considered Mr and Mrs Ws 
complaint about this in 2015.
Since December 2015 the mortgage has been on BOIs Standard Variable Rate (SVR). It 
wasnt until 2020 that Mr and Mrs W asked for a new rate, which was agreed and the 
mortgage is now on a two-year fixed rate until December 2022.
Mr W complained that BOI hadnt let him know that he could have a new mortgage product. 
Because he hadnt been able to take out a new product in 2015 (due to issues relating to a 
second charge holder), Mr W says that he didnt think it was worth asking about a new rate 
after that. It wasnt until 2020 that Mr W says he first knew he could have had another 
product.
Mr W complained to BOI, but the bank didnt uphold the complaint. Mr W contacted the 
Financial Ombudsman Service, where an investigator looked at what had happened.
The investigator noted that regulatory changes had come into place in 2016 that became 
compulsory from 21 March 2019 and which BOI adopted in January 2019. These allowed 
lenders to include both regulated and unregulated loans in the same product illustration, and 
thus removed the need to rearrange the entire mortgage onto a new regulated product. 
Some lenders had agreed to write to eligible borrowers in 2018 about applying for a new 
rate. However, Mr and Mrs W werent eligible as the mortgage was in arrears. It wasnt until 
October 2020 that the arrears were cleared and a new product could be arranged.
Given this, the investigator didnt think BOI had done anything wrong.
Mr W disagreed with the investigator, arguing that he was a mortgage prisoner, citing the 
Financial Conduct Authoritys (FCAs) mortgage prisoner review. The investigator looked at 
what Mr W had said about this, but was satisfied Mr W didnt fall into the category of a 
mortgage prisoner. He explained to Mr W that the FCAs 2019 consultation paper on this 
issue was about helping borrowers with inactive lenders move to a new product or lender; Mr 
and Mrs Ws mortgage didnt fall into this category as BOI was an active lender, and the 
reason they wouldnt have been eligible for a new product after January 2019 was due to 
arrears on the mortgage.
Mr W still didnt agree with the outcome and asked for an ombudsman to review the 
complaint.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
BOI says the reason why Mr and Mrs W couldnt arrange a new rate before January 2019 is 
because the second charge holder had refused, in 2015, to postpone its charge behind that 
of BOI. As a result, Mr W didnt think it was possible to have a new rate. 
The crux of this complaint is that Mr W says that, once BOI knew it could offer him a new 
rate, it should have contacted him immediately to advise him of this.
However, BOI had no obligation to contact individual customers about new interest rate 
products as and when they became available. This is not standard industry practice. 
Generally lenders will advertise new products and its up to customers to decide whether or 
not to apply for them. It would not be feasible for BOI  or any mortgage lender  to monitor 
every individual customers mortgage account to ascertain if or when a new rate might 
become available that a customer on SVR could apply for. Instead the annual mortgage 
statement will usually invite customers to contact the bank. And whilst I appreciate why Mr W 
didnt apply for another rate, I cant hold BOI responsible for this.
Since January 2019 the account was in and out of arrears, and these werent cleared until 
October 2020. The arrears were low or cleared at times, but as the account was dipping in 
and out of arrears, the payment history didnt show a long period where all payments were 
up-to-date. In those circumstances where it appears there are financial difficulties, lenders 
are reluctant to tie customers into new products that usually come with an early repayment 
charge, as this could make the situation worse, not better, if they fall further into arrears. I 
see from BOIs notes that the bank worked with Mr and Mrs W to clear the arrears, and once 
they were cleared, a new product was arranged.  
Im also satisfied that Mr and Mrs W dont fall into the FCAs definition of a mortgage 
prisoner, as Mr W alleges. The investigator gave a full explanation of this to Mr W, and I 
agree that Mr and Mrs W were not trapped with an inactive lender with a closed mortgage 
book. In the circumstances, although I understand Mr Ws disappointment that he didnt ask for a 
new rate sooner, I dont think BOI has done anything wrong.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
This final decision concludes the Financial Ombudsman Services review of this complaint. 
This means that we are unable to consider the complaint any further, nor enter into any 
correspondence about the merits of it.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs W and Mr W 
to accept or reject my decision before 10 August 2022.
 
Jan O'Leary
Ombudsman