DRN-2520013
The complaint
Mr F complains that the transfer of his ISA from Nationwide Building Society (Nationwide) 
was delayed.
What happened
In April 2020, Mr F asked Nationwide to transfers his ISA to two other businesses. One 
transfer of £50000 took 15 working days. One transfer of £55000 took 18 working days.
Mr F complained that this took too long. He said hes lost interest of £54.36 as a result.
Nationwide replied in May 2020. They said that there is an industry standard  that ISA 
providers have 15-working days to process ISA transfers. Beyond that, the new provider 
should backdate interest. But Nationwide set themselves five working days to send the 
funds. Because they didnt meet this, they apologised and paid Mr F £50 compensation.
Mr F brought his complaint to this service. Our investigator looked at what had happened. 
He said that the industry agreement was to transfer ISA balances within 15 working days. 
One transfer was completed within this period. But the other one was abandoned by the new 
provider and started again. This was then completed within the 15 working day timeframe. 
But - Nationwide had its own standard of sending money to a new provider within five 
working days. They hadnt met that on both transfers, and so agreed to pay compensation 
for this. He thought the compensation of £50 paid by Nationwide was reasonable. 
Mr F asked that his complaint be reviewed by an ombudsman.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I can see where Mr F is coming from. He was transferring a lot of money between providers 
and he would have been anxious that it was done well. 
The timing of events was:
19 April 2020  request to transfer £50000 from Nationwide ISA to new provider A
20 April 2020  Nationwide received transfer request from new provider A
24 April 2020  Nationwide received request to transfer £55000 to new provider B
9 May 2020  new provider B re-sent its transfer request to Nationwide.
11 May 2020  Nationwide received the transfer request from new provider B
12 May 2020 Transfer to new provider A is completed.
19 May 2020 - Transfer to new provider B is completed.
Its the case that theres a standard industry practice that ISA transfers should be completed 
within 15 working days. The transfer to new provider A was completed within this time. The 
transfer to the new provider B wasnt as it was stopped by them. The reasons for this arent 
known. But its second transfer request was completed within the timescale from its new start 
date. Nationwide had its own standards  that it will send money for ISA transfers within five 
working days. Its terms and conditions say If you wish to transfer all or part of file money 
held in your cash ISA with us to another ISA manager: (a) If you are transferring to a cash 
ISA we will send the money and accompanying information to the new ISA manager within 
five working days of us receiving a transfer instruction from the new ISA manager.  And 
because it didnt meet this, it apologised and paid compensation of £50 to Mr F.
Mr F says he lost interest of £54.36 because of the delay. I can see that he will be 
disappointed with my decision, but I think Nationwide have acted reasonably and I wont be 
asking them to do anymore.
My final decision
I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr F to accept or 
reject my decision before 23 February 2021.
 
Martin Lord
Ombudsman