DRN-2936517
The complaint
Mr F, through his representative, complains about excessive charges on his pension with 
Phoenix Life Limited.
What happened
Mr F has a personal pension with Phoenix Life. His circumstances have changed, and its 
not longer appropriate for him to make contributions to the policy. But he will still have to pay 
charges on the policy, even if he no longer contributes. Mr F will also have to pay an early 
exit charge if he transfers the value of the policy to another provider (although this will be 
capped at 1% of the fund value after age 55). 
Mr F considers these charges are unfair, and are preventing him from making appropriate 
financial plans.
Phoenix Life didnt uphold Mr Fs complaint. It said the charges were outlined in the policy 
terms and were applied in line with those terms. It also said early exit charge reflected the 
charges that would have been taken if the policy had been retained until normal retirement 
date.
Mr F was unhappy with Phoenix Lifes response so he referred the matter to this service.
Our investigator didnt recommend the complaint should be upheld. He was satisfied that the 
policy terms allowed for an early exit charge, and that Phoenix Life was applying the charge 
in line with those terms. The investigator didnt consider Phoenix Lifes charges for 
maintaining the plan if Mr F stopped contributions were unreasonable.
Mr F, through his representative, didnt agree with the investigators conclusions. He said, in 
summary, that the early exit charges were excessive, and it was unfair for Phoenix Life to 
claim them when it wouldnt be administering the policy. He also considered the ongoing 
charges were high compared to other companies.
The investigator considered the representatives comments and issued two further views. 
But he still wasnt persuaded that the complaint should be upheld. Mr F asked for the matter 
to be reviewed by an ombudsman so the complaint has been passed to me.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Where the evidence is incomplete, inconclusive or contradictory (as some of it is here), I 
reach my conclusions on the balance of probabilities  that is, what I consider is most likely 
to have happened in light of the available evidence and the wider surrounding 
circumstances.
The policy started in 1989 as a protected rights plan, and Phoenix Life says regular 
contributions started in 1992. The policy terms say:
5. Fund Valuation and Charges
(f) The Provider shall be entitled to deduct from each Fund periodic management charges 
equal to such percentages and with reference to such factors as the size type and frequency 
of premiums or their reduction or creation as the Provider may from time to time determine.
The charging terms suggest to me that Phoenix Life has very wide powers to determine the 
level of charges.
Phoenix Life hasnt been able to provide copies of any correspondence that was given to Mr 
F when the policy was taken out. Thats not surprising as the sale took place many years 
ago. I dont consider it would be fair or reasonable to expect Phoenix Life to have kept those 
details for so long. 
Phoenix Life has provided copies of annual statements from 2018 onwards. These include 
details of the charges Mr F has paid. But Phoenix Life hasnt been able to provide any other 
information its given to Mr F over the years, that wouldve kept him informed about early exit 
charges or any changes to the level of charges.
I consider the charging clause is significant because of the extensive power it makes 
available to Phoenix Life. But I dont think I can safely say this wouldve been pointed out to 
Mr F when he took out the policy. And I dont think I can safely say that Phoenix Life has 
kept Mr F informed about its charges during the lifetime of the policy.
Having said that, Ive considered the level of charges that are currently applied. I appreciate 
they are higher than fees applied to modern pension policies, but I dont consider they are 
excessive. So even if Mr F had been informed of the charges at the outset, on balance I 
think its unlikely he wouldve made a different decision about taking out the policy.
The policy terms also say:
9. Benefit Fund (Non Protected Rights Fund)
(b) The Benefit Fund shall be reduced by the Actuary having regard to such factors as he 
may consider relevant at the time and by a charge made in accordance with Clause 5 (b) if
(i) a personal pension becomes payable under Clause 11(a) before the Normal 
Retirement Date
This means that if the pension is taken before normal retirement date, it can be reduced to 
reflect the fact that it will paid over a longer period than if the customer retired at normal 
retirement date. This isnt unusual.
Clause 9 goes on to say:
(c) The Benefit Fund shall be available as a transfer value on such terms as the Actuary 
shall decide to a similarly approved policy or pension arrangement as the Policyholder shall 
direct in accordance with the Rules
Again, I consider this clause gives Phoenix Life considerable power to determine the policys 
transfer value in respect of a transfer to a different pension arrangement. And I cant safely 
say that this wouldve been pointed out to Mr F when he took out the policy.But Im mindful that the policy was taken out as a long term pension investment, on the basis 
that Mr F would take the benefits at his normal retirement age of 60. Phoenix Life would 
have calculated its charges on that basis. 
If Mr F wants to transfer his pension benefits elsewhere, Phoenix Life proposes to reduce his 
fund value by the amount of charges he wouldve paid if hed retained the policy until normal 
retirement date. I dont consider that to be unreasonable.
Overall, Im satisfied that Phoenix Lifes proposed early exit charges are in line with the 
terms and conditions of the policy. Its unfortunate that Mr Fs changed circumstances mean 
the policy is no longer suitable for him, and I can see why he might consider its unfair that 
hes still bound by terms he signed up to many years ago. 
I accept that Phoenix Life may not have pointed out the specific details of the charging terms 
to Mr F when he took out the policy. But pension policies are long term investments. When 
Mr F took out the policy, I think its likely he wouldve thought he would keep it until he 
retired, which he anticipated to be at age 60. This means that on balance, I dont think Mr F 
wouldve made a different decision about taking out the policy if hed been made aware of 
the charging terms at that time. 
Which means Im not persuaded that Mr Fs complaint should be upheld.
My final decision
My decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr F to accept or 
reject my decision before 19 October 2021.
 
Caroline Stirling
Ombudsman