DRN-3032753
The complaint
 Mr and Mrs B have complained that Bank of Scotland Plc (trading as Halifax) continued 
charging them excessive amounts for their overdraft when they were in financial difficulty.
What happened
 Mr and Mrs B complained to Halifax that the charges and fees applied to their account 
relating to their overdraft facility were making their financial difficulties worse.  Halifax didnt 
uphold the complaint. And as Mr and Mrs B were dissatisfied they referred the complaint to 
our service.
Mr and Mrs Bs complaint was considered by one of our adjudicators. He thought that Halifax 
ought to have realised that Mr and Mrs B was experiencing financial difficulty by 
1 September 2014 and so shouldnt have added any more interest, fees and charges from 
this point onwards. Halifax didnt respond so the case was passed to an ombudsman. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Halifax will be familiar with all the rules, regulations and good industry practice we consider 
when looking at whether a bank treated a customer fairly and reasonably when applying 
overdraft charges. So I dont consider it necessary to set all of this out in this decision.
Having carefully considered everything provided, Im intending to find that Halifax acted 
unfairly when it continued charging overdraft interest and associated fees after it renewed 
Mr and Mrs Bs overdraft in September 2014. By this point, it ought to have been clear that 
Mr and Mrs B were in no position to sustainably repay what they owed within a reasonable 
period of time. 
I say this because at this stage Mr and Mrs B were hardcore borrowing. In other, words they 
hadnt seen or maintained a credit balance for an extended period of time. Halifaxs own 
literature suggests that overdrafts are for unforeseen emergency borrowing not prolonged 
day-to-day expenditure. So I think that Mr and Mrs Bs overdraft usage should have 
prompted Halifax to have realised that they werent using their overdraft as intended and 
they shouldnt have continued offering it on the same terms. As Halifax didnt react to Mr and 
Mrs Bs overdraft usage and instead continued charging in the same way, I think it failed to 
act fairly and reasonably. 
Mr and Mrs B ended up paying additional interest, fees and charges on their overdraft and 
this ended up exacerbating difficulties they already had in trying to clear it. So I think that 
Halifax didnt treat Mr and Mrs B fairly and they lost out because of what Halifax did wrong. 
And this means that it should put things right.
Fair compensation  what Halifax needs to do to put things right for Mr and Mrs B
 Having thought about everything, I think that it would be fair and reasonable in all the 
circumstances of Mr and Mrs Bs complaint for Halifax to put things right by:
Reworking Mr and Mrs Bs current overdraft balance so that all interest, fees and 
charges applied to it after the renewal in September 2014 are removed.
AND
If an outstanding balance remains on the overdraft once these adjustments have 
been made Halifax should contact Mr and Mrs B to arrange a suitable repayment 
plan for this. If it considers it appropriate to record negative information on Mr and 
Mrs Bs credit file, it should reflect what would have been recorded had it started 
the process of taking corrective action on the overdraft in September 2014.
OR
If the effect of removing all interest, fees and charges results in there no longer 
being an outstanding balance, then any extra should be treated as overpayments 
and returned to Mr and Mrs B along with 8% simple interest on the 
overpayments from the date they were made (if they were) until the date of 
settlement. If no outstanding balance remains after all adjustments have been 
made, then Halifax should remove any adverse information from Mr and Mrs Bs 
credit file. 
 HM Revenue & Customs requires Halifax to take off tax from this interest. Halifax must 
give Mr and Mrs B a certificate showing how much tax it has taken off if they ask for one.
My final decision
 For the reasons Ive explained, Im upholding Mr and Mrs Bs complaint. Bank of Scotland 
Plc (trading as Halifax) should put things right in the way Ive set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B and Mrs B to 
accept or reject my decision before 14 October 2021.
 
Sophie Mitchell
Ombudsman