DRN-1127936
 
The complaint
Miss Y says Bank of Scotland Plc (BoS) mis-sold her a credit card payment protection 
insurance (PPI) policy in 1998.
What happened
Miss Y took out a PPI policy  branded Credit Care  to protect her credit card payments in 
the event of disability or unemployment. I gather it also included life cover. 
Our adjudicator didnt recommend the complaint be upheld. Miss Y didnt agree with the 
adjudicator, so the case was passed to me to review afresh.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Weve set out our general approach to 
complaints about the sale of PPI on our website. And Ive taken this into account in deciding 
Miss Ys case. 
Having done so, I dont uphold the complaint. Ill explain why.
Miss Y says she didnt want or need PPI and didnt know it had been added. I cant say for 
sure what happened but Ive taken into account what shes said, together with the paperwork 
thats still available. The paperwork includes a copy of Miss Ys signed postal credit card 
application form. I note that, under the section headed Credit Care, she signed in the 
relevant place to indicate she wanted PPI. The place for her to sign to say she didnt want 
PPI was left unmarked.
From what Ive seen overall, I think BoS made it clear to Miss Y that it was offering optional 
PPI and that she chose to take it out. 
BoS says it didnt recommend the PPI to Miss Y. I think thats probably right given it seems 
the sale took place by post and without, as far as I can tell, her having spoken to a BoS 
adviser. 
That said, BoS still ought to have provided Miss Y with clear, fair and not misleading 
information about the PPI so that she could decide for herself if it was right for her. I cant 
say for sure whether BoS did that. And I dont have a copy of the specific policy terms from 
the time. But, from what I know of Miss Ys circumstances and experience of what the main 
features of the policy are likely to have been, I dont think better information about the PPI 
would have put her off taking it. I say that because:
It seems Miss Y would have been eligible for the cover. And I dont believe she had 
any reason to decline the PPI because of its exclusions and restrictions. 
Miss Y says shed have got enhanced sick pay from her employer and suggests she 
might have had savings she could have relied on to keep up with her repayments if she wasnt working. But the PPI would have paid out on top of her employers pay 
and savings, leaving her free to use those alternative means to cover her other living 
costs if she was off work. It covered her for unemployment too. So, I think Miss Y 
would have considered the PPI provided her with useful extra security. 
Theres nothing to suggest Miss Y couldnt afford the PPI. And it was flexible enough 
that Miss Y could have cancelled it at any time at no extra cost if she decided it was 
no longer right for her.
 
Ive thought about everything Miss Ys told us, including that shed been in permanent 
employment for three years when the sale took place. But although her financial situation 
may have seemed relatively stable at the time, there was no guarantee that would continue 
to be the case in future or that the PPI might not prove to be useful if things changed. 
Taking everything into account, I dont believe Miss Ys lost out because of how BoS sold 
her the PPI.
My final decision
For the reasons given, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss Y to accept 
or reject my decision before 20 February 2020.
Nimish Patel
Ombudsman