DRN-3707698
The complaint
Ms H has complained that Shop Direct Finance Company Limited, trading as very, (Shop 
Direct), was irresponsible when it provided her with a credit limit of £600 on her catalogue 
shopping account and when it then increased the credit limit twice. She is also unhappy that 
Shop Direct blocked her account when she made her complaint.
What happened
Shop Direct opened a credit account for Ms H in November 2020 with a credit limit of £600. 
This type of credit was an open-ended or running account which Ms H used to pay for goods 
bought from Shop Directs catalogue. Shop Direct then increased the credit limit to £1,000 in 
February 2021 and to £1,500 in May 2021.
Ms H says that she had only made minimum payments on the account and then used the 
increased limits to spend more than she could afford. This should have shown Shop Direct 
that she couldnt repay her balance within a reasonable length of time, so it shouldnt have 
let her borrow more. If Shop Direct had properly checked her credit record before increasing 
her limit, it would have seen that she had a number of accounts that she had opened 
including loans and credit cards. Her disposable income wasnt enough to cover those 
payments let alone the payments for Shop Directs credit account. She was struggling with 
her finances and it wasnt responsible to lend her more. By increasing Ms Hs credit limit, 
Shop Direct made her financial position worse.
In its final response letter, Shop Direct said that in addition to the information Ms H provided 
at application, it obtained data about her via a credit reference agency (CRA) which 
supported its decision to accept her application. It was satisfied that proportionate checks 
would have been completed at the time of her application.  At the point of each credit limit 
increase, an assessment of Ms Hs account was undertaken. It conducted appropriate and 
proportionate checks that considered the information provided at application as well as 
external credit data. Shop Direct was satisfied the credit provided to Ms H at the time of 
application and during the lifetime of the account was appropriate.
Our investigators view
The investigator didnt recommend that the complaint should be upheld. In view of what was 
apparent to Shop Direct about Ms Hs circumstances at the time, she didnt think Shop Direct 
was wrong to offer Ms H a £600 credit limit. With regard to the credit limit increases, she 
didnt think Ms Hs use of the account and the period shed held a balance with Shop Direct 
shouldve shown the lender that Ms H mightve been experiencing underlying financial 
difficulty. So, she didnt think Shop Direct had acted inappropriately when it increased the 
credit limit. The investigator also didnt think it was unreasonable for Shop Direct to block  
Ms H from using the account. 
Ms H disagreed. She said that she was now in a debt management plan to take back control 
of her finances and the remaining balance of Shop Directs account had doubled due to 
interest charges. She struggled to make the minimum payments throughout the duration of 
her account. 
As this complaint hadnt been resolved informally, it was passed to me, as an ombudsman, 
to review and resolve. 
my provisional decision
After considering all the evidence, I issued a provisional decision on this complaint to Ms H
and to Shop Direct on 22 August 2022. I summarise my findings:
Id noted that when Shop Direct lent to Ms H, the regulator was the Financial Conduct 
Authority and relevant regulations and guidance included its Consumer Credit Sourcebook. 
Its rules and guidance obliged Shop Direct to lend responsibly.
Shop Direct will be familiar with all the rules, regulations and good industry practice we 
consider when looking at a complaint concerning unaffordable and irresponsible lending. So, 
I didnt consider it necessary to set all of this out in my decision. 
Shop Direct needed to consider Ms Hs ability to make her repayments over the life of the 
credit agreement within a reasonable period without Ms H having to borrow to meet the 
repayments, without her failing to make any other payments she had a contractual or 
statutory duty to make, and without the repayments having a significant adverse impact on 
her financial situation. 
Certain factors might point to the fact that Shop Direct should fairly and reasonably have 
done more to establish that any lending was sustainable for Ms H. These factors included: 
 Ms Hs income, reflecting that it could be more difficult to make any credit repayments from 
a lower level of income.
  The amount due to be repaid, reflecting that it could be more difficult to meet a higher 
repayment from a particular level of income.
  The frequency of borrowing and the length of time Ms H had been indebted, reflecting the 
risk that prolonged indebtedness might signal that the borrowing had become, or was 
becoming unsustainable.
Id not seen any information about Ms Hs income and living costs in Shop Directs business 
file. So, Id asked the investigator to ask Shop Direct for the information Ms H supplied about 
her income and employment and whether it estimated her disposable income at the time of 
the application and what steps it took to estimate expenditure. 
Shop Direct said that Ms H had told it that she was employed full time with a verified annual 
income of £30,501 and with a household income of £50,001. She lived in rented 
accommodation. It had used its internal model to provide the following monthly information 
for Ms H:-
Net income: £2,045
Estimated housing costs: £397
Estimated living costs: £901
Credit commitments: £61
Discretionary income: £686
Id noted that Shop Direct had carried out a credit check before lending which Id reviewed. It 
showed that Ms H had five unsecured loans, one secured loan, a total loans balance of 
£1,909 and a £7,000 credit limit. There was also reference to a defaulted account and a 
county court judgement (CCJ) but as the check showed that there had been no arrears for 24 months, it appeared that the default and CCJ had occurred at least two years prior to    
Ms Hs application to Shop Direct. I could understand that Shop Direct would be more 
interested in Ms Hs more recent credit history.
Id noted that Shop Direct had told this Service that Ms Hs credit commitments were £61. 
But as its credit check referred to her having six loans, with a loans balance totalling £1,909 
and a £7,000 credit limit, I thought it might have reasonably thought that Ms Hs monthly 
credit commitments might have been somewhat higher than £61. The credit check also 
didnt show how much of her £7,000 credit limit Ms H was using. So, I didnt think it was 
reasonable for Shop Direct to rely on its estimated discretionary income of £686 to assess 
whether Ms H would be able to repay the money shed borrowed within a reasonable period 
of time. And I thought it might have been reasonable and proportionate for Shop Direct to 
gather some more information from Ms H about her actual credit commitments. 
However, concluding that Shop Direct ought to have done more before lending to Ms H 
didnt automatically mean her complaint should succeed. So, Id considered what information 
a reasonable and proportionate check would likely have produced. 
Id reviewed Ms Hs own credit report and bank statements from around the time of her 
application that she had provided to this Service. To be clear, I wasnt suggesting Shop 
Direct ought to have done this, but these gave me some understanding of Ms Hs credit 
commitments at the time of her application.
Id noted from Ms Hs credit report that in October 2020 she had monthly loan commitments 
of around £507 on four loans as well as repayments on her credit cards and running account 
of at least £430. It appears that she missed a repayment on one of her credit cards in 
October 2020. Her total credit card and running account balance was around £5,805. Ms H 
was near to her credit limit on three of her credit cards. 
So, I thought if Shop Direct had made better checks, it was likely to have seen that Ms Hs 
monthly credit commitments were significantly higher than it had calculated and were also 
higher than the monthly discretionary income it had calculated. I thought this should have 
prompted it to make further checks into Ms Hs actual income and regular expenditure. 
I could see from Ms Hs bank statements that if Shop Direct had enquired further into Ms Hs 
financial situation, it would have learned that the total of Ms Hs monthly regular living costs 
and credit commitments was higher than her monthly net income (at around £1,540 it was 
significantly less than the income Shop Direct used for its calculations). It followed that I 
thought Shop Direct was wrong to extend credit to Ms H. 
And as Id found that Shop Direct shouldnt have opened an account for Ms H, it logically 
followed that I didnt think it should have gone on to offer her either of the credit limit 
increases. 
So, for the reasons given above, but subject to any further information or evidence I might 
receive from the parties, I intended to uphold this aspect of Ms Hs complaint and say that 
Shop Direct should put things right as Ive set out below under the heading Putting things 
right  what Shop Direct needs to do.
Putting things right  what Shop Direct needs to do
Ms H should pay the cash price for any goods she has kept but she shouldnt have to pay 
any interest or charges on credit that shouldnt have been given to her. So, Shop Direct 
should:  - Rework Ms Hs account to ensure that all interest and charges are removed; and
  - Apply Ms Hs repayments to this adjusted balance;
  - If the effect of this reworking results in there no longer being an outstanding balance to 
pay, then any remaining amounts paid by Ms H should be treated as overpayments and 
returned to her along with 8% simple interest* on the overpayments from the date they were 
made until the date of settlement. In this case Shop Direct should remove any adverse 
information about the account from Ms Hs credit file;
  - If an outstanding balance remains on the account once these adjustments have been 
made, Shop Direct needs to ensure that Ms H is only liable for this adjusted balance. Shop 
Direct should look to arrange an affordable payment plan with Ms H for the outstanding 
amount. In this case, once Ms H has cleared the balance, any adverse information should be 
removed from the credit file;
  - If the debt has been sold, Shop Direct should either repurchase it or liaise with the current 
debt owner to ensure the above steps are taken. 
* HM Revenue & Customs requires Shop Direct to take off tax from this interest. Shop Direct 
must give Ms H a certificate showing how much tax it has taken off if she asks for one.
Complaint about Shop Direct blocking Ms Hs account
Ms H had also complained that Shop Direct blocked her from using the account after shed 
raised a complaint about irresponsible lending. I didnt think it was unreasonable for Shop 
Direct to block Ms H from using the account. Ms H told Shop Direct in her complaint that she 
couldnt afford her existing debt and she was having to borrow more every month. Things got 
so bad that she had set up a Debt Management Plan to help pay back all her accounts. In 
these circumstances, I thought it was appropriate for Shop Direct to restrict Ms Hs use of 
the account so that it didnt increase her indebtedness. So, I didnt propose to uphold this 
aspect of Ms Hs complaint.
Both Ms H and Shop Direct responded to my provisional decision to say that they agreed 
with it.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I have also taken into account the law, any relevant regulatory rules and good industry 
practice at the time. 
Given that Ms H and Shop Direct agreed with my provisional decision and have given me 
nothing further to consider, I see no reason to depart from the conclusions I reached in my 
provisional decision. It follows that I uphold this complaint in part and require Shop Direct to 
take the steps set out above under the heading Putting things right - what Shop Direct 
needs to do.
My final decision
My decision is that I uphold Ms Hs complaint in part. In full and final settlement of this 
complaint, I order Shop Direct Finance Company Limited, trading as very, to take the steps 
set out above under the heading Putting things right  what Shop Direct needs to do.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms H to accept or 
reject my decision before 14 October 2022. 
Roslyn Rawson
Ombudsman