DRN-2117514
The complaint
This is a complaint that Yorkshire Building Society (trading as Norwich & Peterborough 
Building Society) mis-sold Mr S payment protection insurance (PPI). I will refer to what 
happened as though it was done in the name of Yorkshire Building Society.
 
What happened
This complaint is about a monthly premium PPI policy which covered a mortgage. The 
mortgage started in 1985. Yorkshire says that, according to its computer records, the PPI 
started in 2001. Mr S, however, said he believes that he must have been paying for the PPI 
from 1985.
Our adjudicator said the complaint shouldnt be upheld. Mr S disagreed with the 
adjudicators opinion and so the complaint has been passed to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding this case. 
Ive decided not to uphold this complaint. I will explain why.
The PPI started possibly about 20 years ago, and possibly longer ago than that. So, its not 
surprising that very few records now exist  Yorkshire isnt obliged to keep records for that 
long, and I cant fairly weigh the lack of records against it. 
It is clear that everyone involved has tried to work out what probably happened, all based on 
very limited information. I think its quite likely assumptions have been made, some of which 
might be wrong. I note that Yorkshire told us it appears that the Policy started in 2001, 
which suggests it isnt completely sure. I know, from our dealings with several institutions, 
that historic computer records can sometimes be incomplete and misleading. 
Also, I wouldnt expect someone to recall in detail everything that happened so many years 
ago; this means it can be difficult to know whether its fair to rely fully on everything they 
remember.
Ive borne in mind these difficulties in the evidence when considering the case. As with all 
cases, Ive still had to decide what is a fair outcome, based on what evidence there is.
Mr S said he believes that he must have been paying the PPI from 1985 to 2004. But he has 
set out an argument as to why, if the PPI did start in 2001, it was unlikely he would have 
agreed to take PPI. This was because of the security of his long-term job and its benefits, 
the good performance of an endowment policy which was fairly close to maturing, and the 
fact he didnt take out PPI on other larger mortgages.
These are all reasonable points. But, in my view, they are not enough to show that he 
definitely didnt agree to PPI, either in 2001 or earlier such as in 1985 (if Yorkshires records 
are incomplete or misleading). 
From the many thousands of cases we have investigated, we have built up information about 
how different businesses conducted themselves at different points. Sometimes we have 
evidence of flaws in sales and administration practices. But we dont have such information 
showing flaws in Yorkshires processes at the possible dates this PPI started. 
So I would need to see reasonable evidence that Yorkshire did do something wrong in 
setting up this policy, and that it didnt follow the expected sales and administrative practices. 
It would be unfair, in such a situation, to make Yorkshire prove it didnt do something wrong.
And, although I feel certain that Mr S is completely genuine in his belief that he never agreed 
to this PPI and wouldnt have needed it, I dont have good enough evidence to conclude that 
the PPI was mis-sold in the way he believes. 
Ive also looked at other ways the PPI might have been mis-sold. But, again, I dont have 
strong enough evidence to conclude that this happened. 
Mr S has set out why, in 2001 at least, he wouldnt have wanted PPI. So Ive thought about 
whether this means Yorkshire recommended him a policy that was unsuitable to his 
circumstances; or that Yorkshire otherwise gave him insufficient information for him to make 
an informed choice. But I dont think it does. In his apparent circumstances, a PPI policy 
might still have been potentially useful in giving greater financial security, especially given 
the real problems that could arise if someone was not able to pay their mortgage due to 
sickness or redundancy. And it doesnt appear that Mr S would have been ineligible for the 
policy (meaning he wouldnt be entitled to make a claim) or that significant restrictions in the 
policy would affect him. Nor does it appear that the policy would be unaffordable. 
So, from Yorkshires point of view, once it had set out the PPI (if that is what happened) it 
would be up to Mr S to make his own choice. So I also cant say there is good evidence that 
the PPI was mis-sold as a result of an unsuitable recommendation, or because of a lack of 
important information. 
In conclusion, Ive not found that the PPI was mis-sold.
 
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, Im not upholding this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 10 March 2021.
 
Timothy Bailey
Ombudsman