DRN-1476652
 
The complaint
Mr G isnt happy about being charged for damage to the hire car SGS Business Process 
Services (UK) Limited arranged for him after he was involved in a road traffic accident that 
wasnt his fault. 
What happened
Mr G was involved in a non-fault road traffic accident. As the accident wasnt his fault Mr G 
didnt make a claim against his motor insurance policy but instead instructed SGS, an 
accident management company (AMC), to manage his claim. SGS arranged for him to have 
a hire car while his campervan was being assessed for repairs. 
Mr G complained that he didnt get a like for like vehicle as a car, not a campervan was 
arranged. And he said the hire car had a slow puncture when it was delivered. Mr G said the 
hire vehicle wasnt supplied with a spare tyre or a puncture repair kit. So, he said he followed 
the instructions he had and reported the puncture. Mr G doesnt think its fair that hes being 
charged for the tyres repair. And that he could have repaired it for a lot less than he was 
being charged.
 SGS said the agreement for the hire car was between Mr G and the hire car provider. And 
that the hire car theyd arranged was in line with industry standards.
Mr G wasnt happy with SGSs response and referred his complaint to us.
Our investigator found SGS had provided a fair and reasonable service by checking with the 
hire car providers. And that SGS had discussed and agreed with Mr G the hire car they 
would arrange. 
Mr G didnt agree and has asked for an ombudsman to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Having done so, Im not upholding this 
complaint. Ill explain why.
The hire car agreement Mr G signed with SGS covers the cost of hiring a car while Mr Gs 
campervan was being repaired. And the third-party insurer (TPI) would be asked to pay this 
as part of the accident claim. Its sometimes referred to as a credit hire agreement - an 
unregulated credit agreement meaning its not regulated under the Consumer Credit Act 
1974. 
So, the credit hire agreement isnt something that I can look at. And SGS didnt supply the 
hire car, so a separate rental agreement was made between Mr G and the hire car 
providers. I can understand the frustration this may cause Mr G, as the hire car providers were chosen by SGS, but they remain a separate third party. And the rental agreement he 
signed with them isnt something I can hold SGS accountable for.
But I can look at the service SGS gave Mr G in managing his claim to see if their actions 
were fair and reasonable. 
 SGS, as an AMC, manage claims by arranging a hire car, where needed, organising repairs 
or determining pre-accident value of the car if its deemed non repairable and claiming these 
costs back from the TPI. SGS has a responsibility to mitigate any costs as the TPI can object 
to paying any that they feel are excessive. And if they did object Mr G would become liable 
for payment of any outstanding costs.
So, when arranging (not supplying) a hire car Id expect SGS to determine Mr Gs needs and 
explain his responsibilities about the use and return of the hire car. And to liaise with the hire 
car provider on behalf of Mr G if there were any issues.
I know Mr G feels he wasnt supplied with a like for like vehicle while his campervan was 
being repaired. But a hire car is arranged based on the customers needs not on what type 
of vehicle they had or want. And I can see SGS discussed these with Mr G, and agreement 
was reached over the type of car that was needed for Mr G. So, Im satisfied SGS 
determined Mr Gs needs before arranging a suitable car.
The main crux of Mr Gs complaint is about the charges the hire car provider has made for 
damage to the hire car. But as outlined above, this was a separate .agreement between Mr 
G and the hire car provider and not SGS. I can see SGS did ask the hire car provider about 
the charges and  whether these had been made clear to Mr G. And the hire car provider 
gave assurances to SGS to show they had. 
 SGS In managing Mr Gs claim have to mitigate and justify any costs incurred when 
claiming these costs back from the TPI. And I dont think damage to the hire car is a cost 
that the TPI would pay.  So, for the above reasons I think SGS did what they could to help 
Mr G and Im satisfied SGS has acted fairly and reasonably as they are not accountable for 
the agreement between Mr G and the hire car provider.
 My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 May 2020.
Anne Scarr
Ombudsman