DRN-2642938
The complaint
Mr S complains that Barclays Bank UK PLC trading as Barclaycard staff laughed at him 
when he asked it to raise a claim for a pair of faulty shoes
What happened
Mr S says he asked Barclaycard to raise a claim for a pair of faulty shoes he bought. He 
says he called Barclaycard a number of times about this and was passed from a number of 
different departments and staff members. He also says he was laughed at by Barclaycard 
staff when he told it about the issue. Mr S would like compensation for what took place.
Barclaycard says it has listened to all of the calls between it and Mr S and says its staff didnt 
laugh at Mr S. It says it has a recording of a call between it and Mr S on 13 June 2019 when 
information was taken about the complaint and says Mr S wasnt laughed at and also says 
this may be the call Mr S was referring to.
Mr S brought his complaint to us and our investigator didnt uphold it. The investigator 
listened to all 13 calls between the parties and thought Barclaycard dealt appropriately with 
Mr S and didnt laugh at him. The investigator thought Barclaycard staff tried to help Mr S.
Mr S doesnt accept that view and maintains he was mistreated by Barclaycard staff and it 
used derogatory remarks towards him.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I have come to the overall view that I dont uphold this complaint. I 
appreciate Mr S will be disappointed by my decision.
I have listened to all of the calls between Barclaycard and Mr S. And Im satisfied that 
Barclaycard dealt appropriately with Mr S at all times and tried to assist him with his claim. 
Im also satisfied that during the calls I have listened to there is no evidence of Barclaycard 
staff laughing at Mr S or using derogatory language towards him.
Overall, Im satisfied that Barclaycard tried to assist Mr S and that it provided more call 
recordings to us than Mr S thought he had made. I think it highly unlikely Barclaycard would 
decide not to disclose all of the calls to us. And Im satisfied that, whilst Mr S spoke to a 
number of Barclaycard staff, that he was deal with appropriately throughout. For those 
reasons I cant fairly order Barclaycard pay Mr S the compensation he would like.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 21 April 2021.
 
David Singh
Ombudsman