DRN-3560254
The complaint
Miss M is unhappy that Barclays Bank UK PLC didnt refund her money she lost as a result 
of a fraud.
What happened
In early 2019, Miss Malong with a number of companionswanted to book a holiday 
abroad. After conducting some research, Miss M found a suitable holiday using a third-party 
provider and decided to book it.
Miss M made a number of bank transfers to the travel agent over the course of two months 
to pay for the holiday. The payments totalled £5,381.
After making the final payment, Miss M struggled to obtain the flight tickets for the trip 
despite asking the agent repeatedly for them. She was also informed by one of her friends 
that the travel agent shed booked the holiday with was covered on a television program that 
highlighted fraudulent businesses and schemes. So, Miss M reported this to Barclays 
realising that shed likely been defrauded.
Barclays were delayed in looking into Miss Ms complaint due to misdirecting her when she 
first reported the fraud. When it did look into her claim it acknowledged this error and that 
Miss M had spent time trying to rectify it. It paid Miss M £100 for each of the errorstotalling 
£200and the distress and inconvenience these caused. But it didnt agree that it was 
responsible for Miss Ms loss. It argued that shed not carried out sufficient research on the 
business and felt Miss M was liable for the money lost. It also contacted the beneficiary bank 
where the money had been sent, but was unsuccessful in recovering any of the funds.
Miss M remained unhappy with Barclays response. So, she asked our service for an 
independent assessment. She also pointed out that she was unhappy Barclays had blocked 
her account after the final payment to the fraudster and felt she was treated as a criminal 
rather than a victim.
An Investigator considered the evidence provided by both parties but concluded that 
Barclays response was fair and reasonable in the circumstances because:
The payments to the fraudster werent out of character or unusual for Miss Ms 
account. So it wasnt reasonable to expect intervention from Barclays regarding 
them.
The freezing of Miss Ms account was fair considering it had received a report of 
fraudulent activity and this was investigated within a reasonable timeframe.
The compensation payment for the errors made was fair and reasonable.
Miss M disagreed with the Investigators assessment, so the matter has now been passed to 
me for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Miss M hasnt specified which part of the Investigators assessment she disagrees with, so 
Ive covered each of the points complained about taking into considerationwhat I think
Miss M is unhappy with.
Should Barclays have done more to prevent Miss M falling victim to fraud?
Broadly speaking, the starting position in law is that Miss M would be liable for payments that 
shed authorised, and Barclays would be responsible for payments that shed not. 
Here, its not in dispute that Miss M authorised the payments in dispute. This means that 
shed be liable for the payments in the first instance. But there are times where a bank is 
expected to have reasonably intervened in a payment; specifically, where its out of 
character or unusual when compared to the accounts normal activity. This obligation must 
also be considered against a banks obligation to fulfil its customers instruction and not 
unnecessarily hinder their ability to make legitimate payments. 
Miss M made seven payments in total to the fraudsters over just under a two-month period. 
These payments ranged from £110 to £1907. Having looked at these payments in more 
detail, Im not persuaded that they appeared out of character or unusual for a number of 
reasons:
1. The lower value payments, which were carried out first, werent so high that they 
would have reasonably caused concern. Miss M regularly made payments of roughly 
equivalent values.
2. The highest value payments arent considerably higher than what Miss M would 
occasionally spend on her account. I must also consider that it is normal for 
customers to occasionally make higher value payments for goods and services: such 
as holidays. 
3. The higher value payments were being made to what would have appeared to be a 
trusted payee, as Miss M had made several payments to the account by that point.
4. There were no other unusual characteristics concerning the payments, such as 
clearing of the account balance, or payments to international payees.
I also find it important to consider that Barclays processes large numbers of transactions 
daily. And while I have no doubt that the amounts Miss M has lost as a result of the fraud are 
substantial to her, Barclays must weigh its obligations carefully, such that it doesnt hinder 
customers payment journeys for legitimate payments.
As Im not persuaded these payments were out of character or usual for the reasons Ive 
given above, I dont find it unreasonable that Barclays didnt intervene in them. 
Its also worth noting that even had Barclays intervened in the payments, its unlikely it would 
have identified fraudulent activity and prevented Miss M from making the payments 
regardless. Miss M has told our service that shed used the business before and had no 
issues with it. She was also recommended the business by a friend who had also not 
experienced any problems with it. I dont find these facts would have persuaded Barclays, or 
Miss M, that the business wasnt legitimate at the point she made the payments. And so I 
think she likely would have proceeded with them anyway: even had an intervention taken 
place.Barclays handling of Miss Ms complaint and recovery of funds
Barclays has already admitted that it could have handled Miss Ms claim better and paid 
£100 for this. And it has also paid a further £100 for the time Miss M spent chasing the 
matter. Miss M hasnt specifically expressed a dissatisfaction with the amount paid, but I do 
find this amount of compensation to be reasonable for the administrative errors and the 
impact these caused. 
Ive also considered if these errors and delays were a causal factor in the funds 
unsuccessful recovery from the beneficiary account. 
I can see that the beneficiary bank has provided our service with information regarding the 
account Miss M had made payment to. And this has shown that the account was emptied 
and closed prior to Miss M approaching Barclays to advise it shed been defrauded. So, had 
Barclays acted upon this information sooner, it still would have been unsuccessful in 
recovering Miss Ms funds. As such, I dont think the errors and delays prevented Miss M 
from being reimbursed any funds lost.
Miss Ms account restrictions
Subject to the terms and conditions of the account, financial businesses generally have the 
right to restrict accounts where reasonable. Ive reviewed the information provided by 
Barclays and am satisfied it had reasonable cause to restrict Miss Ms account and carry out 
a review. 
I appreciate that this was distressing for Miss M, and I can understand why this made her 
feel like the suspect in these circumstances rather than the victim. But Barclays must act 
with caution and ensure it also isnt breaking any regulations or law. I also accept that while 
these restrictions and reviews impact customers negatively, they are necessary to protect 
not only the banks, but the customers they provide a service to, such as Miss M.
Miss Ms account was restricted for less than a week while Barclays carried out its 
investigation and established Miss M was in fact not wittingly responsible for the activity 
reported. 
I dont find this timeframe to be unreasonable in the circumstances. And so it follows that I 
find Barclays acted fairly in the circumstances.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss M to accept 
or reject my decision before 23 August 2022.
 
Stephen Westlake
Ombudsman