DRN-4486006
The complaint
Mrs P complains that the offer UK Insurance Limited trading as Churchill (Churchill) made 
to settle her motor insurance claim is too low.
What happened
In January 2023, Mrs Ps car was damaged in an accident and she made a claim on her 
motor insurance policy. Churchill decided it was not economical to repair the vehicle. After 
considering two valuation guides, it said it thought Mrs Ps car was worth £15,148 on the day 
it was damaged. It offered to settle Mrs Ps insurance claim on that basis.
Mrs P thought Churchills valuation was too low and she complained to this service. She 
provided some adverts and said they indicated her car was worth more than £15,148 on the 
day it was damaged. Mrs P said Churchill had provided a courtesy car, but the vehicle 
provided was too small and did not meet her requirements. She also told us about some 
customer service problems shed experienced, such as difficulties getting in touch with 
Churchill and the length of time it took to deal with the claim.
Our investigator looked at all of this. She obtained the following valuations for Mrs Ps 
vehicle on the day it was damaged: Guide 1 - £15,395; Guide 2 - £14,900; Guide 3 - 
£15,117; and Guide 4 - £14,786. Our investigator thought Churchill valued the vehicle at 
£15,395  the highest of the four guides  and that this was fair. She recognised that the 
courtesy car provided to Mrs P wasnt like for like but said that it had tried to organise a 
larger car for her. Our investigator noted Churchill had offered £100 to compensate Mrs P for 
poor customer service and she thought this was a fair way to settle the complaint about 
customer service.
Mrs P did not agree with that view and so the matter has been passed to me for an 
ombudsmans decision.
I issued a provisional decision in this matter. I said: 
As things stand, I dont intend to uphold the complaint. Ill explain why.
Firstly, I just need to clarify that Churchills valuation of the vehicle was the average 
of Guides 1 and 2, which came to £15,148. Its valuation was not £15,395 as our 
investigator said.
The terms and conditions of Mrs Ps say that in a situation where her vehicle cannot 
be repaired, Churchill will settle her claim by paying the market value. Market value is 
defined as the cost of repairing the car with another of the same make and model, 
and of a similar age and condition at the date of loss.
Assessing the value of a car isnt an exact science. Like most insurers, this service 
often finds motor trade valuation guides persuasive. Thats because their valuations 
are based on nationwide research, and they show likely selling prices at the month of 
loss.
Our investigator obtained valuations from four guides. In doing so, I can see she 
entered the correct registration information, mileage and date of accident. The 
resulting valuations ranged from £14,786 to £15,395. Churchills valuation was within 
the range of and at the upper end of those valuations.
I appreciate Mrs P provided some adverts that she said showed the market value of 
her car was more than Churchill offered. But in considering those adverts, I note that 
they are all younger than Mrs Ps vehicle and at least one of the cars is automatic 
transmission. I cant say the adverts supplied by Mrs P suggest the valuations as 
shown by the guides were unfair.
In any event, I can see that a number of adverts for cars the same age as Mrs Ps 
were considered in Guide 4s valuation. Of those adverts, the car with the closest 
milage to Mrs Ps was priced at £15,000. Another vehicle with similar mileage was 
advertised at £14,000.
In other words, the adverts Ive seen for cars the same age and with similar mileage 
to Mrs Ps are in the range set out in the relevant valuation guides.
With all of this in mind, I am satisfied that Churchills valuation of £15,148 is within 
the range suggested by the valuation guides and it is also in line with adverts of the 
same make and model to Mrs Ps car and with a similar mileage. For those reasons, I 
am satisfied that Churchills valuation in this case was fair.
I know Mrs P was not happy with the courtesy car Churchill provided. I can see that 
as part of her policy, Mrs P had guaranteed hire cover. What that means is that 
where it is not economical to repair Mrs Ps car, Churchill will provide a hire car of a 
similar physical size to the damaged vehicle while it deals with the claim. However, 
the terms and conditions go on to say that the size of the courtesy car cannot be 
guaranteed.
I appreciate that Mrs P was disappointed that the hire car had insufficient boot space 
for her requirements. But as our investigator said, Churchill did try and arrange for a 
bigger car, but nothing larger was available. Putting all of that together, I cant say 
Churchill was unfair when it arranged the hire car.
I can see Mrs P also told us about several customer service issues she experienced, 
including a delay in dealing with the claim. Having considered the concerns she 
raised, I am satisfied that Churchill has already fairly compensated Mrs P in that 
regard by paying her £100.
I asked the parties to provide me with any further information or evidence they wanted me to 
consider by 28 November 2023. Neither party provided me with anything further to consider. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As I have not been provided with any further information or evidence, I see no reason to 
depart from my provisional findings. So, for the reasons set out above, I dont uphold this 
complaint and I dont require Churchill to take any further action in this case. My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint about UK Insurance Limited, trading as Churchill. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs P to accept or 
reject my decision before 2 January 2024.
 
Nicola Bowes
Ombudsman