DRN-3481470
The complaint
Mr S complains that Loans 2 Go Limited lent him money on a high cost loan that he couldnt 
afford to repay.
What happened
Loans 2 Go provided Mr S with a loan on 16 October 2021, for £500, repayable at the rate of 
£103 a month over 18 months.
Mr S immediately started missing payments and complained to Loans 2 Go in January 2022 
that the loan was unaffordable to him. So far as Im aware he hasnt made any payments.
Loans 2 Go said it carried out a credit check, independently verified his income and used 
ONS (Office for National Statistics) data to assess his outgoings. It believed the loan 
payments were affordable for Mr S.
Our adjudicator said that Loans 2 Go had acted reasonably in determining the loan was 
affordable, as he appeared to have sufficient disposable income left at the end of each 
month to afford the payments.
Mr S disagreed. He pointed out that he had two loans with missed payments, a credit card 
with missed payments and mail order accounts in arrears. He was already unable to pay his 
debts so questioned why Loans 2 Go lent him money at a higher interest rate.
The matter has been passed to me for further consideration.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about unaffordable/irresponsible lending - 
including all the relevant rules, guidance, and good industry practice - on our website. 
Considering the relevant rules, guidance, and good industry practice, I think the questions I 
need to consider in deciding whats fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this 
complaint are:
Did Loans 2 Go complete reasonable and proportionate checks to satisfy itself that Mr S 
would be able to repay the loan in a sustainable way?
If not, would those checks have shown that Mr S would have been able to do so?
The rules and regulations in place required Loans 2 Go to carry out a reasonable and 
proportionate assessment of Mr Ss ability to make the repayments under this agreement. 
This assessment is sometimes referred to as an affordability assessment or affordability 
check.
The checks had to be borrower-focused  so Loans 2 Go had to think about whether 
repaying the loan would be sustainable. In practice this meant that it had to ensure that 
making the repayments on the loan wouldnt cause Mr S undue difficulty or significant 
adverse consequences. That means he should have been able to meet repayments out of 
normal income without having to borrow to meet the repayments, without failing to make any 
other payment he had a contractual or statutory obligation to make and without the 
repayments having a significant adverse impact on his financial situation.
In other words, it wasnt enough for Loans 2 Go to simply think about the likelihood of it 
getting its money back - it had to consider the impact of the loan repayments on Mr S. 
Checks also had to be proportionate to the specific circumstances of the loan application.
In general, what constitutes a proportionate affordability check will be dependent upon a 
number of factors including  but not limited to  the particular circumstances of the 
consumer (e.g. their financial history, current situation and outlook, and any indications of 
vulnerability or financial difficulty) and the amount/type/cost of credit they are seeking. Even 
for the same customer, a proportionate check could look different for different applications.
I think that a reasonable and proportionate check ought generally to have been more 
thorough:
The lower a consumers income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make any 
loan repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income).
The higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to meet 
a higher repayment from a particular level of income). 
the greater the number and frequency of loans, and the longer the period during which a 
customer has been given loans (reflecting the risk that repeated refinancing may signal 
that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, unsustainable).
The loan was for a comparatively small amount, albeit that it required a long commitment 
from Mr S. Loans 2 Go assessed that Mr S had a minimum income of about £974 a month, 
though he declared this at £1,400. It assessed his outgoings including his credit 
commitments to be around £731. So it said that the loan payment would have been 
affordable. Taking into account the loan payment this would have left him with around £140 
a month. Possibly this was a bit tight, so Ive also considered the information shown in the 
credit report.
Mr S asserted that he was already unable to pay his loans/card and they were all in arrears. 
The said report showed that Mr S had taken out two loans and a credit card in August 2021. 
The report didnt show any other live credit or loan accounts. It showed that Mr S had missed 
one payment on the credit card, was up to date with one loan and (as at the date of the 
report) had yet to make a payment on the other loan. 
So although the report showed that Mr S had taken out a lot of credit all at once (the balance 
on the credit card was £!,549) it didnt show that he was in arrears with his credit payments 
apart from the one missed payment. Nor did it show in my view that Mr S was reliant on 
credit given that he didnt apparently have a history of bad credit. Mr Ss credit commitments, 
assuming a monthly payment of 3% of the balance on his credit card, amounted to about 
£131 a month. With the new loan payment he would have been paying about 24% of his 
income on credit commitments, which is just about reasonable.
A credit report wont necessarily show all the credit a person has, as some companies dont 
register their information with all credit reference agencies. But when we talk about proportionate checks this means that companies dont need to carry out exhaustive checks 
for every application. The onus is also on the applicant to give full details. It seems that Mr S 
was probably aware that he couldnt afford the loan payments, given that he was unable to 
make a single payment. So if Mr S had information about his debts that he felt could have 
affected his ability to pay it was up to him to tell Loans 2 Go.
Lastly I have considered whether Loans 2 Go could have been alerted by the checks it did to 
carry out any more extensive checks of Mr ss financial circumstances. However given that 
his bank account wasnt (according to the credit report) in overdraft and hadnt been for the 
duration of the period (three years) set out in the report, its not reasonable to suggest that 
Loans 2 Go should have been alerted to carry out any further checks.
So I think the checks carried out were proportionate. And that those checks showed that 
Mr S should have been able to afford the loan payment. Given that he must now be 
substantially in arrears with the payments, Loans 2 Go should come to a reasonable 
payment plan with Mr S.
My final decision
I dont uphold the complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 27 June 2022.
 
Ray Lawley
Ombudsman