DRN-2942779
The complaint
Mr R complains that Barclays Bank UK Plc allowed a fraudster to open and operate an 
account.
What happened
The detailed background to this complaint is well known to both parties. So, Ill only provide 
an overview of some of the key events here. 
In January 2020 Mr R was unfortunately the victim of an email invoice interception scam. An 
email from a genuine tradesman had been intercepted and the bank details it contained 
were changed. As a result of this, Mr R made a payment for around £1,700 from his account 
with H to the scammers account. The scammers account was held with Barclays. 
When Mr R spoke to his tradesman, they discovered the scam and this was reported to 
Barclays. Mr R also reported this to H who got in touch with Barclays and were told that no 
funds remained to be returned. 
Mr R complained. He thinks Barclays must have failed in their due diligence when allowing a 
scammer to open and operate an account. He holds them responsible for his loss. As H 
refunded half of his loss, Mr R is seeking the remaining half from Barclays and referred the 
matter to our service. 
One of our investigators didnt recommend that the complaint should be upheld. In summary 
she said that Barclays didnt fail in their due diligence when opening the account. And that 
there was nothing that she thought ought to have alerted them to its fraudulent use sooner. 
She also confirmed that Mr Rs money was withdrawn or spent from the account very 
promptly after it had arrived. So, by the time Barclays were made aware of the problem, no 
funds remained to be returned. 
Mr R didnt accept our investigators outcome and has asked for an ombudsman to review 
his complaint. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In deciding whats fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of a complaint, Im required to 
take into account relevant: law and regulations; regulators' rules, guidance and standards; 
codes of practice; and, where appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry 
practice at the time. Among other things, regulated firms receiving payments like Barclays, 
are required to conduct their business with due skill, care and diligence (FCA Principle for 
Businesses 2) and to comply with legal and regulatory anti-money laundering and countering 
the financing of terrorism requirements. 
Those requirements include maintaining proportionate and risk-sensitive policies and 
procedures to identify, assess and manage money laundering risk  for example through 
customer due diligence measures and the ongoing monitoring of the business relationship 
(including through the scrutiny of transactions undertaken throughout the course of the 
relationship). And, more generally given the increase in sophisticated fraud and scams in 
recent years, as a matter of good industry practice at the time, I think firms should 
reasonably have had measures in place to detect suspicious transactions or activities that 
might indicate fraud or financial abuse (something also recognised by the Banking 
Standards Institutes October 2017 Protecting Customers from Financial harm as a result of 
fraud or financial abuse  Code of Practice) 
In the circumstances of this complaint, Im satisfied that Barclays correctly followed their 
account opening procedures in relation to the scammers account. And whilst Im unable to 
share the details of the third party involved, Id like to assure Mr R that Ive carefully 
reviewed this and there wasnt anything that I think reasonably could have alerted Barclays 
that the account they were opening would later be used for fraud. 
Ive then gone on to consider whether there was anything in the account activity that ought to 
have given Barclays cause for concern. Ive reviewed the activity leading up to the arrival 
and including the spending of Mr Rs funds which was by 11.00am on the day the funds 
arrived and I dont think that there was anything that would have at this point appeared 
sufficiently unusual relative to the usual operation of the account, where I could reasonably 
have expected Barclays to have intervened. And by the time the scam was reported, all 
Mr Rs money was already gone from the account. 
Im sorry to hear that Mr R has lost money. But ultimately this is the fault of the criminal acts 
of the scammer. I understand Mr Rs frustration that a scammer managed to open and 
operate an account. But I cant fairly hold Barclays responsible for the actions of their 
customer. And I dont think there are failings by Barclays which caused a missed opportunity 
to prevent Mr Rs loss or that prevented his money being recovered. 
My final decision
For the reasons outlined above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision before 9 December 2021.
 
Richard Annandale
Ombudsman