DRN-3206055
The complaint
 Mr H complains that HSBC Bank UK plc (HSBC) didnt explain to him that interest was 
added to his loan up front leading to a higher settlement figure than expected. He would like 
the excess settlement amount (£1800) refunded. And compensation for a data breach.
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties so I wont repeat them again here 
instead I will focus on giving the reasons for my decision
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
 Having done I have reached the following conclusions:-
I appreciate it must have come as a shock to Mr H to find out the settlement figure for 
his loan was more than he expected. Ive seen the agreement Mr H signed which 
explains that interest is added up front meaning initially more interest than capital is 
repaid . This explains the difference between what Mr H expected the quote to be 
and what it was. This is how most loans work. As Mr H paid monthly interest on the 
reducing outstanding balance he paid more interest at the start than at the end of the 
loan as at that point  he had more outstanding balance to pay interest on. I think the 
information on how the loan was structured was there for Mr H to see. 
I dont think its reasonable be to refund Mr H the difference between what he 
expected to pay on settling his loan and the actual figure given for settlement. That 
would mean he repaid significantly less than he agreed to when he took the loan out 
which wouldnt be fair.
After our investigator issued his view Mr H  told us he had health issues, so it was 
difficult to deal with paperwork. He thinks HSBC should have laid out the interest and 
capital repayments in table form. I am not aware Mr S made HSBC aware of any 
issues accessing the loan documentation. Had he done so I would have expected 
HSBC to respond appropriately. But its hard for a business to help if it doesnt know 
there is an issue.  And of course Mr H could have asked  someone to review the 
paperwork for him.
In terms of the data breach I understand Mr S has taken this up with the Information 
Commissioners Office (ICO) so if Mr S isnt happy with how HSBC has responded to 
directions from the ICO he might want to refer back to them ICO. HSBC has 
explained a disk with someone elses data was sent to Mr H because of human error. 
Its unfortunate but mistakes do happen. HSBC has told us there is no evidence of Mr 
Hs  information being sent to someone else. I accept its conclusion since if it had 
found Mr Hs data had been sent to someone else it would have had to report this.
I appreciate Mr H feels HSBC didnt handle his complaint well . HSBC has told us 
some delay occurred due to the current health situation as requests for disks are only 
dealt with fortnightly  thats not ideal but perhaps not unreasonable in the current 
circumstances. HSBC offered £50 compensation for the distress and inconvenience 
caused but has agreed to increase this to £100 which I think is more appropriate. 
Whilst I accept HSBC didnt send Mr Hs data to someone else I think it was 
reasonable for Mr H to conclude that it might have done so, and I think that would 
have caused him some distress.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint.
In full and final settlement HSBC Bank UK plc should pay Mr H £100 compensation for 
distress and inconvenience
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 7 January 2022.
 
Bridget Makins
Ombudsman