DRN-2360598
The complaint
Mr K complains that Standard Life Assurance Limited failed to treat him fairly when it 
reviewed whether hed been given enough information before he took an annuity in 2010.
What happened
Mr K held pension savings with Standard Life. He also held other pension savings with 
another firm that I will call B. In 2010 Mr K was considering retirement and asked both 
Standard Life and B to send him information about how he could take his pension benefits. 
Mr K had a series of telephone calls with Standard Life about taking his benefits. 
Standard Life has provided us with recordings of those calls that I have listened to as part of 
my assessment of this complaint. During those calls Mr K noticed that B had offered him the 
ability to take what was known as an Open Market Option (OMO). Essentially that meant 
he could transfer the value of his pension savings to an alternative provider, and take his 
pension benefits through the alternative firm instead. Mr K noticed that Standard Life was 
one of the providers mentioned by B and decided to move his pension savings to that firm.
The regulator, the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA), conducted a thematic review of 
Annuity Sales Practices. One conclusion from that review was that the FCA was concerned 
that consumers hadnt been given sufficient information about the potential availability of an 
enhanced annuity on the open market should they have any medical conditions. As a result 
of that review Standard Life looked at the annuities it had sold between July 2008 and 
May 2016.
Standard Life looked at the annuity Mr K had purchased with the pension savings he held 
with the company. And Standard Life determined that it had failed to give Mr K sufficient 
information about the availability of enhanced annuities. So it paid him some compensation. 
But ultimately Standard Life concluded that the pension savings Mr K had transferred from B 
were out of scope of its review. So it didnt offer Mr K compensation in relation to those 
pension savings.
Before Standard Life reached that conclusion, and whilst it was looking at Mr Ks complaint, 
it had provided him with a number of different explanations about how its review should 
work. Standard Life accepted that some of the initial information it had given to Mr K was 
incorrect and so included that matter in its final response to Mr Ks complaint.
Standard Life didnt agree with Mr K that it needed to pay compensation on the transferred 
pension savings it had accepted from B. It said that it was Bs responsibility to make Mr K 
aware of the availability of enhanced annuities. But as I said earlier it accepted that the initial 
information it had provided to Mr K about the review had been misleading. So it paid Mr K 
£75 for the trouble and upset hed been caused.
Mr K didnt accept Standard Lifes response so brought his complaint to this Service. The 
complaint has been assessed by one of our investigators. He didnt think that Standard Life 
needed to review the annuity that had been purchased with the funds transferred in from B. 
And he thought the payment Standard Life had made for the trouble and upset Mr K had 
been caused was in line with what he would have suggested. So he didnt think the 
complaint should be upheld.
Mr K didnt agree with that assessment. So, as the complaint hasnt been resolved 
informally, it has been passed to me, an ombudsman, to decide. This is the last stage of our 
process.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In deciding this complaint Ive taken into account the law, any relevant regulatory rules and 
good industry practice at the time. I have also carefully considered the submissions that 
have been made by Mr K and by Standard Life. Where the evidence is unclear, or there are 
conflicts, I have made my decision based on the balance of probabilities. In other words 
I have looked at what evidence we do have, and the surrounding circumstances, to help me 
decide what I think is more likely to, or should, have happened.
At the outset I think it is useful to reflect on the role of this service. This service isnt intended 
to regulate or punish businesses for their conduct  that is the role of the Financial Conduct 
Authority. Instead this service looks to resolve individual complaints between a consumer 
and a business. Should we decide that something has gone wrong we would ask the 
business to put things right by placing the consumer, as far as is possible, in the position 
they would have been if the problem hadnt occurred.
As I said earlier I have listened carefully to the calls that Mr K had with Standard Life before 
he decided to transfer his pension savings from B. My conclusion from those calls is that it 
was Mr K, rather than Standard Life, that proposed that transfer. And whilst it could be seen 
that combining the two sets of pension savings made administrative sense, I cannot 
conclude that Standard Life bore any responsibility for influencing the decision that Mr K 
made.
Standard Life has accepted that it didnt provide Mr K with sufficient information about the 
availability of enhanced annuities when he asked to use his pension savings to purchase an 
annuity. It has paid him compensation, in line with the methodology it agreed with the 
regulator to put right matters such as these, for those pension savings that were originally 
held with Standard Life. Mr Ks complaint is effectively that, had Standard Life provided him 
with that additional information, he could also have benefitted from an enhanced rate on 
those pension savings he held with B.
At this stage I must make it clear that I havent seen the information Mr K was given by B in 
relation to his pension savings. So I am not making any findings in this decision about 
whether it would be likely that any complaint against B would succeed. I am satisfied that the 
information B gave to Mr K made him aware that he could exercise an OMO. I have 
assumed that the information didnt make Mr K aware that he could potentially benefit from 
an enhanced annuity. But without a complaint against B being raised, I cannot reach any 
definitive answer on that point.In order to have benefitted from an enhanced annuity, it is likely that Mr K would have 
needed to use the OMO that Standard Life offered and transfer his pension savings to 
another firm. But of course that was the option that Mr K used in relation to his pension 
savings with B when he moved the money to Standard Life. It seems to me that the 
guidance from the regulator was intended to make consumers aware that using an OMO 
might mean they could get a better annuity rate. So I think it is right to conclude that the 
information Standard Life failed to provide would be given before an OMO was chosen.
So that would lead me to conclude that any failing in relation to the pension savings Mr K 
held with B happened before the monies were transferred to Standard Life. Mr K had already 
made use of the OMO. So I think it was Bs responsibility to make Mr K aware that he might 
be able to benefit from an enhanced annuity rate if he suffered from a medical condition 
before he decided to move his pension savings to Standard Life. As I said earlier, I dont 
know if that happened. But it does seem that Mr K was unaware of that possibility when he 
talked with Standard Life.
I accept that in reaching this conclusion, there is a degree of the chicken and the egg. If 
Standard Life had made Mr K aware of the possibility of an enhanced annuity he might have 
moved both his pension savings with B, and those with Standard Life, to an alternative firm. 
So that might have mitigated any failings by B. But the same could be argued the other way 
around. If B had given the information to Mr K, then Standard Lifes failings wouldnt have 
mattered.
Given the rather cyclical argument that I have raised here, I think it fair and reasonable to 
conclude that each firm should take responsibility for its own actions. So B was responsible 
for the pension savings that Mr K held with that firm, and making him sufficiently aware of all 
his options in regard to how they were put into payment. And the same applies to 
Standard Life. Standard Life has agreed that it didnt meet its responsibilities and paid Mr K 
appropriate compensation in relation to the part of his pension savings it held.
So I conclude that it was reasonable for Standard Life to not offer compensation to Mr K in 
respect of the pension savings that he transferred to the firm from B. I dont think 
Standard Life needs to do anything further in relation to the transferred funds.
As our adjudicator has explained, the way in which a firm handles complaints isnt something 
that we can consider as part of our decision making process. I have noted that Standard Life 
has paid Mr K £75 for the trouble and upset he was caused by the incorrect information he 
was given while his complaint was being investigated. It isnt appropriate for me to make any 
further award or recommendation, in regard to the information that Mr K was given.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I dont uphold the complaint or make any award against 
Standard Life Assurance Limited. Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im 
required to ask Mr K to accept or reject my decision before 17 February 2021.
 
Paul Reilly
Ombudsman