DRN-3342937
The complaint
Mr J complains American International Group UK Limited trading as AIG UK unfairly 
declined a claim and avoided his marine insurance policy when he claimed on it for a 
stolen boat.
What happened
Mr J had a boat and accompanying equipment insured with AIG. He made a claim under his 
marine insurance policy as the boat was stolen, but AIG declined it. It also avoided Mr Js 
policy from inception and returned the premium hed paid. It said Mr J had misrepresented 
the purchase price of the boat when he took out the policy, and had it been given accurate 
information, it wouldnt have offered cover. It considered this to be a careless 
misrepresentation under the Consumer Insurance (Disclosure and Representations) Act 
2012 (CIDRA).
Mr J complained about AIGs decision, but it didnt agree to change its position. But it did 
recognise there had been some delay in the claim, so it offered £275 for the unnecessary 
distress and inconvenience caused and for the 8% interest on the premium, for the delay in 
refunding it to him. Mr J remained unhappy, so a complaint was brought to this service.
Our investigator thought that under the relevant law, there had been a qualifying 
misrepresentation. Meaning she was satisfied that had Mr J given the accurate purchase 
price, AIG wouldnt have offered cover. So she didnt think AIG needed to do anything 
differently.
Mr J didnt accept that. He said there was a language barrier which meant he thought he 
was being asked about the value of the boat, and not the purchase price. He maintained 
hed taken reasonable care not to make a misrepresentation.
As Mr J didnt agree, the matter has come to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The relevant law in this case is CIDRA. This requires consumers to take reasonable care not 
to make a misrepresentation when taking out an insurance policy. The standard of care is 
that of a reasonable consumer. 
And if a consumer fails to take reasonable care, the insurer has certain remedies provided 
the misrepresentation is - what CIDRA describes as - a qualifying misrepresentation. For it to 
be a qualifying misrepresentation the insurer has to show it would have offered the policy on 
different terms or not at all if the consumer hadnt made the misrepresentation. 
CIDRA sets out a number of considerations for deciding whether the consumer failed to take 
reasonable care. And the remedy available to the insurer under CIDRA depends on whether 
the qualifying misrepresentation was deliberate or reckless, or careless.
AIG Insurance thinks Mr J failed to take reasonable care not to make a misrepresentation 
when he was asked during a telephone call about the purchase price for the boat and 
accompanying parts he wanted to insure. 
Ive listened to the call in question to see what AIG asked Mr J. Mr J was asked about the 
value of each item he wanted to insure, and he gave some figures. He was then asked what 
the total purchase price of the insured items was. He asked the adviser to repeat this 
question, and was then asked what did you pay for all of these things you want to insure? 
what did you pay for it all?  Mr J says in total I paid I think £19,500. But after making the 
claim, AIG discovered that Mr J had actually paid around £8,000 for the items hed insured. 
Having considered everything, I dont think Mr J took reasonable care not to make a 
misrepresentation. And Im satisfied he didnt answer this question correctly. He said whilst 
he bought the boat and other equipment for £8,000, he felt it was worth around £19,500, 
which is why he gave that figure when asked about the purchase price. 
But I think its clear from the call that he was being asked what price he paid when he bought 
the boat and accompanying equipment. The adviser had already asked for the value of each 
item, I think the questions were sufficiently different and clear. There is a significant 
difference in the price he quoted, and what he actually paid. So I dont think its reasonable 
that Mr J gave the higher figure. I accept Mr Js point about his language barrier, but his 
reply suggests to me he understood the question, as he responded to say what he paid, not 
what he thought the items were worth. It also seems Mr J had a friend on the call with him to 
help answer questions, but he didnt ask for any further confirmation on what was being 
asked. 
Mr J has also said hes paid a higher premium as hes insured the boat for more than he 
paid for it. But I dont consider that relevant to the question of whether he made a 
misrepresentation when he took out the insurance.
Im satisfied Mr J made a misrepresentation. But it will only be a qualifying misrepresentation 
under CIDRA if AIG can show it would have acted differently, if Mr J had given the correct 
figure. 
AIG has provided its underwriting guidance which shows that where there is such a 
significant difference between the purchase price, and the sum insured amount, it wont offer 
cover. Im satisfied that the figures provided by Mr J, had he answered the question about 
purchase price correctly, would have meant no cover would have been offered. So, as AIGs 
shown it would have acted differently, the misrepresentation is a qualifying one, which 
means under CIDRA, it has a number of remedies available to it, depending on the type of 
misrepresentation.
In this case, AIG has said the misrepresentation was careless, so it is entitled to decline the 
claim, avoid the policy and return the premium thats been paid. Im not going to interfere 
with AIGs decision to treat this as a careless misrepresentation, as this is the most 
favourable to him in that hes entitled to receive his premiums back. So I find the actions 
AIGs taken to be fair and reasonable. 
AIG has offered £275 for delays in communicating information during the claim. I can see 
this would have caused Mr J unnecessary distress and inconvenience, but I think the 
compensation offered is sufficient to reflect this delay. AIG said this amount includes 8% 
interest added to the premium paid by Mr J for the time delay in refunding it back to him.  I 
consider this is also fair and reasonable. So Im not going to ask AIG to do anything 
differently. 
My final decision
My final decision is Im not going to ask American International Group UK Limited trading 
as AIG UK to do anything differently. Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr J to accept or 
reject my decision before 24 May 2022.
 
Michelle Henderson
Ombudsman