DRN-1158602
 
The complaint
This complaint is about a store card payment protection insurance (PPI) policy taken out in 
2002. Mr W says AXA France IARD (AXA) mis-sold him the PPI. 
What happened
Briefly:
In 2002 Mr W took out PPI at the same time as taking out a high-street store card. Both the 
card and the PPI were taken out in-store.
The policy provided protection for Mr Ws store card payments in the event he couldn't work 
because of accident, sickness or if he was made unemployed. It offered to repay 15% of the 
account balance a month upon successful claim and it would do so until Mr W either 
returned to work, or the balance was repaid  whichever happened first. It cost no more than 
£1.00 for every £100 Mr W owed on the card.
At the time Mr W was employed and he says he wasn't entitled to any sick pay. He also said 
he had no other means he could use to make his repayment, and he was in good health at 
the time of the sale.
AXAs records show Mr W paid around £54 in total for PPI.
The adjudicator didn't uphold the complaint. They said the evidence showed Mr W chose to 
take out PPI and there was nothing to indicate it was wrong or inappropriate for him. They 
also said in response to a specific complaint point Mr W raised that the minimum card 
repayment was 4% of the balance - but the PPI would pay 15% (Mr W said that when he 
claimed on the policy he discovered he still had to pay for the PPI and this cost more than 
the minimum payment, so he cancelled it.) 
Mr W, through his representative disagrees so the complaint comes to me for a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken into account whats relevant here in deciding Mr Ws case.
Ive decided not to uphold Mr W's complaint because:
I think AXA made it clear that Mr W didn't have to take out the PPI and that he chose 
to take it out  although I can understand why he cant now remember this.
This was a sale in a store. AXA has provided a copy of Mr Ws store card application 
and agreement. And here I can see there was a separate section for PPI headed: Protecting your Account where underneath the statement: Account Cover...only sign 
this box if your require account cover. Mr W signed the box to take out the policy.
AXA didnt recommend the PPI to Mr W  Ive not seen anything to show me that it 
did - so it didn't have to check if it was right for him. But it did have to make sure Mr 
W got the information he needed to decide if it was right for him.
 
I accept its possible the information AXA gave Mr W about the PPI wasn't as clear 
as it shouldve been. For example the store card application didn't say anything about 
the significant exclusions on or limits to the cover - Mr W would've had to find this in 
the policy document. And I cant see the information about the cost was made clear. 
But Mr W chose to take out the PPI - so it looks like he wanted this type of cover. 
Based on what Ive seen of his circumstances at the time it doesn't look like he was 
affected by any of the exclusions to or limits on the PPI cover. And Mr Ws own 
testimony is that he didn't have any existing means he could call on to help meet his 
repayments - so it would have been useful for him if something went wrong. It also 
looks like the PPI was affordable. So I dont think better information about the PPI 
would have put Mr W off taking out the cover. 
This means I find Mr W hasn't lost out as a result of having PPI with his store card, so AXA 
doesn't have to pay back to Mr W what he paid for PPI.
Ive thought about everything Mr W has said - including what hes said about being forced to 
cancel his policy - it was useless - when he discovered during a claim that he still had to pay 
for the PPI and its cost exceeded the minimum card payment. But these things don't change 
my decision.
Firstly AXA has no record of Mr W making a claim. But in any event, Im not persuaded by 
what he says about this. Mr W's account spend appears to have been around £340. It is the 
case that the PPI premiums continued to be payable during a claim. But the minimum card 
repayment was 4% of the outstanding balance; the PPI cost £1 for every £100 Mr W owed 
on the card; and the policy provided a monthly benefit of 15% of the outstanding balance. So 
upon a successful claim the PPI pay out would far exceed the continuing PPI cost and it had 
the potential to clear the outstanding balance in full. So I think if Mr W had understood the 
cost and benefit proposition at the outset he'd have still taken out the PPI.
My final decision
For the reasons above, I've decided not to uphold Mr W's complaint and I make no award.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 19 February 2020.
Paul Featherstone
Ombudsman