DRN-3908582
The complaint
Mr M complains that Zopa Limited (Zopa) irresponsibly granted him a credit card he 
couldnt afford to repay. 
What happened
In December 2021 Mr M entered into an agreement with Zopa to have access to credit by 
way of a credit card account. He was given a credit limit of £500. There were no credit limit 
increases. 
Mr M says that Zopa didnt complete adequate affordability checks when it opened his 
account. He says he was already struggling financially at the time with other loans and credit 
cards. 
Zopa didnt agree. It said that it carried out a reasonable and proportionate assessment to 
check Mr Ms financial circumstances before granting him the credit. 
Our adjudicator didnt recommend the complaint be upheld. She said that Zopa carried out 
proportionate checks when granting Mr M the opening credit.  
As Mr M didnt agree the complaint has been passed to me for a final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Zopa will be familiar with all the rules, regulations and good industry practice we consider 
when looking at a complaint concerning unaffordable and irresponsible lending. So, I dont 
consider it necessary to set all of this out in this decision. Information about our approach to 
these complaints is set out on our website. 
Before opening the account, I think Zopa gathered a reasonable amount of evidence and 
information from Mr M about his ability to repay. I say this because it completed credit and 
affordability checks which showed no significant adverse information. Zopa also relied on 
Mr Ms declared income of £31,000 and an allowance of £210 for housing costs. It then 
verified this information using credit reference agency data which showed he had a 
mortgage and was making use of loans and other credit. However, just because I think it 
carried out proportionate checks, it doesnt automatically mean it made a fair lending 
decision. So, Ive thought about what the evidence and information showed. 
Ive reviewed the information and evidence Zopa gathered. Having done so Im satisfied that 
the checks that were completed showed that the agreement was likely to be affordable.
Mr M says he was making use of loans and other credit cards at time. Ive noticed that 
previously Mr M had made use of short-term loans but these all appear to have been settled 
by the time he took out this credit. I also see that Mr M already had three recent loans in 
place when he took out the card, showing a balance of around £4,600. He was also actively 
using at least one credit card. But his previous payment history appears to have been good 
with no adverse markers on his credit such as default or county court judgments. I therefore 
dont consider that it was unreasonable for Zopa to grant the relatively modest opening credit 
limit that it did.
Finally, I see that Mr M is unhappy that he was unable to make contact with Zopa on a 
particular time and date, which Zopa says was outside its normal operating hours. Zopa has 
been unable to trace any contact from his email address. Given that from what Ive see Mr M 
wasnt unduly inconvenienced and was still able to start his complaint, I dont think Zopa 
needs to do anything more. 
It follows that, whilst Im sorry to disappoint Mr M on this occasion and to learn that he is still 
experiencing financial difficulty, I dont think Zopa acted unfairly when it granted him this 
credit. 
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, Im not upholding Mr Ms complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 24 March 2023. 
Michael Goldberg
Ombudsman