DRN-2807541
The complaint
Mr M is unhappy that Metro Bank Plc (Metro Bank) didnt do more to prevent money being 
withdrawn by the other account holder from their joint account.
What happened
Mr M held a Metro Bank current account jointly with his ex-partner. On 16 March 2019, 
shortly after midnight, he contacted it because he was concerned the other account holder 
was planning on transferring £7,000 out of the account following a dispute between them. He 
asked to have their access removed from the account so this wouldnt happen.
Metro Bank said it wasnt possible to remove one partys access as it was a joint account. It 
said the only option to stop the other party gaining access would be to freeze the account  
blocking both account holders access. Both account holders would need to visit a branch in 
order to reactivate the account. Its in dispute what happened next. Mr M has said he was 
told the account would be frozen and he planned to go into branch the following morning to 
restore his access. Metro Bank says Mr M declined to freeze the account as he needed 
access to it so no further action was taken.
Later on 16 March 2019 the other account holder transferred £7,000 out of the account. 
Mr M saw this and contacted Metro Bank as hed understood the account to have been 
frozen. He was informed this hadnt been done. He asked Metro Bank to retrieve the funds 
and was told they would try and contact the recipient. He says he was told the money would 
be refunded to him.
Metro Bank later informed Mr M it had been unable to retrieve funds from the recipient and 
the matter was a civil dispute. It recommended he contacted the police if he felt the funds 
had been taken by the joint account holder fraudulently. 
In July 2020, following the conclusion of a police investigation Mr M contacted Metro Bank to 
make a complaint. He said the police had concluded the money had been taken by the joint 
account holder unlawfully and therefore hed been a victim of fraud. He said Metro Bank 
should be responsible for returning the money to him.
Metro Bank didnt uphold his complaint. It said the correct processes had been followed and 
the situation was a civil dispute between account holders. Mr M wasnt happy with its 
response and brought the complaint to our service. 
I issued a provisional decision earlier this year. In summary I said that:
Although we generally need consent from both parties in order to consider a 
complaint about a joint account in the circumstances of this particular complaint I felt 
I could make a fair decision about the aspects of the complaint that impacted Mr M 
only and that doing so wouldnt prejudice or impact the other account holder. So I felt 
I could consider the merits of the complaint without the other account holders 
consent or involvement.
When Mr M opened this joint account with the other account holder, he agreed that 
both parties named on the account had the authority to access all and any funds 
available in the account, irrespective of which party they originally came from or who 
the money previously belonged to. So when the party that wasnt Mr M removed 
£7,000 from the account, Metro Bank had correctly allowed them to access the 
money.
I thought the situation Mr M had described was a civil dispute between him and the 
other account holder, not fraudulent activity, and this wasnt something our service or 
Metro Bank could solve for him. 
Based on the evidence Id seen I didnt think it was likely Mr M had told Metro Bank 
to freeze the account as it was his only account and he needed access to the funds 
himself. So I didnt think it had failed to act as hed instructed.
I could see Mr M had, in one call after the money had been taken from his account, 
been told he would receive a refund as Metro Bank failed to freeze the account as it 
shouldve. But, later in the same call it was explained to Mr M this wasnt going to 
happen and the other account holder would need to be contacted. So I think this 
information was most likely given in error and the correct information was given to 
him the same day.
In response to my provisional decision Mr M has said:
The police have confirmed the money was taken by the other account holder 
fraudulently. Theyve described it as theft by fraud. So he doesnt accept that no 
fraud has taken place and feels I need to speak to the police officer involved in 
investigating the matter.
Metro Bank told him to go to the police and that it would refund him the money if the 
police concluded the money had been stolen or taken fraudulently. Although hes 
proven this Metro Bank continues to refuse to refund the money to him.
Its suspicious that some of the call in which he was told the account would be frozen 
has gone missing and isnt his fault.
I havent received any further response to my provisional decision from Metro Bank.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive thought very carefully about what Mr M has said and the additional points hes raised. 
But overall, Im not persuaded to change my mind. I wont repeat everything I said in my 
provisional decision (and have summarised above) but Id like to address his ongoing 
concerns.
Mr M has said the police have confirmed fraud took place
When Mr M talks about fraud I believe hes referring to the fact that he feels the money 
belongs to him as it was originally his. But the terms and conditions of the joint account set 
out that either of the joint account holders had access to the account and could make a 
payment instruction with or without the knowledge of the other account holder. When the £7,000 was moved into the account Mr M jointly held with another party, all of the money 
could fairly and correctly be accessed by either party. So Metro Bank hasnt acted unfairly or 
incorrectly in giving the other account holder access to this money. 
From what I understand Mr M feels that under civil law the other account holder has stolen 
from him and the police have confirmed this. But its not for our service or Metro Bank to 
resolve a civil dispute for him. My understanding is that hed need to seek legal advice in 
order to pursue this. My role is limited to considering what Metro Banks responsibilities 
were. And as Ive explained, it was correct in allowing one of the account holders to access 
funds in their own account.
I havent seen anything which supports Mr Ms suggestion that Metro Bank told him it would 
refund the money if the police confirmed it was taken fraudulently. But, if he feels there is 
further evidence from the police Metro Bank needs to see, he can contact Metro Bank 
directly about this. For the reasons Ive already given, I dont think Metro Bank has acted 
unfairly in allowing the joint account holder to access their own account. So I dont think it 
needs to refund Mr M for his loss. Id also add that as Mr M potentially has the right to 
pursue his loss by other means, it wouldnt be fair of me to ask Metro Bank to also 
compensate him for this.
Metro Bank doesnt have the complete call recording
I agree its unfortunate Metro Bank doesnt have a complete call recording available for the 
call in which Mr M says he told it to freeze his account. In situations where evidence isnt 
available I have to base my findings on what I do have, which is what Ive done in this case. 
Although I have taken Mr Ms testimony into account, including his disappointment some of 
the call recording is missing, for the reasons Ive previously given I think the evidence we do 
have suggests its more likely than not Mr M didnt ask for his account to be frozen. And 
whilst Ive considered Mr Ms concerns that it seems suspicious some of the recording is 
missing I havent seen anything to suggest Metro Bank has deliberately withheld information. 
Id also add that Mr Ms own circumstances and the lack of plausibility around what hes said 
about asking for the account to be frozen have contributed to my decision around this point. 
Mr M has been given the opportunity to explain what his long-term plans were if the account 
was frozen or how he planned to unfreeze it when both parties would need to go into branch 
to do this and hes not provided any further information about this. So overall, Im not 
persuaded to change my view on this point.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 1 July 2021.
 
Faye Brownhill
Ombudsman