DRN-1622267
 
The complaint
Mr and Mrs H say Santander UK Plc (trading at the time as Abbey National) mis-sold them a 
payment protection insurance ("PPI") policy.
 
What happened
This complaint is about a monthly premium PPI policy taken out in connection with a 
mortgage in 2003. 
Mr and Mrs H applied for the PPI at a meeting with the bank in 2002. They completed their 
property purchase some months later, in 2003, and the PPI policy started on completion of 
the purchase.
The mortgage was in Mr and Mrs H's joint names. But Mr and Mrs H have told us Mrs H 
wasn't working at the time. And Santander's records show that the policy covered Mr H 
only. It cost around £40 per month, and would have paid a monthly benefit of £672 if Mr H 
had made a successful claim for accident, sickness or unemployment.
Our adjudicator didn't uphold the complaint. Mr and Mrs H disagreed with the adjudicators 
opinion so the complaints been passed to me.
 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Weve set out our general approach to 
complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
Mr and Mrs Hs case.
Where the evidence is incomplete or inconclusive I need to decide what I thinks most likely 
to have happened, based on the information I have.
Ive decided not to uphold Mr and Mrs Hs complaint. Ill explain why.
Mr and Mrs H have told us they don't feel it was made clear that the PPI was 
optional. They've also said they paid a monthly premium for a policy that they didn't 
know about. 
 
Santander no longer has the paperwork that Mr and Mrs H signed when they applied 
for the mortgage and the PPI. I don't think that's unreasonable, given how long ago 
the sale took place. But I've borne in mind that we know that Mr and Mrs H would 
have had to complete a separate application form and direct debit mandate for the PPI. So I think they've had realised it was a separate product from the mortgage. The 
insurer's records show that it wrote to Mr and Mrs H before they completed their  
purchase. And I've seen a copy of the welcome letter that it sent to them after they 
completed the purchase. Its records also show that it sent a policy schedule to the 
new address once the purchase had completed.
 
I acknowledge that Mr and Mrs H say they didn't receive the welcome letter or any 
other paperwork about the policy. But I think it's unlikely, on balance, that they didn't 
receive any of the letters that the insurer sent them. And the policy premiums would 
have shown on Mr and Mrs H's bank statements. If they hadn't agreed to take out the 
PPI, I think it's likely they'd have queried this, but I've seen nothing to suggest that 
they did so. Overall, I think it's likely that the PPI was presented as optional. And I 
think Mr and Mrs H probably decided to take the cover, knowing that they didn't have 
to.
Santander says it would have recommended the PPI to Mr and Mrs H. This means 
that it had a responsibility to check that it was suitable for them. But it doesn't look as 
if it was unsuitable, based on what Ive seen of their circumstances at the time.
 
Mr H has told us he can't remember whether he'd have been entitled to any sick pay 
or redundancy pay from his employer at the time. If he'd made a successful claim for 
accident, sickness or unemployment, the PPI would have covered Mr and Mrs H's 
monthly mortgage payments for up to a year. I think this would have been particularly 
important to Mr and Mrs H, as they've told us that Mrs H wasn't working at the time. 
What's more, it would have paid out in addition to any payments Mr H received from 
his employer. So Mr and Mrs H could have used those to meet other day-to-day 
expenses. 
 
I acknowledge that Mr and Mrs H have told us that they had some savings. But I've 
borne in mind that they'd chosen to protect those, rather than taking out a smaller 
mortgage. And the PPI would have meant that they didn't need to use their savings 
to make their mortgage payments if Mr H had been off sick, or if he'd lost his job. 
 
The mortgage was a long-term financial commitment, secured on Mr and Mrs H's 
home, and the consequences of not keeping up with their monthly mortgage 
payments could have been serious. So I think the policy would have given them 
peace of mind that their mortgage payments would continue to be made if Mr H was 
off sick, or if he lost his job.  
 
The cost of the policy was shown in the welcome letter. So I think Mr and Mrs 
H would have understood how much they'd need to pay for it. And since they were 
paying for the PPI monthly, they could have cancelled it at any time with no further 
cost if their circumstances changed, or if they decided they no longer needed 
the cover.
 
Its possible Santander didn't point out the main things the policy didn't cover (for 
example, unusual working arrangements, or existing medical conditions). But from 
what I've seen of his circumstances at the time, its unlikely that Mr H would have been affected by any of these. So I don't think that better information would have put 
Mr and Mrs H off taking the cover.
 
I'm sorry to disappoint Mr and Mrs H, but for the reasons I've set out, I don't find that the PPI 
was mis-sold.
 
My final decision
My decision is that I do not uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H and Mrs H to 
accept or reject my decision before 15 April 2020.
Juliet Collins
Ombudsman