DRN-4483129
The complaint
Mr S complains about the advice True Potential Wealth Management LLP (True Potential) 
gave to him to transfer the benefits from his defined-benefit (DB) occupational pension 
scheme to a self-invested personal pension (SIPP). He says the advice was unsuitable for 
him and believes this has caused a financial loss.
What happened
In March 2016, Mr S employer announced that it would be examining options to restructure 
its business, including decoupling the BSPS (the employers DB scheme) from the company. 
The consultation with members referred to possible outcomes regarding their preserved 
benefits, which included transferring the scheme to the Pension Protection Fund (PPF)1, or 
a new defined-benefit scheme (BSPS2). Alternatively, members were informed they could 
transfer their benefits to a private pension arrangement.
In May 2017, the PPF made the announcement that the terms of a Regulated Apportionment 
Arrangement (RAA) had been agreed. That announcement said that if risk-related 
qualifying conditions relating to funding and size could be satisfied, a new pension scheme 
sponsored by Mr Ss employer would be set up  the BSPS2. The RAA was signed and 
confirmed in August 2017 and the agreed steps were carried out shortly after.
In September 2017 the BSPS provided Mr S with a summary of the transfer value of his 
scheme benefits to take account of the RAA. His benefits had a cash equivalent transfer 
value (CETV) of £349,967. 
Mr S approached True Potential for advice. It conducted a fact-find with him and assessed 
his attitude to risk. Amongst other things it noted that Mr S was 50 years old and married to 
Mrs S. They had two children aged 18 and 21 who they anticipated being dependent on 
them until they were both aged 25. They owned their own home subject to a mortgage that 
was due to be repaid in 2024. Mr S had a cautious attitude to risk.
In October 2017, members of the BSPS were sent a time to choose letter which gave them 
the options to either stay in the BSPS and move with it to the PPF, move to the BSPS2 or 
transfer their BSPS benefits elsewhere.
The same month, October 2017, True Potential carried out a transfer value analysis (TVAS) 
report which set out the growth rates required from an alternative personal arrangement (the 
critical yields) to match the DB scheme benefits. It then gave Mr S its suitability report setting 
out its analysis and recommendations. In brief it recommended he should transfer his DB 
scheme benefits to a named SIPP.
Mr S accepted True Potentials advice and transferred his DB benefits to the SIPP.
1 The PPF acts as a lifeboat for insolvent DB pension schemes. It pays compensation to members of 
eligible schemes for their lifetime. The compensation levels are, generally, around 90% of the level of 
the original schemes benefits for deferred pensions. But the PPFs rules and benefits may differ from 
the original scheme.
In 2022 Mr S complained to True Potential that its advice may not have been suitable for 
him. True Potential replied in April 2022. It didnt uphold his complaint.
Mr S asked the Financial Ombudsman Service to consider his complaint. One of our 
Investigators looked into it. He didn't think True Potentials advice was suitable for Mr S. So 
he recommended it establish if Mr S had suffered a financial loss as a result of its advice. He 
also said True Potential should pay Mr S £300 to address the worry he suffered from 
learning that he might have put his pension at unnecessary risk.
Mr S accepted our Investigators complaint assessment. True Potential didnt. It provided a 
comprehensive reply setting out why it thought its advice was suitable for Mr S. As 
agreement couldnt be reached the complaint was referred for an Ombudsmans review.
While the complaint was awaiting an Ombudsman's attention, in January 2023, True 
Potential said that, in an attempt to put an end to the matter it would instruct actuaries to 
calculate if Mr S had suffered a loss. Its actuaries applied the regulators  the Financial 
conduct Authority (FCA)  calculation methodology applicable at the time. The actuaries 
calculated that Mr S hadn't suffered a financial loss. However, True Potential said it would 
pay Mr S the £300 our Investigator had recommended to address Mr S distress and 
inconvenience. It also noted that the FCA would be introducing an amended loss calculation 
methodology in the coming months.
Mr S wasnt happy with True Potentials offer to settle the complaint. So the case was again 
referred for an Ombudsmans review. While the complaints been awaiting an Ombudsmans 
attention the FCA introduced a BSPS specific calculator to establish if former BSPS 
members had suffered a financial loss as a result of unsuitable advice. 
Earlier this month (November 2023) True Potential used that calculator to establish if Mr S 
had suffered a loss because of its advice. The calculation showed Mr S had not suffered a 
loss. 
Mr S still wasnt happy that his complaint had been resolved, so it's been referred to me to 
make a final determination.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.I understand True Potential is still disputing that it gave Mr S unsuitable advice. But, 
nonetheless in order to conclude the matter its already carried out loss calculations. So I 
dont see the need to address the suitability of its advice to Mr S in detail.
That said, I will briefly comment that I agree with the Investigators view that the advice was 
unsuitable for similar reasons. In particular Ive been mindful that the FCAs guidance for 
advising firms is that they should assume that a transfer from a DB scheme is unsuitable. 
And they should only recommend one where they can clearly show it was in the consumers 
best interests. I dont think that was the case for Mr S. 
Thats because, amongst other things, the growth rates required to match the DB scheme 
benefits were high. True Potential itself acknowledged they were unlikely to be met. I note 
True Potential said Mr S could meet his income needs in retirement from drawing down his 
pension. However, once hed transferred his funds, he was putting those at risk of the 
volatilities of the investment markets. And if Mr S investments suffered poor performance, or 
market crashes leading to losses, he could potentially find himself worse off in retirement. 
Whereas remaining in the DB scheme would have provided a guaranteed and escalating 
income for the rest of his life. He lost those guarantees by transferring. 
Overall, I cant see persuasive reasons why it was in Mr S best interest to give up his DB 
scheme guarantees.
Putting things right
The sticking point now in terms of concluding the matter is not the suitability of the advice but 
True Potentials offer for redress. Mr S still doesn't consider the matter resolved. 
When considering what is appropriate redress the aim is to put Mr S back in the financial 
position he would have been in at retirement had he remained in the DB scheme. True 
Potential carried out a calculation using a specific BSPS calculator provided by the FCA, 
which is what I would expect it to do at this time. 
The calculator was designed to establish how much a consumer needs in their pension 
arrangement to secure equivalent retirement benefits that they would have been entitled to 
under either BSPS2 or the PPF, had they not transferred out. It uses economic and 
demographic assumptions as set out by the FCA in order to do so.
If the calculation shows there is not enough money in the consumers pension arrangement 
to match the BSPS benefits they would have received, the shortfall is the amount owed to 
the consumer. If the calculation shows there is enough money in the consumers pension 
arrangement, then no redress is due.
The BSPS calculator has been developed by actuaries and is programmed by the FCA with 
benefit structures of the BSPS, BSPS2 and PPF (including the impact of the subsequent 
buy-out) and relevant economic and demographic assumptions which are updated regularly. 
This information cant be changed by firms.
The calculator also makes automatic allowances for ongoing advice fees of 0.5% a year and 
product charges of 0.75% a year which are set percentages by the FCA.
I have checked the inputs that True Potential entered which are specific to Mr S. These 
include his personal details, his individual benefits from the BSPS at the date he left the 
scheme and the value of his personal pension. The calculation also assumes that if he had 
not been advised to transfer his benefits from the BSPS, he would have moved to the 
BSPS2 and that he would have taken his DB benefits at age 65. Overall, based on what Ive seen, the calculation has been carried out appropriately and in 
line with the rules for calculating redress for non-compliant pension transfer advice, as 
detailed in the FCAs policy statement PS22/13 and set out in their handbook in DISP App 4:
https://www.handbook.fca.org.uk/handbook/DISP/App/4/?view=chapter.
The calculation in Mr S case shows that there is no shortfall to his pension and that he has 
sufficient funds to be able to replicate his DB benefits in retirement. So, Im satisfied Mr S 
has not suffered a financial loss by transferring his pension.
True Potential has agreed to pay Mr S the £300 our Investigator recommended to address 
the distress and inconvenience this matter has caused him. I dont doubt Mr S has likely 
been caused some distress and concern by finding out the advice may not have been 
suitable. And Im conscious this upset wouldnt have happened but for True Potentials 
advice. So, in the circumstances, I think the award the Investigator recommended is fair and 
reasonable.
My final decision
I uphold this complaint and require True Potential Wealth Management LLP to pay Mr S a 
sum of £300 for the worry he says this matter has caused him. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 December 2023.
 
Joe Scott
Ombudsman