DRN-2731914
The complaint
The trustees of a trust Ill refer to as B have complained that AXA Insurance UK Plc took too 
long to consider their commercial property insurance claim and then avoided the policy and 
refused to pay the claim. Mr E has complained on the trustees behalf. 
What happened
B bought a commercial property insurance policy with AXA in February 2019. In September 
2019, B claimed on their policy following damage caused by an escape of water. In March 
2020, B complained to AXA as they thought AXA was taking too long to deal with their claim. 
When AXA still didnt give B an answer on their claim, B brought their complaint to us. They 
were unhappy with how long things were taking and thought AXA had provided poor 
customer service.
While we were looking into things AXA told B that it would be avoiding their policy (which 
means to cancel from the start as if it had never existed) as it didnt think theyd made a fair 
presentation of risk when buying the policy. AXA said B had made two previous high value 
claims for escape of water in 2017 and 2018. And if AXA had known about those claims it 
wouldnt have sold B the policy. 
B said the claims were in the name of Mr Es previous company. He said hed asked the 
broker whod told him he didnt need to disclose that information. AXA said it had spoken to 
the broker who said the previous claims hadnt been disclosed. AXA thought the failure to 
make a fair presentation of the risk was deliberate or reckless and so avoided the policy and 
kept Bs premium. As the policy had been avoided, AXA turned down Bs claim. 
Our investigator looked into Bs complaint but didnt recommend it be upheld. He thought it 
was reasonable for AXA to say B had deliberately or recklessly not made a fair presentation 
of the risk and to avoid Bs policy. He also thought AXA had taken a reasonable amount of 
time to look into things, given the investigation required into the claim and didnt think AXA 
had provided a poor service while dealing with the claim. 
B didnt agree with the investigators view and asked for an ombudsmans decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Under the Insurance Act 2015 (the Act) Mr E had a duty to make a fair presentation of the 
risk when buying Bs policy. And for AXA to take any action it needs to show that Mr E didnt 
do that and that he made whats known as a qualifying breach. To demonstrate a qualifying 
breach AXA would need to show that if Mr E had made a fair presentation of the risk it would 
have either not offered B the policy or would have charged extra. 
AXA has provided a statement of facts that shows the information it based the quotation on. I 
think this shows the information that AXA wanted to know about. 
The relevant part of the statement of facts says:
Section 5 - Previous Claims History:
In connection with The Business or any other business in which You or any 
partner, director, principal shareholder or family members are, or have been 
involved, and in respect of the cover(s) now granted
 there have been no incidents in the 5 years prior to inception of this Policy 
which have or could have resulted in a claim, whether insured or not
Underneath this statement it says NOTHING DISCLOSED. 
I think its clear from this that AXA wanted to know about any claims made by either B or any 
previous business Mr E had been involved in. AXA sent this document to B, so Mr E had an 
opportunity to correct anything that was incorrect. However, I havent seen anything to 
indicate that he let AXA know about any previous claims. 
As there had been previous claims at the property, from a company Mr E was a director of,
I dont think he made a fair presentation of the risk when buying the policy. AXA has
provided information to show it wouldnt have sold the policy, if Mr E had provided the 
correct information. So, I think Mr E made a qualifying breach.
A qualifying breach is either deliberate or reckless or neither deliberate nor reckless. The Act 
says that a qualifying breach is deliberate or reckless if the insured knew that it was in 
breach of the duty of fair presentation or did not care whether or not it was in breach of that 
duty. 
AXA believe that Mr Es breach was deliberate or reckless. I understand Mr E said he asked 
the broker who said he didnt need to declare them. However, AXA said it had spoken to the 
broker who said Mr E hadnt declared the claims when buying the policy. The broker said 
that after AXA asked about the claims Mr E called and suggested the broker knew about the 
claims, but he said that wasnt correct. As this is a complaint against AXA, Im not able to 
make a finding on the actions of the broker. If B are unhappy with the broker, they would 
need to complain about them separately. 
I think the wording in the statement of facts makes it clear that this information was important 
to AXA and Mr E should have disclosed the claims. Given that two high value claims were 
made in the two years before Mr E bought this policy, I think he should reasonably have 
known he needed to declare them in order to make a fair presentation of the risk. As such, I 
think it was fair and reasonable for AXA to say the qualifying breach was deliberate or 
reckless. 
Under the Act, the remedy for a qualifying breach that is deliberate or reckless is to avoid the 
policy and keep the premium. This is what AXA has done, so Im not going to interfere with 
its decision. As the policy wasnt in force at the time of the claim, it follows that I dont think 
AXA needs to pay Bs claim. 
I can see it took AXA a while to make a decision on Bs claim and that it accepted there was 
a delay when a report wasnt reviewed as quickly as it should have been. But I think the 
main reason for the time taken was due to AXA needing to investigate whether Mr E made a 
fair presentation of risk when buying the policy. I can see from AXAs contact notes that it 
was actively working on Bs claim so, I dont think any delays in viewing documents made a difference to the outcome of Bs claim. AXAs contact notes also show that Mr E called in a 
number of times. Im satisfied that these notes show that AXA responded to these calls and 
tried to give Mr E meaningful updates when he got in touch. 
I appreciate my decision will be a disappointment for Mr E, but Im not going to require AXA 
to do anything further. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask B to accept or 
reject my decision before 2 July 2021.
 
Sarann Taylor
Ombudsman