DRN-4192121
The complaint
Mr and Mrs D complain that Chaucer Insurance Company Designated Activity Company has 
turned down a cancellation claim they made on a travel insurance policy.
What happened
Mr and Mrs D are insured under a group travel insurance policy. Mr and Mrs D had been 
booked to travel abroad. Theyd booked flights and hotel accommodation separately.
As a result of the Covid-19 pandemic, Mr and Mrs Ds trip had to be postponed on more than 
one occasion. Ultimately, Mr and Mrs D rescheduled their trip and were due to travel in 
October 2022. However, in June 2022, Mr and Mrs Ds airline cancelled their flights. And at 
this point, the hotel refused to change the accommodation booking dates.
Mr and Mrs D said theyd tried to find alternative flights in order to allow them to make use of 
the hotel booking, but they werent able to do so. Therefore, they cancelled the hotel booking 
and in July 2022, they made a claim on the travel insurance policy for their lost 
accommodation costs.
Chaucer turned down Mr and Mrs Ds claim. It said the circumstances of the claim werent 
covered by the cancellation section of the policy.
Mr and Mrs D were unhappy with Chaucers decision and they asked us to look into their 
complaint. They considered that the cancellation and curtailment cover hadnt been clearly 
set out in the policy terms and conditions. They felt the policy terms were ambiguous.
Our investigator didnt think Mr and Mrs Ds complaint should be upheld. Briefly, he didnt 
think that the policy terms were unclear or ambiguous. And he didnt think the cause of the 
claim was something which Chaucer had decided to cover. So he felt itd been fair for 
Chaucer to turn down Mr and Mrs Ds claim.
Mr and Mrs D disagreed and so the complaints been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, whilst Im very sorry to disappoint Mr and Mrs D, I think it was fair for 
Chaucer to turn down their claim and Ill explain why.
The relevant regulators rules say that insurers must handle claims promptly and fairly. And 
that they mustnt turn down claims unreasonably. So Ive considered, amongst other things, 
the terms of the policy and the circumstances of Mr and Mrs Ds claim, to decide whether I 
think Chaucer treated Mr and Mrs D fairly.
Its important that I make clear that no insurance policy covers every eventuality and insurers 
are entitled to decide what level of risk they wish to accept in return for the premium paid for 
a policy. Therefore, Chaucers obligations under the group contract are limited by the terms, 
conditions and exclusions which are set out in the contract. Mr D didnt take out an all-risks 
policy. This means that Chaucer has set out the specific, listed insured events its chosen to 
cover within the policy terms.
Ive carefully considered the policy terms and conditions, as these form the basis of the 
group insurance contract. Mr and Mrs D cancelled their holiday, so I think it was reasonable 
and appropriate for Chaucer to consider the claim under Section 1 Cancellation or 
Curtailment. This says:
You are covered up to the amount shown in the benefits table for your proportionate share 
of the unused travel and accommodation costs (including unused pre booked excursions up 
to a value of £150) that have been paid or where there is a contract to pay that cannot be 
recovered from anywhere else if:
1. cancellation of the trip is necessary and unavoidable or
2. the trip is curtailed before completion
as a result of any of the following events:
a. 
1. your death,
2. you suffering bodily injury,
3. your illness,
4. your contracting disease,
5. you testing positive for Coronavirus within 14 days of your trip departure date, (for 
cancellation of your trip),
6. you being admitted to hospital due to testing positive for Coronavirus since you purchased 
your policy or booked your trip, whichever is the later (for cancellation of your trip),
7. you testing positive for Coronavirus during your trip (for curtailment of your trip),
8. you suffering complications of pregnancy.
b. The death, bodily injury, illness disease, or complications of pregnancy of: your relative or 
that of a travelling companion, a business colleague or a person with whom you intend to 
stay.
c. receipt of a summons for jury service, being subpoenaed as a court witness, called to 
court as a witness (but not as an expert witness) or being placed in compulsory quarantine.
d. unexpected requirement for emergency and unavoidable duty as a member of the police, 
fire, nursing, ambulance or coastguard services resulting in cancellation of previously agreed 
leave.
e. redundancy, provided that you are entitled to payment under the current redundancy 
payments legislation and that at the time of booking your trip you had no reason to believe 
that you would be made redundant. You must have had 2 years continuous employment with 
that employer.
f. your presence being required to make your property safe and secure following fire, flood or 
burglary that causes serious damage at your home within 48 hours prior to your departure, 
or whilst you are away.
g. your car becoming unusable as a result of theft, fire or accident within 7 days prior to your 
departure. This only applies if you are planning to go on a self-drive trip in the car.
In this case, Mr and Mrs D cancelled their holiday after their airline cancelled their flights and 
their hotel subsequently refused to allow them to amend the booking once more. I dont think 
it was unfair or unreasonable for Chaucer to conclude that the events which led to Mr and 
Mrs D cancelling their trip werent covered by the cancellation section of the policy.
Mr and Mrs D feel strongly that the policy terms are unclear and ambiguous. They consider 
that the insured events Ive set out above only apply if a holiday is curtailed. They feel that in 
order for a cancellation claim to succeed, the cancellation needs only to have been 
necessary and unavoidable.Ive thought carefully about Mr and Mrs Ds arguments on this point. But I dont agree that 
the policy terms are unclear or ambiguous. This section of the policy refers to cancellation or 
curtailment cover, as they are two separate and distinct events. Subsection 1 cancellation 
and subsection 2 curtailment are listed separately and indented. And the phrase as a result 
of any of the following events is set out underneath both subsections as a separate, 
standalone clause. It isnt a continuation of 2 and it isnt printed as part of the same 
sentence. I think Chaucer has made it sufficiently clear that the policy needs to be read as a 
whole and that cancellation will only be covered if it is caused by one of the listed, specific 
insured events.
On that basis, I dont find that Chaucer acted unfairly or unreasonably when it decided to 
turn down Mr and Mrs Ds claim. Id add too that in any event, I havent seen enough 
evidence to show me its more likely than not that the cancellation of the trip was necessary 
and unavoidable. I say that because Mr and Mrs D were due to fly to a major international 
airport, which is serviced by a number of airlines, offering regular flights. I havent seen 
enough to show me that Mr and Mrs D were unable to find alternative flights, or an 
alternative means of travel, in the four months between the flight cancellation and their 
planned hotel stay dates, which wouldve allowed them to make use of the hotel booking. So 
even if I hadnt thought the policy wording was clear, based on the evidence Ive seen, I 
dont think Mr and Mrs D showed that they met the policy terms.
Overall, despite my natural sympathy with Mr and Mrs Ds position, as I appreciate the 
holiday was originally booked for a special occasion, I think it was fair for Chaucer to turn 
down their claim.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr D and Mrs D to 
accept or reject my decision before 28 August 2023.
 
Lisa Barham
Ombudsman