The complaint  
Ms F complains that National Westminster Bank Plc didnt do enough to protect her from the  
financial harm caused by an investment scam company, or to help her recover the money  
once shed reported the scam.  
What happened  
The detailed background to this complaint is well known to both parties. So, Ill only provide  
a brief overview of some of the key events here.  
In October 2021, Ms F was looking to invest in cryptocurrency as she had some friends who  
had made some profit from  it. Her friends were actioning their own trades and investments  
but as she had no prior knowledge of cryptocurrency, she wanted to find an agent or broker  
to help her.  
She read an article online which included a link to a platform that she understood wou ld put  
her in touch with a broker. She registered her interest and was subsequently contacted by  
an agent who did a full security check and asked for photo ID to verify her identity. During  
the call Ms F was given a code and told that if she ever received a call about the investment,  
she should ask the caller for the code. She was then told she would be contacted by an  
appropriate investment company.  
Two days later, Ms F was called by someone claiming to be a broker who worked for a  
company Ill refer to as M. He quoted the security code and sounded friendly, professional,  
and extremely knowledgeable about investing. The broker told Ms F shed need to make an  
initial deposit of £200 to open an account. He explained the process and said hed place  
trades on her behalf, taking a commission cut of 2.5% of her profits.  
Before going ahead with the investment, Ms F carried out some due diligence and found  
some reviews online which were mostly positive. There were some negative reviews, but  
she felt this was be lievable. She also checked Ms website, which was slick and  
professional, and featured profit and loss charts and graphs showing the fluctuating market  
performance of different currencies.  
On 11 October 2021, Ms F used her debit card to pay £189.13 to ope n an account. The  
broker told her to download Anydesk so he could take control of her trades and that she  
should purchase cryptocurrency through a cryptocurrency exchange company and then load  
the cryptocurrency onto her online wallet.  
Following the initi al payment, Ms F spoke to the broker regularly. Around the beginning of  
November 2021, he told her there would soon be major movement in the market and hed  
get a loan of £20,000 from M, which he could use to demonstrate how he could generate  
profit. Ms F could see the loan generated around £60,000 profit within a week, which she  
didnt think was unreasonable or unrealistic based on stories shed heard of people making  
life-changing sums of money from investing in cryptocurrency.  
The broker told Ms F she c ould make a withdrawal, but shed have to pay the loan back. He  
DRN-4440948advised her to invest £20,000 to pay back the loan, and a further £4,000, which would gain  
her an additional "bonus" and elevate her account to "gold status. He assured her that if  
something went wrong, hed send the money from his own bonus account.  
 
Ms F tried to transfer £17,000, but the payment didnt reach the brokers account and when  
she discussed this with broker, he said NatWest didnt like people sending money to  
investment companies and told her to send money from the account she held with W.  
On 25 November 2021, she sent £20,000 to W, followed by £4,000 on 26 November 2021.  
 
Neither payment was flagged for security checks and Ms F immediately saw a £4,000 bonus  
payment on  her trading account. But shortly afterwards she lost contact with the broker, and  
she eventually realised shed been scammed.  
 
Ms F complained to NatWest, but it said the payments were to an account in her own name,  
so it wasnt the point of the loss. It said it places appropriate and relevant warning messages  
across its online banking facility to warn customers about scams and that the information is  
available on its websites and in its branches. And that before making a payment, a scam  
warning is display ed on its online banking facility and these messages are displayed before  
making a transfer or adding a new payee.  
 
It said the disputed payments didnt match any fraud trends and werent deemed suspicious,  
so there were no blocks or restrictions applied. And there was no evidence that the card  
payment was brought to its attention at the same time as the bank transfers, so a  
chargeback request would be out of time.  
 
Ms F wasnt satisfied and so she complained to this service. She argued that if NatWest had  
identified the payments as unusual and suspicious and asked relevant probing questions, it  
would have become apparent she was falling victim to a scam. Her representative said  
NatWest should have identified the payments as unusual and suspicious given the amounts  
and the fact the payees were linked to cryptocurrency, and but for its failure to make further  
enquiries, it would have been on notice that Ms F was going to suffer financial harm.  
 
The representative said that if NatWest has asked Ms F what the payments were for and the  
basic surrounding context, its likely shed have fully explained what she was doing and that  
everything had originated from the broker. So, even though she was sending money to a  
legitimate cryptocurrency exchange company, it s hould have still provided a scam warning.  
 
NatWest maintained it wasnt the point of loss. It said Ms F had made large payments, some  
of which related to cryptocurrency, and she didnt heed any of the online warning messages  
displayed prior to making the p ayments via her online banking platform.  
 
My provisional findings  
 
I thought about whether NatWest could have done more to recover the debit card payment.  
Chargeback is a voluntary scheme run by Visa whereby it will ultimately arbitrate on a  
dispute betwee n the merchant and customer if it cannot be resolved between them after two  
presentments. Such arbitration is subject to the rules of the scheme  so there are limited 
grounds on which a chargeback can succeed. Our role in such cases is not to second -guess 
Visas arbitration decision or scheme rules, but to determine whether the regulated card  
issuer (i.e. NatWest) acted fairly and reasonably when presenting (or choosing not to  
present) a chargeback on behalf of its cardholder (Ms F).  
 
Ms Fs own testimon y support that she used cryptocurrency exchanges to facilitate the  
transfers. Its only possible to make a chargeback claim to the merchant that received the  
disputed payments. Its most likely that the cryptocurrency exchanges would have been able  to evide nce theyd done what was asked of them. That is, in exchange for Ms Fs payments,  
they converted and sent an amount of cryptocurrency to the wallet address provided. So,  
any chargeback was destined fail, therefore I was satisfied that NatWests decision no t to 
raise a chargeback request was fair.  
 
I was satisfied Ms F authorised the payments for the purposes of the of the Payment  
Services Regulations 2017 (the Regulations), in force at the time. So, although she didnt  
intend the money to go to scammers, under the Regulations, and under the terms and  
conditions of his bank account, Ms F is presumed liable for the loss in the first instance.  
 
Not every complaint referred to us and categorised as an investment scam is in fact a scam.  
Some cases sim ply involve high -risk unregulated investments that resulted in disappointing  
returns or losses. Some of these investments may have been promoted using sales methods  
that were arguably unethical and/or misleading. However, while customers who lost out may  
understandably regard such acts or omissions as fraudulent, they do not necessarily meet  
the high legal threshold or burden of proof for fraud, i.e. dishonestly making a false  
representation and/or failing to disclose information with the intention of makin g a gain for  
himself or of causing loss to another or exposing another to the risk of loss (Fraud Act 2006).  
 
I carefully considered the circumstances, and I was persuaded the broker was operating as  
part of a scam. But, although Ms F didnt intend her mon ey to go to scammers, she did  
authorise the disputed payments. NatWest is expected to process payments any  
withdrawals that a customer authorises it to make, but where the customer has been the  
victim of a scam, it may sometimes be fair and reasonable for the bank to reimburse them  
even though they authorised the payment.  
 
Prevention  
 
I thought about whether NatWest could have done more to prevent the scam from occurring  
altogether. Buying cryptocurrency is a legitimate activity and from the evidence Id se en, the  
payments were made to a genuine cryptocurrency exchange company. However, NatWest  
had an obligation to be alert to fraud and scams and these payments were part of a wider  
scam, so I needed to consider whether it ought to have intervened to warn Ms F when she  
tried to make the payments. If there are unusual or suspicious payments on an account, I  
would expect NatWest to intervene with a view to protecting Ms F from financial harm due to  
fraud.  
 
The payments didnt flag as suspicious on NatWests systems. I considered the nature of the  
payments in the context of whether they were unusual or uncharacteristic of how Ms F  
normally ran her account and I thought they were. Both payments were to a legitimate  
cryptocurrency exchange company, but  they were for large amounts, which was out of  
character when compared to the usual spending on the account. So, I thought NatWest  
missed an opportunity to intervene and that it should have blocked the payment and  
contacted Ms F on 25 November 2021.  
 
I exp lained that during the call, I would expect NatWest to have asked Ms F some probing  
questions around whether there was a third party involved, how she met the third party,  
whether shed been promised an unrealistic rate of return and whether shed given a nyone  
else control of her trading account. I would also expect it to have discussed the checks shed  
done and provided a full scam warning.  
 
Our investigator didnt think Ms F would have been open in her response to questioning,  
citing evidence that the br oker told her that banks dont like customers sending money to  
cryptocurrency exchange companies, which is why she then transferred the money via the  
account she held with W. But I had listened to a call dated 27 October 2021 when Ms F  discussed with NatW est the fact it didnt authorise payments to cryptocurrency exchange  
companies and that shed tried to get around that by reducing the amount and paying by  
card. This made me think she would have been honest with NatWest had it contacted her on  
25 November  2021.  
 
Because of this, if NatWest had intervened and asked robust questions, I thought it would  
probably have gathered enough information to suggest this might be a scam, including the  
fact Ms F was being advised by a broker shed found online whod advi sed her to download  
remote access software and the fact shed been told to transfer money via the account she  
held with W. And I would expect NatWest to have warned Ms F that the investment had the  
hallmarks of a scam.  
 
Ms F had said she trusted the broker because he seemed genuine, and she was  
encouraged by the fact her initial investment produced a profit. But if NatWest had warned  
her that the investment had the hallmarks of a common cryptocurrency scam and that  
£60,000 profit within a week was imp lausible, I thought shed have thought twice about what  
the broker had told her. And I was satisfied that, while there were no warnings about M on  
the FCA or IOSCO websites, if Ms F had known she could be the victim of a scam, she  
would have thought twice about going ahead with the payments as theres no evidence that  
she was keen to take risks with her money. So, I was minded to direct NatWest to refund the  
money Ms F lost from the second payment onwards.  
 
Contributory negligence  
 
I accepted theres a gene ral principle that consumers must take responsibility for their  
decisions and conduct suitable due diligence but, in the circumstances, I didnt think Ms F  
was to blame for the fact she didnt foresee the risk.  
 
In recent years instances of individuals mak ing large amounts of money by trading in  
cryptocurrency have been highly publicised to the extent that I didnt think it was  
unreasonable for Ms F to have believed what she was told by the broker in terms of the  
returns she was told were possible, notwiths tanding the fact it was highly implausible.  
 
Ms F hadnt invested in cryptocurrency before and so this was an area with which she was  
unfamiliar. She wouldnt have known the returns were unrealistic or how to check the  
information shed been given. This un familiarity was compounded by the sophisticated  
nature of the scam, the fact she trusted the broker and the fact she believed the trading  
platform was genuine and was reflecting the fact her investments were doing well. So, I  
didnt think she could fairly be held responsible for her own loss.  
 
Developments  
 
Ms F has said she accepts the findings in my provisional decision.  
 
NatWest suggested the online banking audit should be reviewed to ascertain in which order  
the payments were made, but it hasnt produced this evidence.  
 
What Ive decided  and why  
 
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and  
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
 
Ms Fs statement shows the payments were made on three different da tes and as NatWest  
hasnt provided any evidence to the contrary, Im satisfied that is what happened.  
 Because NatWest hasnt made any further comments or added anything which might alter  
my view, the findings in my final decision will be the same as the f indings in my provisional  
decision.  
 
My final decision  
 
My final decision is that National Westminster Bank Plc should:  
 refund £24,000.  
 
 pay 8% simple interest*, per year, from the respective dates of loss to the date of 
settlement.  
 
*If National Westminst er Bank Plc deducts tax in relation to the interest element of this  
award it should provide Ms F with the appropriate tax deduction certificate.  
 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms F to accept or  
reject my decision before 4 December 2023.  
 
 
Carolyn Bonnell  
Ombudsman  