DRN-3841645
The complaint
Mrs C complains on behalf of Mr and Mrs Cs (her parents) estate about St. James's Place 
Wealth Management Plc, referred to as SJP or the business. 
In short, she says her parents were given unsuitable investment advice. In other words, the 
advice they received, didnt meet their objective to help reduce their Inheritance Tax (IHT) 
liability. So, to put things right, SJP should pay the estate of Mr and Mrs C the outstanding 
IHT liability. It should also pay Mrs C compensation for distress and inconvenience shes 
suffered pursuing this complaint.  
  
Mrs C is being assisted by her financial adviser. 
What happened
One of our investigators considered the complaint but didnt think it should be upheld. In 
summary, he said:
He cant say that SJP has done anything wrong. On balance, hes satisfied that the 
recommendations were suitable, and met Mr and Mrs Cs objective at the time. 
The 2002 fact find showed that they had previous investment experience and assets 
worth more that £800,000 from 2002 onwards, which included a house. 
It was recorded that they were retired with no financial dependents. It was also 
recorded that they were medium risk investors. They confirmed in subsequent fact 
finds that their circumstances hadnt changed.  
In 2002, the business provided recommendations which helped reduce IHT as this 
was considered to be Mr and Mrs Cs main objective at the time  which is why the 
business recommended a discretionary family trust. (DFT). 
After 2002, Mr and Mrs Cs objective was investment planning, so the businesss 
recommendation was to consolidate their investments into tax efficient ISAs. The 
investments were in line with Mr and Mrs Cs objective at the time. They had over five 
years investment experience, so understood how investments worked. 
SJP arent tax advisers, so when Mr and Mrs C advised that IHT wasnt a priority, it 
wasnt the businesss role to persuade them otherwise. 
Hes seen nothing to suggest that the recommendations were unsuitable.
 
Mrs C disagreed with the investigators view and asked for an ombudsmans decision. In 
summary, she said:
She and her advisers cant find anything to substantiate the investigators claim that 
IHT wasnt a priority for Mr and Mrs C. On the contrary, the evidence shows that IHT 
planning was their principle objective, and that this remained the case throughout the 
entire period of advice. 
In short, her advisers confirmed the following:
oWhen Mr and Mrs C first spoke to the business, they confirmed that 
controlling their IHT was their priority. Investment return, whilst important, was 
secondary to their position regarding IHT. SJP confirmed this in writing. 
oMr and Mrs C never asked SJP to change their priority. 
oOnly when SJP informed Mr and Mrs C that it had done everything possible to 
reduce IHT and that the focus should be on investment return, did her parents 
agree with SJPs recommendations. And even then, they asked what more 
they could do to reduce IHT. 
The only logical reasons for Mr and Mrs C to change their concern about IHT is that 
they may need to use all their capital during their lifetime and therefore investment 
return is a greater concern than IHT, or their estate is no longer the subject of IHT  
neither of which applied here.  
SJP may be relying on the recommendation letter dated 21 November 2005. But it 
doesnt show that Mr and Mrs C changed their priority, its an attempt by SJP to 
reassure them that there was nothing further that they needed to do.  
Although the investigator notes that SJP arent tax advisers, the business still 
informed Mr and Mrs C that it could advise them on what they could do, in order to 
reduce their IHT  at no point did it notify her parents that it couldnt offer this advice.    
In page two of the Business Assurance Feedback sent to the adviser by compliance 
on 19 March 2008, compliance said that the sales letter from the agent to the client 
shouldve confirmed that the clients had IHT liability, but no such confirmation was 
given. If the adviser had followed procedure, and given this information, Mr and Mrs 
C wouldve questioned the suitability of the advice they received. 
The investigator confirmed that SJP gave advice that helped reduce IHT liability in 
2002, but Mr and Mrs C remained clients of SJP for many years after this and the 
questions raised shows that IHT remained their main concern  but the business 
failed to take further action because it didnt think it was necessary. 
The investigator having considered the additional points wasnt persuaded to change his 
mind. 
He initially asked for Mrs C to forward the file containing conversations  between Mr 
and Mrs C and the adviser  demonstrating that they were IHT orientated in their 
goals. Having considered the additional evidence provided, namely suitability reports 
and financial reports, he wasnt satisfied that this was the case. In short, he said:
oApart from 2005, where Mr and Mrs C listed their objectives as inheritance 
planning and mitigation, for the remainder years they had their objective listed 
as Investment planning. 
oMr and Mrs C were retired, so their objective was to produce income. Theres 
no evidence that Mr and Mrs C disagreed with this, or that they wanted SJP 
to provide IHT advice after 2005. 
oPreviously he looked into whether the advice was suitable  based on their 
objectives, circumstances, and attitude to risk  having done so, he cant say 
it was unsuitable.   
oRegardless of there being other options available  that mightve (in 
hindsight) done better  it doesnt mean that the latter recommendations were 
unsuitable. 
The information provided thus far doesnt show that they were concerned about 
mitigating IHT after they received the initial advice. In other words, theres no 
evidence which suggests they wanted a review of their IHT after 2005. 
The initial advice still met their objective, the fact that other options were available 
didnt mean they were unsuitable.   
Hes unable to award compensation for distress and inconvenience to Mrs C or the 
estate.  
Mrs C disagreed with the investigator and made the following key points:The investigator has only considered the financial and suitability reports when 
making his findings. 
The reports were influenced by SJP to justify what it was selling at the time. This is 
why it didnt address Mr and Mrs Cs number one priority - IHT. 
A comprehensive review of the whole file by her advisers indicates clearly that Mr 
and Mrs Cs number one priority throughout was IHT, and this was ignored by SJP, 
except at the beginning of their relationship. 
The ombudsman can only reach the same conclusion if they review the whole file.  
At one point, SJP did calculate IHT on Mr and Mrs Cs estate. 
SJP wrote to her parents telling them all that was needed to be done, had been 
done, and thats why her parents didnt seek advice from SJP or anyone else after 
this point. 
The last two important points were brought to the investigators attention, but theyve 
been ignored. 
As no agreement has been reached, the matter has been passed to me for review. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the investigators conclusion for much the same reasons. Im 
not going to uphold this complaint. 
On the face of the evidence, and on balance, despite what Mrs C says, I cant safely say that 
the business behaved unreasonably. Im unable to safely say that it didnt broadly meet Mr 
and Mrs Cs objective to help reduce their IHT liability when it was asked to do so, when it 
was a priority and at the forefront of their minds.  
But before I explain why this is the case, I think its important for me to recognise the 
strength of feeling Mrs C  on behalf of her parents estate  has about this matter. Im 
also very sorry for the loss of both of her parents. I note she, assisted by her adviser, has 
provided detailed submissions to support the complaint, which Ive read and considered 
carefully. However, I hope she wont take the fact my findings focus on what I consider to 
be the central issues, and not in as much detail, as a discourtesy.
  
The purpose of my decision isnt to address every single point raised under a separate 
subject heading, or undertake a forensic analysis of the evidence, its not what Im required 
to do in order to reach a decision in this case. I appreciate this can be frustrating, but it 
doesnt mean Im not considering the pertinent points in this case.
 
My role is to consider the evidence presented by Mrs C (and her adviser) and SJP, and 
reach what I think is an independent, fair, and reasonable decision based on the facts of 
the case  Im not here to take sides.  
In deciding whats fair and reasonable, I must consider the relevant law, regulation, and 
best industry practice, but perhaps unlike a court or tribunal Im not bound by this. Its for 
me to decide, based on the information Ive been given, whats more likely than not to 
have happened. 
Im aware Mrs C has questions about why the business acted in the way that it did, but my 
not answering all of these questions doesnt prevent me from reaching a fair decision in this 
case. Its always difficult for an executrix to retrospectively piece together what went on with a 
business in the past, over a period and why. Especially when theyve not been privy to 
discussions between the investors, and between the investors and the business. It can be 
made even more difficult when the available evidence doesnt make sense or satisfy them, 
because they mightve done things differently. Sadly, we dont have the first-hand accounts 
of Mr and Mrs C. 
I think that all the pertinent points that could be made, have been made by the parties in this 
case, so I dont intend to repeat them again. I understand that the key issue relating to IHT. I 
also understand that Mrs C is saying the recommendations were unsuitable given the IHT 
concerns. Im mindful shes referred to different tools that SJP had at its disposal, but it didnt 
utilise in order to reduce Mr and Mrs Cs IHT liability.   
On the face of the evidence, and on balance, despite what Mrs C says, I cant safely say that 
the business behaved unreasonably. In other words, I dont have the evidence to enable me 
to conclude, on a balance of probabilities, that the business did anything wrong, or that it 
didnt do what it was asked to do when financial advice was sought by Mr and Mrs C. 
Im mindful that Mrs C wasnt privy to any of the discussions at the time. Despite what she 
says, Ive seen nothing to suggest that Mr and Mrs C wanted/needed her there, or that they 
were incapable of making their own decisions and managing their own affairs. 
On balance I think if Mr and Mrs C were concerned with the advice they received over the 
years, they wouldve raised an issue with the business at the time. I appreciate that not 
raising an issue doesnt of itself mean that the advice was suitable or that they didnt have 
issues  but in this instance, and on balance, it suggests that Mr and Mrs C were content 
with the advice they received and that it was broadly in line with their aims and objectives 
which, in my view, wasnt the same as it was at the outset. 
On balance, I think its more likely than not the business did what it was asked to do in 2002, 
when IHT was evidently a concern at the forefront of Mr and Mrs Cs mind. Having 
considered the issue, and having made the relevant recommendations  which I dont think 
were unsuitable for the reasons set out by the investigator  the issue of IHT was in my 
opinion quite rightly left with Mr and Mrs C. I note in 2002, SJP made four recommendations 
for the purpose of mitigating IHT: Equalise the estate, use an IOU discretionary trust, create 
a more effective balance of gains and income draw down, and use discounted gift trusts 
(DGTs). 
By way of a short chronology, I note the following happened:
On 17 May 2002 SJP stated that the first step that should be taken was to equalise 
the estate to take full advantage of both nil rate bands. This would be done by 
changing the ownership of the property to tenants in common, setting up a DFT, and 
investing £20,000 each into bonds which would be placed into trust. 
On 20 May 2002 SJP confirmed that two £20,000 joint life bonds had been set up. 
Investment into ISAs had been discussed and discounted. The trusts could be used 
to keep the investment out of Mr and Mrs Cs estate for IHT purposes. 
On 27 May 2002 Mr C invested £6,467 in the bond in trust. SJP noted that Mr C 
wasnt in good health and further IHT planning was required, so it advised a DFT to 
mitigate a large part of their IHT liability. SJP later confirmed that £40,000 was 
invested in the DFT. 
On 21 January 2004 SJP made a number of additional suggestions - do nothing, give 
away £200,000, take out a joint life second death insurance plan for the remining IHT liability, or place their investments into DGTs. It recommended the DGTs.  
On 25 January 2004 Mr C wrote to SJP to make clear that they werent ready to 
consider DGTs. 
On 7 May 2004 SJP considered an estate creation trust (ECT) as another option but 
didnt think it was viable but advised them to consider other options. 
On 22 June 2004 Mr and Mrs C were advised to invest in a commercial property fund 
(CPF) and put this in trust to get the growth out of their estate immediately and the 
capital out of the estate after seven years.
26 September 2005 SJP indicated that it had in effect dealt with Mr and Mrs Cs 
concerns about IHT: We discussed the need for inheritance tax planning and the 
clients have carried out actions in regard to this so no further action is required at this 
time. 
21 November 2005 Mr and Mrs H received investment advice regarding their ISAs. 
No further reference was made to IHT. 
Between 28 November 2007 and 26 September 2009 various recommendations 
were made during which their financial circumstances were considered. But in light of 
steps taken, SJP didnt think any further action regarding IHT was a priority.  
I note Mrs C says that SJP ensured that Mr and Mrs C utilised their nil rate band in full 
through the use of an IOU discretionary trust and recommended two DGTs. But in 2004, I 
note Mr and Mrs C indicated that they were not yet ready to consider the DGTs. In the 
circumstances, the business was under no obligation to go behind their wishes and or 
subsequently question/undermine their decision  it was always for Mr and Mrs C to accept 
or reject SJPs advice. 
I note at no point did SJP suggest to Mr and Mrs C that DGTs were their only option and it 
went on to consider an ECT  which SJP didnt think was viable for Mr and Mrs C. It then 
went on suggest a CPF in due course  although its not clear what happened to that 
particular recommendation. On balance, I think its more likely than not it wasnt something 
that Mr and Mrs C were interested in.   
Despite what Mrs C says, I dont agree that its for the adviser to necessarily establish why 
Mr and Mrs C subsequently changed their priorities and whether there was any justification 
for this. Its a matter for the investor what objective they do or dont wish to prioritise  the 
adviser can only go on the information provided. As Mrs C wasnt present during the 
discussions, I dont think its fair to draw certain conclusions as she has done. 
I appreciate some of the 2002-2004 recommendations probably werent options that Mr and 
Mrs C were ready to pursue at the time  but that was a matter for them. On balance, I think 
they knew, or ought reasonably to have known, the consequences, of not going ahead with 
taking additional steps to reduce IHT, and the likely impact of this on any future IHT liability. I 
dont think there was much more the business couldve reasonably done at that point. Im 
mindful that SJP maintains that Mr and Mrs C didnt wish to review estate planning and IHT 
in 2005, 2007 and 2009  their main objective was investment planning and wanting to 
consolidate their current holdings.  
On balance, I also think it was their responsibility to come back to the adviser regarding the 
specific advice and recommendations, and about any concerns they had regarding IHT. I 
appreciate that the IHT liability itself never disappeared  I acknowledge it hadnt vanished 
overnight and was unlikely to  and the business as well as Mr and Mrs C were very much 
aware of this too. 
On balance, Im not persuaded that Mr and Mrs C in the coming years were forced to do 
something that they didnt want to do or that they dissuaded from pursuing their priority through some false pretence. I think its more likely than not, having spent time, dealing with 
IHT at the outset, they wished to go on to consider other priorities  such as increased 
income and capital growth from their investments. I note that they were retired, so from 2005 
onwards capital growth and income was very much at the forefront of their minds, despite 
the assets they already had. 
I note the documentation referred to by the parties shows that Mr and Mrs C had substantial 
amounts of cash and that a large IHT liability was inevitable. Despite what Mrs C says, I 
dont accept that they changed their priority because the adviser reassured them or led them 
to believe that they no longer had a liability  I dont agree thats what the business did, and 
it couldnt have done on the face of the evidence. 
Despite the arguments put forward by Mrs C relating to why she thinks her parents changed 
their priority, I note she also maintains that they didnt. Based on what she says, it seems 
shes saying Mr and Mrs C didnt change their priority, but if they did, it was SJPs fault. In 
the circumstances, for the reasons Ive explained above, I dont agree with her. Im satisfied 
their priorities changed, and that it was as a result of their own consideration and not as a 
result of any wrongdoing by the business. 
So, whilst its not (unequivocally) clear why they didnt continue to pursue the issue 
regarding their IHT liability throughout this period of advice, despite what Mrs C says Im 
unable to say that this was as a result of anything done by the business. In other words, on 
balance I think it was a result of Mr and Mrs Cs own decisions at the time. Ive seen nothing 
to suggest that they wanted everything held in trust, and its possible that they still wanted 
access to their investments and money.  
In the circumstances, and on balance, despite what Mrs C says, I dont think the business 
was wrong not to specifically advice Mr and Mrs C about their IHT liability when they were 
seeking advice about further investments  in my opinion IHT liability wasnt the purpose of 
subsequent advice. In other words, whilst IHT was naturally an ongoing issue, it wasnt the 
objective of them seeking investment advice on subsequent occasions. 
I note Mrs C refers to a number of PEP and ISA transfers between 2004 and 2009, in 
respect of which she says Mr and Mrs C were never informed that these investments could 
not be protected from Inheritance Tax, but in the circumstances I dont think it was 
unreasonable not to offer that specific advice. 
I appreciate what Mrs C says about what wouldve happened if Mr and Mrs Cs bonds, for 
example, were placed in trust  such as a gift trust, discounted gift trust or a gift and loan 
trust. But she does so in my opinion with the power of hindsight, and without knowledge of 
what Mr and Mrs C may have wanted. 
I appreciate its likely that putting investments in trust mightve reduced the IHT liability, but it 
seems to me the reason why they werent in some kind of trust is because its not what Mr 
and/or Mrs C wanted or were interested in, having spent three years considering IHT. I note 
the business says for example that Mr and Mrs C wanted to retain the ISA status of their 
holdings, and because ISAs cant be placed in trust, placing the funds in a bond and then in 
trust wouldnt have been a viable option in the circumstances. Therefore, I dont think the 
business is liable for this or any of the outstanding IHT liability claimed by Mrs C.   
Im mindful that SJP calculated the likely IHT liability on a number of occasions. Im also 
conscious that this cant be done with absolute accuracy, given that financial circumstances 
can change  funds can be given away, or investments change ownership  but in any case, 
the issue was in the open. In my opinion and on balance, its more likely (than not) that the 
advice given at the outset reflected the liability they had at that point. As I mentioned above, its arguable that Mr and Mrs C wouldve known, or ought reasonably to have known, that this 
was likely to change in future  subject to their circumstances  but for whatever reason they 
wished not to pursue the matter. Despite what Mrs C says, Im not persuaded that Mr and 
Mrs C were ever guaranteed that IHT had been dealt with once and for all, and that there 
was no liability outstanding.  
I note in the recommendation letter dated 21 November 2005, SJP states: We discussed 
the need for inheritance tax planning and the clients have carried out actions in regard to this 
so no further action is required at this time. In my opinion this shows that the issues havent 
been forgotten about but considered and put aside for now. In my opinion its unlikely this 
wouldve been unilaterally done by the business on a whim of its own. It also didnt mean 
that Mr and Mrs C couldnt raise it again if they wanted to. I simply dont agree with Mrs Cs 
interpretation that the letter shows that SJP assured her parents that they didnt need to 
think about IHT because they didnt have an IHT liability  thats not what SJP said. 
The above notwithstanding, I agree with the investigator that SJP arent specialist tax 
advisers, however, it could offer advice regarding steps Mr and Mrs C could take to help 
reduce their IHT liability  which is what it did. This doesnt of itself make SJP a tax 
specialist, and the two points arent mutually exclusive. In other words, at no point did SJP 
say that it couldnt offer IHT mitigation advice, and therefore it was under no obligation to 
advise them to go elsewhere. 
Whilst I dont doubt that Mrs C has suffered distress and inconvenience dealing with her 
parents estate, I should make clear that under the rules governing our service, Mrs C (as 
the executrix and representative) as well as her parents estate, arent entitled to any 
compensation for distress and inconvenience even if I had upheld the complaint.
Im aware Mrs C thinks that shes eligible to receive significant compensation of around 
£1,000. But I can only tell a business to pay compensation for trouble and upset experienced 
by its customer  where it has done something wrong  not to a third party. So, her parents 
estate would only be entitled to compensation for financial loss  if I had found SJP had 
done something wrong  and Mrs C isnt entitled to any compensation personally in any 
circumstances. 
I appreciate Mrs C  on behalf of her parents estate  will be thoroughly unhappy Ive 
reached the same conclusion as the investigator, and I realise my decision isnt what she 
wants to hear. Whilst I appreciate her deep frustration and anguish, Im not going to ask 
the business to do anything further. 
On the face of the available evidence, and on balance, Im unable to uphold this complaint 
and give Mr and Mrs Cs estate what Mrs C wants. 
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask the estates of Mr C 
and Mrs C to accept or reject my decision before 2 March 2023.
 
Dara Islam
Ombudsman