DRN-3609276
The complaint
Mr H complains that Link Market Services Trustees Limited (Link) failed to send him the 
proceeds from the sale of some shares in a timely manner. As a result, he says he received 
less than he should have due to a change in the currency exchange rate. 
What happened
Mr H instructed Link to sell some of his shares on 16 December 2021. His original request 
was for the sales proceeds to be paid in Great British Pounds (GBP). Mr H contacted Link 
on 20 January 2022 as he hadnt received the sales proceeds. Link explained that it was 
unable to process the payment on 7 January 2022 due to Mr H providing an incorrect 
International Bank Account Number (IBAN) on the form he completed. 
Mr H provided the correct IBAN in an email on 25 January 2022 and asked that the sales 
proceeds be paid to his Jordanian bank account in Jordanian Dinar instead of GBP. Link 
processed the payment again on 10 February 2022, but the payment failed, this time due to 
Link inputting the incorrect details. 
Mr H continued to chase the payment until Link processed it correctly on 25 April 2022. Mr H 
raised a complaint with Link as he was unhappy with the delay. 
Link upheld his complaint and apologised for the delay it had unnecessarily caused. Link 
arranged for a payment of £50 for the distress and inconvenience caused by the delay. It 
also arranged for him to be paid £149.28 in interest, calculated at the rate of 8% simple 
interest from 25 January 2022 (the date in which they had the correct details to process the 
payment) to the date he received the sales proceeds on 25 April 2022. 
Mr H remained unhappy as he felt he should have received around £290 more in sale 
proceeds if Link had correctly processed the payment 10 February 2022. This was because 
the exchange rate for GBP to Jordanian Dinar was more favourable in February than it was 
in April. He also felt he was entitled to more compensation due to the distress and 
inconvenience caused by Links error. He said he was stressed about the situation as he 
wasnt in employment and he had a young family to care for. So he referred his complaint to 
this Service for an independent review. 
One of our investigators considered Mr Hs complaint but didnt uphold it. In summary, she 
said:
She was satisfied the first attempt for payment on 7 January 2022 failed due to Mr H 
providing the incorrect payment details, but Link was responsible for the second 
attempt failing on 10 February 2022. 
The interest Link paid to compensate Mr H for him being deprived of the sales 
proceeds due to Links delay was fair and in-line with what this Service would 
recommend.
Shed considered whether Mr H ought to have received more in sales proceeds and 
having looked at HMRCs monthly currency exchange rates she was satisfied he 
received the correct amount. This was because the exchange rates were the same in 
January and April. She also noted that he received the same amount in April as Link 
tried to pay him in January. 
Whilst she acknowledged that the exchange rate was more favourable in February 
when Link attempted to process the payment for a second time, she didnt think it 
would be fair for Mr H to benefit from him his original error which led to the first 
attempt failing in January. 
She felt the offer of £50 fairly compensated him for the poor service he received.
Mr H didnt accept the investigators findings. In short, he said:
Link unfairly delayed the second attempt at payment after almost 16 days of having 
received the correct payment details and eventually made the payment some 12 
weeks later.
The exchange rates for GBP to Jordanian Dinar were both £0.97 in January and 
February and dropped to £0.88 in April. 
He felt compensation of around £750 was warranted for the amount of stress that he 
experienced with his family over the three months.
He was forced to take out a bank loan due to Links error and is unfairly having to pay 
the high interest on this. 
The investigator considered Mr Hs loan, but she said she didnt think that taking out the loan 
could be directly attributed to Links delays. She also noted that the loan was considerably 
larger than the amount he was waiting to receive from Link. So her opinion remained 
unchanged. 
As such, the complaint has been passed to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Link accepts that it caused the delay in sending Mr H the share sales proceeds following him 
sending the correct payment details on 25 January 2022. So my decision will focus purely on 
whether Link has done enough to put things right for Mr H.
Its clear that Mr H has been frustrated throughout his dealings with Link and I agree that 
three months is an unreasonable amount of time to wait to receive the proceeds from the 
sale of his shares. However, having carefully considered everything, I think Link has fairly 
put Mr H back in the position he would have been in if it had correctly processed his 
payment when it should have done. Ill explain why. 
I understand Mr H feels his payment should have been processed on 10 February 2022 
when Link attempted to make the payment whilst in possession of his correct IBAN. And so 
Link ought to have used the more favourable exchange rate in February than that which it 
used in April. However, I dont agree. I say this as Link was in possession of all Mr Hs 
banking details on 25 January 2022. Whilst I accept Link may have not been able to process 
the payment that day, had it processed it in a timely manner and without unnecessary delay, 
I think it ought to have processed the payment within the month of January. And had it done 
so, the exchange rate would have been the same as that which was used in April. I 
understand Mr H says the exchange rate was more favourable in both January and February 
than it was in April but I would like to reassure him that Ive checked the rates for all three 
months and can confirm the rate was the same in January and April. Mr H can find the 
relevant exchange rates on the HMRC website:https://www.gov.uk/government/publications/hmrc-exchange-rates-for-2022-monthly
In terms of Links award for interest and the payment in recognition of the distress and 
inconvenience caused, Im afraid theres not much more I can add to what our investigator 
has already said. Im satisfied the interest payment is in line with what this Service would 
recommend as it fairly compensates Mr H the time he has been deprived of his money from 
the date in which Link had all of his correct banking information to the date it finally paid him. 
I also appreciate that Links actions caused him some distress and inconvenience as he had 
to chase Link on several occasions and wasnt kept fully updated. I also understand he had 
a young family to support and that being unemployed at the time meant he needed the 
money, so he took out a bank loan to help. However, I think the £50 offered fairly reflects the 
level of distress and inconvenience caused. I say this as Im not persuaded Mr Hs decision 
to take out a bank loan was directly linked to the delay caused by Links error. Ive seen a 
copy of Mr Hs loan agreement and this was for almost £15,000 more than the money he 
was expecting from Link and was to be repaid over 84 months. Whilst I appreciate it would 
have been frustrating for Mr H to have to wait for the money from Link, Im not convinced he 
thought he would be deprived of his money for anywhere near as long as the loan term. Im 
also conscious that whilst Link didnt pro-actively update him, Ive not seen any evidence to 
suggest Mr H was told he wouldnt receive the funds. 
It would appear that the main loss here is the loss of opportunity to use the money to support 
his family and I feel the interest covers this along with the £50 award for distress and 
inconvenience. 
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 21 October 2022.
 
Ben Waites
Ombudsman