DRN-4029869
The complaint
Mr and Mrs K complain about how Great Lakes Insurance SE handled and settled their claim 
against their travel insurance policy. Reference to Great Lakes includes its agents. 
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here in full. In summary, Mr and Mrs K have annual, multi-trip insurance underwritten by 
Great Lakes. The policy started in February 2022.
Mr and Mrs K had originally booked a trip in February 2020, but the trip was postponed 
because of travel restrictions as a result of Covid-19. They finally departed for their trip 
on 11 March 2022. They planned to have four nights in their first destination country, 
depart for their second destination country on 15 March 2022 and remain there for ten 
nights. Mr and Mrs K were due to return to the UK on 26 March 2022.
On 13 March 2022, whilst at their first destination, Mr K tested positive for Covid-19 and 
both he and Mrs K were required to self-isolate in their hotel. On 18 March 2022, Mr K 
tested negative for Covid-19, so Mr and Mrs K could leave the hotel, but Mr K couldnt 
leave their first destination country until he had an isolation completion certificate, which 
he didnt get until 23 March 2022. Mr and Mrs K returned to the UK on 26 March 2022. 
On 31 March 2022, Mr and Mrs K made a claim against their policy for medical 
expenses and curtailment of their trip. Great Lakes settled Mr and Mrs Ks claim in part. 
It reimbursed medical expenses and paid one half of the additional accommodation 
costs. Mr and Mrs K said that Great Lakes should pay all of the additional 
accommodation costs, not half, and pay their claim for curtailment. 
On 1 June 2022, Great Lakes paid Mr and Mrs K an additional amount for the            
self-isolation period but maintained its position in relation to their curtailment claim.   
Great Lakes subsequently apologised for its delay in handling Mr and Mrs Ks claim. 
Mr and Mrs K want Great Lakes to review their claim and settle it in full. 
One of our investigators looked at what had happened. She didnt think that Great Lakes 
had treated Mr and Mrs K unfairly in declining their claim for curtailment. That was 
because the policy only covered denial of boarding on an outbound flight, that is, the 
flight which started in the UK, not the flight from their first to their second destination 
country. 
Mr and Mrs K didnt agree with the investigator. They said, in summary, that the policy 
doesnt define outbound flight and that their flight to their second destination was an 
outbound flight. 
The investigator considered what Mr and Mrs K said but didnt change her view.            
Mr and Mrs K asked that an ombudsman consider their complaint, so it was passed to 
me to decide. 
My provisional decision
On 27 February 2023, I sent both parties my provisional decision in this case. I indicated 
that I intended to uphold the complaint in part. I said:
the relevant policy terms and conditions
The starting point is the terms and conditions of the policy, the relevant parts of which are as 
follows:
Section 14 COVID-19 Cover
[]
This section of cover extends the Emergency Medical and repatriation section, the 
Cancellation or Cutting Short Your Trip sections of this policy as follows:
What is covered for Emergency Medical and Repatriation Expenses:
We will pay up to the amount shown in the table of benefits under section 3a Emergency 
Medical & Repatriation expenses for each insured person who contracts COVID-19, as 
proven by a medically approved test showing a positive result for COVID-19, during an 
insured trip outside the United Kingdom for the following:
[]
c) additional travel and accommodation costs []
[]
e) a benefit payment of £20 per complete 24 hour period up to £300 where you are ordered 
into self-isolation in your holiday accommodation by a relevant Government authority, as a 
result of you contracting COVID-19. 
[]
What is covered for Cancellation and Cutting Short Your Trip:
We will pay you up to the amount shown in the table of benefits for either Section 1. 
Cancellation or Section 2. Cutting Short Your Trip, per insured person for any 
irrecoverable unused travel and accommodation costs (and other prepaid charges) which 
you have paid or are contracted to pay if you were not able to travel and use your booked 
accommodation or undertake the trip as a result of:
[]
or where you have to Cut short your trip as a result of:
[]
(a) the death as a result of COVID-19, of a close relative or a member of your household 
living in the United Kingdom.
(b) the hospitalisation as a result of COVID-19 for treatment with mechanical ventilation, of a 
close relative or a member of your household living in the United Kingdom.
c) you are unable to continue with a pre-booked excursion following your self-isolation as 
ordered by a relevant Government authority due to contracting COVID-19, up to a maximum 
of £350 for all excursions.Cut short/Cutting short  Either a) the immediate direct early return from your trip to your 
home country, in which case claims will be calculated from the day you returned to your 
home country and based on the number of complete days of your trip you have not used 
[]
General Exclusions  applying to all sections
No section of this policy shall apply in respect of:
[]
29. Claims arising from, or related to any coronavirus including but not limited [sic]     
COVID-19, or any related/mutated form of the virus unless specifically listed as covered by 
this policy.
 
Period of cover
[] In every case cover under Section 1 (Cancellation) ends as soon as you start your trip. 
[]
has the claim been declined unfairly?
The relevant rules and industry guidance say that Great Lakes has a responsibility to handle 
claims promptly and fairly and it shouldnt reject a claim unreasonably. Ive considerable 
sympathy for Mr and Mrs K. Through no fault of their own, they didnt experience the trip 
theyd planned. Theres no basis on which I can fairly direct Great Lakes to reassess its 
decisions in relation to their claim for curtailment, but I intend to uphold their complaint in 
part. Ill explain why:   
Insurance policies arent designed to cover every eventuality or situation. An insurer 
will decide what risks its willing to cover and set these out in the terms and 
conditions of the policy document. The onus is on the consumer to show that the 
claim falls under one of the agreed areas of cover within the policy.
I dont think it was fair or reasonable for Great Lakes to pay only half of the 
additional accommodation costs. Whilst the policy provides cover for each insured 
person who contracts Covid-19 and only Mr K tested positive, Mrs K was also 
instructed to isolate. And the hotel costs were the same whether the room was 
shared or not. So, I think its fair that Great Lakes reimburse Mr and Mrs K for the  
total additional accommodation costs. As theyve been kept out of the use of that 
money, Great Lakes should also pay interest on the amount they now pay, from the 
date of the claim to the date of payment. 
The policy defines Cut short/Cutting Short as the immediate direct early return 
from your trip to your home country. Thats not what happened here.                
Mr and Mrs Ks trip wasnt cut short - they returned home to the UK on the originally 
planned date. So, Great Lakes was entitled to decline the part of their claim relating 
to curtailment.
Ive considered whether Great Lakes response to the claim led to a fair and 
reasonable outcome. In doing so, its important to note that the policy doesnt cover 
loss of enjoyment. The policy extends cover for curtailing a trip as a result of 
certain, specified events arising from Covid-19, which are the death or 
hospitalisation of a close relative or being unable to continue with a pre booked 
excursion because of self-isolation. None of those events are relevant here. And 
theres a general exclusion  which Ive set out above  in relation to claims arising 
from, or related to Covid-19 unless specifically covered by the policy. That 
exclusion is mentioned in the Insurance Product Information Document under the 
heading What is not insured?.Ive thought about this carefully. I dont think that there are any grounds on which I 
can fairly direct Great Lakes to deal with Mr and Mrs Ks claim for curtailment. 
Great Lakes agreed to cover curtailment of a trip as a result of Covid-19 in certain, 
defined circumstances, none of which apply in this case.  
Mr and Mrs K say that Great Lakes should settle their claim because they were 
denied boarding for their onward flight to their second destination country as Mr K 
had tested positive for Covid-19. Mr and Mrs K are right to say that the policy 
doesnt define outbound travel, but I dont think that alters the outcome. Thats 
because the provision to which they refer relates to cancelling a trip, not curtailing a 
trip. And cancellation cover ends as soon as the trip starts. So, that doesnt assist 
Mr and Mrs K here. 
Its common ground that Great Lakes didnt handle Mr and Mrs Ks claim promptly. 
Its apologised for that, but I dont think thats sufficient in this case. Thats because 
Mr and Mrs K waited much longer than wed expect for a partial settlement of their 
claim. This caused them inconvenience in that they were in continued 
correspondence with Great Lakes. 
In all the circumstances, I intend to direct Great Lakes to pay Mr and Mrs K 
compensation of £200 in relation to their distress and inconvenience. In reaching 
that figure, Ive taken into account the nature, extent and duration of the distress 
and inconvenience Mr and Mrs K suffered as a result of Great Lakes delay in  
handling their claim.
Responses to my provisional decision
Great Lakes didnt provide a response to my provisional decision. Mr and Mrs K said, in 
summary:
If Great Lakes had stated in the policy that outbound travel must be from the UK 
they would agree that they dont have a valid claim under this part of the policy.
They dont think that the investigator was impartial when she said whilst           
Great Lakes hadnt defined outbound travel, she seen reference to it in other 
policies. 
The part of the trip they lost was a second trip, not a continuation of the trip.
They couldnt leave their first destination country any sooner than they did as they 
had to isolate. They would have preferred to return to the UK to isolate but wouldnt 
be allowed to return home immediately and directly.  
They returned home on their original return date but paid for new flights.
If the second leg of their trip isnt a new trip, its made up of three excursions. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.This service was set up to provide an informal alternative to the courts for consumers who 
have complaints about business actions. When either party disagrees with an investigators 
view and asks that an ombudsman consider the matter, we look at it afresh. Were impartial 
and my role is to consider the available evidence and arguments in order to decide whats 
fair and reasonable. I dont comment extensively on what the investigator said because Ive 
reached a different outcome for different reasons. 
This decision doesnt turn on the definition of outbound travel. Thats because the part of 
the policy which covers denial of boarding on pre-booked outbound travel relates to the 
cancellation of a trip. Thats not what happened here.  
The policy defines a trip as A holiday or journey for leisure purposes that takes place 
during the period of cover which begins when you leave home, and ends when you return 
home[]. So, the second part of Mr and Mrs Ks trip wasnt a new trip, as defined by the 
policy, as it didnt begin and end at Mr and Mrs Ks home. 
I dont think that the second part of Mr and Mrs Ks planned trip could reasonably be defined 
as a series of excursions. The policy doesnt define excursion, but the ordinary, everyday 
meaning is a short trip or outing to some place, usually for a special purpose and with the 
intention of a prompt return. That doesnt apply here. 
Ive considered what Mr and Mrs K have said but I dont see any reason to depart from the 
conclusions I set out in my provisional decision. I remain of the view that it wasnt fair or 
reasonable for Great Lakes to pay only half of the additional accommodation costs. And I 
think that it should pay Mr and Mrs K compensation of £200 for their distress and 
inconvenience. But, for the reasons Ive explained, I dont direct Great Lakes to deal with   
Mr and Mrs Ks claim as either one for cancellation or curtailment. 
Putting things right
In order to put things right, Great Lakes should pay to Mr and Mrs K:
the remaining half of the additional accommodation costs and interest on that amount 
at the simple rate of 8% per year, from the date of the claim to the date of payment* 
and 
compensation of £200 in relation to distress and inconvenience.
*HM Revenue & Customs requires Great Lakes to take off tax from this interest. Great Lakes  
must give Mr and Mrs K a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if they ask for one.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold Mr and Mrs Ks complaint in part. Great Lakes Insurance 
SE should now take the steps Ive set out above.  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs K and Mr K to 
accept or reject my decision before 14 April 2023.
 
Louise Povey
Ombudsman