DRN-3742869
The complaint
Mrs H has complained that HDI Global SE unfairly turned down her business interruption 
insurance claim after she closed her business premises due to the Covid-19 pandemic.
What happened
Mrs H held a business interruption insurance policy with HDI. She runs a nightclub. She said 
the nightclub closed on 20 March 2020 before the government announcement due to a 
suspected case of Covid-19 on the premises.
Mrs H claimed on the policy for her business interruption losses caused by the Covid-19 
pandemic. HDI declined the claim. It said the claim wasnt covered because the premises 
hadnt been closed as a result of an occurrence of a notifiable human disease at the 
premises. 
Mrs H complained to HDI. She also wanted HDI to cover the cost of stock which had been 
lost due to the pandemic. Unhappy with HDIs response, Mrs H brought her complaint to us. 
Our Investigator investigated Mrs Hs complaint but didnt recommend it be upheld as she 
didnt think the policy provided cover for the circumstances of its claim.
Mrs H asked for an Ombudsmans decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im sorry to hear that the pandemic and the Governments related actions had an impact on 
Mrs Hs business. But I dont intend to uphold her complaint. Ill explain why.
Business interruption insurance offers protection from risks common to a business, but 
different policies can provide different types of cover. What is and isnt covered is set out in 
the policy terms and conditions. Ill consider each of the various parts within the policy which 
might be relevant to Mrs Hs claim in turn.
The most relevant part of Mrs Hs policy is an extension to the policy that covers losses 
resulting from:
closure or restrictions placed on the Premises on the advice or with the approval of the 
Medical Officer of Health for the Public Authority as a result of a Notifiable Human Disease 
at the Premises.
The policy defines Notifiable Human Disease as an illness sustained by any person 
resulting from:
a) food or drink poisoning
b) any human infectious or contagious disease 
an outbreak of which the competent public authority has stipulated shall be notified to them.
Its not in dispute that Covid-19 is a Notifiable Human Disease as defined in the policy. 
In my view a reasonable interpretation of this part of the policy is that there had to have been 
an occurrence of Covid-19 at Mrs Hs premises. 
Widespread testing wasnt available towards the start of the pandemic and the Government 
advised people to avoid using health services if they were displaying symptoms of Covid-19, 
save for emergencies. Its rare that a claimant will be able to produce a positive test result, or 
conclusive diagnosis, from that period. And to treat that as a requirement to demonstrate a 
case on the premises would, in my view, be unfair.
Its therefore necessary to take a more pragmatic approach, and to consider whether other 
evidence can be provided that supports, on the balance of probabilities, that Covid-19 
occurred at the insured premises prior to closure. As with any insurance claim, the burden of 
proof initially rests with the policyholder to demonstrate that its suffered a loss its policy 
covers.
Mrs H has said that a family member who worked as a cleaner at the premises had 
symptoms of Covid-19. Since the family member hadnt been socialising at that time, she 
thought it likely on the law of averages that the family member had caught Covid-19 at the 
premises. However, I only have Mrs Hs testimony to indicate that the illness was Covid-19. I 
have to bear in mind that many people who were unwell at that time didnt have Covid-19. I 
dont think I have enough evidence to conclude there was most likely a case of Covid-19 at 
Mrs Hs premises. That means I dont think this extension provides cover for the claim. I 
understand that Mrs H made a decision based on the information available to her at the time 
but the policy doesnt cover her for those circumstances.
Another extension provides cover where access to the premises has been hindered or 
prevented because of damage to property within a one-mile radius of the premises. Since I 
havent seen any evidence to suggest that Covid-19 caused damage to property in the 
vicinity of Mrs Hs premises, I dont think this extension covers Mrs Hs claim.
Unfortunately for Mrs H there is no cover in her policy for damage to or loss of stock due to 
the enforced closure of the premises.
I appreciate my decision will be disappointing to Mrs H. But, having considered the matter 
carefully, I dont think I can fairly require HDI to pay her claim.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs H to accept or 
reject my decision before 5 December 2022.
 
Elizabeth Grant
Ombudsman