DRN-1804512
Complaint
Miss S says Evergreen Finance London Limited (trading as Moneyboat.co.uk) irresponsibly 
provided unaffordable loans to her.                           
Background
This complaint is about two instalment loans that Moneyboat provided to Miss S between 
August 2018 and February 2019. Our adjudicator upheld Miss S complaint and thought she 
shouldnt have been provided with either of the loans. Moneyboat didnt agree. So the 
complaint was passed to me.
My findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Weve set out our general approach to 
complaints about short-term lending - including all the key relevant rules, guidance and good 
industry practice - on our website. 
Moneyboat needed to take reasonable steps to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In 
practice this means it should have carried out proportionate checks to make sure Miss S 
could repay the loans in a sustainable manner. These checks could take into account a 
number of different things, such as how much was being lent, the repayment amounts and 
the consumers income and expenditure. With this in mind, in the early stages of a lending 
relationship, I think less thorough checks might be reasonable and proportionate.  
But certain factors might point to the fact that Moneyboat should fairly and reasonably have 
done more to establish that any lending was sustainable for the consumer. These factors 
include:
the lower a customers income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make any 
loan repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income);
 
the higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income); 
 
the greater the number and frequency of loans, and the longer the period of time 
during which a customer has been given loans (reflecting the risk that repeated 
refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, 
unsustainable).
 
There may even come a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly 
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable.
Ive carefully considered all of the arguments, evidence and information provided. Having 
looked at the overall pattern of Moneyboats lending history with Miss S, I think that 
Moneyboat should reasonably have seen that Miss S was unlikely to have been able to 
make her payments in a sustainable manner when it provided these loans. I say this because the information Moneyboat itself obtained showed that Miss S already had 
a number of outstanding short-term loans with other providers. This not only called into 
question the rest of the income and expenditure Moneyboat obtained but in itself suggested 
that Miss S was already struggling to make ends meet. 
Moneyboat says its checks for these loans were proportionate. I dont necessarily disagree 
with this here. But Moneyboat still had to make a fair lending decision. And I think it chose to 
ignore clear evidence of Miss S likely inability to sustainably make her repayments and as a 
result it made an unfair lending decision. Miss S had to pay and is still being expected to pay 
interest and charges on loans that Moneyboat shouldnt have provided her with. So I think 
that she lost out and Moneyboat should put things right.
Putting things right  what Moneyboat needs to do
refund all interest and charges Miss S paid on loan 1;
 
pay interest of 8% simple a year on any refunded interest and charges from the date 
they were paid to the date of settlement;
 
remove all interest and charges added to loan 2 from the outset. The payments that 
Miss S made, whether to Moneyboat directly or any third-party debt purchaser should 
then be deducted from the new starting balance. If after all adjustments have been 
made an outstanding balance remains, Moneyboat can deduct this from what it now 
needs to pay Miss S as long as it owns any debt. If it doesnt own any debt at the 
time of settlement it isnt entitled to make any deduction;
 
the number of loans provided means that any information recorded about instalment 
loans 8 to 26 is adverse. So all reference to these loans should be removed from 
Miss S credit file.
 
 HM Revenue & Customs requires Moneyboat to take off tax from this interest. Moneyboat 
must give Miss S a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if he asks for one.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, Im upholding Miss S complaint. Evergreen Finance London 
Limited should pay Miss S compensation as set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss S to accept 
or reject my decision before 29 June 2020.
Jeshen Narayanan
Ombudsman