DRN-2093551
The complaint
Miss A says Gain Credit LLC  trading as Lending Stream - irresponsibly lent to her.
What happened
This complaint is about seven instalment loans Lending Stream provided to Miss A between          
December 2018 and March 2019. Miss As borrowing history is as follows:
Our adjudicator partially upheld Miss As complaint and thought the loans from loan 4 
shouldnt have been given because proportionate checks would have shown Miss A was 
struggling to manage her money. Lending Stream didnt respond to the assessment. So, the 
matter has been passed to me for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about short-term lending - including all of 
the relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice - on our website. 
Lending Stream needed to take reasonable steps to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. 
In practice this means that it should have carried out proportionate checks to make sure 
Miss A could repay the loans in a sustainable manner. These checks could take into account 
a number of different things, such as how much was being lent, the repayment amounts and 
the consumers income and expenditure. In the early stages of a lending relationship, I think 
less thorough checks might be reasonable and proportionate.  
Loan Date 
TakenDate 
RepaidInstalments Amount Repayment
1 07-Dec-
18Not 
Closed6 £150.00 £48.00
2 10-Jan-
19Not 
Closed6 £150.00 £94.70
3 21-Jan-
19Not 
Closed6 £100.00 £129.84
4 27-Jan-
1928-Feb-19 6 £50.00 £146.76
5 16-Feb-
19Not 
Closed6 £160.00 £204.52
6 03-Mar-
19Not 
Closed6 £100.00 £220.46
7 11-Mar-
19Not 
Closed6 £70.00 £242.25But certain factors might point to the fact that Lending Stream should fairly and reasonably 
have done more to establish that any lending was sustainable for the consumer. These 
factors include:
the lower a consumers income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make 
any loan repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income);
the higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income); 
the greater the number and frequency of loans, and the longer the period of time 
during which a customer has been given loans (reflecting the risk that repeated 
refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, 
unsustainable).
There may even come a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly 
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable.
I think that it is important for me to start by saying that Lending Stream was required to 
establish whether Miss A could sustainably repay her loans  not just whether the loan 
payments were affordable on a strict pounds and pence calculation. 
Of course, the loan payments being affordable on this basis might be an indication a 
consumer could sustainably make their repayments. But it doesnt automatically follow this is 
the case. This is because the relevant regulations define sustainable as being without undue 
difficulties and the customer should be able to make repayments on time, while meeting 
other reasonable commitments; as well as without having to borrow to meet the repayments. 
And it follows that a lender should realise, or it ought fairly and reasonably to realise, that a 
borrower wont be able to make their repayments sustainably if theyre unlikely to be able to 
make their repayments without borrowing further. 
Ive carefully considered all the arguments, evidence and information provided in this context 
and what this all means for Miss As complaint. Having done so, Im partially upholding the 
complaint. Ill explain why.
Our adjudicator thought Lending Stream had carried out proportionate checks for loans 1 to 
3. Miss A didnt respond to the view. As there is no dispute about these loans, I wont be 
making any further findings on them. 
Lending Stream says it carried out checks before it lent loan 4 to Miss A and the results of 
these checks didnt raise any concerns. But this was Miss As fourth loan in just over four 
months so I think Lending Stream should have been looking to build a clearer picture about 
Miss As finances before lending her this loan. 
Had Lending Stream carried out proportionate checks before lending loan 4, its likely to 
have seen that Miss A was having problems managing her money. I say this because she 
had taken three instalment loans in three weeks  which were still outstanding when loan 4 
was taken  and loan 4 was to be her third loan in January 2019. Her combined monthly 
repayment had increased in less than two months from £48 at loan 1 to £130 at loan 3 and 
was to increase further at loan 4 to nearly £150.I think this was a clear indication that Miss A was in a debt cycle and relying upon borrowing 
to fill a gap in her income. So, Im also upholding the complaint about loans 4 to 7 and 
Lending Stream should put things right.
Putting things right
If Lending Stream has sold the outstanding debts Lending Stream should buy these back if 
Lending Stream is able to do so and then take the following steps. If Lending Stream cant 
buy the debts back, then Lending Stream should liaise with the new debt owner to achieve 
the results outlined below.
A) Lending Stream should add together the total of the repayments made by Miss A towards 
interest, fees and charges on all upheld loans without an outstanding balance, not including 
anything Lending Stream has already refunded.
B) Lending Stream should calculate 8% simple interest on the individual payments made by 
Miss A which were considered as part of A, calculated from the date Miss A originally made 
the payments, to the date the complaint is settled.
C) Lending Stream should remove all interest, fees and charges from the balance on any 
upheld outstanding loans, and treat any repayments made by Miss A as though they had 
been repayments of the principal on all outstanding loans. If this results in Miss A having 
made overpayments then Lending Stream should refund these overpayments with 8% 
simple interest* calculated on the overpayments, from the date the overpayments would 
have arisen, to the date the complaint is settled. Lending Stream should then refund the 
amounts calculated in A and B and move to step E.
D) If there is still an outstanding balance then the amounts calculated in A and B should 
be used to repay any balance remaining on outstanding loans. If this results in a surplus, 
then the surplus should be paid to Miss A. However, if there is still an outstanding balance 
then Lending Stream should try to agree an affordable repayment plan with Miss A. Lending 
Stream shouldnt pursue outstanding balances made up of principal Lending Stream has 
already written-off.
E) Lending Stream should remove any adverse information recorded on Miss As credit file 
in relation to loans 4 to 7. 
 HM Revenue & Customs requires Lending Stream to take off tax from this interest. Lending Stream 
must give Miss A a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if she asks for one. 
My final decision
Im partially upholding Miss As complaint. Gain Credit LLC should put things right as set out 
above. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss A to accept 
or reject my decision before 9 October 2020.
 
Claire Marchant-Williams
Ombudsman