DRN-3102084
The complaint
Ms M complains that the interest for the loans she took was too high, shes unhappy with this 
and she wants a refund.
What happened
Ms M appears to have had two complaints running at the same time. I explain a little here in 
order to place the one complaint I am dealing with in context.
Jurisdiction 
Ms M had 13 loans with Provident. Our adjudicator has issued a letter to each party on 
jurisdiction  that is  which loans he can look into. He said he could only look at 
loans 8 to 13. As this was dealt with separately I say no more about this and its mentioned 
here as part of the background.  
First complaint 
Ms M claimed that the 13 loans she had received were irresponsibly lent and Provident 
upheld that complaint in part by way of its final response letter (FRL) dated 6 January 2021. 
In that FRL it accepted that two loans were ones where it ought to have carried out 
additional checks (Loans 8 and 13 taken 9 February 2016 and 4 August 2016), and it offered 
to make a refund on those two loans (£589.42). 
As it is entitled to do, Provident then off-set the planned refund amount against the monies 
Ms M owed to Provident. That left Ms M with an outstanding balance of £569.08. It then said 
it would write off the remaining balance leaving her with a zero balance, nothing else to pay 
and the accounts closed. It looks like Provident did this. 
Ms M has expressed dissatisfaction at that resolution but Im not dealing with that complaint 
here. Ms M will have to approach Provident directly about it as Providents legal status has 
altered recently and we are not able to deal with all the complaint types which are referred to 
us. 
Second complaint
The other complaint which I am dealing with here, related to the same set of 13 loans but is 
about a different point. It relates to the interest charged. 
Provident issued a different FRL for that complaint dated 8 February 2021. In it Provident 
explained that the agreements would have been signed by Ms M, that the agreements all 
confirmed the loan amounts, the total amount payable (which included the interest on that 
loan plus other costs) and she would have received a product explanation and copies of the 
agreements. 
Provident pointed out the right to withdraw element of the agreements which Ms M could 
have invoked if shed wanted to after the agreements were signed (within certain time limits). 
So Provident did not agree with her complaint. 
Ms M referred it to this Service and one of our adjudicators explained that hed be looking at 
some of the loans originally approved for her  loans 8 to 13 - and as Provident had already 
upheld her irresponsible lending claim for loans 8 and 13, our adjudicator explained hed be 
looking at loans 9 to 12. 
He looked at the agreements, copies of which appear to have been sent to Ms M, and 
thought that the interest rates were clear. He did not think that Ms M was unaware of them.
He did not uphold her complaint.
Ms M asked for the complaint to be looked into further. She said that even if the interest 
rates were in the agreement it must have been very small print as she was not aware the 
interest rate was that high.
The complaint remained unresolved and was passed to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Our adjudicator explained to Ms M that from the information Provident had sent to him for 
loans 9 to 12, he could see the loan agreements clearly stated the amounts Ms M was 
borrowing, the repayments she was expected to make, and the interest rates Provident was 
charging for these loans.
I have reviewed all those copy agreements and I have come to the same view. I cannot 
replicate in this decision how the agreements were set out but if Ms M asks our adjudicator 
I am sure that he can send to her copies of the agreements he has. 
My review of the agreements means that I can read the fixed sum loan approved. Each of 
the agreements I have seen had similar layouts. For example, in June 2016 it was £400. The 
sections following it explained what that meant for Ms M as the party to the agreement. It 
stated that the agreement was for 63 weeks and the weekly repayments would be £12. 
The section of the agreement under those details said:
The total amount you will have to pay. 
This means the amount you have borrowed plus interest and other costs    
Next to that box was the figure £756.00 
And under that were additional sections explaining that the flat rate of interest was 
73.50% per annum (fixed) and then a separate box to explain APR. 
I do not think that the writing was any smaller than other parts of the document up to that 
point apart from the obvious headings in the agreement where the type face was a little 
larger. 
So, I do think that the agreement was satisfactorily clear. I am satisfied that Ms M received 
copies as I have correspondence from Provident to show that the agreements were sent to 
her. Ms M recalls receiving a green sheet of paper when she took a loan which I think likely 
was an example of her receiving the customer copy. Overall, I am not persuaded that Ms M took these loans without knowing or being aware of 
the interest rates. And if she did have any questions about the rate at the time she took the 
loans, I anticipate that she could have asked the Provident agent and/or exercise her right to 
withdraw and/or speak to Provident to ask for more information. 
I do not uphold Ms Ms complaint.
My final decision
My final decision on the complaint relating to the interest rates is that I do not uphold it. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms M to accept or 
reject my decision before 6 December 2021.
 
Rachael Williams
Ombudsman