DRN-3689571
The complaint
Mr and Mrs B, as trustees of the O Trust, complain about the service they received from LGT 
Vestra LLP when trying to open an investment account.
What happened
Mr and Mrs B, as trustees, were prospective clients of LGT Vestra. They were looking to 
open an account and invest trust funds offshore.  Throughout the onboarding process, in 
2020, Mr and Mrs B raised questions over the terms of business they had received. After 
meetings with different people, including legal counsel, at LGT Vestra the account 
agreements were signed in December 2020. However, by 10 February 2021 the account 
hadnt been opened.
Mr and Mrs B queried the slow progress that was being made, as well as why they were 
being asked about their strategy that had been clear at the start of conversations. Following 
this, LGT Vestra decided Mr and Mrs B would likely be served better by a different 
investment manager. So, it decided not to accept Mr and Mrs B as clients. 
I sent my provisional decision on 10 August 2022. I explained I intended to uphold this 
complaint and intended to direct LGT Vestra to pay Mr and Mrs B £200 compensation for the 
trouble and upset it caused them. The relevant extract from the provisional decision is 
copied below and forms part of this decision.
Extract from the provisional decision
I think LGT Vestra needs to pay Mr and Mrs B compensation for the inconvenience and 
frustration caused. I dont however think it should pay anything for the trust funds not being 
invested whilst Mr and Mrs B sought a new investment manager. Ill explain why.
I first want to explain that LGT Vestra were under no obligation to open an account for Mr 
and Mrs B. It was free to make that decision and it chose to do so. It told Mr and Mrs B that 
this was its decision and I dont think it was necessary to explain its reasons. I do appreciate 
that the decision came as a shock to Mr and Mrs B but it was a decision LGT Vestra was 
entitled to make. Im aware Mr and Mrs B understand this. But it is because of this, that I 
dont think its fair for LGT Vestra to pay compensation for the time the trust fund wasnt 
invested. I appreciate it took a further four months for Mr and Mrs B to find a new investment 
manager and invest the funds, but the compensation they are asking for is for LGT Vestras 
failure to provide a financial service. In these particular circumstances I dont think it would 
be fair and reasonable to have expected LGT Vestra to provide a service it had no obligation 
to and chose not to. It follows that it wouldnt be fair to expect LGT Vestra to pay Mr and Mrs 
B for the lack of that service.
Mr and Mrs Bs main complaint points focus on the conflicting nature of LGT Vestras terms 
of business. But this service isnt the regulator and we cant tell businesses how to operate. 
We look at individual complaints and in this case, Mr and Mrs B didnt end up being clients of 
LGT Vestra, so the terms didnt apply to them as they didnt invest. I do note that LGT Vestra 
involved its legal counsel when Mr and Mrs B highlighted the issues with the terms of 
business, and this ended in a letter of comfort being agreed by all parties. So, I think LGT 
Vestra listened to Mr and Mrs B and acted fairly in reaching a conclusion on how to move 
forward by doing this.
However, prior to LGT Vestra making the decision not to work with Mr and Mrs B, I can see 
that it caused them inconvenience. Mr and Mrs B were asked to provide information about 
the source of the funds  information that had already been provided. They were also asked 
about their strategy and why they wanted to invest offshore  despite it being clear that they 
had received advice on the strategy. This was all asked after the months of discussions 
around the terms of business. At this point, I think its clear these actions caused Mr and Mrs 
B inconvenience and frustration.
I can also see that LGT Vestra told Mr and Mrs B for a couple of months that the account 
was in the final stages of being set up. It then told Mr and Mrs B that they should go 
elsewhere but later in the year Mr and Mrs B received portfolio statements. This shows that 
an account was set up prior to LGT Vestra deciding to terminate the relationship. Given Mr 
and Mrs B werent told about that, I think receiving this information wouldve caused 
additional frustration. So I think LGT Vestra should pay £200 compensation for the distress 
and inconvenience its caused Mr and Mrs B.
I appreciate this outcome will be disappointing for both parties but I hope Ive explained why 
Ive come to this outcome. In summary, I think LGT Vestra couldve treated Mr and Mrs B 
better but its entitled to decide not to accept them as clients. And I dont think it would be fair 
to ask LGT Vestra to compensate Mr and Mrs B for the financial effects of this.
Responses to the provisional decision
LGT Vestra didnt provide a response to the provisional decision. Mr and Mrs B responded to 
say they were pleased it was upheld but felt the underlying issues hadnt been addressed. 
They said the crux of the complaint is what led to LGT Vestra choosing not to work with 
them.
Mr and Mrs Bs response was detailed, but to summarise they felt it was concerning that 
LGT Vestra was unwilling to change its documentation that they had identified issues with. 
They talked about how there were obvious conflicts between the terms of business that LGT 
Vestra had asked them to sign. Mr and Mrs B had also received documents from a Subject 
Access Request and highlighted inaccuracies in information that LGT Vestra had submitted. 
They also felt that given they did sign agreements, and had received advice, that they were 
clients of LGT Vestra.
Mr and Mrs B reasserted that the whole experience had cost them in stress and time. They 
also explained that it took around five to seven months to open a Trust account with a 
different firm but felt four months of compensation for loss of investment growth was fair and 
reasonable.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Id like to assure both parties that Ive read all submissions to this service and reached my 
outcome based on all the information. I have read in detail Mr and Mrs Bs submissions in 
response to my provisional decision. And I understand that the crux of their complaint are 
the events that led to LGT Vestra not continuing a business relationship with them. I can see theyre frustrated, having received documents as part of a Subject Access Request, at what 
LGT Vestra had submitted.
I do appreciate Mr and Mrs Bs disappointment in how LGT Vestra has referred to them, 
including their attitude. And I also accept that Mr and Mrs B always felt the people at LGT 
Vestra were professional, but the underlying issues they had with the terms of business were 
their biggest complaint point. Mr and Mrs B have made it clear that they believe LGT Vestra 
put them in this position because they raised issues with the terms of business and 
interpreted them as being awkward. 
However, whilst I appreciate the crux of the issue are the events leading to LGT Vestra 
deciding not to proceed with opening their accounts, because it has no obligation to do so, 
Ive reached the same outcome. Fundamentally, LGT Vestra exercised its right not to open 
an account and even if that was because Mr and Mrs B pointed out shortcomings in its 
documents, it was entitled to exercise this right. Mr and Mrs B say they referred the issue 
about the Terms of Business to the regulator and its the regulator thats best placed to 
investigate these specific issues.
Whilst I sympathise with Mr and Mrs B, my decision remains unchanged. I can see LGT 
Vestra asked Mr and Mrs B for information it already had, as well as sending out portfolio 
statements when it said the onboarding hadnt completed. For this I still believe the redress I 
set out of £200 compensation is fair and reasonable. But LGT Vestra decided not to continue 
a relationship with Mr and Mrs B, and its entitled to do this (even if this is because of the 
reasons Mr and Mrs B believe). So, it wouldnt be fair for me to direct LGT Vestra to pay for 
the financial effects of making a decision its allowed to make. 
I do understand that I referred to four months as the period it took for Mr and Mrs B to open 
a new account after LGT Vestra decided not to do so. Mr and Mrs B have clarified it took 
between five and seven months but they felt four months was a fair time period. I 
acknowledge this but for the reasons Ive explained, this doesnt change my decision.
My final decision
I uphold this complaint. LGT Vestra LLP must pay Mr and Mrs B, as trustees of the O Trust, 
£200 compensation for the trouble and upset caused.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr and Mrs B as 
trustees of the O Trust to accept or reject my decision before 7 October 2022.
 
Charlotte Wilson
Ombudsman