DRN-2196156
The complaint
Ms H has complained that NewDay Ltd lent to her irresponsibly and continued to increase 
her credit limit when she couldnt afford it.
What happened
In November 2014, Ms H took out a credit card with NewDay, with a limit of £300.
Over the course of the next few years, the credit limit increased as follows:
Date Old Limit New Limit Requested By
February 2015 £300 £1,300 NewDay
June 2015 £1,300 £1,900 NewDay
October 2015 £1,900 £2,650 Ms H
October 2016 £2,650 £3,650 Ms H
February 2017 £3,650 £4,900 NewDay
Shortly after the final increase, Ms H fell behind on her payments, and the account defaulted 
in July 2017.
Ms H says NewDay shouldnt have initially lent to her as she was studying at the time, and 
they shouldnt have increased her credit limit as she couldnt afford it. Shes asked for a 
refund of charges and for her credit file to be adjusted.
NewDay say they followed their lending criteria and acted responsibly.
I sent Ms H and NewDay a provisional decision on 21 August 2020, to explain why 
I thought the complaint should be partially upheld. In that decision, I said:
NewDay needed to take reasonable steps to ensure that they lent responsibly. In practice 
that means that they should have carried out proportionate checks to make sure Ms H could 
repay her borrowing in a sustainable manner. These checks could take into account a 
number of different things, such as how much was being lent, the repayment amounts, and 
the consumers income and expenditure. In the early stages of a lending relationship, I think 
less thorough checks might be reasonable and proportionate.  
With this in mind, I dont think it was unreasonable for NewDay to have lent to Ms H initially. 
According to the information they gathered, including what Ms H told them at the time, she 
was employed with a good income, wasnt in arrears, didnt have any recent defaults, had a 
relatively low amount of unsecured debt, and her initial credit limit was modest. There 
doesnt seem to have been any indication that she was studying rather than working, nor 
that she was in any financial difficulties at that point.
Similarly, for the first two credit limit increases  in February and June 2015  Ms H was up 
to date with her payments, paid on time, broadly stayed under her limit, and seemed to be 
managing her account well. Again, there doesnt seem to have been any strong indications 
of financial difficulties. And on each occasion, NewDay offered the new limit and Ms H didnt 
opt out.
However, by the point of the third increase in October 2015, I think NewDay should 
reasonably have seen that further lending was unsustainable or otherwise harmful.
After her previous limit increase in June 2015, Ms H almost immediately spent up to the new 
limit, which was a significant increase in the cards overall balance from the start. She then 
either kept her card maxed out or even exceeded her credit limit each month. She only made 
the bare minimum payments, and was sometimes late  and this was a sudden negative 
change in her repayment behaviour. Further, NewDays credit check showed that shed 
recently fallen into arrears with at least one other account. This was her third limit increase in 
less than a year, and it put her at nearly nine times the original approved limit.
Any one of these factors shouldve been a cause for concern for NewDay. But putting all of 
them together, I dont think it was fair or reasonable that they granted Ms H this limit 
increase or the subsequent ones.
Indeed, by the next increase, in October 2016, Ms H had gone over her limit in six months 
out of the last twelve, was otherwise keeping the card maxed out, and was again only paying 
the minimum amount  and not necessarily on time. And by that stage, the credit check 
showed financial difficulty markers.
So Im upholding the complaint from October 2015 onwards.
I said Id consider anything else anyone wanted to give me  so long as I received it by 
18 September 2020. Both Ms H and NewDay responded, and Ill go through what they 
said below.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ms H broadly agreed with the decision, but she felt it was still irresponsible of NewDay to 
have lent to her before October 2015, too. While I understand where shes coming from, 
I explained in my provisional decision that NewDay only needed to make checks that were 
proportional to the lending. And in the earlier stages of her lending relationship with NewDay, 
there doesnt seem to have been any indication that Ms H was studying rather than working, 
nor that she was in significant financial difficulties.NewDay argued that maxing out ones card didnt necessarily show that one was in financial 
difficulties, and nor did going over the limit, making only minimum payments, missing 
payments, or being in arrears elsewhere. But they are causes for concern. And we dont look 
at these factors in isolation, as NewDay are suggesting. We look at the whole situation. And 
given all of these factors put together, as well as other factors such as the large and frequent 
limit increases, negative changes in repayment behaviour, late payments, and later financial 
difficulty markers, it was not fair or reasonable that NewDay continued to increase Ms Hs 
limit from October 2015 onwards.
NewDay argued that their checks already assumed that the customer will use their full limit, 
per the regulations. But they also argued that they were only giving Ms H the option to use 
more credit, and so they werent responsible if she did use the whole limit. These two points 
appear to be contradictory, so Im not sure what NewDays logic is here. In any case, 
NewDay were required to lend responsibly, including checking that Ms H could reasonably 
afford any limit increases. And for the reasons I went through above, I do not agree that they 
did enough to make sure she could afford the new limits from October 2015 onwards.
NewDay pointed out that Ms H wasnt in arrears at the point of the October 2016 limit 
increase. But per my provisional decision, she had exceeded the limit in six months out of 
the last twelve, was otherwise keeping the card maxed out, was only paying the minimum 
amount, made late payments, and had financial difficulty markers on the credit check. 
NewDay should have realised that further increases were not sustainable.
They also pointed out that Ms H repaid the debt in mid-2020. I dont see the relevance of this 
in this case. The fact that Ms Hs situation may or may not have improved a good number of 
years later does not somehow make it retrospectively acceptable for NewDay to have lent 
irresponsibly back when she was in difficulties years before.
NewDay felt it was unfair to award 8% compensatory simple interest, as Ms H wasnt out of 
pocket. As I explained in the provisional decision, the compensatory interest is only to be 
added onto Ms Hs overpayments. Thats where she paid too much due to the unfair limit 
increases and associated interest and charges  and in those situations (if applicable), she 
would indeed have been out of pocket.
Lastly, NewDay explained that they were allowed to decide their own lending criteria. That 
may be the case, but they still have to lend responsibly. Here, I have found that they did not.
So having reconsidered the case, Ive come to the same conclusions as before.
Putting things right
I direct NewDay Ltd to:
Rework the account so that from October 2015 interest is only charged on the first 
£1,900 outstanding, to reflect the fact that no further credit limit increases should 
have been provided
Remove all late payment and over limit fees from October 2015 onwards
Deduct the payments Ms H made from October 2015 onwards from the reworked 
account balance. If, by doing this, the account balance drops below zero, the extra 
she paid should be treated as overpayments and refunded to Ms HAdd simple interest at the rate of 8% simple a year onto any refunded overpayments 
(if there were any), payable from the date the payment was made until the date of 
settlement
Remove any adverse information from Ms Hs credit file from October 2015 onwards
 HM Revenue & Customs requires NewDay to take off tax from this simple interest. NewDay must 
give Ms H a certificate showing how much tax theyve taken off if she asks for one.
My final decision
I partially uphold Ms Hs complaint, and direct NewDay Ltd to put things right in the way I set 
out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms H to accept or 
reject my decision before 19 October 2020.
 
Adam Charles
Ombudsman