DRN-3019002
The complaint
Miss D complains QIC Europe Ltd have unfairly turned down a claim on her pet insurance 
policy.
Other companies have been involved in this complaint, but as QIC are responsible for it Ive 
just referred to them in this decision.
What happened
Miss D says when she first bought her cat, she was six weeks of age or younger. She called 
up her vets to get her cat registered and asked for some advice on litter training. This was on 
12 October, and the insurance policy started two days later on 14 October. 
On 26 October Miss Ds cat was first seen, and a urinary condition was diagnosed, which 
was treated between then and 1 December 2020. On 25 January 2021, Miss D made a 
claim on her policy for this treatment, which was turned down as a pre-existing condition. So, 
she complained to QIC.
QIC listed out three claims Miss D had made for her cat, two of which were settled, and one 
which wasnt. They explained theyd looked at the vets clinical notes recorded on 
12 October for the claim theyd turned down. They said this showed the signs and symptoms 
of Miss Ds pets urinary condition were there before the policy had been taken out  and this 
was reconfirmed by the vets notes on 26 October when Miss Ds cat was first seen.
QIC quoted the terms, and explained they understood why Miss D would be unhappy, so 
they contacted her vet. The reply that came back said the vet cant specifically exclude the 
association between the original conversation on 12 October, and the urinary problems 
claimed for. Because of that, they were satisfied the claim had been fairly turned down as a 
pre-existing condition.
Unhappy with this, Miss D contacted us saying she couldnt understand how the phone call 
on 12 October meant this was a pre-existing condition when her cat was a baby and not fully 
developed. She said shes asking us to look into things because her cat hadnt been seen by 
a vet or diagnosed with any condition. She added the vet couldnt say yes or no to whether 
there was a condition because of how small her cat was and that hed not seen her, there 
hadnt been an investigation, and shes not been diagnosed with anything. Miss D was also 
unhappy with how long it took QIC to reply to the claim as well  saying they only did so 
because she had to chase them up on several occasions.
One of our investigators looked into things. She felt QIC had acted fairly by using the vets 
notes to establish there were symptoms prior to Miss D taking out the policy. And, as 
Miss Ds policy didnt cover pre-existing conditions, she didnt think QIC needed to meet the 
claim. She also found QIC had said sorry for Miss D having to chase them, which she felt 
was a fair way to put that issue right.
Miss D didnt accept this. She said she didnt feel this was fair or justified. She said her cat 
cant be diagnosed with a pre-existing condition when shes never been seen and was only 
six weeks old. She said it felt like she was being brushed aside and just told to refer to the 
terms and conditions, but no solutions were offered. She also felt nothing had been said 
about her having to chase QIC on two occasions either. 
As Miss D didnt agree, the complaints been passed to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The starting point for this complaint is to consider the policy terms. I realise Miss D feels that 
shes just being told to refer to them, which makes her feel like shes being brushed aside. 
But the reason the terms and conditions are important is because they form the basis of the 
contract between her and QIC. So, with her case, and generally with claims on insurance 
policies, my starting point will always be to look at what the terms say  to make sure, where 
theyve been used to turn the claim down, thats been done so fairly.
I can see in their response to Miss Ds complaint QIC have quoted the following terms:
Veterinary Fee Exclusions:
We will not be liable for:
2. Veterinary fees in connection with
(b) Any Illness or condition (not Accident) arising prior to or within the first 10 days of the 
inception date of the insurance
Incident
A specifically identifiable Accident, Injury or Illness. Recurring and/or long-lasting conditions 
shall be considered as one loss. Such conditions being defined as:
a) Clinical signs resulting in the same diagnosis (regardless of the number of incidents 
or area of the body affected) to which Your Pet is susceptible, and which are in any 
way related to the original claim.
In Miss Ds case, what this meant was QIC turned down the claim because they were 
satisfied based on the information they had, that an illness or condition had happened in the 
ten days before the policy started. Illness is defined by the policy terms as:
Illness
Physical disease, sickness, Infection or failure which is not caused by Injury
The vets notes QIC have referred to say:
12 October 2020
Frequently finds kitten with wet hind quarters. Drinks to the point where the abdomen is very 
full. Sounds like juvenile incontinence
26 October 2020
Still urinating excessively  suspect juvenile cystitis
And the claim that was submitted to QIC was for a urinary condition.
So, putting all of that together, I dont think QIC acted unreasonably in treating the initial 
phone conversation, and subsequent visit on 26 October, as linked. I realise Miss Ds cat 
hadnt been seen at that point, but I dont think that was necessary. The terms talk about 
clinical signs of the issue. The clinical signs were Miss Ds cat was frequently found with wet hind quarters according to the vets notes. This means she potentially had a urinary issue 
when this call was made on 12 October, which was the condition subsequently claimed for. 
This was two days before Miss D took out the policy, and the policy terms say they wont 
cover any illness or condition happening within the first ten days of the policy starting. 
On receipt of an appeal from Miss D, QIC got in touch with her vets. This is as Id expect, 
because if the vets can provide a clear explanation about why the conditions arent linked, 
then QIC would have needed to decide whether theyd reached a fair outcome.
The response from the vets said:
We cannot specifically exclude the association between the original telephone conversation 
with Miss D on the 12th of October and the kittens subsequent urinary problems.
They provided no other detail regarding this issue.
Given that, I cant reasonably say QIC have acted unfairly in maintaining their decision to 
turn down the claim. The information theyve got show a call was made before the policy 
started about urinary issues where the vet has said theyve suspected juvenile incontinence. 
In the first visit, the vet has said they suspect juvenile cystitis  both of which are urinary 
conditions, which is what Miss D ultimately submitted a claim for. And her vets havent been 
able to say the phone call and first visit arent linked.
I can understand Miss Ds frustrations. But based on all the information Ive seen, Im 
satisfied QIC have fairly turned down this claim.
I have noted Miss Ds concerns about having to contact QIC to get an outcome on the claim. 
But I can also see theyve said they had to wait for the vets to reply to them before they 
could do so. Because of that, I wont be asking QIC to do anything further on this point.
Ive also noted Miss Ds comments that no one is providing a solution to this issue. I can 
understand why this would feel really frustrating for her. But the only real solution I could 
offer, is to tell QIC to pay the claim. I could only do that, if I felt QIC had acted unfairly in 
turning down the claim, and I dont think they have.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained above I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss D to accept 
or reject my decision before 20 October 2021. 
Jon Pearce
Ombudsman