DRN-3947274
The complaint
Mr B and Mrs B have complained that Liverpool Victoria Insurance Company Limited (LV) 
unfairly declined part of a claim under their home insurance policy.
Mr B mainly dealt with the claim and complaint. So, for ease, I will normally only refer to him.
What happened
Mr B contacted LV when he found some water damage to his home. LV arranged for a 
surveyor to assess the damage. Following this, LV declined the claim as it said the damage 
was the result of a gradually operating cause due to a crack in the shower tray. Mr B asked 
LV to reconsider the claim. LV reviewed the claim and said it would cover the cost of 
replacing the shower tray, as this was accidental damage to sanitary wear, and the damage 
to the wall by the stairs as this is what Mr B first noticed and it hadnt got worse since it was 
found. It also offered £150 compensation.
Mr B contacted LV again because the settlement offered didnt cover all of the damage, 
including to the study in his home. LV maintained its position that it would only cover the 
shower tray and the wall by the stairs.
So, Mr B complained to this service. Our investigator didnt uphold the complaint. He said LV 
had acted reasonably by accepting the damage to the shower tray and wall, but declining the 
rest of the damage on the basis it happened gradually. He said it was also reasonable for LV 
to conclude that Mr B was aware of the damage, as he had attempted a repair on the 
shower tray.
As Mr B didnt agree, the complaint was referred to me.
 
I issued my provisional decision on 11 January 2023. In my provisional decision, I explained 
the reasons why I was planning to uphold the complaint. I said:
LV accepted part of the claim as accidental damage to sanitary wear. But, it declined 
another part of the claim because it decided some of the damage was gradual. Where a 
claim is accepted as accidental damage, gradual damage isnt covered by the claim, 
regardless of whether the policyholder was aware of it or not. This is so that an insurer 
doesnt become responsible for maintenance issues.
So, Ive considered whether it was reasonable for LV to decide the damage it declined to 
cover was gradual. When Mr B contacted LV to make the claim, he told LV that about a 
month earlier he had found a damp patch to a wall. He then found a crack in the shower tray, 
which his son had repaired. Mr B didnt think there was much damage, so he didnt report it 
to LV at that time. It was only when he found further damage in the study about a month later 
that he contacted LV. Mr B said he had decided to reorganise a bookcase and found the 
carpet was wet under a very small area under the bookcase, which caused him to 
investigate further. He then found water leaking down through the wall adjoining his 
neighbours house, which he said showed that the repair to the shower tray had failed.
From what Ive seen, LV accepted the damage to the shower tray and the wall by the stairs 
because it accepted this was the original one-off incident that led to the claim. However, it 
declined the damage to the study because this was the result of the repair to the shower tray 
failing, which allowed further damage to happen. So, Ive thought about whether that was 
reasonable.
Ive read LVs surveyor report. This said:
Met policy holder on site who advised that a cracked shower tray had allowed water to 
escape down into the study room below and stairwell wall area. We asked how the crack 
occurred to the tray and the policy holder could not confirm this however after it was noted a 
repair was carried out which has subsequently failed allowing water to damage below.

Overall [we] feel that this is down to gradual operating cause of the failed repair on the 
shower tray which should have been highlighted to LV when it initially cracked and not left to 
fail and cause damage to the rooms below as the tray was never repairable due to the large 
crack.
The damage in the study wasnt visible until Mr B rearranged a bookcase. At that time, he 
also found a water leak, which showed that the shower tray repair had failed. However, 
unlike LV and its surveyor, Im not currently persuaded that finding the water leak and the 
additional damage one month after the repair showed that it was a gradually operating 
cause. This is because I havent currently seen evidence that shows it was more likely than 
not that the damage in the study only happened due to the repair failing, rather than at the 
time the original damage was found. 
I also havent seen evidence that the damage was worse due to the one-month delay in 
contacting LV. The surveyors report said what was damaged in the study, but didnt 
comment on issues such as the level of damage. The report also didnt comment on issues 
such as why the damage could only have been caused by the repair failing, rather than the 
original incident, or what part of the damage could only be a result of the repair failing. Im 
aware Mr B found water leaking in the study, but there is no assessment of whether this was 
for the whole month, part of that month or had started a few minutes before Mr B found it. Im 
not suggesting that these are simple issues for LV or its surveyor to have assessed, but from 
what I can see, it didnt consider the damage in the study properly to consider whether it 
might be covered by the claim, like it did with the stair wall.
Based on what Ive seen, Im not currently persuaded Mr B finding a water leak and further 
damage a month later meant that the water leak from the failed repair caused that damage 
or that it was reasonable for LV to decline that part of the claim. So, I currently intend to 
uphold this complaint and to say LV should deal with the part of the claim for the damage to 
the study, in addition to the damage to the shower tray and stair wall.
Ive also thought about compensation. LV offered Mr B £150 compensation. Thinking about 
this, I currently intend to require LV to pay a total of £200 compensation, which includes the 
£150 it previously offered, as I think this more fairly reflects the distress and inconvenience 
caused to Mr B.
I asked both parties to send me any more information or evidence they wanted me to look at 
by 8 February 2023. Both parties replied before that date. LV agreed with my decision. Mr B 
noted my decision and said he would await the final outcome.What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided to uphold the complaint and for the reasons given in my 
provisional decision. I havent identified any reason to change how I think this complaint 
should be resolved and remain of the view that it is a fair way to deal with it.
Putting things right
LV should deal with the damage to the study and pay a total of £200 compensation.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above and in my provisional decision, my final decision is that this 
complaint is upheld. I require Liverpool Victoria Insurance Company Limited to:
deal with the damage to the study, in addition to the damage to the shower tray and the 
stair wall.
Pay a total of £200 compensation.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs B and Mr B to 
accept or reject my decision before 8 March 2023.
 
Louise O'Sullivan
Ombudsman