DRN-3037737
The complaint
Mr N complains that some lights he bought online were not fit for purpose. Because he paid 
for them with his credit card, he says that American Express Services Europe Limited should 
provide a refund.
What happened
Mr N bought four outdoor lights through a website, which Ill call A. The sales 
documentation recorded a price for each of US$93.70 and a total price of US$359.80, which 
included a US$15.00 discount. Mr N paid using his American Express credit card. His 
account statement showed that the payment was made to A and that, after conversion, his 
account was debited with £298.31.
Mr N says that when they arrived the lights were damaged and of very poor quality. Further, 
they were not earthed, even though they were specifically designed for outdoor use.
Mr N was unable to resolve matters with the supplier of the lights, so contacted American 
Express. It sought to obtain a refund through the chargeback process but was unable to do 
so because Mr N could not show that he had returned the lights to the seller.
It also considered whether Mr N was entitled to a refund under section 75 of the Consumer 
Credit Act 1974. It said however that it did not apply, because the payment had been made 
to A but Mr Ns contract for the supply of the lights was with a different company, S.
Mr N referred the matter to this service, where one of our investigators considered it. He 
agreed that the transaction was not covered by section 75 and so thought that American 
Express had dealt with the complaint fairly. Mr N did not accept the investigators 
assessment and asked that an ombudsman review the case.
I did that and broadly agreed with the investigators assessment. I concluded  provisionally 
 that:
chargeback was not available because Mr N had not returned the goods;
Mr N had paid A, but his contract for the purchase of the lights was with a different 
company, S, so section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974 did not apply; and 
the price of each light did not exceed £100, and this was another reason why section 75 
did not apply.
Mr N did not accept my provisional decision. He said he did not understand why I had taken 
the view that his contract was with S, not A. His only contact had been A and his payment 
had been made to A. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I stress first of all that I make no comment on the quality of the lights that Mr N received. 
What I must decide is whether American Express treated him fairly.  
In response to my provisional decision Mr N asked why I had taken the view that his contract 
was with S rather than A. The main reason is that the invoice sent with the lights was issued 
by S. And websites such as A operate in part by acting as an introducer between buyers and 
sellers  providing a platform for sellers to advertise goods and processing payments for 
them. But in this case A was not the seller, although I accept that Mr N dealt exclusively with 
that company when buying the lights. Even so, I set out another reason why section 75 did 
not apply here.
I will therefore discuss separately chargeback and section 75. 
Chargeback
Chargeback is a method by which certain disputed card payments can be challenged. It is 
usually appropriate where, for example, a customer alleges that a payment has been made 
fraudulently, a duplicate payment is taken or goods are not received. It can also be used 
where goods are not as described. It is not generally appropriate, however, where the 
allegation is that goods are faulty.
In this case, the sales details said that the seller would comply with the statutory rights which 
applied in the buyers location. Mr N was in the United Kingdom, so had a right to return the 
lights, as long as he did so within 14 days. The sales details said too that, if items were 
returned, the buyer must pay the cost of returning the items. That was in line with the 
relevant UK legislation in respect of goods bought online.
Mr N did not, however, return the goods. He thought the cost of doing so was too high. I can 
understand why he took that view. But, because he had not returned the lights, it was not 
possible for American Express to process a successful chargeback.
Section 75
Section 75(1) of the Consumer Credit Act 1974 says:
If the debtor under a debtor-creditor-supplier agreement falling within section 12(b) or 
(c) has, in relation to a transaction financed by the agreement, any claim against the 
supplier in respect of a misrepresentation or breach of contract, he shall have a like 
claim against the creditor, who, with the supplier, shall accordingly be jointly and 
severally liable to the debtor. 
Section 75(3)(b) says that subsection (1) does not apply to a claim
 so far as the claim relates to any single item to which the supplier has attached a 
cash price not exceeding £100 or more than £30,000 
The reference in subsection (1) to an agreement falling within section 12(b) is to a 
transaction made under arrangements between a creditor (in this case, American Express) 
and the supplier (in this case, S, the seller of the lights). Here, however, there were no 
payment arrangements between American Express and the seller that would have allowed 
Mr N to make a credit card payment directly to S. Mr Ns payment was made to A, not to S. 
That was possible because there were arrangements between American Express and A; but 
Mr Ns agreement for the supply of the lights was with S.It is nevertheless arguable that the arrangements between A and S (under which payment 
would have been passed by A to S) are sufficient to link American Express to S. I have 
therefore considered the effect as well of section 75(3)(b).
The sales documentation recorded that Mr N had ordered 4Pcs at a price of $93.70/Pack, 
rather than, for example, a set of four lights. The price which the supplier had attached to 
each light did not therefore exceed £100 at the conversion rate which applied on Mr Ns card 
account. It follows that the transaction fell within the exception in section 75(3) and was not 
covered by section 75(1).
Taking all of this into consideration, I believe that American Express handled Mr Ns claims 
fairly.
My final decision
For these reasons my final decision is that I do not require American Express Services 
Europe Limited to do anything further to resolve Mr Ns complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr N to accept or 
reject my decision before 7 October 2021.
 
Mike Ingram
Ombudsman