DRN-3502162
The complaint
Mr E says a broker, Grove & Dean Ltd (G&D) acted fraudulently in relation to a motor 
insurance policy it set up for his wife (Mrs E) on which he was a named driver. 
What happened
Mrs E and Mr E set up the policy on 30 October 2021, through a comparison website, then 
through G&Ds website and a follow-up call with one of its advisors. The policy was to start 
on 11 November 2021. A week before that date, Mr E called G&D to change the annual 
estimated mileage from 2,995 to 10,000. He paid £155.55 for the increase but had to call 
G&D again to ask for it to be changed on the policy documents. 
Mr G had also pointed out when he called G&D initially that his cars current mileage was set 
out in the documents as one mile (when it was actually 20,700 by the time the policy 
started). He and Mrs E were concerned about that because the Important Information 
document said any mileage over 2,995 during the policy year may invalidate the insurance. 
On the day the policy started, G&Ds advisor told Mr E the current mileage record couldnt be 
changed on the documents (due to a technical issue) but that it was recorded correctly on 
G&Ds system. She said in the event of an accident, the car would be covered. She said the 
insurers process, should a claim arise, was to check a cars mileage from its MOT records.
Mr E said he believed the car wasnt insured. As he thought hed been scammed by G&D, 
he cancelled the policy on 19 November 2021. He wanted a refund of all the money hed 
paid, as in his opinion, hed had no cover from the start. Initially, the refund Mr and Mrs E 
received was wrong, but G&D corrected it - and it also waived its cancellation fee. The 
insurer charged £49.05 for time on cover plus an administration fee. 
One of our investigators reviewed Mr and Mrs Es complaint. She said we couldnt address 
the charges made by the insurer, as this complaint is only about G&D. She noted that G&D 
had told Mr E about a technical issue that prevented the current mileage being set out in the 
documents. She was satisfied that the cover G&D had arranged was valid, despite some of 
the documents not being updated. She said we cant tell businesses to change their 
processes. And in her opinion, G&D had acted reasonably by refunding its cancellation 
charge. As there was no agreement, the complaint was passed to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I can see why Mr and Mrs E were concerned that their current mileage wasnt recorded 
correctly in all the documents, given the insurers limit for the policy year  even after it was 
raised to 10,000 miles. But its for them to show that G&D acted unreasonably, and that 
theres evidence of fraud / a scam on its part. I dont think theyve done so. 
The comparison website predicted a low figure for the cars annual mileage, and that figure 
went into the policy documents. During the initial call with Mrs E, G&Ds advisor asked her to 
confirm that all the details set out in the documents were correct. Mrs E said the cars value 
was greater than the sum quoted, so the advisor changed it. The advisor noted that the cars 
annual mileage was around 3,000 miles - and Mrs E didnt challenge that figure. Had she 
done so, I think its very likely that the advisor would have changed it at the time. Instead, 
Mr E emailed G&D before the policy started and got the annual mileage changed to 10,000 
miles. The insurer charged a further £150.55 for that. So Mr and Mrs E had evidence of the 
change in the annual mileage.  
In the initial call with G&D, Mrs E didnt tell its advisor that the cars current mileage  set out 
in the documents as one mile - was incorrect. Mr E raised the issue when he called to 
update the annual mileage. I think G&Ds advisor gave a reasonable explanation for why the 
current mileage couldnt be updated on the insurers Statement of Fact. It seems G&Ds 
software didnt have a relevant question to use, as the insurer didnt ask about current 
mileage. I can see why Mr and Mrs E found that odd, but an insurer is entitled to decide what 
process to follow. I think G&D did all it could do by noting the cars true mileage. 
The Important Information document didnt show a change of mileage either. I understand 
Mr and Mrs Es concerns about that, but I dont think it had any impact on their policy. G&D 
had recorded the correct current mileage (20,700) on its system - and the insurer would 
have checked the MOT records as well, had an accident occurred. G&D also confirmed that 
the revised annual mileage limit (10,000 miles) ran on top of the true current mileage figure  
rather than from a starting point of one mile, as Mr and Mrs E had suspected. 
We cant address the charges made by the insurer as part of this complaint. But I think G&D 
was entitled to make a cancellation charge, as set out in its terms and conditions. In my 
opinion it acted reasonably by refunding that charge to Mr and Mrs E, in recognition of the 
concerns theyd felt due to the issues affecting their documents. 
As I dont think theres evidence that G&D did anything substantially wrong  let alone that it 
acted fraudulently  Im not able to uphold Mr and Mrs Es complaint. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. Under the Financial Ombudsman 
Services rules, I must ask Mrs E and Mr E to accept or reject my decision before 
8 August 2022. 
Susan Ewins
Ombudsman