DRN-2956412
The complaint
A company Ill refer to as E has complained that Aviva Insurance Limited turned down a
damage claim on its commercial insurance policy.
Ms B, a director of E, has brought the complaint on Es behalf.
What happened
E hires out equipment it owns. It said that when it bought the insurance policy from Aviva, it
told Aviva that it needed insurance that would extend to cover damage while hired out to its
customers in around 50% of cases; as while some of them have their own insurance, others
dont. Aviva agreed this and so E gave its customers the option of paying to be covered by
Es insurance. Aviva didnt add any of Es customers on to the policy but said endorsements
were added to cover these circumstances.
E claimed on its policy after equipment it had hired out to a business, who Ill refer to as C,
was damaged. Aviva turned down the claim because it said E hadnt complied with the
following endorsements on the policy:
13 Equipment Hired Out
Exception 3 is deleted and We will indemnify You when Equipment is hired out
when the hire is under written conditions which make the hirer responsible
for Damage during the hire.
221 Waiver of Subrogation Rights
We will waive any rights against any hirer of the Property Insured in respect of
whom you have waived Any Condition in Your standard hire conditions Relating
to the hirers responsibility for Damage Arising in connection with the Property
Insured Whilst out on hire.
Provided always that the hirer shall act as though they were the Policyholder and
observe, fulfil and be subject to the terms exclusions and conditions of the policy
in so far as they apply.
Aviva said that E hadnt provided a copy of any written conditions to show it had adhered to
endorsement 13 or anything to show it had waived any of Cs responsibility for damage.
E said its customers accepted its standard terms and conditions when agreeing to the hire.
However, it accepted that there wasnt a written waiver.
E said there had been a clerical error and that C did require the insurance - and thought
they had purchased it - but E had forgotten to add it on this occasion. E provided a copy of a
previous invoice that showed C had previously taken the option of insurance on a previous
invoice; a copy of the quote which included insurance; and an email from C saying they
thought theyd added the insurance.
Aviva didnt think there were written conditions which made C responsible for any damage.
They also said E hadnt charged C for insurance on this occasion and, although they had
given E the opportunity to provide something showing it had waived Cs responsibility for any
damage to its property while under hire, E hadnt provided anything to show this had been
formally agreed. As Aviva didnt think E had complied with the policy endorsements, they
turned down Es claim.
E was unhappy with Avivas response and brought its complaint to our service. It said Aviva
was fully aware that 50% of its hires were to businesses who didnt have their own insurance
and so needed the policy to extend to them. E thought Aviva had quoted for the policy on
that basis and so knew the risk they were taking on. E also said that endorsement 221 didnt
say that the waiver needed to be written down.
Aviva said that not complying with endorsement 13 meant that they wouldnt be able to
recover any money they paid out on the claim. In addition, Aviva also said E hadnt notified
Aviva of the claim within the 30 days specified by the policy.
Our investigator looked into Es complaint but didnt recommend it be upheld. He didnt
think E had complied with the endorsements on the policy and he thought not doing so had
impacted Avivas opportunity to recover any money they would pay out on the claim.
E disagreed and asked for an ombudsmans decision. It said it had provided Aviva with a
copy of its standard hire conditions and it wasnt reasonable for Aviva to decline the claim
due to a clerical error. It said Aviva had underwritten the risk on the basis of being
responsible for 50% of the hires and so hadnt been prejudiced.
I issued a provisional decision on this complaint on 19 July 2021 where I explained why I 
didnt think Aviva needed to pay Es claim. In that decision I said:
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In reaching this decision, Ive considered whether E complied with the endorsements on the
policy and, if not, what the impact of that was on Aviva.
Did E comply with the endorsements on the policy?
The original wording in Es policy says that any electrical equipment which is hired out isnt
covered for damage. However, as E let Aviva know it wanted cover to extend to damage
when it hired out equipment, Aviva added endorsement 13 and endorsement 221 to the
policy.
I think the use of the word hirer in endorsement 13 is unclear. The policy doesnt define who
the hirer is and, when looking at the ordinary, everyday meaning of the word, it can mean
both someone who hires something to someone else and the person who is hiring
something from someone else. However, when considering the wording of endorsement 13
alongside endorsement 221, I think its clear that Aviva intended the hirer to be Es
customers, as endorsement 221 says the hirer needs to act as though they are the
policyholder, which is E.
E has provided a link to its online terms and conditions which say the customer is
responsible for damage, but these are dated after the claim occurred and I havent seen any
earlier copy of these.E has accepted there wasnt a written waiver showing C was no longer responsible for
damage to Es property while under hire. However, it said it was accepted between E and C
that Es rights to recovery from C would be waived as both E and C thought C had taken out
the additional insurance. I can see that the notes section of the invoice says for C to email
E if they have their own insurance and dont require Es. I dont think the lack of an email
from C saying they had their own insurance means that it was clearly established between E
and C that any damage to the property while with C would be covered under Es insurance,
particularly as the cost of the insurance wasnt added on to the invoice. I understand that
applying a cost to the cover for its customers wasnt something that was required by Aviva
but as E has shown from previous invoices that it does charge for this, I think not doing so
indicates that it didnt apply the cover in this case.
I have also seen a copy of an email from shortly after the hire in which E asks C to pay
for a repair. This indicates to me that E thought C was responsible for the damage. In
response, C said they had taken out the insurance option with E, indicating they thought
they werent responsible, but the exchange demonstrates that there was not a clear
understanding between E and C about which party was responsible.
I can see that the quote for the hire did include the cost of insurance. But I dont think C
taking out insurance on a previous invoice from some years before and sending an email
saying that they thought they had purchased the insurance is enough for me to fairly
conclude that E had waived Cs responsibility for damage arising to its property whilst that
property was out on hire to C.
While endorsement 221 doesnt say that the agreement needs to be written down, I do think
its reasonable for Aviva to require something in writing that shows that E had waived Cs
responsibility and so was relying on its own insurance.
So, taking all of the points above into consideration, I dont think E complied with the
endorsements on the policy.
What was the impact of the non-compliance on Aviva?
Under the terms of the policy Aviva is entitled to turn down Es claim as E didnt adhere to
the endorsements written into the policy. However, I have to consider what is a fair and
reasonable outcome in all the circumstances. And in order to do that, I think its reasonable
to consider what impact the non-compliance with the endorsements had on Aviva.
I can see that the purpose of endorsement 13 is for Aviva to look to recover any costs from
the customer who has hired the equipment from E. In not adhering to this endorsement, E
has impacted Avivas opportunity to do that, putting Aviva in a worse position.
Endorsement 221 waives Avivas rights to recover the cost from the customer. I can
understand why E thinks this means that it doesnt matter if it has adhered to the condition
because Aviva would know that there would be occasions when they wouldnt be able to
recover costs from Es customers. But I think its fair and reasonable for Aviva to specify that
the party responsible for any damage is something that should be clearly set out between E
and its customers before the hire takes place.
For these reasons, I dont intend to interfere with Avivas decision to refuse to pay the
claim.
Other points
Aviva have also said that E didnt refer the claim to them within 30 days. However, I dontintend to make a finding on that as I think its fair and reasonable for Aviva to rely on the
non-compliance with endorsements 13 and 221 in order to decline Es claim.
Neither E nor Aviva responded to my provisional decision by the required date.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As neither E nor Aviva responded by the required date, I see no reason to depart from my 
provisional findings. 
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask E to accept or 
reject my decision before 2 September 2021.
 
Sarann Taylor
Ombudsman