DRN-3239759
The complaint
Mr M complains that Bank of Scotland plc trading as Halifax removed an account block from 
his joint account and is holding him liable for the balance.
What happened
Mr M says he was added to his then partners account as a joint account holder in late 2018. 
He says he split up with his partner and didnt use the account. Mr M says the split was 
difficult and asked Halifax to place an account block as he was aware, he could be liable for 
any debt. He says the block was put in place but later found out it had been removed by his 
ex-partner whom provided a fraudulent letter of authority to Halifax. Mr M says he is being 
asked to repay the balance of over £1,500 and ought to be removed from the account.
Halifax says the joint account was closed in January 2020 with a balance of £1,692 which 
both parties are liable for. It says it shouldnt have removed the account block in April 2019 
and accepts Mr M should have been present before an account block was removed. Halifax 
has apologised for that mistake and paid £196 compensation to Mr M. It says it re-applied 
the block in August 2019 but says the mistake didnt affect the account balance.
Mr M brought his complaint to us and our investigator didnt uphold the complaint. The 
investigator thought this was a joint account and both parties were liable for the account 
balance. The investigator accepted Halifax should not have removed the account block but 
thought the compensation appropriate.
Mr M doesnt accept that view and says the compensation isnt enough.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I have come to the overall view that I dont uphold this complaint. I 
appreciate Mr M will be disappointed by my decision and I make clear that I can only 
consider the actions of Halifax in this complaint and not those of his former partner.
I can see that Mr M appreciates that although his former partner opened and used the 
account, that he was jointly added to it. That means that both parties are jointly and severally 
liable for the account. And both are responsible for the account balance. I dont think it 
matters that Mr M didnt use the account or that he didnt receive any benefit from it. So, it 
follows that Im satisfied that Halifax hasnt acted unfairly or made a mistake by asking both 
parties to repay the debt and by refusing to remove Mr M from the account before it was 
closed.
I appreciate Mr M was involved with a difficult relationship which resulted in him asking 
Halifax to place an account block in April 2019. There is no doubt that Halifax made a 
mistake by removing that block some days later and I appreciate Mr M would have been 
caused distress and inconvenience in finding out some months later the block had been 
removed. But I can also see that Halifax has apologised for its mistake and paid what I think 
is a fair and reasonable total compensation amount of £196. I dont think Mr M suffered any 
financial loss as a result of the mistake.
I have looked at the account statements and can see the balance when the blocked was 
applied was just over £1,334. The block was reapplied when the balance was less than that 
amount, so for that reason, I dont think Mr M suffered a financial loss. And Im satisfied that 
Mr M would have been liable for the account balance in April 2019 in any event.
Overall, Im satisfied Halifax has paid a fair and reasonable compensation amount and find 
that Mr M as a joint account holder couldnt simply be removed from the account as he 
wanted for the reasons I have explained.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 8 March 2022.
 
David Singh
Ombudsman