DRN-3792613
The complaint
Mr D has complained that Studio Retail Limited (Studio Retail), trading as Ace, 
irresponsibly lent to him.
What happened
Mr D opened a shopping account with Studio Retail in May 2018. At that point his credit limit 
was set at £100. It was increased five times between October 2018 and July 2020  by which 
point it was £650.
 
Mr D says that he couldnt afford the credit and that if Studio Retail had done proportionate 
checks on his financial situation it would have realised he couldnt pay it back in a 
sustainable way.
 
Studio Retail says it did all the necessary checks before it lent to Mr D and before it 
increased Mr Ds credit limit and that it acted appropriately and fairly.
Our adjudicator thought that Mr Ds complaint shouldnt be upheld. He thought that Studio 
Retail did reasonable checks to begin with but when Mr Ds credit was increased Studio 
Retail ought to have asked Mr D for more information about his circumstances. Our 
adjudicator asked Mr D, through his representative, for copies of his bank statements and 
credit file, but this wasnt received. So our adjudicator concluded that he could not safely say 
if Studio Retail had done more checks it would have seen information which would have 
indicated it shouldnt increase Mr Ds credit limit.
Mr D, through his representative, did not agree. But he didnt provide the information 
requested or explain why he disagreed. The complaint has been passed to me for a 
decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about unaffordable and irresponsible 
lending - including the key relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice - on our 
website and Ive taken that into account when considered Mr Ds complaint.
Studio Retail needed to take reasonable steps to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In
practice this means that it should have carried out proportionate checks to make sure Mr D
could afford to repay what he was being lent in a sustainable manner. These checks could 
have taken into account a number of different things, such as how much was being lent, the
repayment amounts, how quickly the debt was being paid off and Mr Ds income and 
expenditure. There may even come a point where the lending history and pattern of lending 
itself clearly demonstrates that that the lending was unsustainable.
Studio Retail has provided copies of the checks it did when the account was opened and 
when the limits were increased. There was no evidence of any recent arrears or defaults on 
other credit, or any County Court Judgements or debt management plans. So I think in the 
early days of the relationship Studio Retail did sufficient checks.
It is arguable that later in the relationship, before further credit limit increases were provided, 
Studio Retail should have sought more information from Mr D about his circumstances. 
There were three small increases of £100 each month from October to December 2018 and 
Mr D made late payments in each of these months Studio Retail has said that it didnt have 
external credit data for those increases, so it relied on information about how Mr D managed 
his account to that point. I think it would have been sensible for Studio Retail to seek more 
information before it provided at least the December 2018 increase. The results of its checks 
in relation to later increase in September 2019 and July 20202 do not seem to have shown 
anything of concern.
We asked Mr D to provide his bank statements and credit file from the time of the original 
lending and limit increases. He had provided information in his original complaint to this 
service which suggested he was using high cost credit facilities during the course of the 
agreement which might indicate financial difficulty. But Mr D didnt provide this information, 
so I cant tell what Studio Retail would have seen if theyd done the checks I think were 
necessary. 
For this reason, I dont have enough information to satisfy me that had Studio Retail 
completed proportionate checks that it would have seen anything which might have made it 
act differently and not provide the original lending or credit limit increases. And I cant say 
that Mr D lost out as a result of anything Studio Retail might have done wrong. 
My final decision
I do not uphold Mr Ds complaint, so it follows that Studio Retail Limited, trading as Ace, 
doesnt have to do anything further. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision before 5 January 2023.
 
Sally Allbeury
Ombudsman