DRN-1406564
 
The complaint
Mr and Mrs M complain that Royal & Sun Alliance Insurance Plc (RSA) has abandoned a 
recovery claim for monies it paid out under their buildings insurance policy. 
What happened
In July 2011, Mr and Mrs M were told by their local council that a wall on their property was 
unsafe and needed to be repaired. The damage was put down to one of their neighbours 
walls falling down and dragging their wall down with it. They made a claim for the costs of 
knocking down and rebuilding the wall.
RSA accepted the claim and settled it under the accidental damage section of the policy. 
RSA began to attempt recovery of its outlay from Mr and Mrs Ms neighbour. It wrote to the 
neighbour in February 2012 to explain that if it didnt get a reply within two weeks, it would 
take the matter to court. As Mr and Mrs Ms neighbour didnt get in touch, RSA took the case 
to court, where a County Court Judgement (CCJ) was obtained. 
However, despite RSA trying to enforce the CCJ, it didnt get any response from Mr and Mrs 
Ms neighbour. So it abandoned its attempts to recover its outlay in August 2013.
In 2015, Mr and Mrs M let RSA know their neighbour had died. They said the family had sold 
the home. So Mr and Mrs M wanted RSA to try and recover the monies from the estate. But 
RSA said while itd concluded with the court that it was possible to recover the money from a 
third party, this hadnt been financially successful. 
Mr and Mrs M were unhappy with RSAs decision to stop attempting to recover the fund itd 
paid for their claim. They asked us to look into their complaint. They said theyd wanted to 
attend court, because the claim would have an impact on their insurance premiums and they 
were stressed out by the time they had to take off work due to the wall being rebuilt.
Our investigator didnt think Mr and Mrs Ms complaint should be upheld. She thought RSA 
had done all it could to recover what itd paid out for Mr and Mrs Ms claim. While she 
sympathised with Mr and Mrs Ms frustration, she thought RSA had met its obligations under 
their policy. And she explained that as Mr and Mrs M hadnt complained to RSA about the 
impact of the claim on their premiums, theyd need to make a new complaint about the issue 
before we could help with it.
Mr and Mrs M disagreed. They felt their neighbour shouldve attended court. They said if 
hed maintained his wall properly, they would never have needed to make a claim, take time 
off work, get rebuild quotes or go through any stress. So they asked for an ombudsman to 
decide their complaint.  
What Ive decided  and whyIve considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Having done so, I think RSA has treated 
Mr and Mrs M fairly. Ill explain why.
Its clear Mr and Mrs M feel very strongly about the impact their neighbours failure to 
maintain his wall had on them. I can understand how frustrating it mustve been to learn that 
through no fault of their own; their wall had become dangerous. And that they needed to get 
their wall taken down, rebuilt and to have to go through the insurance claim process. I dont 
doubt this caused them some stress and inconvenience.  
But I can only consider RSAs actions within my decision. It seems much of their their 
complaint  is about to the actions of their neighbour. These simply arent things I can hold 
RSA responsible for. RSA had no legal power to compel Mr and Mrs Ms neighbour to attend 
court or reply to its letters. And it isnt responsible for the trouble and upset Mr and Mrs Ms 
neighbour caused them.
Its clear that once RSA was satisfied the claim was covered by the accidental damage 
section of the policy, it paid Mr and Mrs Ms claim, less the policy excess. Mr and Mrs M 
asked RSA to seek recovery of the money itd paid out from their neighbour. From the 
records Ive seen, I can see that RSA and ultimately its legal representative made repeated 
efforts to do so.
RSA wrote to Mr and Mrs Ms neighbour and when it got no response, it initiated court 
action. It had no power to make Mr and Mrs Ms neighbour come to court. I appreciate Mr 
and Mrs M wouldve liked to have attended court, but I dont think this makes any material 
difference to the outcome of their case. Thats because their neighbour didnt attend court 
and a judgement was still made against him.
The court awarded a CCJ against Mr and Mrs Ms neighbour. I can see from the records that 
RSAs legal team tried to enforce the CCJ, but it simply got no response. So I think it was 
reasonable for it to abandon its attempts to recover the money two years after the claim had 
been made. 
Mr and Mrs M got in touch with RSA in November 2015 to let it know their neighbour had 
died and to enquire about the possibility of recovering RSAs outlay from the house sale 
proceeds. I appreciate RSA took some time to get back to Mr and Mrs M about this. But 
given RSA got in touch with the court and got agreement to try and recover the pay-out from 
a third party, I think it did all it could to try and recoup its losses. RSA simply isnt responsible 
for the attempted recovery being unsuccessful. And at this point, I think it was reasonable for 
RSA to decide it had exhausted every possible avenue and to abandon any further attempts 
at recovery. 
I understand Mr and Mrs M feel the claim and abandoned recovery has impacted on the 
price of their insurance policy. They havent previously complained to RSA about this issue, 
so it isnt something I can look into here. If theyd like to complain about the impact this 
matter has had on their premium, theyll need to complain to RSA before we can potentially 
look into their complaint.
 
 
 
My final decisionFor the reasons Ive given above, my final decision is that I dont uphold Mr and Mrs Ms 
complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs M and Mr M to 
accept or reject my decision before 26 May 2020.
Lisa Barham
Ombudsman