DRN-2908029
The complaint
Mr K and Ms M complained about the settlement offered by esure Insurance Limited after 
they made a claim under their home insurance policy for damage caused by a water leak. 
Theyre also unhappy with the way esure handled the claim.
What happened
In February 2020 Mr K and Ms M made a claim to esure after discovering water damage to 
their home. esure accepted the claim. It instructed a loss adjuster who drew up a schedule 
of repair works. In May 2020 its loss adjuster offered a cash settlement of £11,424.
Mr K and Ms M appointed their own surveyor to draw up a schedule of works. They thought 
esure hadnt included all the works that were necessary. 
esure said it needed to revisit the property to validate the damage it hadnt included. At first 
Mr K and Ms M didnt agree to a further visit. They wanted esure to settle the claim on the 
basis of their quotes.
They brought a complaint to this service in May 2020.Our investigator said in June 2020 she 
didnt think esure had acted unreasonably in requiring a further visit.
After the further visit esures surveyor agreed that there was more damage than originally 
thought. Its loss adjuster drafted a revised schedule of works setting out what needed to be 
done to repair the property. In August 2020 it offered Mr K and Ms M a cash settlement of 
£29,388 plus VAT.
Mr K and Ms M believed that esure still hadnt included all the works that were necessary. 
They said it would cost them at least £43,490 plus VAT to repair their home. esure decided 
to send a builder to price up the works on the schedule.
After a visit by esures builder in September 2020, esure said its cash settlement offer was 
unchanged. Mr K and Ms M complained to esure about this. In its final response letter dated 
21 October 2020 esure didnt change its settlement offer. But it accepted that the original 
settlement offer was too low and offered them £150 compensation for this.
On 22 October Mr K and Ms M brought a further complaint to this service. They didnt think it 
was fair that esure was settling the claim on the basis of the amount which it would have 
paid for the repairs. The following month esure clarified that it would appoint its own 
contractor to carry out the repairs if that was what the policyholders wished. Our investigator 
thought esure should have made that clearer in October 2020. She recommended that 
esure should pay £100 compensation for this. 
As Mr K and Ms M didnt agree with the amount of compensation, the matter has been 
passed to me. They have since accepted esures cash settlement offer.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Now that the claim has been settled, I believe the only issue that remains is the amount of 
compensation esure should pay Mr K and Ms M. So Ill focus on that. 
Awards of compensation arent intended to fine or punish a business  thats the job of the 
regulator. All insurance claims come with a level of inconvenience and a degree of trouble 
attached to them. Some more than others. But when this service considers how much 
compensation to award, were looking at what trouble and upset the insurer has caused to its 
policy holder above and beyond that which wed normally expect to see associated with a 
claim of this type. 
As part of Mr K and Ms Ms first complaint to us we looked at how esure had handled their 
claim up to May 2020. In this complaint Im looking at how it handled the claim from that 
point on to the date of its final response in October 2020.
Its accepted by esure that its initial cash settlement offer in May 2020 was far too low. But 
its to esures credit that it agreed to reconsider that and later that month the dispute was 
about whether esure should revisit the property. After it had revisited, it made a revised 
settlement offer on 10 August 2020 which I think is a reasonable timeframe. That cash 
settlement offer was the one which Mr K and Ms M eventually accepted. Its only fair for me 
to recognise that esure has acknowledged its original offer wasnt enough and that its paid 
£150 to compensate for this. 
Its clear to me from correspondence supplied by esure that up to November 2020 its 
preference was to cash settle the claim. However, in November 2020 its loss adjuster wrote 
to Mr K and Ms M as follows:
Further to our previous emails, I understand from Insurers they have advised you of their 
final decision. If you could confirm if you are proceeding on the basis of the cash settlement 
offer of £29,388.41 plus vat or whether you wish for Contractors to be appointed. I await an 
update in due course, so that I can progress your claim.
The loss adjuster also invited Mr K and Ms M to contact her if they had any queries.
Mr K responded that he didnt want esures contractors to carry out the works as he 
regarded them as incompetent. He said hed made this clear several times in previous 
emails.
Im sorry to hear how this claim has impacted Ms Ms health and that of her parent. But at 
the end of the day it seems to me esure was mainly at fault in not making it clear to Mr K and 
Ms M at an earlier stage that its contractor would carry out the repairs if they wanted. Even if 
it had made this clear in August, I dont think its likely this would have changed anything 
though because of the poor opinion Mr K and Ms M had of them. So I think further 
compensation of £100 is appropriate for the trouble and upset caused by the second 
settlement offer not being clear. I appreciate that this will come as a disappointment to Mr K 
and Ms M but Ive thought about this services approach to awards made in similar 
circumstances and I dont think I can fairly award any more.
Putting things rightTo put things right I think esure should pay compensation of £100 for the trouble and upset it 
caused Mr K and Ms M by not making it clear in August 2020 that its contractor would carry 
out the repair works if they wanted.
My final decision
I uphold this complaint and require esure Insurance Limited to pay compensation of £100 to 
Mr K and Ms M. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr K and Ms M to 
accept or reject my decision before 25 October 2021.
 
Elizabeth Grant
Ombudsman