DRN-3430147
The complaint
Mr M complains that Barclays Bank UK PLC caused delays with his mortgage application. 
He says his purchase fell through as a result. Mr M asks for compensation of £10,000 for the 
costs and upset this caused. 
What happened
Mr M applied for a mortgage with Barclays in February 2021 via a broker. Barclays had a 
problem with its systems which meant it couldnt progress the application. This issue still 
wasnt resolved by the end of May 2021. Mr Ms purchase fell through.
Barclays said it would refund the costs Mr M incurred (such as legal fees, searches and 
brokers fees) if he provided invoices or other evidence of the costs. It offered £500 for the 
upset and inconvenience its delays caused.
Our investigator said while Barclays caused delays the compensation it offered was fair.
Mr M didnt agree. He feels compensation of £10,000 would be fair.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Barclays had problems with its systems that led to delays with Mr Ms mortgage application. 
Mr M says his purchase fell through due to these delays. He found another property and 
decided  quite understandably  to apply to another lender. 
This experience caused inconvenience and stress to Mr M, and I think its right that Barclays 
pays compensation. I dont have the powers of a regulator, and I cant fine Barclays. I can 
consider what effect this matter had on Mr M and whether the compensation offered by 
Barclays is fair and reasonable in the circumstances. In doing so, Ive taken the following 
into account.
Mr Ms mortgage application was first submitted in mid February 2021 by his broker. The 
IT problem stopping the application progressing hadnt been fixed by late May 2021  
three months later. 
Mr M says his broker re-submitted the application and chased Barclays on his behalf. 
Throughout this time Barclays was unable to give Mr M or his broker clear information 
about when the problem might be fixed.
Mr M was a first time buyer with a young family. When his purchase fell through, Mr M 
says he felt his dreams had been shattered. Mr M has found another property to buy.
Mr M provided evidence of search fees (which Barclays agreed to pay compensation 
for). Mr M hasnt provided evidence of other costs related to the purchase. 
Having taken this into account and considered what Mr M has told us, I think the £500 
compensation offered by Barclays is fair and reasonable in the circumstances for the 
inconvenience and upset caused by its delays. I think it was fair for Barclays to offer to 
compensate Mr M for the costs of the failed purchase against evidence of the costs.
My final decision
My decision is that Barclays Bank UK PLC should pay £500 compensation (as it offered to 
do) and re-imburse Mr Ms search fees. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 10 May 2022.
 
Ruth Stevenson
Ombudsman