DRN-2921238
The complaint
Mrs C complains about the service she received from HSBC Bank Plc when she requested 
that her account be closed.  
What happened
Mrs C complained to this service in early 2020 about some disputed transactions on her 
account.  Her complaint was upheld, and she was awarded some compensation.  She says 
at this point, she asked HSBC to close the account and she also returned the card 
associated with the account back to HSBC.
However, months later, Mrs C said she continued receiving statements with an outstanding 
balance and further transactions  which she again disputed.  And when she tried to contact 
HSBC to complain, she was unable to get a satisfactory response.  So, she came back to 
this service to see if we could help.
HSBC said it did action the closure but it was re-opened as there was an outstanding 
balance on the account.  It agreed it had continued to send statements to Mrs C.
In its final response to Mrs Cs complaint, it asked which of the new transactions she was 
disputing.  It had received no response.
Our investigator was able to clarify with Mrs C which of the transactions she disputed.  
Essentially, it was everything on the account as she confirmed she no longer had the card.
Due to our involvement, HSBC refunded the further transactions and offered Mrs C a good 
will gesture payment of £50.  Mrs C accepted this on the basis that the account was now 
closed and she wouldnt receive any further statements or demands for payments.  This was 
in March 2021.
Unfortunately, a few weeks later, Mrs C received further correspondence from HSBC 
regarding the outstanding balance  and it wasnt until July 2021 that HSBC finally confirmed 
it had closed the account.
The matter was then passed to me for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I can see that this has been a frustrating time for Mrs C.  She had hoped that the matter was 
resolved in February 2020 when this service had upheld her complaint.
I note HSBC had initially closed the account but due to an outstanding balance, it was re-
opened.  Ive thought about whether HSBC would have been aware that the further 
transactions were disputed but I dont think it would at that stage.  It said it hadnt heard from 
Mrs C  so the account remained open and the statements continued to be issued.
However, it appears that the disputed transactions were subsequently refunded in October 
2020 so its not clear why HSBC continued to issue demands after that date  or why it took 
until July 2021 for it to confirm that the account was now closed.
Ive considered the impact that the pandemic may have had on HSBCs ability to deal with 
matters swiftly.  I accept it perhaps may have impacted waiting times on the phone for 
instance  but once Mrs Cs complaint was looked at in October 2020, I would have 
expected HSBC to have acted then and take the appropriate action.  It did not.
For the additional distress and inconvenience it caused to Mrs C, I think a fair and 
reasonable sum would be £100  and this is to include the £50 already offered as a gesture 
of goodwill.  
Putting things right
HSBC UK Plc should pay Mrs C £100 in full and final settlement of this complaint (this sum 
to include the £50 already offered).  
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint.  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs C to accept or 
reject my decision before 31 August 2021.
 
Shazia Ahmed
Ombudsman