DRN-4316995
The complaint
Mr H complains that Thistle Insurance Services Limited (Thistle) gave incorrect advice prior 
to making a claim under his contents insurance policy, and this led to his claim being 
declined.
What happened
In May 2022 Mr H purchased contents insurance via Thistle, acting as a broker. In July 2022 
Mr H called Thistle to report a claim for a theft. 
The insurer of Mr Hs policy later declined his claim.
Mr H was unhappy with the claim decision, he also said Thistle gave incorrect information 
which led to the insurer declining his claim. As Mr H remained unhappy, he brought 
complaints about the insurer and Thistle to this service.
Our investigator considered this complaint about Thistle. But she said there was no evidence 
to support what Mr H alleged about Thistle providing incorrect information prior to making his 
claim. So, she didnt recommend the complaint be upheld.
Mr H didnt agree and asked for a final decision from an ombudsman.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive reached the same outcome as our investigator.
Ill also confirm that my consideration here solely relates to Thistle and the alleged incorrect 
advice they gave, which Mr H said led to the decline of his claim by the insurer. The 
complaint about the insurer and their claim decision has been considered by my 
Ombudsman colleague, and a final decision has been issued in relation to that. I therefore 
wont be considering that again here.
Mr H reported the theft to Thistle on 28 July 2022. The theft occurred around two and a half 
weeks before this.
Mr Hs insurer declined his claim. Part of the reason was because there was a delay in the 
claim being reported. Mr H says that prior to reporting the claim to Thistle, a family member 
contacted Thistle for him. He says they were told he had three months to make a claim, and 
he did so within this timescale, so he doesnt think its fair his claim was declined by the 
insurer on the basis of a delay in reporting. So, Mr H holds Thistle responsible for his claim 
being declined by the insurer on the basis of the advice they gave.
Whilst I note what Mr H has alleged, Thistle doesnt have any records of any calls in which a 
three-month timescale was outlined. This includes checking all the calls from Mr Hs number, 
the number he provided for his family member he said called them, and all calls from 
withheld and anonymous numbers in the lead up to him making his claim. So, Thistle has 
been unable to locate this alleged call.
Despite our investigator asking Mr H for evidence of this call, he hasnt provided anything to 
support that either. Therefore, in the absence of any records of any calls prior to the claim 
being made which support this, Im unable to conclude Thistle has acted unfairly.
Furthermore, whilst my consideration of this complaint only relates to Thistle, I should also 
point out there were several reasons why Mr Hs claim was declined by the insurer. And it 
wasnt solely on the basis of late notification. So even if there was evidence of this timescale 
being outlined by Thistle before Mr H reported the claim  which there isnt  there are 
several other reasons the claim was declined regardless of this. 
My final decision
Its my final decision that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 21 September 2023.
 
Callum Milne
Ombudsman