DRN-3372069
The complaint
Mr M complains about how Aviva Insurance Limited settled a claim on his car insurance 
policy. 
What happened
Mr M was involved in an accident with a motorcycle while turning at a junction. Mr M initially 
looked at claiming on his policy but decided not to as the damage was minor, and he thought 
the third party was responsible for the accident. He also provided Aviva dash with cam 
footage of the accident. 
The third party then claimed for the damage caused by the accident and said Mr M was at 
fault. Aviva reviewed the claim and decided it wasnt one it could defend in court, it also 
raised some questions about the amount claimed from the third party but then settled on a 
lower amount with Mr M being held mainly at fault for the accident. Mr M didnt think this was 
fair and complained, he said the third party had made a fraudulent claim and inflated the 
claim costs. 
Aviva reviewed the complaint and didnt uphold it. It found that while the initial amount 
claimed by the third party was higher then settled, it didnt think it was one it could defend if it 
went to court. Mr M didnt think this was fair and brought his complaint here. 
Our investigator reviewed Mr Ms complaint and didnt recommend it be upheld. He found 
that Aviva had sought legal advice on whether they would have a reasonable chance of 
success if it went to court. He also found that while there were some questions over the third 
party claim Aviva had decided to settle it to keep the claim costs down. Mr M didnt think this 
was fair and raised several points on why he thought Aviva should have done more. 
As Mr M didnt agree with our investigator the complaint has come to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr M has made a number of detailed points. Were an informal dispute resolution service set 
up as a free alternative to the courts. In deciding this complaint Ive focused on what I 
consider to be the heart of the matter rather than commenting on every issue in turn. This 
isnt intended as a discourtesy to Mr M. Rather it reflects the informal nature of our service, 
its remit and my role in it.
The terms and conditions of Mr Ms policy, like most policies we see, give Aviva the right to 
take over the defence or settlement of any claim, as it sees fit. That means it might make a
decision Mr M disagrees with and not try to recover its outlay or settle a claim from the third
party or their insurer. But wed look at whether Aviva made a reasonable decision in doing
this based on the evidence it had and the circumstances of the case.
I can see Aviva reviewed the dash cam footage Mr M provided and also got a legal opinion 
on whether this was a claim it could win if it went to court. As it didnt think there was a 
prospect of success if it went to court Aviva decided to settle the third party claim. I 
understand Mr M isnt happy about this or that he wasnt told beforehand, but the policy 
allows Aviva to do so and Im satisfied it was fair and reasonable in the circumstances.
Ive also considered Mr Ms points about the third party claim being fraudulent and having 
inflated claim costs. I can see Aviva questioned these and ultimately settled on a lower 
amount. When our investigator also questioned the damage to the third party motorcycle 
Aviva said it had been assessed by a qualified engineer and so made the choice to settle the 
claim to try and keep the costs down. I appreciate this isnt the answer Mr M was hoping for, 
but Im not persuaded Aviva did anything wrong by doing this. It therefore follows that Im not 
going to tell Aviva to do anything more. 
My final decision
For the reasons explained above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 21 April 2022.
 
Alex Newman
Ombudsman