DRN-2020957
The complaint
Mr J is unhappy with the way QIC Europe Ltd (QIC) handled a claim made on his home 
insurance policy.
There have been several parties appointed on behalf of QIC in this claim but for ease I 
will refer only to QIC.
What happened
In April 2019, Mr J fell through the floor from the upstairs master bedroom to the kitchen due 
to a faulty floorboard. Mr J made a claim against his home insurance policy for the damage 
caused.
QIC instructed a surveyor to attend the property shortly after the claim was made. The 
surveyor had concerns about asbestos so QIC instructed further tests to be carried out to 
check for the presence of asbestos at the end of April 2019. The results of these tests 
showed that asbestos was present in the kitchen ceiling. So a specialist company was 
instructed to remove the kitchen ceiling and dispose of any asbestos on 15 May 2019.
The same day QIC instructed a contractor to install a new kitchen ceiling. The contractor 
contacted Mr J the following week, who explained that he was out of the country for several 
weeks and that he wouldnt be able to arrange a site visit for some time. Mr J also had a pre-
arranged work contract from June onwards, where it had been agreed that he was unable to 
take days off during the initial few months of the contract, which he says he made QIC aware 
of. Mr J arranged to travel home a few days earlier than anticipated so the works could be 
carried out on 30 and 31 May 2019 and let QIC know this.
QIC contacted Mr J to state that it couldnt attend the property on these days as its 
contractor needed to carry out a pre-work site visit, which was mandatory. It also suggested 
that if Mr J required a contractor to work during the weekends then he could provide two 
quotes from contractors who were willing to do this and QIC could cash settle the claim in 
order for Mr J to get these works completed. This suggestion was sent to Mr J on 22 May 
2019 but Mr J declined this option.
Mr J is unhappy that he travelled home early and that the works werent completed as he 
had specified. He doesnt believe the pre-work site visit was necessary and says the 
contractor confirmed that he didnt need to visit the property prior to the works commencing. 
Our investigator didnt think the complaint should be upheld. In short, she said that the pre-
work site visit appeared to be necessary and that QIC hadnt acted unreasonably in insisting 
that this was carried out before booking the works in. Mr J didnt agree so the complaint has 
been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having considered the circumstances of this complaint, I can understand Mr Js concerns at 
the circumstances surrounding this complaint. Mr J had obtained a lucrative contract that 
meant he was unable to take time away from his job during the week and its clear that he 
found this process frustrating, given that he viewed the pre-work site visit as unnecessary.
But it was for QIC to decide how to progress this claim and carrying out a site visit shortly 
before the works begin is standard practice and not unusual. It isnt clear in this case, why 
this was necessary, and I think QIC could have gone into more detail about that so Mr J 
could have understood why this was a mandatory requirement, if indeed it was needed. 
However, I can see that QIC offered a cash settlement to allow Mr J to get the works 
completed himself, which was a reasonable alternative in the circumstances given that it 
would have allowed Mr J to have the works completed at a time of his own choosing. Given 
Mr Js specific requirements, I think this was a fair suggestion to resolve the issue.
Mr J has said that it would have cost him more to hire contractors to come out at weekends 
and that he believes QIC wouldnt have covered this cost  but from the evidence Ive seen, 
it doesnt seem that this this is something he put to it or queried with QIC. And QIC has 
confirmed that it would have been willing to reimburse Mr J for his reasonable costs  even if 
those were more than it would have cost QIC if using its own contractors. So I cant agree 
with Mr Js comments that he would have been out of pocket by taking this option.
As Mr J opted not to agree to the cash settlement, I think it was fair for QIC to expect him to 
adhere to their requirements and processes in order for the works to be carried out. 
Ultimately QIC must ensure the safety and quality of works carried out by its contractors and 
has put processes in place to do this  so I dont think it was reasonable to expect QIC to 
ignore these simply to fit with Mr Js schedule.
However, I do think QIC could have been more proactive at the beginning of the claim to 
move things forward faster than it did as it seems that Mr J had to chase them on a couple of 
occasions. And I think it would have been good customer service to arrange for the new 
ceiling to be fitted straight after the asbestos ceiling was removed. But while I think it would 
have been good customer service, I dont think QIC made a mistake in not booking this 
before the old ceiling was taken down. And I can see it contacted a contractor the same day 
as the ceiling was removed, which I think is a reasonable timeframe.
Mr J has also stated that it had been agreed that the works would begin on a set date, but I 
havent seen any evidence of this being mutually agreed. Mr J also says that someone was 
available at his home in June 2019 and that QIC made no attempt to book an appointment 
during that time. But from the information I have, it seems that Mr J wasnt clear about this in 
his email. Instead his email said that his friend would be available if QIC could cover the 
airfare to the UK, which it declined to do.
Overall, the works that were carried out, while incomplete, were carried out in a matter of 
weeks. And Mr J was offered a way of progressing the works appropriately by having his 
own contractors complete the works but declined to do this. So while I agree with Mr J that 
the level of service he received could have been better, I dont think QIC has made a 
mistake and I can see that it made reasonable attempts to try to accommodate Mr Js 
requests.
Mr J has also raised some concerns about the contractor failing to comply with Data 
Protection rules. We arent able to consider those issues so Mr J would need to speak the 
relevant body to raise his complaints if he wishes to pursue them.
Mr J has now had the ceiling fixed at his own cost and has provided this service with an 
invoice for this. And he has previously had to pay an electrician to make the kitchen lights safe. Mr J will need to provide these invoices to QIC to consider. As Mr J has now had the 
works carried out at his own cost, as previously offered by QIC, I would expect it to consider 
the invoices and reimburse Mr J any settlement he is owed under the terms of the policy.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr J to accept or 
reject my decision before 29 October 2020.
 
Sara Falzon
Ombudsman