DRN-2340070
The complaint
Mr and Mrs B complain that Fairmead Insurance Limited (Fairmead) unfairly declined to 
cover a claim they made on a home insurance policy following a leak of water.
Mr and Mrs B are represented in their dealings with Fairmead and our service. Where I refer 
to Mr and Mrs B, this includes their representatives.
What happened
Mr and Mrs B insure a property with Fairmead. They reported damage to the property which 
they believed to have been caused by a leak in a bathroom. 
There were initially issues around whether the insurance policy was in force but these were 
resolved in fairly short order and arent a subject of this complaint. Fairmead appointed an 
agent who attended the property. They concluded that the damage had been caused by a 
leak from the rear of a toilet which had been allowed to go unrepaired for a significant 
period of time.
Fairmead declined cover for Mr and Mrs Bs claim. It said that their policy excluded from 
cover damage caused gradually over time. They believed Mr and Mrs B would have known 
about the issue before reporting the claim.
Mr and Mrs B disputed this and complained to Fairmead. It rejected their complaint and said 
it was satisfied with its agents findings, and that it had made the correct decision in declining 
the claim.
As they were unhappy with this, Mr and Mrs B brought their complaint to our service. Our 
investigator thought that Fairmead hadnt acted fairly when it declined the claim. He noted 
that Mr and Mrs B had reports from experts outlining that, in their opinion, all the damage 
was caused by a minor leak which had been effectively rectified. He was persuaded by this 
report, rather than the report of Fairmeads representatives. He thought that Fairmead 
should reconsider the claim, and pay £300 compensation to Mr and Mrs B.
Fairmead didnt accept this, and has asked for an ombudsmans decision. Its their position 
that the extent and nature of the damage to the property is consistent with a leak which had 
been occurring for a long period of time, and that the damage would have been noticeable 
by Mr and Mrs B well before they reported the claim.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
When it declined Mr and Mrs Bs claim, Fairmead relied on an exclusion in the policy for 
damage caused over time. The exclusion says there is no cover for damage arising from 
wear and tear that you know is happening over time. 
Based on the wording of this exclusion, for Fairmead to be able to fairly decline cover for Mr 
and Mrs Bs claim, it needs to demonstrate that the damage has been caused over time 
(rather than a one off event), and that Mr and Mrs B knew that this was occurring.
Mr and Mrs B dispute that they knew about the damage, or that it had got worse before they 
notified Fairmead. Their account is that the damage was first noticed when they were away 
from the property but that they reported at the first opportunity they had after seeing the 
damage, less than two weeks later. 
The cause of the damage doesnt seem to be in dispute. A leak developed at the rear of the 
toilet which caused water to escape when the toilet was flushed. It also isnt disputed that the 
leak has caused damage to other rooms of the property, in particular the staircase and the 
hallway, and that this damage would have been the first that was noticed.
Its Fairmeads position that the nature of the damage identified on the staircase and an 
archway in the hall when it was viewed by its representative is such that it would have been 
noticeable to Mr and Mrs B for some time before the claim was reported, and that as a result 
they knew there was an issue causing damage in the property.
Mr and Mrs B have had a number of experts inspect the damage. The conclusion of these is 
that the damage hadnt been present for any prolonged period prior to Fairmead being 
notified of the claim. 
So Im now in a position where I need to decide which of these Im more persuaded by. My 
starting point in this consideration is whether Fairmead has provided evidence to support its 
position. This is because its Fairmead that seeks to decline cover for the claim. If it has, 
then Ill look at whether the evidence provided by Mr and Mrs B is enough to refute 
Fairmeads conclusion.
I dont think that the report from Fairmeads representative has enough evidence to support 
a conclusion that Mr and Mrs B knew the damage was occurring over time. Ive looked at the 
report and note that it was completed following a visit to Mr and Mrs Bs property around 5 
weeks after the damage was first noticed. The report doesnt address this, or give any 
indication of how long the leak had been causing damage for. I also note that Fairmead 
believes that the damage would have been visible to Mr and Mrs B, but I cant see that this 
point, or whether Mr and Mrs B were asked about when they noticed the damage to the 
staircase and archway before Fairmead declined cover for the claim. 
Im not persuaded that this report demonstrates that the leak had started causing noticeable 
damage before Mr and Mrs B indicated the damage was noticed. Id expect that if the 
representative is arguing that the damage had been noticeable and getting worse over time, 
then it should be indicating how long the leak had been causing the damage in question, and 
also how long they believed it had been noticeable. This isnt the case.
On balance therefore, Im not persuaded that Fairmead has been able to demonstrate that 
Mr and Mrs B knew that the damage had been occurring over a period of time. The report 
from its representative doesnt give enough detail of how this conclusion has been reached. I 
think that the reports provided by Mr and Mrs B are more persuasive, as they do link the 
extent of the leak, and the period for which it was undiscovered, to the damage which was 
noticed. Importantly, those reports do argue that the extent of the damage seen by 
Fairmeads representatives and those appointed by Mr and Mrs B was all attributable to the 
small leak. I think the reports enable me to conclude that while the damage may have been 
worse by the time it was seen, the time when it became noticeable is consistent with Mr and 
Mrs Bs account.
As thats the case, Im not persuaded Fairmead acted fairly when it declined Mr and Mrs Bs claim. In order to put things right, Fairmead needs to reconsider the claim in line with the 
remaining terms and conditions of the policy.
Mr and Mrs B have said, and I havent seen anything from Fairmead to dispute this, that the 
decision to decline the claim caused them distress and inconvenience. Theyve said that 
because Fairmead had declined the claim, and the time taken to obtain further evidence to 
dispute this and deal with Fairmead, the damage had worsened and extended to walls and 
carpets. This caused a vermin infestation. Theyve also said that the continued disruption 
had caused medical issues for family members living at the property. 
I think that, in these circumstances, a payment of £300 is appropriate to recognise the 
distress and inconvenience caused by Fairmeads decision to unfairly decline the claim. 
My final decision
Its my final decision to uphold this complaint. In order to put things right, Fairmead 
Insurance Limited must:
Reconsider the claim in accordance with the remaining policy terms and conditions.
Pay £300 compensation to Mr and Mrs B. Fairmead must pay the compensation 
within 28 days of the date on which we tell it Mr and Mrs B accept my final decision. 
If it pays later than this it must also pay interest on the compensation from the date 
of my final decision to the date of payment at 8% a year simple. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B and Mrs B to 
accept or reject my decision before 1 February 2021.
 
Ben Williams
Ombudsman