DRN-4175726
The complaint
Ms H complains about a claim she made to Sainsburys Bank Plc (SB) in respect of a 
purchase she made on her credit card.
What happened
The background facts of this complaint are well known to the parties  so I wont repeat them 
in detail here. Instead I will summarise these and focus on giving reasons for my decision.
Ms H paid for installation of bedroom wardrobes from a supplier (the supplier) but she was 
unhappy with the product received and complained to it. 
Because Ms H was not satisfied with the response from the supplier she made a claim to SB 
for either a £4,000 price reduction or a full refund of the balance.
SB considered the matter under Section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974 (Section 75) 
but didnt agree to uphold the claim because it said Ms H had already accepted a full and 
final settlement from the supplier (to remove £739 from the final balance owed for the 
wardrobes).
The matter came to this service. Our investigator didnt uphold the complaint about the way 
SB handled the claim. 
Ms H has asked for the matter to be considered by an ombudsman for a final decision. In 
summary, she says:
SB should have investigated the claim for misrepresentation;
she was concerned about being taken to court for non-payment so agreed to go with 
the suppliers offer of waiving the final balance; and
at no point did she say she would accept the offer but that she would go with the 
option.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I have considered the evidence submitted by the parties but I will not be commenting on all 
of it  only the matters I consider central to the complaint. This is not intended as a 
discourtesy but reflects my role resolving disputes informally.
It is worth noting here that SB is not the supplier of the wardrobe installation here. So I am 
only considering its role as a provider of financial services. In doing so I note that the ways 
SB might have fairly helped Ms H get her money back here would be through Section 75 or 
the chargeback scheme. So I have focused on these.
Section 75 
Section 75 can mean Ms H can hold SB liable for a like claim for breach of contract or 
misrepresentation by a supplier in respect of goods or services purchased using her SB 
credit card.
SB effectively concluded that Ms H does not have a claim against the supplier because she 
settled it. Therefore, she cant have a like claim against SB. 
I dont think in coming to this conclusion SB has acted unreasonably here. I have looked at 
the correspondence between Ms H and the supplier and I can see in an email dated 14 April 
2022 that it puts several options forward to resolve Mrs Hs concerns about the installation 
including the offer of alterations or removing the outstanding balance of £739 (effectively a 
price reduction). Importantly it is clear that these are put forward by the supplier in full and 
final settlement of all current matters between us.
So prima facie  I think the basis of the suppliers offer is clear and acceptance of it is to 
effectively put an end to Ms Hs claim against the supplier in respect of her dissatisfaction 
with the installation. 
The question then is whether Ms H accepted the offer. I think it is clear she did in her follow 
up correspondence (dated 28 April 2022) regardless of the fact she used the wording of go 
with the option (of the company removing the outstanding balance of £739). Ms H then asks 
for confirmation that she owes the supplier nothing further  which reinforces a clear 
intention to accept the offer to waive the balance. The supplier then acknowledges her 
acceptance and repeats this is in full and final settlement. In summary, whether she used the 
word accept I think it is clear and fair to conclude that Ms Hs response is effectively 
acceptance of the price reduction settlement option as proposed by the supplier. 
Ms H indicates that she felt pressured into agreeing and was fearful of being taken to court 
for arrears. However, I dont see anything from the supplier which could reasonably be 
considered undue pressure. Furthermore, had she rejected the offer it was ultimately Ms Hs 
decision as to whether she wished to continue to withhold payment going forward. 
Continuing to pay what she owed (under protest or otherwise) would not likely have 
prevented her from taking action via a court or Section 75. Overall, I dont consider there to 
be reasonable grounds to say that SB should have considered Mrs Hs acceptance of the full 
and final settlement as invalid.
Ms H has also indicated that the claim she made to SB was not the same as the claim she 
settled with the supplier. She points to her claim being about misrepresentation rather than 
the quality of the installation. However, looking at the correspondence from the supplier and 
Ms H leading up to the settlement I think it is very clear that the claim Ms H is making 
against the supplier also involves the issues around the communication regarding the 
designs and allegations of misrepresentation. I note that Ms H mentions misrepresentation 
in her email where she agrees to settle the claim. So overall, I dont think it would be 
reasonable for SB to have considered allegations of misrepresentation here as a separate 
matter for investigation.
All things considered, because it appears that Ms H had already resolved her claim with the 
supplier in full and final settlement I dont think SBs response in declining to uphold the 
Section 75 claim against it was unfair. 
ChargebackFor completeness I have considered if SB could have recovered Ms Hs money via 
chargeback. Chargeback is not a legal right like Section 75 but it can be good practice to 
attempt one where there is a reasonable prospect of success.
It appears that SB did not raise a chargeback here  but in the circumstances I dont 
consider that unreasonable. From what I can see any chargeback claim would have likely 
been out of time as for something like a service not as described this is has to be raised 120 
days from when the service was received. The installation was completed in late 2021 and 
Ms H contacted SB in August 2022 which is clearly out of time. Even if I were mistaken on 
this I dont consider the chargeback had a reasonable prospect of success in any event for 
similar reasons to those I have outlined above in respect of the Section 75 claim.
In summary, while I am sorry to hear Ms H is unhappy with the product she purchased I 
dont consider SB acted unfairly in its handling of Ms Hs claim. I know Ms H will likely be 
disappointed by my decision  however, my role here is to resolve disputes informally in 
respect of the actions of SB. My decision does not prevent Ms H from considering other 
possible avenues against the supplier directly if she maintains she does have a valid claim 
against it in court  however, she might wish to seek her own independent legal advice 
before taking further action.
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms H to accept or 
reject my decision before 30 October 2023.
 
Mark Lancod
Ombudsman