DRN-3448741
The complaint
Mr V complains that Lloyds Bank General Insurance Limited declined a claim made under 
his home insurance policy.
What happened
Mr V has home insurance underwritten by Lloyds, which covers buildings and contents 
amongst other things. He took out the policy in August 2020.
In 2021, Mr V made a claim for accidental damage to his laptop. 
Lloyds declined the claim and cancelled Mr Vs policy. They said Mr V had failed to disclose 
previous insurance claims when hed taken out his policy on-line. 
Lloyds accepted that Mr Vs failure to disclose previous claims was careless, rather than 
deliberate or reckless, so they refunded his premiums.
Mr V wasnt happy with this and complained to Lloyds. And when they maintained their 
position, Mr V brought his complaint to us.
Our investigator looked into it and didnt think Lloyds had done anything wrong.
Mr V disagreed and asked for a final decision from an ombudsman.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In making my decision, I have to take into account the relevant legislation  in particular, the 
Consumer Insurance (Disclosure and Representations) Act 2012 (CIDRA).
CIDRA says that if a consumer provides inaccurate information when buying or renewing a 
policy, the insurer will be able to take certain actions if that misrepresentation was either: 
(a) deliberate or reckless; or (b) careless.
If the misrepresentation was deliberate or reckless, the insurer can void the policy and 
refuse all claims and need not return the premiums, unless it would be unfair to the 
consumer to retain them.
If the misrepresentation was careless, the insurer can do the following: 
If they wouldnt have provided the insurance on any terms, they may void the policy 
and refuse all claims, but they must return the premiums. If the insurer would still 
have provided the insurance but on different terms (other than terms relating to the 
premium) the policy is to be treated as if it had been provided on those terms if the 
insurer so requires; and
If the insurer would still have provided the insurance but charged a higher premium, 
they may reduce proportionately the amount to be paid on a claim where the 
misrepresentation was discovered as a result of a claim.
This is reflected in Mr Vs policy document, which sets out the terms and conditions of the 
policy. In the section entitled General Conditions, this says: 
We can cancel your policy if. 
You fail to provide us with information we have requested that is relevant to your 
policy or claim.
If this happens we will refund any premiums you have paid unless there is 
evidence of fraud.
I dont think there can be any real dispute here that Mr V failed to disclose information about 
his previous claims when he took out the policy with Lloyds. 
Weve seen screen prints from the application, which show that Mr V said hed made one 
contents claim which had been paid and no buildings claims during the previous three years 
(back to August 2017).
The Claims and Underwriting Exchange (CUE) database, used by UK insurers to record 
claims, shows that Mr V had made three paid claims in the previous three years. Two 
contents claims and one buildings claim.
Mr V says the contents claims related to one incident on the same day, so he assumed it 
was handled as one claim rather than two.
But even if I take that at face value, Mr V still hasnt disclosed the buildings claim. In fact, he 
made a buildings claim in early 2018 which was settled at a value of £5,648.
So, Mr V did misrepresent the facts when he took out his policy. The schedule he received at 
the time, the covering letter with that schedule and the policy terms (as set out above) all 
made it clear what might happen if the information Mr V provide wasnt accurate.
Lloyds have decided that Mr Vs misrepresentation was careless rather than deliberate or 
reckless. So, under CIDRA, they are entitled to decline the claim and cancel (or void) the 
policy (but return the premiums) if they wouldnt have offered the policy had they known the 
facts. 
Weve seen copies of Lloyds underwriting criteria, which set out how they make decisions 
about whether to offer a policy to a potential customer. Im not going to set out those criteria 
in detail in this published decision, because they are commercially sensitive.
But it is absolutely clear that Lloyds would not have offered Mr V a policy had they known the 
facts about his previous claims when he made his application. 
In summary, I cant conclude that Lloyds did anything wrong when they declined Mr Vs 
claim and cancelled his policy. They did what they are entitled to do under the relevant law 
(CIDRA) and they havent treated Mr V in any way unfairly or unreasonably.My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold Mr Vs complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr V to accept or 
reject my decision before 1 June 2022.
 
Neil Marshall
Ombudsman