DRN-2674286
The complaint
Ms S complains that she was misled about the terms of a hire purchase agreement she 
entered into with Volkswagen Financial Services (UK) Limited (VWFS).  
What happened
Ms S has explained that she was contacted by her local Skoda dealership to discuss the 
possibility of replacing her then car with a similar model, but with a higher specification and 
lower mileage. The dealership said it would clear the outstanding finance of around £4,700 
on her old car. Ms S says she was told the finance on the new car would be much the same 
as the outstanding amount on her existing finance arrangements (which were not with 
VWFS). 
Ms S took delivery of the new car on 18 October 2018 and returned her old car to the 
dealership. When she received a copy of the finance agreement, however, she noticed that 
the cash price of the new car was £7,100, significantly more than had been outstanding 
under her previous finance agreement. She said she had been misled by the dealership 
about the terms of the sale and the finance.
Following correspondence with the dealership, Ms S complained to VWFS and to this 
service, where one of our investigators considered what had happened. He did not believe 
there was enough evidence to show what was discussed before Ms S took out the finance; 
he noted that the dealership had been sold. He concluded however that Ms S was bound by 
the written terms of the hire purchase agreement. 
Ms S did not accept the investigators findings and asked that an ombudsman review the 
case.      
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ms Ss complaint here is that the dealership which provided her with a car, took her old car 
and arranged the finance with VWFS misled her about those arrangements. In effect, she 
says she was led to believe she was agreeing to something which was significantly different 
from what was in the written hire purchase agreement with VWFS. 
The dealership is to be treated as acting as agent for VWFS. That means that VWFS is 
responsible for statements made by the dealership in relation to the hire purchase 
agreement  including, for example, the price of the car and the payments due. 
Ms S says that the dealership told her that the amount of finance she was taking out (and 
the price of her new car) would be the same as the amount outstanding on her existing 
finance agreement. That was not true; under the agreement with VWFS she took on credit of 
nearly twice the amount outstanding on her previous agreement. I do note however that the 
monthly payments Ms S needed to make were very similar to her existing arrangements. 
After the agreement had been put into place and Ms S queried what had been included in it, 
the dealership suggested that the cost of it was simply the monthly payment multiplied by the 
number of months it was due to run. That, however, did not take into account that the final 
(48th) payment was for more than £2,500 and that the total amount payable was more than 
£8,500. I believe therefore that it is very likely that the dealership did focus on the monthly 
payments to persuade Ms S that she was getting a better car for the same financial outlay. 
That was only true, however, to the extent that the monthly payments were very similar. 
It does not follow, however, that Ms S is not bound by the terms of the hire purchase 
agreement. That document records that it was signed electronically by Ms S on 17 October 
2018, the day before she took delivery of the car. She says that she was misled about its 
terms, did not sign it and did not see a copy until some time later. As Ive indicated, I think it 
likely that the dealership focused on the monthly payment to give Ms S the impression, 
wrongly, that there was little or no difference in the overall financial arrangements. 
I need to consider however whether it was reasonable of Ms S to rely on the dealerships 
statements and whether it would be reasonable to require VWFS to change the agreements 
terms or otherwise compensate Ms S. 
Im satisfied that Ms S did sign an electronic copy of the hire purchase agreement before she 
collected the car. An electronic signature is valid in the same way as a wet signature. By 
signing the hire purchase agreement Ms S agreed to be bound by its terms and 
acknowledged that she had received pre-contract information and a copy of the agreement 
itself. The elements about which Ms S says she was misled  the price of the car, the 
amount of credit and the total amount due under the hire purchase agreement if it ran its 
course  were not incidental matters but were fundamental to the agreement itself. In the 
circumstances, I do not believe that I can fairly conclude that Ms S agreed to a different set 
of terms from those that she signed.                    
My final decision
For these reasons, my final decision is that I do not require Volkswagen Financial Services 
(UK) Limited to do anything more to resolve Ms Ss complaint. Under the rules of the 
Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms S to accept or reject my decision 
before 24 May 2021. 
Mike Ingram
Ombudsman