DRN-3969791
The complaint
Mr B complains that Trading 212 UK Limited (T212) delayed a withdrawal of cash from his 
trading account, which caused him distress and an investment loss.
What happened
Mr B requested a withdrawal of just over £5,400 from his trading account on 19 January 
2021. The following day T212 confirmed the withdrawal had been actioned and that it would 
take around two business days for the money to be received into Mr Bs bank account. 
This didnt happen and Mr B chased T212 by email on the morning of the following Monday, 
25 January 2021. T212 responded to say that it was expected that the money would arrive 
that day.
Again, this didnt happen, and it appears there was some further chasing by Mr B. On the 
next day, Tuesday 26 January 2021, he told T212 that hed contacted his bank, which had 
said the issue was with T212, and had asked for a faster payment ID so it could investigate 
the matter. T212 responded to say that this information would be provided within two days.
The next day, 27 January 2021, Mr B contacted T212 again and said he was now raising a 
complaint about the delay. He explained that hed required the money because hed been 
due to make a payment towards the purchase of a house the day before. Because of the 
withdrawal delay, hed had to borrow the money from a family member, which had been very 
embarrassing. He asked for £100 compensation for the distress this had caused.
Mr B then followed this up with another email the next day, 28 January 2021. In it he 
explained that hed been able to pay back the family member and was now intending to use 
the withdrawn money (when it eventually became available) to make a specific 
cryptocurrency investment. He said he was putting T212 on notice that if there was an 
increase in the price of the cryptocurrency between that point and when he was eventually 
able to invest, hed seek the additional cost of investing from T212.    
The withdrawal eventually completed on 3 February 2021. Mr B contacted T212 to say that 
hed made the investment and claimed a loss of £815.03 because there had been an 
increase in the price. He also reiterated his request for £100 compensation. 
T212 investigated the matter and offered Mr B £25 for a delay in providing him with a proof 
of payment for the withdrawal. But it didnt agree to any further compensation. 
The complaint was referred to this service. Our investigator concluded it should be upheld 
and that T212 should pay both the £100 and the investment loss claimed. She felt that in the 
face of the continued delay in receipt of the withdrawn money Mr B had been entitled to 
change his plans and instead use the money for the investment once it was no longer 
needed for the house purchase. As such, it was fair that T212 should compensate Mr B for 
the investment loss incurred because of the delay in investing in the cryptocurrency. 
T212 agreed to pay the £100 but didnt accept that it should be held responsible for the 
investment loss. It said, in short, that if Mr B had received the money sooner, without the 
delay, hed have used it for the house purchase as intended then wouldnt have had it 
available to invest. 
The investigator wasnt persuaded to change her opinion, so the matter was referred to me 
to review. 
I issued a provisional decision in which I explained why I felt the £100 compensation was 
fair, but that the investment loss claimed was too remote from the issue of the delay in the 
withdrawal for T212 to be held responsible for it. 
I said, in part:
Theres no dispute that Mr Bs withdrawal of funds was delayed several days beyond T212s 
usual expected time frame of three days. During investigation of the matter T212 
acknowledged that the cause of the problem was Mr Bs bank account number having been 
recorded incorrectly at the first attempt, although it said it wasnt clear where the fault lay for 
this. But in any event, it agreed to pay the sum of £100 in respect of the delay, as 
recommended by the investigator. And I think that fairly reflects the likely distress and 
inconvenience caused to Mr B in the circumstances. 
So, what remains in dispute is whether (or not) T212 should also compensate Mr B for the 
additional cost incurred by him investing in the cryptocurrency on 3 February 2021, when the 
withdrawn funds became available, rather than earlier, on 28 January 2021.
As noted, Mr B says that when the withdrawn money didnt arrive in time for the house 
purchase of 26 January 2021, he was forced to make other arrangements and borrow 
money from a family member. He says he then paid this loan back the next day by borrowing 
from a member of his partners family, and this new loan didnt have to be paid back 
immediately  rather, it was to be paid back in instalments of £200 per month. As such, it 
appears this meant the money withdrawn from the T212 account could then be used to 
invest in the cryptocurrency.  
I appreciate that the delay in receipt of the withdrawal from T212 meant Mr B had to change 
his financial plans. And I accept that having done so he was entitled to do whatever he 
wanted with the money. But the arrangement as set out above meant hed effectively 
borrowed from his partners family member to invest in the cryptocurrency. And this goes to 
the heart of the point raised by T212, that if the withdrawal had been made within the 
expected timeframe, Mr B wouldve used the money for the house purchase, and he 
wouldnt then have had it available to be used for an investment. 
In the circumstances, I dont feel its fair to hold T212 responsible for any investment loss. If 
Mr B had, for instance, incurred a direct cost to borrow the money to make the house 
purchase, then that would be something I would feel T212 should pay. But in my view, the 
investment loss claimed by Mr B is too remote from the issue of the delay in the withdrawal. 
And I note also that T212 wasnt put on notice of what the withdrawn money was needed for 
and how important timely receipt was. Its clear Mr B did chase the withdrawal, but even the 
day before the money was needed for the house purchase he worded his enquiry as Sorry 
to bother you again this week, but I am yet to receive my funds.... There was no indication 
given of urgency. The house purchase wasnt alluded to until the day after. Had T212 been 
made aware of how important timely receipt of the money was, it wouldve at least have had 
an opportunity to offer Mr B some other course of action  for instance, arrange a CHAPS 
payment.So, while I can see this wouldve been a frustrating experience for Mr B, I dont currently feel 
that consideration of the evidence and wider circumstances supports a finding that T212 
should be held responsible for the investment loss.
Both Mr B and T212 responded to say they accepted my provisional decision and T212 
made payment of the £100 to Mr Bs account.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Given the responses to my provisional decision, I find theres no reason to change or add to 
what Ive said previously.
Putting things right
As noted, I felt that a fair resolution of the complaint was for T212 to pay Mr B a total of £100 
compensation for the distress and inconvenience caused. This was made up of the £25 
already offered prior to the complaint being referred to this service, along with the additional 
£75 recommended by the investigator. 
I understand that T212 has already paid the £100 to Mr B following the issuing of my 
provisional decision and Mr B has confirmed receipt.
My final decision
For the reasons given, my final decision is that payment to Mr B of £100 compensation by 
Trading 212 UK Limited represents a fair and reasonable resolution of the complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 17 March 2023.
 
James Harris
Ombudsman