DRN-3340266
The complaint
Miss D complains about the quality of a hoover she bought through her credit account with 
Shop Direct Finance Company Limited, trading as very (Shop Direct).
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here. Instead Ill focus on giving my reasons for my decision.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I know it will disappoint Miss D, but I agree with the investigators opinion. Please let me 
explain why.
Where the information Ive got is incomplete, unclear, or contradictory, as some of it is here I 
have to base my decision on the balance of probabilities.
Ive read and considered the whole file, but Ill concentrate my comments on what I think is 
relevant. If I dont comment on any specific point its not because Ive failed to take it on 
board and think about it but because I dont think I need to comment on it in order to reach 
what I think is the right outcome.
When something goes wrong and the payment was made with this type of running credit, it 
might be possible to make a section 75 claim. This section of the Consumer Credit Act 
(1974) says that in certain circumstances, the borrower under a credit agreement has a like 
right to claim against the credit provider as against the supplier if there's either a breach of 
contract or misrepresentation by the supplier.
Im not determining the outcome of a claim that a party might have under section 75. I take 
section 75 into account when I think about whats a fair way to resolve the complaint, but I 
dont have to reach the same view as, for example, a court might reach when considering 
breach of contract or misrepresentation.
From what I can see, all the necessary criteria for a claim to be made under section 75 have 
been met.
The Consumer Rights Act (2015) is the relevant legislation. It says, amongst other things, 
that the goods should have been of satisfactory quality when supplied. If they werent then 
theres been a breach of contract and Shop Direct are responsible. The relevant law also 
says the quality of goods is satisfactory if they meet the standard that a reasonable person 
would consider satisfactory taking into account any description of the goods, the price and all 
the other relevant circumstances. 
The relevant legislation explains that if the fault occurs within the first six months we are to 
assume it was present at the point of supply, when Shop Direct were responsible for the 
quality of the product. When the fault occurs later than six months the onus is on the 
consumer to demonstrate the fault was present, or developing, when the goods were 
supplied. I dont think Miss D has been able to do that.
Shes explained that she had to return the vacuum on a couple of occasions, but the 
engineers report explains that the fault is due to moisture in the system and is not due to 
any manufacturing fault. 
When we think about whether goods have been of satisfactory quality the relevant legislation 
explains that we should consider whether the goods have been durable. I dont think theres 
evidence the vacuum failed because it wasnt durable. It seems the failure was due to 
moisture being allowed to get into the system and, in those circumstances, I dont think 
theres evidence the vacuum wasnt of satisfactory quality.
Miss D no longer has the vacuum so its not possible for her to obtain her own report to 
refute Shop Directs findings. So, whilst I sympathise with the problems Miss D has had it 
wouldnt be fair for me to suggest Shop Direct need to take any further action.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss D to accept 
or reject my decision before 14 July 2022.
 
Phillip McMahon
Ombudsman