DRN-3980860
The complaint
Mr M complains Haven Insurance Company Limited unfairly avoided his commercial motor 
insurance policy
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them in full 
again here. 
In summary Haven avoided Mr Ms policy as it discovered hed been charged with a criminal 
offence, but not yet tried or convicted. It says that when the policy was sold Mr M was asked 
to disclose any pending convictions. As he did not do so, he didnt provide a fair presentation 
of the risk and it is therefore entitled to avoid the policy and retain the premiums paid. 
Mr M argues that he didnt have a pending conviction, hed been charged incorrectly, and 
these were later changed. He was waiting for a court date as he believed he was innocent of 
any wrongdoing. Mr M has subsequently confirmed he was acquitted of all charges.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the investigator the complaint should be upheld. I do so for the 
following reasons:
At this service, as well as having regard for the law we also consider cases on a fair and 
reasonable basis.  
The relevant law here is the Insurance Act 2015. This sets out that it is for a customer to give 
a fair presentation of risk. i.e., for them to disclose anything they reasonably think an insurer 
may want to know about. 
However, this service also recognises that on a fair and reasonable basis (although not 
strictly required by the Insurance Act 2015), that an insurer should set out clearly what 
information it wants to receive and not ideally leave a customer in a position where they 
have to effectively guess what they need to reveal. Insurers are the experts in their field and 
know what risks they are/are not prepared to accept, so they have some responsibility to 
ensure situations like this are minimised as the impact on both parties can be very high. 
The question asked at the start of the policy was: Any criminal convictions (including 
pending). There was then a free text box below where it said, Please give details of 
criminal convictions.
I think Mr M has a point here  he didnt have a pending conviction. As, I would take it, that 
would imply hed already been found guilty, and it is simply a matter of the conviction 
appearing on the appropriate records or a person was awaiting sentencing by a court. So Im 
not persuaded here that Haven asked a clear question of Mr M.  It didnt ask about current 
charges or pending prosecutions, only convictions.
I understand Havens point that Mr M could have let it know of the situation he was facing, 
and this would have then allowed it the opportunity to decide if it wanted to provide cover. 
And if he had done so, he would have met the obligation of giving fair presentation of risk. 
So, I recognise that on a strict interpretation of the Insurance Act 2015, Haven would have 
been entitled to avoid the policy on the basis that Mr M didnt make a fair presentation of the 
risk. As, he was aware of information which would have had a material impact on Havens 
decision whether to provide cover. 
However, for the reasons set out above, here Im more persuaded that on a fair and 
reasonable basis Haven should have asked a clearer question to elicit the information it was 
after. Had it included pending prosecutions, or similar words, I think it is more likely that this 
would have led Mr M to realise his situation would be relevant for the insurer to know. And I 
find it more likely than not, he would have let the insurer know. 
As such, I uphold Mr Ms complaint. I think on a fair and reasonable basis it would be unfair 
to apply the strict position the Insurance Act 2015 allows.  Especially in light of the fact the 
policy only had three weeks left to run and there had been no claim made or any indication 
one was to be made. In the specific circumstances of this complaint, the consequences of 
avoiding the policy seem too severe and unfair.  And as such I dont think Haven acted fairly 
or reasonably when it avoided Mr Ms policy.
Putting things right
To put things right, Haven should do the following:
Remove all cancellation/avoidance markers from its internal systems and ensure 
any markers on external databases are removed. It should write to Mr M to 
confirm this has been done. 
Treat the policy as if it ran to term. It should provide Mr M confirmation of the 
appropriate number of No Claims Discount years he would have obtained at the 
end of the policy term.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold Mr Ms complaint against Haven Insurance Company 
Limited. I direct it to put matters right as I have set out in the section above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 22 March 2023.
 
Alison Gore
Ombudsman