DRN-3013745
The complaint
Mr K complains that Monzo Bank Ltd (Monzo) have failed to refund money he lost as part 
of a scam.
What happened
Mr K holds a bank account with Monzo. He made a payment of £1,000 on 28 May 2020 to 
an individual that was promoting an investment opportunity via social media. He had been 
told that an initial investment of £600 he had made (from an account with another bank) had 
made a £15,919 profit, for which he was required to pay a £3,183 release fee. However, 
Mr K didnt have this money, so he agreed with the fraudster to pay £1,000 instead, which he 
paid from his Monzo account.
Mr K eventually realised he had been scammed when he didnt receive any money and the 
fraudster blocked him on social media, so he reported the scam to Monzo on 29 May 2020. 
Unfortunately, the funds had already been withdrawn from the beneficiary account within a 
few minutes of it being transferred, with just £5.46 remaining (which was returned to Mr K on 
9 June 2020). 
Monzo refused to refund the remaining £999.54 Mr K had lost as they didnt think he had 
taken enough steps to verify who he was paying, or that he had a reasonable basis for 
believing the payment was for genuine goods or services. They also said he had ignored 
effective warnings issued through their banking app both when he set up a new payee and 
immediately before making the payment. 
Our investigator didnt uphold the complaint. He was satisfied that Monzo had assessed 
Mr Ks fraud claim fairly as he didnt think he had a reasonable basis for believing that the 
payment he was making was for a genuine service. Mr K disagreed, so the matter has been 
escalated to me to determine.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the conclusions reached by the investigator and have decided 
not to uphold it.
Monzo is a signatory of the Lending Standards Boards Contingent Reimbursement Model 
Code (the CRM Code). This requires firms to reimburse customers who have been the 
victims of Authorised Push Payment (APP) scams, in all but a limited number of 
circumstances.
A firm may choose not to reimburse a customer, if it can establish that: 
The customer ignored what the CRM Code refers to as an Effective Warning by 
failing to take appropriate action in response to such an effective warning.
The customer made payments without having a reasonable basis for believing that: 
the payee was the person the Customer was expecting to pay; the payment was for 
genuine goods or services; and/or the person or business with whom they transacted 
was legitimate.
The customer had been grossly negligent.
There are additional exceptions set out in the CRM Code, however they do not apply in 
these circumstances, so I have not listed them.  
In the particular circumstances of this case, Im not persuaded that Mr K had a reasonable 
basis for believing the payment he made was for a genuine investment with a legitimate 
individual for these reasons: 
Mr K has said that the fraudster followed him on Instagram, and that they were 
posting about successful investments and trading. They subsequently sent him a 
direct message on his Instagram account and encouraged him to speak to them 
through WhatsApp messenger, where they sent further messages showing him how 
much he could make (such as guaranteed returns of £3,000 based on an investment 
of £600). He was also told by the scammer that they operated a no loss guarantee, 
such that he would get his money back even if the investment didnt work out. This 
isnt something that can ever really be promised with genuine investments. So, in 
these circumstances, I think it ought to have been apparent that it sounded too good 
to be true  i.e. investing in a scheme that promised significant returns in a few hours 
with absolutely no risk of losing the capital invested. The guarantee Mr K was given 
is also in stark contrast to the warning displayed on the website that Mr K said he 
visited, which stated that 77% of investors lose money. 
The nature of the investment proposed by the scammer seems implausible, as they 
said the profit was made by buying the US dollar for a third of its normal value  but 
there was no further explanation or context behind how they were able to purchase 
currency at what is objectively an unrealistically low rate. 
Mr K said he researched the investment company by checking google and 
Companies House but says he didnt find anything suspicious. However, I note that 
the website he visited (XM.com) was for a Cypriot based investment firm, yet the 
entry he looked up on Companies House (XM Solutions Limited) is an IT consultancy 
based in Leeds. So it ought to have been apparent that this wasnt the same 
company. Mr K says he did question this with the scammer he was messaging and 
was told it was due to their staff working from home (mainly in Leeds). But I think this 
ought to have raised concerns, as it doesnt sound plausible that an investment 
company registered overseas would later register its company in Leeds just because 
it had some people working there remotely. In any event, there was little basis to 
believe that the individual Mr K was talking to was even from any of the companies 
he had researched, as theyd provided no evidence or credentials to demonstrate 
this, and all he had seen of this individual was an Instagram account. 
Once Mr K had invested his money, he was told that he had made over £3,000 in just 
one hour, which then turned into over £15,000 in just four hours. Again, given that he 
had only invested £600, I think a reasonable person ought to have had some 
concerns about whether this was realistic, and whether the investment and/or the 
person he was dealing with were in fact legitimate  particularly when contacted by a 
supposed investment company out of the blue as was the situation here. 
Mr K was originally told by the scammer that investments under £1,000 were tax free, however he was later told that he had to pay over £3,000 as a release fee in order 
to obtain the money. I appreciate that he questioned this with the scammer and was 
provided with a company policy document. But given that he hadnt been 
forewarned of this charge (and had even been told it was tax free) and also taking 
into account the significant amount of money Mr K was told he had made in just a 
few hours, I think he ought to have made additional enquiries before transferring the 
release fee to the fraudster. He hadnt been given any access to any trading 
platform, for example, to be able to see the gains for himself and was instead reliant 
on the messages and screenshots he was getting from the scammer on WhatsApp. It 
also doesnt appear to have struck Mr K as odd that the company that originally 
required over £3,000 in order to release his profits would take just a few minutes to 
accept £1,000 instead. If indeed the release fee was a legitimate fee or a tax, its 
highly unlikely that a legitimate investment company would be able to accept such a 
significant amount less than what was owed. 
Overall, I think Mr K ought reasonably to have had some concerns about the risks 
associated with the payment he was making. I appreciate that he questioned certain things, 
but in the circumstances, Im not persuaded there was enough reasonable basis for him to 
believe that he was making a payment towards a genuine investment and/or that the 
individual he was talking to had any link to a legitimate trading company. So I dont think 
Monzo have acted unfairly by relying on this exception to not reimburse him under the 
provisions of the CRM Code. 
Should Monzo have done more to try and prevent the scam and protect Mr K?
Ive also thought about whether Monzo did enough to protect Mr K from financial harm.
The CRM Code says that where firms identify APP scam risks in a payment journey, they 
should provide effective warnings to their customers. The Code also says that the 
assessment of whether a firm has met a standard or not should involve consideration of 
whether compliance with that standard would have had a material effect on preventing the 
scam. In the circumstances, I dont think that any warning would have made a difference 
here. It seems that Mr K was convinced enough by the rudimentary research hed carried out 
and the screenshots he had been shown, so Im not persuaded that any warning from 
Monzo about fraud would have stopped him from making the payment.  
I am also mindful that when Mr K made this payment, Monzo shouldve fairly and reasonably 
had systems in place to look out for unusual transactions or other signs that might indicate 
that their customers were at risk of fraud (among other things).
Ive considered the £1,000 payment Mr K made to the scammer and I dont think it stood out 
as being uncharacteristic or unusual enough for Monzo to have been concerned that he was 
at risk of financial fraud at the time he made it, so I dont think Monzo were under any 
obligation to stop the payment. 
Overall, Im satisfied that Monzos position on Mr Ks fraud claim, and their assessment 
under the CRM Code, is fair and reasonable in all of the circumstances. I appreciate this isnt 
the outcome Mr K will have been hoping for  but I wont be asking Monzo to take any 
further action. 
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr K to accept or reject my decision before 13 October 2021.
 
Jack Ferris
Ombudsman