DRN-3800276
The complaint
Mr J has complained that National Westminster Bank Plc (NatWest) incorrectly told him 
that he would receive £150 if he upgraded his account to a Reward Silver account.
Mr J is also unhappy that when speaking to a member of staff he was told he was being 
abusive and the member of staff ended the call.
What happened
In its response to the complaint, NatWest apologised and acknowledged that the person who 
sold him the account had given him incorrect information. It confirmed that it would be 
providing feedback to the members of staff who Mr J interacted with and agreed to pay Mr J 
£150 compensation.
NatWest also explained how Mr J could downgrade his complaint back to being a fee-free 
account, and paid £20 into Mr Js account to cover two months worth of account fees to give 
him time to decide whether to downgrade his account.
Unhappy with NatWest, Mr j referred his complaint to our service. One of our adjudicators 
assessed the complaint and she thought that was NatWest had proposed to put matters right 
was reasonable. Mr J disagreed, so the matter was referred for an ombudsmans decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve explained how we deal with complaints about packaged accounts on our website and 
Ive used that to help me decide this complaint. And Ive used that to help me decide this 
complaint.
Its not in dispute that NatWest got things wrong when it sold Mr J the Reward Silver account 
 it seems the person selling him the account didnt realise the £150 joining bonus only 
applied to new customers to the bank. Therefore, all that is left for me to decide is whether 
what NatWest has offered to put things right is reasonable. In the circumstances I think it is. 
In the complaint, when answering the section How would you like the business to put 
matters right?, Mr J has said that he would like three members of staff to be sacked, and 
one to receive training. I should make it clear that these requests are beyond the remit of our 
service. Therefore, its the case that Im unable to instruct NatWest to do any of the things 
that Mr J has asked for to put things right.
That said, I recognise that Mr J did experience an element of inconvenience in this matter, 
given that he was incorrectly told that he would get £150 paid to him, which was not true. 
And this led to Mr J discussing the matter a number of times with NatWest, to understand 
why he did not receive the £150 bonus  which I appreciate wouldve been frustrating. 
Turning now to the conversation Mr J had with NatWest where the member of staff called 
him abusive, NatWest has apologised that its member of staff used the term abusive. I have 
listened to the call in question, and the member of staff did say that Mr J was being 
abusive. But I also note that Mr J refused to listen to the member of staffs explanation 
about how he could escalate matters i.e. to contact the complaints department in the first 
instance, and instead kept raising his voice over her demanding to speak to a manager. This 
led to the conversation breaking down, to the point that the member of staff then ended the 
call. Taking everything into account, I think NatWests apology for this aspect of Mr Js 
complaint is reasonable in the circumstances. 
Finally, I can see that NatWest did investigate the complaint and issued its response to the 
complaint within a reasonable period of time from when the error was made  around 15 
days in total. I can also see that NatWest did accept it had got things wrong and, in addition 
to offering to pay Mr J £150 as an apology, NatWest also explained how Mr J could change 
the type of account he held and credited £20 (i.e. two months of account fees) into his 
account to give him time to decide what account he wanted to change to.
So taking everything into account, I think that what NatWest offered to do, to put matters 
right for its error, was fair and reasonable in the circumstances.
My final decision
Because of the reasons given above, in addition to the £20 that has already been paid to Mr 
J, I require National Westminster Bank Plc to pay (if it hasnt already) Mr J £150 to reflect the 
distress and inconvenience caused to him by this matter.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr J to accept or 
reject my decision before 8 December 2022.
 
Thomas White
Ombudsman