DRN-1868885
The complaint
Mr S complains about the service W, a company he is a director of, received from The 
Mortgage Lender Limited (TML) when it applied for two buy-to-let mortgages.
In particular, he complains that the valuations provided by the surveyor instructed by TML 
were too low. He also complains that TML required a building warranty to be arranged 
before it would provide valuations for the properties.
Mr S has brought this complaint on behalf of the company (referred to as W). As a director 
of W he is eligible to bring a complaint on its behalf.
What happened
W applied for two buy-to-let mortgages with TML through a mortgage broker.
The mortgage application submitted by W gave an estimated property value of £350,000 for 
the first property. The application for the second property gave an estimated value of 
£70,000.
In January 2019, following receipt of the applications TML instructed a Royal Institute of 
Chartered Surveyors (RICS) surveyor to carry out valuations on both properties.
The surveyors' reports dated 16 January 2019 said that without a building warranty the 
properties were not acceptable security for lending purposes so no valuations could be 
provided.
TML says it informed Ws mortgage broker that valuations could not be provided as without a 
building warranty the properties werent suitable for mortgage purposes. There is nothing to 
suggest that TML gave any indication that even if a warranty was obtained it would definitely 
be willing to lend, or that it gave any indication of what the valuations might be.
Mr S confirms that a building warranty costing a total of £4,800 was obtained. Following sight 
of the warranty, valuation reports for both properties were provided by the surveyor. The 
properties were valued at £180,000 and £80,000 respectively.
W was unhappy with the valuations provided and it approached another lender for the 
mortgages it required.
 
Valuations carried out by the new lender valued the properties at £260,000 and £100,000 
respectively.
Mr S complained to TML on Ws behalf. He said he was not satisfied with the valuations 
provided by the surveyor TML had instructed. He also said the new lender had not required 
a building warranty for the properties.
TML upheld the complaint in part. It agreed to refund the application fee (£150) and the 
valuation fee (£795) for the property its surveyor had valued at £180,000. It also said the 
surveyor it had instructed had reviewed the valuation and had re-valued the property at 
£270,000. 
But it said it was not willing to refund the application fee (£150) and valuation fee (£370) for 
the property its surveyor had valued at £80,000. It noted that the estimated value given in 
the mortgage application for this property was £70,000. In view of this, it said it had no 
reason to query the valuation of £80,000 given by the surveyor. 
In relation to the building warranty TML said it felt the mortgage broker W had used should 
have made it aware of TMLs requirements and would have been in a position to suggest 
other lenders who might not have the same requirements. In view of this it said it was not 
willing to reimburse W for any costs it incurred in relation to obtaining a building warranty for 
the properties.
Mr S was not satisfied with TMLs response and referred the complaint to this service.
Our investigator said he felt the offer TML had made to put matters right was fair and 
reasonable and he didnt think it needed to do more to resolve this complaint.
He explained that TML is entitled to rely on the professional view of the surveyor it instructed 
to value the properties. He also explained that lenders are entitled to set their own lending 
criteria. TMLs lending criteria sets out its requirements for converted properties. The 
mortgage broker W used to arrange the mortgages would have had access to this 
information. 
If W wanted to avoid incurring the cost of a building warranty he said it could have asked its 
mortgage broker to look into whether other lenders would also require a building warranty 
before it incurred the cost of the warranty. He said he didnt think TML could reasonably be 
held responsible if a warranty had been purchased without first investigating whether other 
lenders would also require a warranty.
He also said he didnt think TML needed to refund the valuation and application fee for the 
property its surveyor had valued at £80,000. He noted this was £10,000 more than the 
estimated value given in the mortgage application. In view of this he said he didnt think the 
valuation would have caused an issue as it was more than sufficient to support the mortgage 
loan W had requested from TML. He said it was Ws decision not to proceed with this 
mortgage application and to apply for a mortgage on this property with another lender.
But he said he did agree that TML should refund the application fee and valuation fee for the 
property its surveyor initially valued at £180,000. 
Mr S, on behalf of W, did not accept our investigators view. He said he felt that both 
application and valuation fees should be refunded.
He made the following points:
- he felt the surveyor TML had instructed was incompetent to do valuations in view of 
the fact that the surveyor instructed by the second lender W had approached for the 
mortgages had valued both properties at a much higher value. He also noted that the 
valuation of one of the properties had been increased by £90,000 when TML asked 
the surveyor to review the valuation;
- he said the estimated values in the mortgage applications submitted to TML were not 
relevant as he was not an expert in valuations and am not qualified to make such 
assumptions. 
- As the valuations given by the new lender were higher, he said he felt the Mortgage 
Lender should have come to this figure alsoMr S also said:
I have received legal advice from a qualified Solicitor who has informed me that I should be 
entitled to a refund for both of the valuations, application fees and also compensation for 
purchasing a building warranty when I did not need one. Had The Mortgage Lender told me 
the valuations prior to me obtaining a building warranty I would not have proceeded to 
purchase a building warranty. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
building warranty
I cant reasonably require TML to refund the costs W incurred when it obtained a building 
warranty. If it did not want to incur the cost of a building warranty, I think it ought reasonably 
to have discussed this with its mortgage broker, who could then have looked into whether 
other lenders would also require a building warranty, before the warranty was purchased.
I am satisfied that information on TMLs lending requirements for converted properties was 
available to Ws mortgage broker. It is unclear why it appears the mortgage broker did not 
bring this to Ws attention before the mortgage applications were submitted to TML.
It was Ws decision to obtain a building warranty. I havent seen anything that shows or 
suggests that TML gave any indication that it would be willing to lend W the amounts it 
required against the properties if a warranty was obtained. As this is the case, I cant 
reasonably require TML to reimburse W for the cost of the building warranty.
valuations
Mr S, on behalf of W says he feels the surveyor TML instructed to carry out the valuations 
was incompetent to do valuations. And, as the valuations given by the new lender were 
higher, he felt the Mortgage Lender should have come to this figure also
I am sympathetic to Mr Ss position but TML was entitled to rely on the professional advice it 
received from the RICS surveyor it appointed regarding the value of the properties. Valuing 
properties is not an exact science and it is not unusual for the same property to be given 
different valuations by estate agents and/or surveyors.
TML has accepted that there was a problem with the valuation on the property the surveyor 
initially valued at £180,000. It asked the surveyor it had instructed to review the valuation 
and the revised valuation was £270,000. In view of this TML refunded both the survey fee 
and application fee for the mortgage application for this property. I think this was fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances.
But I dont agree that, just because another surveyor valued the second property for more 
than the surveyor TML had instructed, that TML should also refund the application and 
valuation fee for that mortgage application as well.
It was Ws choice not to proceed with the mortgage application on the property TMLs 
surveyor had valued at £80,000. W was free to go ahead with this mortgage and had it done 
so it appears it would have been able to borrow the £52,500 it required against this property.
Legal advice W has obtainedThis service determines complaints based on what we consider is fair and reasonable. I note 
that Mr S has said W has taken legal advice on this matter. If W wishes to pursue this matter 
in the Courts it is, of course, free to do so.
My final decision
My decision is that I do not uphold this complaint. I think the redress TML has already paid 
W is fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint and I do not think TML needs 
to do any more to resolve this matter.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask W to accept or 
reject my decision before 23 February 2021.
 
Suzannah Stuart
Ombudsman