DRN-1645050
The complaint
Mr T has complained that Indigo Michael Limited (trading as Safety Net Credit (SNC)) lent to 
him irresponsibly. Mr T says he was often borrowing on the same day or within a few days of 
repaying his loans.
What happened
Mr T approached SNC for a Safety Net facility in November 2016. This was a running credit 
account where a consumer could either request funds up to their credit limit, or funds would 
be deposited into their bank account once their account balance fell below a safety net 
amount of the customers choosing.
Mr T was initially given a facility with a £300 credit limit in November 2016. His limit was 
increased on a further 4 occasions with his final increase taking his credit limit to £450 in 
October 2018. The facility was fully repaid in November 2018.
One of our adjudicators looked at Mr Ts complaint. He thought the checks SNC carried out 
before granting this facility were proportionate. And that the information SNC gathered about 
Mr Ts circumstances suggested he would be able to afford the repayments he was 
committed to making.  But, due to the way Mr T used the facility, our adjudicator thought 
SNC should have stopped him using it from 8 May 2017.
It appears that Mr T agreed with our adjudicators opinion. SNC disagreed and provided the 
following complaint points for me to consider:
SNCs product works in much the same way as a credit card. And like a credit card, 
the important factor is not the number of individual uses (in this case, withdrawals) 
but the outstanding balance, which was never greater than £594.
Mr Ts SafetyNet facility was affordable at all times and it does not believe it to be 
treating customers fairly to withdraw affordable credit lines from customers.
 
As no agreement could be reached the complaint has been passed to me for a final 
decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Ive also taken into account the law, any 
relevant regulatory rules and good industry practice at the time the loans were offered.
To begin with, Mr T seems to have accepted our adjudicators opinion, that SNC wasnt 
wrong to approve his running credit facility. This means the initial approval of his facility is no 
longer in dispute, so I have no reason to reach a finding about this in this final decision. This 
decision will instead focus on whether SNC did enough to monitor Mr Ts facility whilst he 
held it and whether there was a point which SNC should have halted any further borrowing 
on it.The relevant regulations in place at the time Mr T was given his Safety Net facility
Whilst Im not looking at what happened when the facility was approved, that doesnt mean I 
think SNC did everything it shouldve done. I do think it was wrong to have allowed him to 
continue drawing down on the account from 8 May 2017.  For this reason, Ill explain below 
why below.  
Firstly, under the provisions outlined in CONC (6.7.2)  the relevant regulation at the time, 
SNC had to;
monitor a customers repayment record and take appropriate action where there are signs 
of actual or possible repayment difficulties
In addition to this, SNC had a fairly good indication of Mr Ts financial position, because 
throughout the time of him having the facility it had read only access to his bank account. 
When Mr T was granted a £330 limit, I dont think it was unreasonable of SNC to have 
believed that he would repay the outstanding balance over a reasonable period of time, 
which could result in monthly repayments of around £20. After all, this is what was expected, 
and the way this facility was designed. But if Mr T wasnt using the facility as intended, this 
could indicate to SNC that he was having wider financial problems.
What I would highlight is that even thought the lender could believe that the repayment 
would be made over a reasonable period of time, it cant be ignored that the following 
provision is contained with the credit agreement for the facility;
We will only ever take a repayment when your Bank Balance is higher than your 
SafetyNet Level.
We will never take a repayment which reduces your balance to the SafetyNet Level 
and therefore triggers a Credit Instalment. To make sure this is the case whenever 
we take a repayment we will always leave you a balance which is at least £30 above 
your SafetyNet Level.
Subject to the above, the repayment amount will be the full amount you owe us in 
outstanding capital and interest whilst leaving you a Bank Balance which is at least 
£30 above your SafetyNet Level or such lesser amount as will leave you a Bank 
Balance at least £30 above your SafetyNet Level.
 
The final bullet point is clear here  that SNC will collect the full amount owed to it when 
sufficient funds are deposited into the account. So this is why, I think in this case, when SNC 
was monitoring the account, it needed to be mindful how Mr T was using the facility because 
if he was repaying the balance in full, each month and then quickly drawing down again, this 
could be a sign of financial difficulties.  
In order to see whether I think it was fair allow Mr T to continue to drawdown, Ive considered 
the relationship between when repayments were made to SNC, the value of those 
payments, and then when Mr T returned for further borrowing. After all, if Mr T was making 
significant repayments to SNC (or SNC was taking significant repayments), and then quickly 
drawing down a similar sum again in a matter of days, this ought to have indicated that Mr T 
wasnt using the facility as it was designed to be used, and he therefore may not have been 
in a position to afford the repayments. 
Looking at these transactions leading up to May 2017, I think there was sufficient evidence 
to show SNC that it shouldve stopped Mr T from taking any further drawdowns.Mr T was initially given a facility with a £330 credit limit. Whilst I dont think SNC shouldve 
had any concerns about the way Mr T was initially using it, as time went on, I think there 
were flags of potential issues which SNC should have looked into further.
Shortly after Mr T received his salary around the 23rd of the month, he was generally 
clearing his loan balance in full. But within a week, and usually within a couple of days, he 
had requested further funds drawing up to his maximum credit limit. This leads me to believe 
that he was showing a reliance on SNCs product by re-borrowing what he repaid so quickly. 
As Ive said previously, when SNC approved the facility, it was entitled to believe that Mr T 
would repay what he owed over a reasonable period of time. But a few months into his 
borrowing, it was clear this was not happening. I think the way he was using these loans 
were as if they were payday loans and SNC needed to be alert to this, especially as SNC 
were aware from the results of its credit check that Mr T had a history of borrowing payday 
loans.  
So I think the manner in which Mr T was using the facility shouldve suggested to SNC that
Mr T was having financial difficulties because it appears he had to come back so quickly to 
borrow to fill a hole in his finances caused by making his repayment to SNC. Because, as 
the credit agreement says, SNC will collect the full balance, which is what was happening 
here, so his monthly repayment were more than £20 a month. 
But, equally, SNC had read only access to Mr Ts bank statements through the time he was 
borrowing from it. And these bank statements, in my view, reinforce that from May 2017 
SNC shouldnt have allowed Mr T to borrow any more funds.  
Ive considered Mr Ts circumstances in the month before SNC granted his fourth credit limit 
increase in May 2017. I can see Mr T continued to receive his normal monthly salary of 
around £1,346. He was still making a regular monthly transfer to another account. We asked 
Mr T for further information about this transfer; Mr T has told us he was transferring around 
£350 a month to his parents to cover his rent and bills. 
He also says he would often borrow from his friends and family over the course of the 
month. And he would borrow from his parents first, which meant the amounts he was 
repaying them each month fluctuated based on how much he had borrowed throughout the 
month and this would need to be repaid as long as his payments for rent.
SNC had calculated Mr T as having a disposable income of around £484 when it agreed to 
the facility. But this was on the basis that Mr T had a larger income due to him receiving a 
regular transfer into his account.
Mr Ts statements also show he continued to make payments for his phone, credit cards, TV 
subscription and for food. And there were still online gaming transactions as well as 
transactions to online betting sites. Furthermore, Mr T continued to take out a large amount 
of cash withdrawals  these totalled £600 in April 2017. 
From the start of the borrowing relationship, SNC could see from Mr Ts statements that he 
was regularly drawing out large amounts of cash; anything from £260 to £910. But in the 
previous three months before SNC increased his credit limit in May 2017, the amount he 
was withdrawing had increased  averaging £753 for these three months. 
When we asked for further information about these cash withdrawals, Mr T told us he was 
drawing out cash to repay his money he had borrowed from his friends and family over the 
course of the month. And that he was would withdraw cash to pay for items he had pawned 
but wanted back, as the lender would only accept cash. Based on what Mr T has told us about his circumstances  and what SNC saw in his bank 
statement as along with the manner in which he was using the facility  ought to have led 
SNC to query with Mr T why he was withdrawing such a large portion of his income in cash 
each month. And had it done so, I see no reason to think that it wouldnt have discovered the 
above. 
I think by 8 May 2017, it was clear that the facility had become unsustainable, and allowing 
Mr T to increase his credit limit and continue using it was detrimental to his financial 
situation. I think this is further demonstrated by the way he continued to use the facility, in 
the same manner for a further 18 months.
I acknowledge that SNC says its facility worked similarly to a credit card - the facility came 
with a credit limit and a customer could drawdown available funds. But ultimately, SNCs 
facility wasnt an actual credit card. 
SNC has said its approach is entirely consistent with the latest FCA guidance where credit 
card providers were, on 3rd February 2020, expressly warned against withdrawing credit that 
customers might be reliant. But Mr T took out his account in November 2016 and closed his 
account two years later. So the guidance that SNC has relied on wasnt in place at the time 
of Mr T borrowing and would have had no bearing on his relationship with SNC.
SNCs responsibility was to monitor for signs of financial difficulty, which I think had become 
apparent few months into the borrowing relationship. In the manner he was using the facility, 
along with the information SNC could see while having access to his bank statements.  And 
once this had become known, SNC had a responsibly to not continue allowing Mr T to 
unsustainably use a facility that was causing further financial detriment  so in this instance 
 not allowing Mr T to continue to draw on the facility. 
Overall, I think SNC shouldve withdrawn the facility from 8 May 2017 and not allowed Mr T 
to continue using it from this date. Indeed, it couldve arranged for Mr T to repay the facility 
over a number of months but it didnt do this, so I think Mr T has lost out as a result of SNCs 
actions.
Further considerations
After our adjudicator issued his opinion letter, Mr T sent in information which showed his 
facility with SNC was still showing as open on his credit report. We asked for SNC for further 
information about this, but we didnt receive a response. Whilst its not entirely clear if and 
when Mr T formally asked SNC to close the account, Im satisfied there is no outstanding 
balance on Mr Ts facility, so there is no reason why the facility should now not be closed. 
In addition to putting Mr T back in the position he would have been in had SNC stopped 
lending from 8 May 2017, SNC needs to make sure the account is marked as closed. It 
should be closed from the date Mr T repaid it and no adverse information should be 
recorded from 8 May 2017 until it is closed. 
Putting things right
Remove all unpaid interest, fees and charges from 8 May 2017.
Add 8% simple a year interest from the date of the payment to the date of 
settlement*;
remove any adverse information recorded on Mr Ts credit file as a result of 
not stopping the facility from 8 May 2017 until the facility is closed.
 *HM Revenue & Customs requires SNC to take off tax from this interest. SNC must give Mr 
T a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if he asks for one.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained above, Im upholding Mr Ts complaint in part.
Indigo Michael Limited should put things right for Mr T as set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr T to accept or 
reject my decision before 4 August 2020.
Robert Walker
Ombudsman