DRN-3541760
The complaint
Mr K complains that ClearBank Limited wont refund disputed transactions from his Tide 
account, which he says were taken after his account had been hacked.  
What happened
The circumstances which led to this complaint are well-known to both parties and have been 
clearly laid out in our Investigators view. So I wont repeat them in detail here. But, in 
summary, I understand them to be as follows.
 
Mr K contacted ClearBank to dispute a number of payments, totalling £671.43, which were 
made from his account during November 2021 and December 2021. Mr K says he didnt 
make the payments. ClearBank declined to refund these alleged losses, as it considered the 
payments were all authorised. 
Unhappy with ClearBanks response, Mr K brought his complaint to this service and one of 
our Investigators looked into things. Our Investigator didnt uphold the complaint, concluding 
there was a lack of evidence to show Mr Ks account security had been compromised. She 
was persuaded that what was most likely to have happened, was that the transactions had 
been authorised by Mr K. She said this because she hadnt seen enough information, to 
indicate there had been third party activity and that ClearBank failed in its duty to protect 
him.
Mr K disagreed with our Investigators assessment. He maintains it wasnt him that made 
these transactions and has suggested it was a friend of his who has hacked his account and 
withdrawn the funds.
 
As agreement couldnt be reached the complaint has been passed to me for a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im very aware that Ive summarised this complaint briefly, in less detail than has been 
provided, and in my own words. No discourtesy is intended by this. Instead, Ive focussed on 
what I think is the heart of the matter here. If theres something Ive not mentioned, it isnt 
because Ive ignored it. I havent. Im satisfied I dont need to comment on every individual 
point or argument to be able to reach what I think is the right outcome. Our rules allow me to 
do this. This simply reflects the informal nature of our service as a free alternative to the 
courts.
While I dont underestimate Mr Ks strength of feeling about this matter, having considered 
everything carefully, I agree with the conclusions reached by our Investigator. I know this is 
not the outcome Mr K was hoping for. But in weighing everything up, I am unable to fairly 
say ClearBank is liable for refunding the transactions Mr K disputes. Ill explain why.
The considerations that are particularly relevant to this case are set out in the Payment 
Service Regulations 2017. They say, in summary, that a customer can only be held 
responsible for transactions that they have made themselves or otherwise authorised. And 
so I must consider whether its more likely than not, based on the available evidence and on 
the balance of probabilities, Mr K did authorise the payments and should therefore be 
responsible for them. 
Its not in dispute here that Mr Ks banking credentials were used to make the payments. 
That tells me that the transactions were properly authenticated and applied to Mr Ks 
account. But that information in isolation doesnt answer the question of whether he 
consented to the payments.
ClearBank has submitted a host of technical information which supports its position that Mr K 
consented to the payments. Such as, evidence to demonstrate the transactions being 
disputed were made using the same mobile device as one Mr K had used consistently 
before, when accessing his account and when carrying out transactions (that were not raised 
as fraudulent). As well as this, the correct log on process has been used when making the 
payments, which means someone making the payments had to know Mr Ks security details 
and use his mobile device to complete them.
Mr K has said his mobile device was with him at the time of the transactions and that hes 
never shared his security details with anybody. Im mindful, it is Mr Ks belief that a friend 
has hacked his account and changed his email, and that they may have shoulder surfed him 
to obtain his security details. But even if I considered Mr K was shoulder surfed, there is no 
plausible explanation as to how Mr Ks friend would have been able to gain access to Mr Ks 
mobile device, on multiple occasions, to carry out the transactions and then return the device 
to Mr K without him noticing. 
Ive considered what Mr K has said about his account being hacked, and hes explained that 
the email on his account was changed without his knowledge. But ClearBanks technical 
evidence shows that, at the time of the transactions, there had been no change of email 
since the account had been set up. And there is evidence which shows that Mr K has 
communicated with ClearBank (to and from) the email he disputes is his. Ive also seen that 
this email address has been used on multiple occasions to enable Mr K to recover his 
account. Considering this, I cant fairly or reasonably conclude that a third party has updated 
Mr Ks account. 
All things considered there doesnt seem to be a point of compromise for Mr Ks security 
details and device, to the extent that somebody could have made transactions without his 
knowledge. Im not suggesting its impossible for someone to have obtained them without 
him knowing. But there doesnt seem to have been an obvious opportunity for someone to 
have acquired his phone, log onto his banking app, make transactions and then return the 
device. So, there doesnt appear to be a reasonable explanation for how someone else 
would have been able to complete the transactions without Mr Ks authority. 
I must follow the evidence and make my findings based on this. Having done so, I cannot 
safely conclude that these payments were unauthorised. It follows that it would not be fair or 
reasonable to hold ClearBank liable for the financial loss being claimed. 
I can see Mr K has mentioned he may consider taking matters to court. Mr K doesnt have to 
accept my final decision, and if he doesnt it wont be binding on him. Subject to any time 
limits or other restrictions a court might impose, Mr Ks right to pursue a legal remedy wont 
have been prejudiced by our consideration of this complaint. Im also mindful here that Mr K 
has consistently maintained it is his friend who has carried out these transactions. Should  Mr K consider that a criminal offence has been committed against him, that would be a 
matter for the Police. 
In conclusion, for the reasons explained, and based on all of the evidence, I cant fairly or 
reasonably say ClearBank should refund the payments to Mr K.
 
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr K to accept or 
reject my decision before 16 December 2022.
 
Stephen Wise
Ombudsman