DRN-2781101
The complaint
Mrs M feels that Barclays Bank UK PLC trading as Barclaycard has treated her unfairly by 
giving her unaffordable increases in her credit limit on her credit card.
What happened
In 2019 Mrs M closed her credit card account with Barclays. In 2020 Barclays wrote to Mrs 
M to say it was making her an offer as it had reviewed some accounts which may have had 
their credit limits on credit card accounts set too high and that she may have been impacted. 
So it offered her just over £30.
Mrs M says that Barclays has treated her unfairly because it didnt do enough to consider 
her financial situation and spending when it increased her credit limit between 2010 and 
2014. She feels the lending was unaffordable for her. So she complained to Barclays.
Barclays looked into the matter and felt it had treated her fairly in its lending. But it offered 
her £75 for the inconvenience around some correspondence it sent her. Mrs M refused this 
and brought her complaint to this service.
Our investigator considered the matter. Initially Barclays objected to some of the credit 
increases being considered by this service. However Barclays then consented to this service 
considering credit limit increases since 2010.
Our investigator then considered what had happened and concluded that Barclays had 
treated Mrs M fairly. However Mrs M remains unhappy, so this complaint has been passed 
to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The credit increases Mrs M complains about are somewhat historic and the rules in place 
then have since been updated. However at that time (as is still the case now) consumers 
need to be treated fairly and businesses had guidance regarding what they should do when 
considering lending to consumers. The essence of what was expected at the time of the 
increases in credit limits this case was that there would be proportionate checks performed 
relating to the circumstances of the borrower and the lending. There was no prescribed list of 
actions to be completed. But wed expect things like the amount of lending and borrowing 
history to be considered amongst other things.
Having considered the statements, contact notes and the rest of Barclays evidence from the 
time I think it important to note that at no time whilst Mrs M had the account open did she 
either complain about the credit limit increases or notify Barclays she was in financial 
difficulty or struggling in any way. In 2019 she settled and closed the account. It was only 
later when Barclays was doing a review of its lending did it decide to write to her making her 
an offer of just over £30. Barclays has also shown that although it wrote to Mrs M about this 
issue it doesnt necessarily follow that it shouldnt have provided the lending it did. Its letter 
just shows that Mrs M was within a group of account holders who may have been impacted 
by how it made lending decisions. So its offer isnt evidence necessarily of a failing on its 
part.
Ive considered Mrs Ms statements over the period in question with regard to her credit card 
account. I can see she didnt miss payments and regularly paid more than the minimum 
payment required. I can also see that the account was managed well, and that Mrs M didnt 
exceed the credit limits set. Also there is no persuasive evidence of significant adverse 
reporting on her credit file. So I think that Barclays position that the account was managed 
well during the period in question is fair. And it should be remembered that lending decisions 
are made in real time and can only be based on what businesses know and can ascertain at 
that time. Bad account management months and years after lending decisions are made 
does not demonstrate that the lending decisions were wrong in the past but rather things 
have changed subsequently.
I can see that over time the credit limit has increased but not substantially at any one time 
nor have the increases in limit been close together chronologically (they were each in 
different years). Im not persuaded considering the matter in the round and when the credit 
limit increases happened that Barclays has lent money to Mrs M irresponsibly. And 
considering what it knew I think the increases were affordable. It should be remembered that 
within the terms Mrs M was meant to inform Barclays of any significant changes in her 
circumstances, but I cannot see any persuasive evidence of her doing so.
Mrs M makes the point that she wasnt asked about her circumstances. But she was meant 
to tell Barclays about any significant changes to her situation, so I dont think Barclays did 
anything wrong in relying on the information it had. Furthermore Barclays is able to access 
information (such as credit file information) and analyse what it does know as part of its 
checking processes. So that it didnt ask her beforehand doesnt demonstrate it didnt do 
proportional checks. Just because Mrs M might not recall or been aware of the checks being 
made by Barclays at the time doesnt mean that they didnt happen. Furthermore Barclays 
has pointed to evidence showing that consumers could reject such increases if they wished 
to and that they are notified of this when such increases are put forward to them. And I cant 
see persuasive evidence of Mrs M contacting Barclays to reject such increases at the time 
that they were made.
Mrs M says the interest applied to her account was extortionate. However this was the 
commercial arrangement she agreed to enter, and interest is only applied when the account 
isnt settled month to month. And this service cannot interfere with commercial decisions 
such as the setting of interest rates.
And having considered the matter Ive seen no persuasive evidence of any unfair adverse 
reporting on Mrs Ms credit file by Barclays in relation to this account.
Overall considering all that has happened I dont think Mrs Ms comments are persuasive. I 
think on balance the evidence shows Barclays has treated her fairly. So in short this 
complaint does not succeed. 
Barclays made an offer to Mrs M of £75. It has told us in the past that was still available. Im 
not persuaded Mrs M has been treated unfairly and see shes rejected this money in the 
past. If Mrs M wishes to see if it is still available then she should contact Barclays. But it isnt 
obliged to pay it to my mind seeing as Mrs M has told this service in the past that she 
refused it.
My final decisionFor the reasons set out above, I do not uphold the complaint against Barclays Bank UK PLC 
trading as Barclaycard. It has nothing more to do with regard to this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs M to accept or 
reject my decision before 26 July 2021.
 
Rod Glyn-Thomas
Ombudsman