DRN-2860842
The complaint
Mr S and Mrs K are unhappy with the way Bank of Scotland (BoS) handled the recovery of 
their funds when they reported a scam.
As Mr S is the one who is bringing this complaint on behalf of both parties, I will only refer to 
him throughout.
What happened
Mr S says hes been the victim of a scam. He says in 2018 he attended a seminar with a 
person who described himself as a forex trader. This man explained that he offered a 
service that would allow inexperienced investors, like Mr S, to copy his trades in exchange 
for 30% commission  also known as copy-trading. Mr S says the trader told him that if he 
invested and copied his trades for a small fee, he was guaranteed to make a profit. 
So, in March 2018, Mr S began to invest. Mr S has told us that in total he invested c£48,000. 
His investments increased in value for the first five weeks and he was happy with his 
investment performance. But from around the end of April onwards, the value of Mr Ss 
investments dropped and he began to lose around £2,000 a day. By this point, Mr S had 
paid the trader £5,061.67 in commission fees. 
Convinced hed been scammed, Mr S raised a complaint with his bank to try and get his 
money back. Mr S told BoS hed been guaranteed a profit but now had lost all of his money. 
Mr S has told us that instead of attempting to get his money back, BoS must have tipped off 
the trader, as a couple of days later he was contacted by the man who knew a complaint had 
been raised about him. Mr S says he was threatened to withdraw the complaint. 
BoS had contacted the trader Mr S had been dealing with - who was also a customer of 
BoS. The trader told BoS that he ran a trading group and he charged members for copying 
his trades. He told BoS he was entitled to the funds Mr S sent to him as this was the 
commission he was due as part of this agreement. He told BoS that Mr S had been told that 
the investments contained a certain level of risk and were not guaranteed and he was able 
to show BoS copies of messages between him and Mr S where this had been discussed. 
The trader confirmed Mr S had been told he could win or lose with this type of trading and 
was still a member of the group.
Having spoken to their customer, and now satisfied that he was entitled to the funds, BoS 
decided not to pursue the scam complaint on behalf of Mr S. BoS felt this was a civil dispute 
between Mr S and the trader; the crux of which was surrounding whether Mr S had received 
the type of service he had paid for. There was no evidence that supported Mr S had been 
told he was guaranteed to make a profit and BoS felt there wasnt anything more it could do 
to recover Mr Ss funds. 
Mr S didnt agree with what BoS said so he brought the complaint to our service. Upon doing 
so, Mr S told us he suffers with his mental health and had been caused much distress by 
what happened with the trader and by BoSs response to his complaint. 
One of our investigators looked into things. She thought it was reasonable for BoS to 
conclude that this was a civil dispute rather than a scam. She felt that the because the trader 
had allowed Mr S to copy his trades, and they had initially performed well before concerns 
arose, meant this wasnt a scam - just a bad investment. Investments had an inherent risk 
and there was no evidence that Mr S had been told he would receive guaranteed returns. 
 
Our investigator thought BoS had acted reasonably and didnt need to offer Mr S a refund. It 
had followed his instructions in making the payments in the first instance. And it acted fairly 
when it didnt treat his claim as a scam in its attempts to recover his funds.
 
Mr S disagreed with the investigators findings. He asked for an ombudsman to review the 
complaint and so it has been passed to me to consider.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having considered everything, Im minded to reach the same conclusion as our investigator - 
for largely the same reasons. Ill explain why.
 
Mr S doesnt dispute authorising the payments in the first instance and BoS had an 
obligation to follow his instructions in line with the mandate it held on his account. Having 
considered the circumstances surrounding the payments, Im persuaded BoS acted correctly 
in executing Mr Ss payments to the trader as he initially instructed.
 
The attempt to recover the funds
 
When Mr S contacted BoS to tell them what had happened, it was for it to consider good 
industry practice in deciding what to do next. And where the matter is considered a private 
civil dispute it does not need to treat the claim as a scam and attempt to recover the money 
from the receiving account.
In this particular case, BoS was both the sending and the receiving bank and in-line with 
good industry practice, it decided to contact the trader, who was also its customer, to 
understand what had happened and to consider whether he had received the monies in 
good faith. And so Im satisfied it was reasonable for BoS to contact its customer to 
understand more about the dispute and make its decision on whether the funds should be 
returned or not. And I dont think it was its intention to tip off the trader as Mr S has 
suggested.
In this case, I understand that BoS is now satisfied that its customer received the funds in 
good faith and it has unfrozen their account. And I dont think this was unreasonable given 
the facts as presented to me here. 
It is not in dispute that Mr S and the trader reached an agreement where Mr S would pay a 
commission fee in order to gain access to software that would allow him to copy the traders 
investments. And it appears that he was given access to this software and was able to 
complete trades which performed well for a number of weeks. The dispute only arose when 
Mr S became unhappy with the performance of his investments, when he started to lose 
money. Mr S has told us he believes this to be a scam as the trader had initially told him that 
he was guaranteed to make a profit. But the trader was able to show BoS messages 
between himself and Mr S that satisfied BoS this wasnt the case - and that he was entitled 
to his commission payments. And so BoS was ultimately satisfied that this was a civil 
dispute. It was satisfied that the crux of this dispute was about the investments entered into and their performance. And I dont think it was unreasonable for BoS to have reached this 
conclusion. I understand that Mr S is unhappy at the performance of his investments but that 
doesnt mean he has been the victim of a scam. 
Overall, Im satisfied that it was reasonable for BoS to consider this a civil matter. And as 
BoS considered the matter as a civil dispute, it didnt need to return the funds to Mr S.  And I 
dont think its actions here were unfair.
   
Summary
 
I appreciate Mr S has lost out here and I can understand why he is frustrated but I dont think 
it would be fair and reasonable for BoS to cover his losses. Im satisfied it was reasonable 
for BoS to consider this a civil dispute between Mr S and the trader and BoS is not liable to 
refund Mr Ss losses. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold Mr Ss complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs K and Mr S to 
accept or reject my decision before 6 July 2021.
 
Emly Hanley
Ombudsman