DRN-3139673
Complaint
Ms B has complained that HSBC UK Bank Plc (HSBC) unfairly started interest and charges 
to her overdraft after she was told it would be interest free.
  
Background
One of our adjudicators looked at this complaint and thought HSBC provided incorrect 
information which Ms B relied on and so he upheld Ms Bs complaint. HSBC questioned 
some of the methodology used in the adjudicators view. So the complaint was passed to an 
ombudsman for a final decision.   
  
My findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having considered everything provided, I can see that HSBC did accept our adjudicators 
reasons for upholding Ms Bs complaint. Im pleased to see this. However, given the parties 
have requested clarity on what needs to be done, I think it would be helpful for me to set out 
what HSBC now needs to do to put things right for Ms B. 
Ms B ended up paying additional interest, fees and charges on her overdraft because HSBC 
provided her with incorrect information in July 2019. So I think that Ms B lost out because of 
what HSBC did wrong and HSBCs method of putting things right needs to reflect this.
  
Fair compensation  what HSBC needs to do to put things right for Ms B
Having thought about everything, I think that it would be fair and reasonable in all the 
circumstances of Ms Bs complaint for HSBC to put things right by:
Reworking Ms Bs current account balance so that all overdraft interest, fees and 
associated charges applied to it from 7 July 2019 to 7 July 2020 are removed. As 
Ms B was aware of the change to the terms and conditions of her account and 
that she would be charged interest from by 7 July 2020 onwards, HSBC doesnt 
need to refund any interest after this date.
AND
If the effect of removing all interest, fees and charges, which now need to be 
removed, results in there no longer being an outstanding balance, then any extra 
should be treated as overpayments and returned to Ms B along with 8% simple 
interest on the overpayments from the date they were made (if they were) until 
the date of settlement. 
 HM Revenue & Customs requires HSBC to take off tax from this interest. HSBC must give 
Ms B a certificate showing how much tax it has taken off if she asks for one.
  
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, Im upholding Ms Bs complaint. HSBC UK Bank Plc should 
put things right in the way Ive set out above.
  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms B to accept or 
reject my decision before 8 December 2021.
 
Jeshen Narayanan
Ombudsman