DRN-3094149
The complaint
Mr P complains about the service he received when he visited a Nationwide Building Society 
branch, how his complaint about his visit was handled, and how a request for CCTV footage 
was dealt with.
 
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here. The facts are not in dispute, so Ill focus on giving the reasons for my decision. 
  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
There is substantial correspondence for this complaint between Mr P and Nationwide, Mr P 
and the Information Commissioners Office (ICO) and Mr P and our investigator. I have 
read it all, including Mr Ps request for me to include his representations in this final decision 
in their entirety, and for him to have the chance to review my decision before I issue it. 
As our investigator explained to Mr P, our rules allow me to focus on what I consider the key 
issues, and to address those issues in the manner I consider appropriate. Mr P will likely be 
disappointed with this final decision as I dont intend to go into the level of detail which has 
been common place so far. Nor do I intend to respond to each point hes raised. This isnt 
meant as discourtesy. It simply reflects the informal nature of our service.
In my view this complaint has three key issues:
- the service Mr P received in branch;
- the way Mr Ps complaint was handled; and 
- how Nationwide dealt with Mr Ps request for CCTV footage. 
Ill address each in turn.
the service Mr P received in branch
In brief, Mr P says in late December 2020 he attended a Nationwide branch with his family 
and was treated unfairly, in particular that staff were rude to him and didnt adhere to Covid 
related social distancing. The staff members involved have provided statements in which 
they say, broadly, Mr P was the rude one and they were just trying to do their jobs. Theres 
also some CCTV footage, which Ive viewed, but it isnt particularly helpful as theres no 
sound, so I cant tell what was said. 
Mr P feels strongly about what happened in branch. I can understand why given what hes 
told us about the health of him and his family, and about his employment in the health 
industry. But these were unusual times for everyone. The branch staff were attempting to 
limit the number of customers in the hall and were sign-posting customers to self-service 
facilities where possible, which it seems is accepted to be what happened here. 
It may be that one of the staff members was a little more persistent than Mr P would have 
liked, but ultimately, he and his family were able to conclude their banking and Mr Ps 
interactions with the branch staff lasted a matter of minutes, with it seems from the CCTV 
footage, him doing most of the talking. 
Mr Ps visit was between Christmas Day and New Years Day, and during the third national 
lockdown, so its somewhat understandable that people might not have been at their best. 
And dealing with people in general isnt always smooth sailing. Im not persuaded the service 
Mr P received  or the minor alleged social distancing breaches (staff less than two meters 
away from him)  were so poor, or so substantial, I can fairly require Nationwide to pay him 
compensation.
the way Mr Ps complaint was handled
When Mr P complained about his branch visit the branch manager responded initially. Mr P 
questions the branch managers integrity and professionalism and has picked out some lines 
from their correspondence to demonstrate this. 
Ive read the correspondence and accept some of the branch managers responses could 
have been better. But looking at things in the round Im satisfied the branch manager was 
trying to be helpful. I say this because his response to the complaint was of substance and 
he continued to respond to Mr P at length, including answering each of Mr Ps 20 questions. 
Ultimately the branch manager couldnt resolve Mr Ps complaint, so the matter was referred 
to a complaint handler, whom issued a final response letter. This is in line with what I would 
expect so I see no failing here. 
how Nationwide dealt with Mr Ps request for CCTV footage
Despite Mr P asking for CCTV footage in January 2021 it wasnt provided until June 2021, 
and even then, it was incomplete. And he was given incorrect information about whether he 
would receive it or not by the branch manager and complaints handler. So Im satisfied 
Nationwide let Mr P down here and I note Nationwide and the ICO agree. 
Its not within my powers to enforce data protection laws or to fine Nationwide for its 
mistakes. But I can make an award for the distress and inconvenience Nationwides 
customer service failing in relation to the provision of information had on Mr P. 
Mr P has been understandably frustrated by the need to chase his request, overcome 
misinformation, approach the ICO and then have the disappointment of some of the footage 
no longer being available. Compensation is appropriate here, and I agree with the 
investigator that £200 fairly reflects the impact this matter had on Mr P.
Overall
I uphold this complaint and require Nationwide Building Society to pay Mr P £200 
compensation.
Mr P may be disappointed with the outcome Ive reached on his complaint. But this final 
decision ends what our service can do for him. However, he can reject my decision and 
pursue the matter elsewhere if he wishes to do so.
  Putting things right
Nationwide Building Society should pay Mr P £200 compensation. 
 
My final decision
Nationwide Building Society should pay Mr P £200 compensation.  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision before 27 December 2021.
 
James Langford
Ombudsman