DRN-4181344
The complaint
Mr R is unhappy that AJ Bell Management Limited (AJ Bell) blocked his account and didnt 
allow him access. He says he was unable to sell shares at the best price and has suffered a 
loss. He would like compensation. Mr Rs account was also closed.
What happened
Mr R had a stocks and shares ISA account with AJ Bell. On 17 November 2021 the account 
was blocked for review.
AJ Bell received a number of calls and emails from Mr R. AJ Bell were concerned that a third 
party was trying to access Mr Rs account. They wrote to Mr R at his address and said they 
were concerned that his account was opened by a third party, and they were not speaking to 
the genuine account holder. They refused to speak to the caller and refused to allow him to 
trade on the account. 
On 6 December 2021 AJ Bell let Mr R know they would be closing his account and sending 
the balance to his nominated bank account. The amount of £4,567.36 was sent to Mr Rs 
registered bank account on 9 December 2021 and the account was closed. 
AJ Bell said they had blocked and closed the account in line with the terms and conditions.
Mr R complained to our service. One of or investigators looked into the complaint. She said 
she thought the business had legitimate reasons to take the actions that it did. She thought 
they had done nothing wrong, and she wouldnt award any compensation.
Mr R was unhappy with the view and wanted someone else to look at the complaint.
As there was no agreement the matter has come to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Firstly, I would like to apologise to Mr R for the time it has taken to reach a view on his 
complaint. 
Ill start by setting out some context for the review of Mr Rs account. UK legislation places 
extensive obligations on regulated financial businesses. Financial institutions must establish 
the purpose and intended nature of transactions as well as the origin of funds, and there 
may be penalties if they dont. These obligations override all other obligations. I am satisfied 
AJ Bell were complying with these obligations when they reviewed Mr Rs account.
AJ Bell havent made a secret of the fact that they were concerned that they werent talking 
to their genuine customer despite the caller passing security questions. 
As the investigator has explained our rules allow us to receive evidence in confidence from 
businesses. We may treat evidence from banks as confidential for a number of reasons  for 
example, if it contains information about other customers or security information. 
I have reviewed the information we have received in confidence from the business and 
having done so I can see why AJ Bell had genuine concerns and why they refused to speak 
to the caller about the account and act on their instructions. 
Mr R has said that as a result of AJ Bell refusing to act on his instructions, he has lost a lot of 
money as he wanted to trade the shares that he had. He says he has lost around £1,000 as 
a result. I have listened to the calls that Mr R made to AJ Bell and having done so I can 
appreciate the frustration that Mr R experienced not being able to trade on his account. 
However, I can also understand the point of view of the business and the need to keep 
Mr Rs account safe. AJ Bell werent satisfied they were talking to the account holder. So, 
although I appreciate Mr R would have made a profit had he been able to trade his shares I 
dont think AJ Bell did anything wrong when they refused to follow Mr Rs instructions on the 
phone or discuss the account with him.
AJ Bell gave Mr R notice to close the account in a letter dated 6 December 2021. Mr R has 
said this isnt the main subject of his complaint. For completeness I will address this below.
Its generally for financial institutions to decide whether or not they want to provide, or to 
continue to provide, banking facilities to any particular customer. Each financial institution 
has its own criteria and risk assessment for deciding whether to open or close accounts and 
providing an account to a customer is a commercial decision that a financial institution is 
entitled to take. Unless theres a very good reason to do so, this service wont usually say 
that a financial business must keep customer or require it to compensate a customer who 
has had their account closed. As long as they reach their decisions about that in a legitimate 
manner, this service wont usually intervene. 
I wanted to reassure Mr R that I have looked at the terms and conditions as well as the 
reasons AJ Bell have given this service for the closure of the account, and Im satisfied that 
AJ Bell were entitled to close the account in line with the terms and conditions Mr R would 
have agreed to when he opened the account. It follows Im satisfied AJ Bell didnt act unfairly 
when it closed Mr Rs account.
In summary although I appreciate Mr R will be disappointed with my decision, I dont think AJ 
Bell have done anything wrong or treated Mr R unfairly when they reviewed blocked and 
closed Mr Rs account. I wont be asking them to do anything else.
My final decision
For the reasons stated above I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision before 8 August 2023.
 
Esperanza Fuentes
Ombudsman