DRN-3830210
The complaint
Mr C complains that TSB Bank plc (TSB) didnt do enough to prevent him losing money 
that he sent to one of its customers accounts as the result of a scam. 
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat everything 
here. In brief summary, in November 2021 Mr C sent £990 from his HSBC account to an 
account held with TSB.
Mr C then realised hed been scammed. Ultimately, remaining unhappy when he didnt 
recover his lost funds, he referred a complaint about TSB to us. An Investigator here looked 
into things, but Mr C remained unhappy and asked for an Ombudsmans decision. This 
complaint about TSB has therefore been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Whilst this case has been awaiting this decision, Mr Cs other linked case here against 
HSBC (the bank from which he sent the payment of £990) has settled. I understand as part 
of settlement of this other case Mr C will have now received the sum of £990 back from 
HSBC. But the impact of the fraud on Mr C will not only have been monetary but will also 
have caused Mr C distress and inconvenience, so for clarity and completeness, I have 
nevertheless considered this complaint about TSB in its own right. Having done so, Ive 
decided not to uphold it for materially the same reasons as our Investigator.
Im sorry Mr C was the victim of a scam. But I cant reasonably ask TSB to compensate him 
unless TSBs acts or omissions unfairly impacted him. So, what I have to decide is whether 
or not TSB reasonably did enough to prevent, and respond to, the alleged authorised push 
payment (APP) fraud. 
TSB has shared relevant information with this service in confidence to allow us to discharge 
our investigatory functions and has provided that which is necessary for the determination of 
this complaint. But Im also limited to how much of this I can share for the same reasons as 
TSB. But Id like to assure Mr C Ive carefully reviewed everything before reaching my 
decision. 
I appreciate Mr C feels TSB shouldnt have allowed a fraudster to open and operate an 
account. But an account later found to have been utilised to misappropriate funds doesnt 
automatically entitle the payer (victim) to a refund, nor does it mean that the recipient bank 
unreasonably failed to prevent impact (in this case to Mr C). What I need to consider is 
whether, at the time of opening the account, TSB ought reasonably to have known that the 
account being opened would later be used fraudulently. And in the circumstances of this 
complaint, there wasnt anything at the time that I think reasonably couldve alerted TSB that 
the account it was opening would later be used to misappropriate funds. So Im satisfied it 
didnt miss an opportunity to prevent the fraud when opening the account.
Ive also considered whether there was anything prior to Mr Cs payment that ought to have 
alerted TSB to the possibility of fraud. Im satisfied none of the account activity ought to have 
stood out to TSB as unusual or suspicious. So I cant fairly say TSB unreasonably missed an 
opportunity to prevent the fraud here either.
Im also satisfied that TSB responded appropriately when it was put on notice that its 
customers account was in receipt of funds which had allegedly been fraudulently obtained. 
Unfortunately by the time TSB was told that Mr Cs payment had been made as a result of a 
scam, there werent any available funds for TSB to recover for Mr C. So I dont think TSB 
made any mistakes in dealing with notification of APP fraud.
I understand Mr C may be disappointed, and Ive taken on board everything hes said. 
However, for the reasons Ive explained, I dont think TSB missed an opportunity to either 
prevent the fraud or to have recovered the funds, nor that its acts or omissions are the cause 
of him being without his funds for the time he has been. So I dont uphold this complaint. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 September 2023.
 
Neil Bridge
Ombudsman