DRN-3588772
The complaint
Mr A complains that HSBC UK Bank Plc was unable to tell him his interest payment on his 
credit card account.
What happened
Mr A says he asked HSBC if it would extend the interest free period on his credit card 
account which ended on 5 June 2022. He says HSBC refused that request and so he asked 
how much interest he would be charged after that date. Mr A says HSBC was unable to 
provide that figure which he says was a reasonable request. He also says HSBC told him 
what the outcome of the complaint was likely to be before its complaint team had considered 
it. Mr A would like £100 compensation and an apology.
HSBC says it was not obliged to extend the interest free period and was unable to calculate 
the interest due on the next statement as that figure depends on a number of variable 
factors. It says it provided Mr A with his account balance and was prepared to tell him the 
interest rate. It also told him the interest amount would be available on the next account 
statement which would have been produced about 10 days later.
Mr A brought his complaint to us and our investigator didnt uphold it. The investigator 
thought HSBC was entitled to refuse Mr As interest free extension request and would have 
been unable to calculate the interest as it depends on various factors. The investigator 
thought the next statement would show the required details.
Mr A doesnt accept that view and says its reasonable to ask for the calculation in advance. 
He says HSBC told him his complaint was unlikely to succeed.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I have come to the overall view that I dont uphold this complaint. I 
appreciate Mr A will be disappointed by my decision.
I am satisfied that Mr A took out an 18-month interest free credit card account agreement on 
purchases. I dont think there is any dispute about that or that it ended on 5 June 2022. I am 
also satisfied that its up to HSBC to decide if it wishes to extend that period and so didnt 
make a mistake or act unfairly by refusing to do so. I can see that Mr A was told the interest 
rate namely 22.9% when he took out the agreement and have no reason to doubt that he 
would have received monthly account statements which would have contained that same 
information.
Im satisfied that monthly account statements would have provided Mr A with details of his 
spending and the end of the interest free period. I also think this was Mr As account and his 
responsibility to manage it. It ought to have been reasonably clear to him that interest would 
be charged at 22.9% after 5 June 2022 when his interest free period ended. I think Mr A 
would have known his balance before that date and only he would have known how much he 
intended to repay before the end of the promotional period as it approached.
I appreciate Mr A would have liked a full interest calculation before the 5 June 2022. But I 
am satisfied that HSBC fairly told Mr A that it couldnt calculate that amount due to a number 
of variable factors. I am sure Mr A appreciates that such calculations depend on a number of 
variables and it was made clear to him that his account statement hadnt been produced. I 
have listened to the call in question and am satisfied that HSBC fairly explained the position 
and offered to provide the interest rate as well as explaining the calculation would be on the 
next statement. I accept Mr A was attempting to reduce the interest charged but think he 
would have known from the previous account statement the balance as well as how much in 
general terms he would be charged if it wasnt repaid.
I dont think it matters what the HSBC staff member told Mr A during the call about the 
complaint outcome, as it was made clear to him it would be looked at by the complaints team 
and Mr A was given his rights, to have his complaint brought to us. I appreciate that is not 
the main part of this complaint. It follows that I dont uphold this complaint and so cant fairly 
order HSBC pay Mr A the £100 compensation he would like.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision before 17 December 2022.
 
David Singh
Ombudsman