DRN-4049070
The complaint
Mr J has complained about his car insurer esure Insurance Limited (Esure) because it has 
refused to cover his claim for accident damage and losses due to his injury because, it says, 
he was drunk driving.
What happened
Mr J had an accident in September 2021, no other vehicles or people were involved. He 
made a claim to Esure, advising he recalled nothing of driving his car that night or the 
accident itself. Esure, having obtained a copy of the police report, noted Mr J had given a 
breath test, showing positive for alcohol. Esure declined the claim for his losses based on 
the policy wording, which limits its liability, in the circumstances of drunk driving, to being 
liable as the Road Traffic Act insurer only. 
Mr J said Esure was being unfair and that it was lying about him being tested at the scene. 
Mr J said he was unconscious following the accident, later taken to hospital and so was not 
breathalysed by the police. He said his car was never checked to see what had been wrong 
with it which might have caused the crash and there was no evidence of wrong-doing on his 
part. So he felt Esures decline was unfair and unreasonable. He also felt it had taken too 
long to determine this. When it wouldnt change its view, Mr J complained to the Financial 
Ombudsman Service.
Our Investigator, noting the content of the police report and the policy terms, felt Esures 
decline of the claim was fair and reasonable. She also felt it had acted in a reasonably timely 
manner. So she didnt uphold the complaint.
Mr J said he was going to liaise with the police  that they have no evidence that a breath 
test was taken. Regarding Esure, he asked for an Ombudsmans consideration as he 
believes Esure should not have relied upon the report without evidence in support of it. He 
said he wants to know where his car is.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr Js policy with Esure does say that if an incident occurs where he is found to be beyond 
the legal limit for driving, his injuries and damage to his car will not be covered. This is 
common to most insurance policies.
I understand Mr J thinks Esure should look behind the content of the police report, to see if 
the police can support their findings. But that isnt something Id necessarily expect an 
insurer to do. If there was contradictory detail in the report, then Id probably expect that to 
be considered. Here I note that there wasnt anything contradictory in the police report  it 
recorded, for example, that Mr J had a head injury, but not that he was unconscious or even 
taken to hospital. And there is a box on the form which can be selected to say a test wasnt 
given due to medical reasons. But Esure did take into account that Mr J contested being 
breathalysed. I see it tried to make further enquiries with the police but the police werent 
minded to provide comment. Esure then considered the content of the police report, 
alongside other detail it had  such as Mr J agreeing he had had two pints of lager earlier in 
the evening and that he had no memory of the evening since before getting in his car to 
drive home, during which journey the accident occurred, and until he awoke in hospital. 
I think, on the balance of the evidence available, Esures decline of the claim was fair and 
reasonable.
I note its decline followed receipt of confirmation from the police that they werent prepared 
to comment. So that did mean the claim was not declined straight away and Esure couldnt 
control how long the police took to respond. I think the decision to decline was made in a 
reasonably timely manner. 
I appreciate that this is a very difficult situation for Mr J to be in. I accept that he clearly 
believes that he was unconscious at the scene and did not provide a breath test to the 
police. So I can see why its report  that a positive breath test was taken, is frustrating for 
him, along with Esures reliance on that. If Mr J should get further evidence from the police 
which supports his view that the report from the date of the incident is flawed, he can present 
that to Esure and Id expect it to reconsider his claim. However, I think its action, at this time, 
to decline the claim based on Mr J having provided a positive breath test, is fair and 
reasonable, as well as in line with the policy terms. If Mr J wants to know more about what 
has happened to his car, he should speak to Esure.
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint. I dont make any award against esure Insurance Limited.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr J to accept or 
reject my decision before 30 August 2023.
 
Fiona Robinson
Ombudsman