DRN-1979421
The complaint
Mr H has complained that Eversure Limited arranged for a car hire reimbursement excess 
insurance policy to automatically renew. 
What happened
Mr H bought a car hire insurance policy with Eversure to start in September 2018. In August 
2019 Eversure emailed Mr H to tell him his policy was due for renewal. It said that if he didnt 
want his policy to renew, to contact Eversure, which Mr H did. 
Mr H complained to Eversure. He said he didnt give it permission to automatically renew his 
policy. 
Eversure said it made Mr H aware of its automatic renewal process before he bought the 
policy and it was something he agreed to. Eversure carried out Mr Hs request to cancel the 
renewal of his policy in August 2019.
Mr H remained unhappy and asked us to look at his complaint. He believes the practice of 
auto renewal is sneaky and shouldnt be allowed. 
Our investigator thought Eversure hadnt done anything wrong. She explained that our role is 
to look at individual complaints, and that we dont regulate businesses. She provided Mr H 
with details of the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) if he remained unhappy about how 
Eversure operates as a business.
Mr H didnt agree. In summary hes unhappy that an insurance company can attempt to 
automatically renew a policy by relying on very small print in a buried clause. He says its a 
scam to renew a policy and hope the customer doesnt notice. Hes unhappy that we havent 
passed his complaint to the FCA. 
As Mr H doesnt agree, the case has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The process of auto-renewal is very common in the insurance industry. A customer can 
benefit from continued cover without having to do anything if they dont want to. We expect a 
business to make it clear if it intends to automatically renew a policy at purchase stage. And 
we also expect a business to give a customer a reasonable amount of notice before the 
renewal date, so that they can make an informed decision as to whether they want to 
continue, or shop around for a policy elsewhere. 
We look at individual complaints and decide whether an insurer has acted reasonably or not 
in each case. 
In this case, Eversure has provided a screenshot showing Mr H gave permission for 
Eversure to automatically renew his policy before he bought it in August 2018. And Eversure 
explained its automatic renewal process in the policy wording it sent to Mr H. So I dont think 
this term was hidden, or that Eversure arranged renewal without Mr Hs permission.
Eversure notified Mr H of the renewal of his policy a month before. So I think it gave Mr H 
sufficient notice to decide if he wanted to cancel the renewal. 
As the investigator explained, if Mr H wants to complain about the way in which Eversure 
operates its business, he can contact the FCA. This isnt something this service will do on 
his behalf. I understand how disappointed Mr H will be with my decision. But I think Eversure 
acted in a reasonable way and in line with the policy terms, which I think were clear. So I 
dont think it needs to do any more.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 March 2021.
 
Geraldine Newbold
Ombudsman