DRN-3226662
The complaint
Mr M is unhappy that Barclays Bank UK PLC declined his application for a credit account.
What happened
Mr M applied for a Barclays credit account, but his application was declined. Mr M was 
surprised by this as he felt his financial position and credit record were such that Barclays 
should reasonably have approved his application. So, he raised a complaint.
Barclays looked at Mr Ms complaint. They explained to Mr M that his application had been 
declined due to the amount of unsecured lending held in his name. Mr M wasnt satisfied 
with Barclays response as he didnt have any unsecured lending held in his name, so he 
referred his complaint to this service.
One of our investigators looked at this complaint. But they also felt that Barclays hadnt 
acted unfairly by declining Mr Ms credit account application, and so they also didnt uphold 
Mr Ms complaint.
Mr M remained dissatisfied, so the matter was escalated to an ombudsman for a final 
decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In much the same way as a consumer can choose which providers of credit they will apply 
for credit with, credit providers are also entitled to make similar choices as to which applicant 
consumers they decide to offer credit to. This means that its for Barclays to decide who they 
will offer and provide credit to, and it isnt within the remit of this service to instruct Barclays 
to approve any specific credit application which Barclays have reasonably chosen to decline.
Of course, it would be expected that the process that a credit provider follows in assessing 
credit applications is a fair one and doesnt lead to customers applications being declined in 
any manner that could be considered unfair or discriminatory.
But I dont think that Barclays have declined Mr Ms application in an unfair or discriminatory 
manner here, and I say this because Barclays have confirmed that they assessed Mr Ms 
application using the same criteria that they use to assess all applications. And having done 
so they decided to not offer credit to Mr M.
Im aware that Mr M feels that Barclays have used an assessment algorithm that isnt fit for 
purpose and maintains that his financial position and credit file status is such that this 
application for credit should have been accepted. 
But while I acknowledge that many other providers of credit may have approved Mr Ms 
application here, it doesnt follow from this that Barclays were themselves obliged to approve 
the application. And while it may be the case that there may be some features of Barclays 
creditworthiness assessment not found in other credit providers assessment models which 
has led to Mr Ms application being declined by Barclays, it remains at the discretion of 
Barclays to continue to use the process that they do, and to apply it to all credit applicants.
Im also aware that Mr M feels that the explanation that Barclays have provided to him about 
why they declined his application is flawed, given that Mr M doesnt have any unsecured 
lending and that the accounts that Barclays refer on his credit file are motor finance 
agreements. But Barclays have confirmed that they do take motor finance agreements into 
account and did so in regard to Mr Ms own credit application, and that it remains their 
position that they dont intend to offer credit to Mr M.
While I can appreciate Mr Ms frustrations here, ultimately, Barclays are entitled to make a 
commercial decision as to who they will offer credit to, and Barclays arent obliged to offer 
credit either to Mr M or any other applicant that doesnt meet Barclays own lending criteria. 
Finally, Mr M has expressed concern that Barclaycard may have recorded detrimental 
information on his credit file as a result of his application being declined. But Barclays
have confirmed that the only thing that will have been recorded is the credit search they 
carried out when assessing the application. This seems reasonable to me, and Im satisfied 
that no further action is required by Barclays in this regard.
All of which means that I dont feel that I can fairly or reasonably say that Barclays have 
acted unfairly or unreasonably by declining Mr Ms application for credit here, and it follows 
from this that I wont be upholding this complaint or instructing Barclays to take any further 
action at this time.
I realise that this wont be the outcome that Mr M was wanting, but I trust that hell 
understand, given all that Ive explained, why Ive made the final decision that I have.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 27 April 2022.
 
Paul Cooper
Ombudsman