DRN-2964080
The complaint
Mr B complains that LeasePlan UK Limited mishandled the extending of a hire 
agreement for a car.
What happened
In July 2017 Mr B entered into a three-year hire agreement with LeasePlan for a car. 
Under the agreement there was one advance rental payment followed by 35 monthly 
payments of
£259.
As the agreement was reaching maturity, the broker, who had arranged this hire 
agreement, offered to arrange a 12-month extension. Mr B says that he agreed to this 
and that he was told the monthly payments would be adjusted to £233 per month. Mr B 
says he budgeted for the 12-month extension but didnt not want, nor could he afford, a 
longer period.
In August 2020 a quote and modifying agreement were sent to Mr B by LeasePlan. This 
paperwork stated that the quote was valid until September 2020. Mr B signed the 
modifying agreement to extend the lease and returned it. The modifying agreement 
stated that the 12- month extension would run from October 2020. Mr B kept the car.
In October 2020, Mr B says he received a demand from LeasePlan for a payment of £259 
and so he contacted it to query the amount. LeasePlan informed Mr B that it hadnt 
received the modifying agreement. Mr B says LeasePlan said it would open a complaint 
on his behalf and get back to him.
Mr B then received another demand from LeasePlan but this time for £519 and so 
contacted it again. It said that the extended agreement had now gone live but there had 
been no complaint opened for him after his earlier call. LeasePlan said it would now open 
a new complaint for Mr B. Mr B says he told LeasePlan that he didnt want or need a 14-
month extension to the hire agreement.
Mr B says when he contacted the broker about the date of the extension, he was told it 
was LeasePlans fault there had been a delay in extending the lease.
LeasePlan didnt uphold Mr Bs complaint. It said the extension request for the hire 
agreement had been received after the original term had expired and that the modifying 
agreement signed by Mr B stated that it commenced in October 2020. The outstanding 
two payments were to cover the rental for the car in August and September 2020 when 
the agreement had been in an informal period. These monthly payments were at the 
same rate as the original payments.
Mr B disagreed with the decision of LeasePlan and he complained to this service. Mr B 
said that the paperwork hed received stated that the extension would only be valid if the 
agreement was signed and received by LeasePlan in September 2020 and as LeasePlan 
had received it after this date the contract was invalid.
Mr B also said he was unhappy that LeasePlan had been requesting payment of 
the outstanding amounts when hed been told by it that his account was on hold 
while his complaint was being investigated.
During our investigators investigation, LeasePlan accepted there had been delays 
between the broker and LeasePlan due to the Covid situation and the lease extension 
had been delayed. LeasePlan offered to write-off the two rentals outstanding from the 
informal lease period and run the agreement for 12 months from October 2020 at the 
rental amount set in the modifying agreement.
Mr B declined this offer as he said the agreement was invalid. Mr B said that 
consideration should be given for him receiving storage fees for keeping the car on his 
property, the costs of insuring the car and compensation for the unnecessary distress 
and inconvenience caused to him.
LeasePlan further reviewed the matter and offered as a settlement that the car be 
returned, and the agreement cancelled with nothing to pay; all the arrears to be removed 
and a compensation payment of £500 for the trouble and upset caused.
Our investigator said he thought the offer was fair and he wouldnt ask LeasePlan to 
do more.
Mr B disagreed that the offer was fair. He said that the contract between himself and 
LeasePlan was invalid and he should be reimbursed storage fees and the insurance 
costs. He said he hadnt used the car since the extension to the hire period had been put 
in place.
Mr B was also unhappy at receiving letters from LeasePlan regarding the outstanding 
amounts on the account which he felt was harassment and not in line with the rules set 
out in FCAs The Consumer Credit Sourcebook (CONC). He was concerned that a 
third-party company appeared to be handling his account.
I isssued a provisional decision along the following lines.
I appreciated Mr B felt very strongly that the agreement to extend the lease on the car 
was invalid and that therefore there was no contract and so no account was in existence 
between himself and LeasePlan. As we are an informal dispute resolution service and 
not a court of law, I couldnt rule whether an agreement was valid or not, but I could look 
at whether a business had acted fairly in regard to a credit agreement.
Here, Mr B had a three-year hire agreement for a car with the final monthly payment 
being paid in July 2020. Mr B was offered an opportunity to extend this hire period by 12 
months and agreed to that. However, for a number of reasons including the Covid 
situation, the paperwork wasnt drawn up until after the original lease period had ended.
The paperwork received by Mr B stated that quote for the cost of the extension was only 
valid if received by LeasePlan by September 2020. However, the modifying agreement 
itself did not stipulate that it must be returned by a set date. It also set out that the 
extension would run from October 2020 for a 12-month period. Mr B had signed that 
agreement at the end of August 2020.
I didnt know why LeasePlan hadnt received the modifying agreement until a date later in 
October 2020. But I didnt think I could reasonably say LeasePlan had acted unfairly in 
accepting it and agreeing to the extension from the date and at the monthly rate set out in the modifying agreement. LeasePlan had made an offer to Mr B, which he had accepted 
within the specified time-limit as shown by the date of his signature and Mr B had the car. 
This would have met the requirements of a contract consisting of an offer, acceptance 
and consideration.
So, I thought it was reasonable for LeasePlan to consider there was an agreement in 
place between itself and Mr B notwithstanding the date it had actually received the 
agreement.
I also thought that if LeasePlan had declined to accept the modifying agreement because 
it had arrived late and had sought to change the monthly payment rates, then it was likely 
that decision may have been viewed as unfair in these circumstances.
Id seen that Mr B was unhappy that he now had the car for 14 months and not the 12 
months he had budgeted for and I could understand that. However, Mr B didnt appear to 
have queried the start date of the extension period when hed signed the modifying 
agreement. And Id seen that the start date was clearly set out. Mr B had said he felt 
pressurised by the broker to sign and certainly the extension was drawn up after the 
original hire period had ended. But in light of the signed modifying agreement I could 
understand why LeasePlan hadnt upheld Mr Bs complaint at first.
LeasePlan, on review, had accepted that there were delays in extending the lease which 
werent Mr Bs fault. It had also accepted that Mr B had not wanted or needed a 14-
month extension to the hire agreement. It had offered to cancel the agreement and treat 
it as though the extension wasnt in place. I thought this was a fair offer as although Mr B 
has had the car throughout, it recognises how upsetting Mr B had found this matter and 
that extending the hire period has been mishandled.
In light of the confusion over the extension period and Mr Bs strong feelings about the 
car, I thought it would be fair that his insurance costs were also reimbursed. Id seen that 
Mr B said he had asked the broker to take the car back though LeasePlan said it wasnt 
aware of that which I accepted. But I thought that did show Mr B didnt want the car and 
had lost faith in the hire agreement. Mr B hadnt used the car and if the agreement was to 
be treated as though it hadnt come into existence then I thought it was fair if this 
additional expense was reimbursed. Mr B will need to provide proof of the costs of the 
insurance and if this has been cancelled, he will need to provide proof of that too.
I disagreed with Mr B that storage fees should be paid by LeasePlan for the car. As set 
out above, it wasnt aware that Mr B had requested the return of the car much earlier in 
his complaint. I also hadnt seen any evidence that storing the car had caused financial 
loss to Mr B though I accepted having the car would have been frustrating. However, I 
thought the compensation payment covered Mr Bs distress at having the car and so no 
separate amount for the inconvenience of storing the car was due.
Id seen LeasePlan had offered Mr B £500 compensation for the unnecessary distress 
and inconvenience caused by the mishandling of the hire extension period. Id seen that 
not only was Mr B upset by the period being extended to 14 months when he had neither 
wanted nor could afford that, but he had been distressed by the letters and contact made 
over the arrears that had been noted as accruing on his account.
I was aware that Mr B had the car and that no payments had been made since July 2020 
so I could understand that LeasePlan would have concerns over the arrears. Id also seen 
that Mr B felt that LeasePlans behaviour over his account had been dishonest and he 
was unsure about the role of the third-party company that LeasePlan had passed his 
account to for it to be managed.While I disagreed that LeasePlan had acted dishonestly or that passing Mr Bs account to 
a third-party company was evidence of anything suspicious (since this was not unusual 
for credit providers and the management of accounts) I did think that the sending out of 
correspondence regarding the arrears here had been unhelpful. Mr Bs complaint was 
being actively investigated and LeasePlan itself had offered to cancel the agreement and 
mark the account as nothing to pay, effectively writing off all the accrued arrears.
But, looking at the overall settlement package offered by LeasePlan and taking into 
account the distress and inconvenience caused to Mr B, I thought £500 compensation 
was fair and reasonable in these circumstances. The agreement was to be ended without 
any fees/costs being incurred, the car was to be returned, the insurance costs reimbursed 
and the arrears that have accumulated under the agreement to be wiped off.
As Mr B had kept the car then I thought it was fair for him to be responsible for its 
condition. If the car, on collection, was found to have damage beyond fair wear and tear 
then I thought it would be fair for LeasePlan to claim the costs of that damage from Mr B. 
This also applied if the cars mileage was in excess of what had been agreed by the 
extension of the hire period.
So, for the reasons set out I intended to partially uphold Mr Bs complaint.
LeasePlan has agreed with my provisional view. Mr B hasnt asked me to look again at any 
parts of my provisional decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Although I havent been asked to reconsider any parts of my provisional decision by the 
parties, I have reviewed all the evidence I have been provided with and I havent changed 
my mind. 
I am still satisfied that LeasePlan didnt act unfairly by extending the lease for the car when it 
received the modifying agreement from Mr B. And that later, when LeasePlan reviewed what 
had happened, it then made Mr B a fair and reasonable offer of cancelling the agreement, 
collecting the car and paying him £500 compensation for the distress and inconvenience 
caused. However, I think that in addition to the compensation Mr B insurance costs should 
also be reimbursed as this was an additional cost. Mr B will have to provide LeasePlan with 
copies of the relevant insurance paperwork verifying this cost before this amount can be 
repaid to him.
I still disagree that any storage charges should be met by LeasePlan as I havent seen any 
evidence that Mr B incurred any financial costs while he has had the car.
Finally, as Mr B has kept the car, I think it is fair he remains responsible for the condition of it 
until it is collected by LeasePlan. If the car is found by LeasePlan to have damage beyond 
what would be considered fair wear and tear, then it would reasonable for LeasePlan to 
claim the costs of that damage from Mr B. This would also apply should the mileage limit 
exceed what was agreed by the modifying agreement.
So, for the reasons set out above I am partially upholding Mr Bs complaint. 
Putting things rightAs set out above Im upholding  Mr Bs account. Im asking LeasePlan to do the 
following:
Collect the car at no cost to Mr B.
Cancel the Hire Agreement with no termination fee being applicable and with 
nothing further to pay.
Remove all the arrears of payments that have accrued prior to the cars collection.
Reimburse Mr B the cost of the insurance from August 2020 once proof of the 
payment has been provided by Mr B. If the insurance policy has been cancelled 
Mr B will need to provide proof of that.
Pay Mr B £500 compensation for the distress and inconvenience caused 
by the mishandling of the extension to the hire agreement.
However, Mr B remains responsible for the condition of the car until it has been collected.
 
My final decision
For the reasons given Im partially upholding Mr Bs complaint. Im asking LeasePlan UK 
Limited to do the following:
Collect the car at no cost to Mr B.
Cancel the Hire Agreement with no termination fee being applicable and with 
nothing further to pay.
Remove all the arrears of payments that have accrued prior to the cars collection.
Reimburse Mr B the cost of the insurance from August 2020 once proof of the 
payment has been provided by Mr B. If the insurance policy has been cancelled 
Mr B will need to provide proof of that.
Pay Mr B £500 compensation for the distress and inconvenience caused 
by the mishandling of the extension to the hire agreement.
However, Mr B remains responsible for the condition of the car until it has been collected.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 September 2021.
 
Jocelyn Griffith
Ombudsman