DRN-3121178
The complaint
This complaint is about a credit card payment protection insurance (PPI) policy taken out in 
2001. Mr W says Bank of Scotland plc (BoS) mis-sold him the PPI.
 
What happened
Briefly:
In 2001 Mr W took out PPI at the same time as taking out a credit card by postal application 
(a direct mailing.)
The policy provided protection for Mr Ws credit card payments in the event he couldnt work 
because of accident, sickness, or unemployment. The policy would pay out a benefit of 10% 
of the outstanding card balance each month for up to 12 months per claim. Its basic cost 
was 73 pence for every £100 of outstanding card balance.
At the time of the sale Mr W was employed and he said he couldnt remember his sick pay 
entitlement. He said he had no other means he couldve used to make his card repayments 
and he was in good health at the time.
The adjudicator didnt recommend the complaint should be upheld. They said they thought 
Mr W chose to take out the cover and there was nothing to indicate it was wrong or 
inappropriate for him.
Because Mr W, through his representative disagrees, the complaint comes to me for a 
decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken into account whats relevant here in deciding Mr Ws complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided not to uphold Mr Ws complaint. My reasons are set out below.
did Mr W have a choice about PPI? 
did he agree to take it out?
I think BoS made it clear that Mr W didnt have to take out the PPI and that he chose to take 
it out  although I can understand why he cant remember this.
BoS has provided a copy of Mr Ws postal credit card application from the time. Looking at 
this I can see there is a separate section for PPI, which required a signature to agree to take 
out the policy  a separate and distinct signature from the credit agreement itself. And Mr W 
has signed this section. The application didnt say or imply that PPI had to be taken out  so 
if Mr W didnt want the cover he couldve left this section blank.
Im mindful too that this was a postal sale with no interaction from a member of staff, so I 
dont think Mr W would have been under the impression he had to have PPI.
Taking everything into account, Im satisfied Mr W chose to take out PPI and did so without 
undue pressure.
the information
BoS didnt recommend the PPI to Mr W  there was no opportunity for it to do so. This 
means BoS didnt have to check that the PPI was right for him  but it did have to give him 
enough clear and timely information to enable him to make that decision for himself. 
While the credit application provided an outline of the broad nature of the cover and its likely 
there was some other information provided in a separate document, I accept its possible the 
information BoS gave Mr W about the PPI wasnt as clear as it shouldve been. But as I 
found above, I think he chose to take it out - so it looks like he wanted this type of cover. And 
based on his circumstances at the time it doesn't appear that it was inappropriate for him - 
for example he was eligible for the cover, he doesnt appear to have had sufficient existing 
means to fall back on in the event he couldnt work, and he wasn't affected by the significant 
exclusions on or limits to the cover - so it seems like it would have been useful for him if 
something went wrong. It also looks like it was affordable. So I dont think better information 
about the PPI would have put Mr W off taking out the cover. 
conclusion
While BoS might not have done everything it should fairly and reasonably have done when it 
sold Mr W PPI, in light of his circumstances at the time I think the policy was ultimately 
suitable for him. And because it wasn't wrong for him, I don't think better information from 
BoS would've put him off taking it out.
This means BoS doesn't have to pay back to Mr W all of the cost of the PPI.
But BoS has paid back some of the cost of the PPI to Mr W because: 
BoS got a high level of commission and profit share (more than 50% of the PPI premium) 
- so it should have told Mr W about that. Because BoS didnt tell Mr W, that was unfair. 
To put that right, BoS has paid back the amount of commission and profit share that was 
above 50% of the PPI premium - and I think that is fair in this case.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive set out above, Ive decided to not uphold this complaint and I make no 
award.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 18 February 2022. 
Paul FeatherstoneOmbudsman