DRN-1645491
The complaint
Mr P complains about AXA PPP Healthcare Limiteds settlement of his private health 
insurance claim.
What happened
Unfortunately Mr P had a stroke in March 2019. He was medically advised to have 
physiotherapy sessions and in June 2019 he claimed under his private medical insurance 
policy. AXA is the insurer.
AXA accepted the claim and told Mr P it would cover 10 physiotherapy sessions in 
52 weeks. In November 2019 Mr P contacted AXA to ask why it hadnt paid for all the 
sessions hed claim for as his benefits statements from AXA said he had unlimited treatment.
AXA apologised as it had given Mr P wrong information when he called in June. It should 
have told him that following a stroke it covered unlimited physiotherapy for two months. 
Thereafter AXA wouldnt cover any more physiotherapy relating to his stroke as the stroke 
would then be a chronic condition, as defined by the policy terms, and not covered. 
In the circumstances AXA agreed to cover physiotherapy sessions for two more months. It 
said the benefits statements no annual maximum wording meant there was no limit on the 
monetary amount for sessions, which didnt alter its position that ongoing sessions for 
chronic conditions werent covered. AXA wrote to Mr P in November 2019 confirming it 
would extend his cover for out-patient rehabilitation until 18 January 2020, subject to the 
policy terms.
Mr P complained to us. He wanted AXA to pay for all the physiotherapy sessions he needed.
Our investigator said AXAs settlement of the claim was fair.
Mr P doesnt agree and wants an ombudsmans decision. He said the information on his 
benefits statements superseded the policy terms and was an amendment to the policy 
contract. Also, he thought his stroke wasnt a chronic condition as hed been discharged by 
the hospital and GP and his last proposed set of physiotherapy sessions was to fine tune 
his muscle, tone and posture.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I dont uphold this complaint. The relevant rules and industry guidelines say that AXA has a 
responsibility to handle claims promptly and fairly. It shouldnt reject or limit a claim 
unreasonably. I think AXAs settlement of Mr P claim was fair and reasonable. Ill explain 
why.
The policy is clear it doesnt cover chronic conditions, which the policy defines as:
any disease, illness or injury that has one or more of the following characteristics:
 It needs ongoing or long-term monitoring through consultations, 
examinations, check-ups or tests.
 It needs ongoing or long-term control or relief of symptoms.
 It requires your rehabilitation, or for you to be specially trained to cope with it.
 It continues indefinitely.
 It has no known cure.
 It comes back or is likely to come back.
The definition is the one used by the Association of British Insurers. Most, if not all, general 
medical insurance policies have the same/similar terms.
The policy is also clear that if a condition is chronic there will be a limit to how long AXA 
covers treatment. And if AXA doesnt continue to cover treatment it will tell Mr P beforehand 
so he can decide whether to pay for the non-covered treatment or to transfer to the NHS.
Im satisfied that AXA fairly and reasonably said Mr Ps stroke met the policy definition of 
chronic condition. Mr P told us in March 2020 that his last proposed physiotherapy sessions 
where just for fine tuning but that doesnt make a difference. AXA still fairly said the stroke 
was a chronic condition. AXA usually covers physiotherapy for two months following a stroke 
and Mr P had sessions for much longer.
The wording on the benefits statements that theres no annual maximum for treatment by 
therapists could be clearer that the wording means theres no monetary limit for sessions.  
But that doesnt mean AXA has to pay for an unlimited number of sessions. The policy 
contains the insurance contract terms and the benefits statements dont amend those terms. 
AXA gave Mr P no reason to think the benefits statements were amendments to the policy 
terms. As Ive said, the policy is clear about the limits on cover for chronic conditions.
Also, Mr P couldnt reasonably understand the policy was going to cover unlimited 
physiotherapy sessions when AXA had told him (albeit incorrectly) in June that it was 
authorising 10 sessions and in November 2019 it had clarified to him its final position on 
cover. Mr P continued the private sessions after 18 January 2020 knowing AXA had said it 
wouldnt cover them.
Im satisfied that AXAs agreement to cover the physiotherapy sessions for two months after 
Mr P complained was a fair and reasonable outcome to his complaint. There was no cover 
under the policy for those additional sessions. AXAs settlement acknowledged it had initially 
given Mr P wrong information about cover and gave him fair compensation for that wrong 
information. The additional two months also gave Mr P reasonable time to decide whether to 
pay for the non-covered sessions or organise sessions on the NHS. My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision before 2 October 2020.
 
Nicola Sisk
Ombudsman