DRN-4087455
The complaint
Mr P complained about the maturity value of his with-profits endowment policy held with 
Scottish Friendly Assurance Society Limited (Scottish Friendly). He was also concerned 
more generally with the level of service received since Scottish Friendly took over the 
administration of his policy, including late payment of his maturity claim and poor 
communication around this issue on top of a lack of annual statements.  
The investment was provided by a financial business trading under a different name. But, to 
keep things simpler, as Scottish Friendly took over from the original provider, I will refer to it 
as the financial business that sold the investment complained about. 
What happened
This complaint concerns a 22-year endowment policy (the plan) which commenced on 
25 October 1999 and matured on 25 October 2021. Mr P paid regular monthly 
contributions to the plan which also provided him with life cover. 
By way of background (although its not part of the complaint Im looking at) I noted that in 
May 2021, Mr P complained when his request for an annual statement to be issued wasnt 
actioned after he had contacted Scottish Friendly to find out why he hadnt received any 
correspondence in relation to the plan. On 11 June 2021, Scottish Friendly issued the 
statement he was waiting for, with apologies for the delay, and paid him £100 
compensation in recognition of the concern and inconvenience caused. 
On 20 September 2021, Mr P returned his completed maturity claim form to Scottish 
Friendly. There was some delay in Mr P receiving his money after the policy matured as 
there was an issue with the maturity claim value, and funds werent released to him until 
9 November 2021, along with a payment from Scottish Friendly reflecting late payment 
interest  in total, an amount of £14,549.14.
Meanwhile, Mr P complained to Scottish Friendly about the under performance of the 
policy over the previous year. He put his concerns this way:
in spite of a rampant stock market and the promise of a sizeable bonus upon maturity, 
the amount payable has risen only marginally from the surrender value of £14,130.12 this 
time last year. This is completely unacceptable 
Throughout the following five months or so, Mr P kept chasing Scottish Friendly for a 
response to his complaint about the maturity value. When Scottish Friendly sent its 
response, it said:
Scottish Friendly allows up to five working days to process a maturity claim and 
this timescale began on 25 October 2021, when Mr Ps policy reached its maturity 
date.
Unfortunately, a system error produced the incorrect value for payment which 
caused a slight delay  Scottish Friendly apologised for any inconvenience this 
caused.
Scottish Friendly had put things in motion with its Finance Department on 
1 November 2021, so within the desired timescale for processing maturity claims 
but added £17.84 interest to Mr Ps claim value from the period of 25 October to 
1 November.
The correct amount had been paid to Mr P on maturity. Scottish Friendly explained 
that although the final bonus amount was similar to the surrender value quoted the 
previous year, the amount was dependent on the performance of the With-Profits 
fund and couldnt be guaranteed as it was subject to change. So it didnt uphold 
Mr Ps complaint that he hadnt received the amount due to him.
Scottish Friendly said it was deeply sorry for the stress and frustration it had caused when 
it failed to provide the updates that Mr P had requested throughout his claim. In response 
to Mr Ps general concerns about the poor administration of his investment, Scottish 
Friendly said it was satisfied that his policy had been administered in accordance with its 
terms and conditions and it hadnt been at fault.
Scottish Friendly did however say that it had calculated late payment interest on Mr Ps 
total claim value (£14,531.30) in respect of the period from 2 November to 
9 November 2021 as it felt he was due compensation for that delay. It worked this out as 
£17.84. Scottish Friendly also said that in recognition of the inconvenience caused, it was 
awarding Mr P a further £75, and that it would pay these amounts, totalling £92.84, 
directly into his bank account. 
Our investigator didnt feel he had seen enough to be able to uphold Mr Ps complaint. He 
acknowledged that he had only limited information about the product literature but thought 
on balance that Mr P would have been made aware when he took out the policy, that the 
value of the final bonus could fluctuate. And whilst the investigator said there had been 
oversights by Scottish Friendly, his view was that the steps Scottish Friendly had already 
taken to put things right were sufficient. He didnt feel hed seen enough to support Mr Ps 
maladministration claim. Mr P disagreed with our investigator. In brief summary, he said:
in the final year of his policy the FTSE 100 rose by 24.7% - compared to a 2.96% 
increase in the value of his policy 
it took Scottish Friendly five months to investigate his complaint and it was insulting 
to suggest his policy hadn't been mis-managed
he feels the policy was mis-sold to him in the first instance
he had amassed 30 emails over the course of the matter which he could send us. 
The complaint came to me to decide. I issued a provisional decision. 
What I said in my provisional decision
Here are some of the main things I said. 
I do appreciate how strongly Mr P feels about this complaint. I want to assure him that Ive 
carried out an independent review and considered everything he has told me alongside the 
information the business has been able to provide from its records. We provide an informal 
complaints handling service and this is reflected in the way Ive approached the complaint. 
Its part of my role to identify and concentrate on the core issues I need to address in order 
to reach a fair outcome. This means I wont necessarily mention everything Mr P has 
brought to my attention and Ive expressed some of his concerns in my own words. But I will 
comment on everything that makes a difference to the outcome of the complaint and try and 
deal with his main points of concern.  
Although Mr P has recently mentioned that he now believes he was mis-sold the policy, 
thats not part of his original complaint so I wont be commenting on this. If Mr P feels that he 
has further cause for complaint that goes beyond the scope of the complaint he brought to 
us, then he needs to first tell Scottish Friendly what his concerns are, so it has an 
opportunity to respond. If he still feels unhappy after that, he may be able to bring a new 
complaint to this service. We cant award redress for any complaint where the financial 
business hasnt first been given a chance to put things right.  
It seems to me that Mr Ps main concern is about the maturity value. In particular, he has 
said that the increase in the surrender value of the policy in its final year does not mirror the 
much more substantial rise in the UK stock market over the same period. Although 
I acknowledge Mr Ps disappointment, I should explain that the nature of with-profit 
investments like the one he held are that they are designed to smooth out returns. This 
means that the current values of with-profit policies do not generally mirror the sometimes 
volatile rises and falls in markets that are seen over the short term. Consequently, I do not 
consider it unreasonable that Mr Ps policy value did not rise by the same percentage as the 
FTSE 100 in its final year. What I have concentrated on is whether Scottish Friendly did 
anything wrong or acted unfairly or unreasonably in any way that impacted on the policys 
maturity value. Scottish Friendly sent information showing that the accumulated bonus the year before 
maturity, on 25 October  2020, was £2,912.46. I think Mr P understood that the final bonus 
amount wasnt guaranteed  that was why he was so anxious to obtain an annual statement 
to check on the policy value and his complaint centres on his expectation that in the period 
running up to the maturity date of his investment, the level of investment gains he was aware 
of elsewhere would be mirrored in a bigger return on his policy. 
The annual bonus for 2021 was £133.29, so the total accumulated bonus at maturity date 
(25 October 2021) was £3,045.75.
The maturity sum assured for the policy was £7,522.39.
The terminal bonus rate for this policy was 37.5%, so the terminal bonus amount is (Maturity 
Sum Assured + Total Accumulated bonus) X 37.5% = £3,963.06 (rounded up to nearest Ip).
The maturity value is the Maturity Sum Assured + Total Accumulated Bonus + Terminal 
bonus (7,522.39 + 3,045.75 + 3,963.06) = £14,531.20. 
Based on all the information I've seen and been told, I find that Scottish Friendly has paid an 
amount to Mr P that accurately reflects the policys surrender value on the date it matured. 
This leads me to conclude that Scottish Friendly didnt do anything wrong when it did this. It 
simply applied the correct bonuses applicable to Mr Ps policy at maturity. 
Scottish Friendly has also paid interest at the appropriate rate to provide redress for the fact 
the payment was made late  which seems fair and reasonable to me. 
So, like the investigator, I dont uphold this part of Mr Ps complaint.
But I can completely understand that Scottish Friendlys poor service issues, which it has 
admitted and apologised for, added significantly to Mr Ps frustration generally, especially 
keeping in mind that it is not in dispute that Scottish Friendly didnt respond until 30 March 
2022 to Mr Ps complaint made in early November 2021. 
As far as I can see, Scottish Friendly has offered (and paid) Mr P £175 in total in respect of 
distress and inconvenience. A payment of £100 was made to reflect the delays in providing 
Mr P his annual statement in May/June 2021. Although this does not form part of Mr Ps 
current complaint made in November 2021 that I am considering, I have included this detail 
to provide overall context. A further payment of £75 was offered by Scottish Friendly relating 
to this complaint that I am considering about the maturity payment. In my view this isnt 
enough to fairly reflect the aggravation caused to Mr P when:
it was IT issues at Scottish Friendly that initially caused its system to process an 
incorrect value for payment  not only was this the start of the delay that ultimately 
led to Mr Ps money not reaching him until at least a week or so after he was entitled 
to expect it, I think it has fuelled his wider concern about whether Scottish Friendly 
has made the correct payment to him,  
Scottish Friendly admits that Mr P had to keep requesting updates it failed to provide 
when it should have done, which compounded Mr Ps frustration and further 
undermined his confidence in its handling of his investment.  All in all, its my provisional view that a total payment of £200 more fairly reflects the 
inconvenience and anxiety caused to Mr P by these shortcomings in the service Scottish 
Friendly provided to him relating to the maturity of his policy. So, it should pay an additional 
amount of financial compensation (I calculate that would be a further £125 if Scottish 
Friendly has paid Mr P the £75 offered already) to put Mr P in the position of having received 
£200 overall to redress this complaint.    
What the parties said in response to my provisional decision 
I have heard nothing further from either party and the deadline for responses has now 
passed so I think its reasonable for me to proceed with my review of this complaint. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our approach to dealing with complaints on our website and Ive kept this in 
mind while deciding this complaint.
As no further comments have been received in response to my provisional decision that 
change what I think about this case, I still think its fair to uphold this complaint for the 
reasons I explained in my provisional decision. 
Putting things right
Scottish Friendly Assurance Society Limited should pay Mr P a further £125 (in addition to 
the £75 already offered) in respect of distress and inconvenience.
My final decision
I uphold this complaint and direct Scottish Friendly Assurance Society Limited to take the 
steps I've set out above to put things right for Mr P. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision before 17 May 2023.
 
Susan Webb
Ombudsman