DRN-3979454
The complaint
P, a limited company, raised a complaint that Revolut Ltd wont refund a transaction it didnt 
authorise.
Ms P is the sole director of P, who Ill refer to throughout the decision.
What happened
Ms P received a text from who she thought was the NHS asking her to follow a link to 
purchase a PCR test.
The next day she received a call from someone posing as her credit card provider. 
They said shed compromised her details and that someone was trying to make 
fraudulent transactions. They also explained she could have a virus through clicking 
on the link, which might have also compromised her Revolut account. They asked 
her to download remote access software to check this.
Following this, Ms P was transferred to someone who claimed to be from Revolut. 
They told her about fraudulent pending transactions and asked her for a code sent in 
a text message to stop these, which she shared.
She later realised the code was in fact to approve a faster payment from Ps account 
for £18,842.00. She raised this with Revolut, as she didnt make the payment. It 
declined to refund her and rejected her subsequent complaint, saying its not at fault 
for processing a transfer that Ms P authorised. It did, however, manage to recover 
£14.01 from the beneficiarys account.
On 17 February 2023, I issued a provisional decision which upheld Ps complaint. 
Neither side had anything further to add.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Neither side had anything further to add to my provisional findings. So I see no reason to 
depart from my decision to uphold the complaint. For completeness, Ive explained my 
reasoning again below. 
In line with the Payment Services Regulations 2017 (PSRs), P isnt liable for 
payments Ms P didnt authorise, unless she failed with gross negligence or intent to 
comply with the terms of the account or keep Ps personalised security details safe.
Ive firstly considered whether Ms P authorised the payment in dispute, as Revolut 
suggested. The PSRs explain a payment is to be regarded as authorised if she 
consented to it  and that consent must have been given in the form, and in 
accordance with the procedure, agreed between Revolut and Ms P.
Ive reviewed the relevant terms and conditions to find out what the agreed form and 
procedure was for making a bank transfer. They say: Just enter the sort code and 
account number (or, for international payments, the BIC and IBAN) of the account 
you're sending the money to in the Revolut Dashboard and follow the prompts.
Here, while Ms P completed one of the steps by sharing a code, Im not persuaded 
she entered the sort code or account number or followed any of the prompts that 
followed. Instead, I think its more likely the fraudster did this when theyd remote 
access to her device and, as is common with this sort of scam, had manipulated her 
screen so she wasnt aware of what they were doing.
It follows Im not persuaded Ms P consented to this payment in accordance with the 
agreed form or procedure, meaning its unauthorised.
As Revolut has also said Ms P was negligent, Ive gone on to consider whether she 
failed with gross negligence to comply with the terms of the account and to keep her 
personalised security details safe. Gross negligence isnt mere negligence. Im 
considering whether Ms P acted with a very significant degree of carelessness; 
seriously disregarded an obvious risk; or fell so far below what a reasonable person 
wouldve done.
Having considered the circumstances carefully, I dont think Revolut have shown 
thats the case. Ill explain why.
I can understand why Ms P trusted she was speaking with firstly, her credit card 
provider and secondly, Revolut. Theyd personal, sensitive information about her and 
knew shed fallen victim to a phishing text scam. And they went to lengths throughout 
the call to establish their authority and trust. For example, by giving false FCA 
reference numbers and asking her to complete what was seemingly a fictitious code 
sent by text to verify who she was.
Given the phishing text scam, I can also see how the context of the call  that 
someone was attempting payments  made sense to Ms P. I think a lot of people 
wouldve believed the caller in these circumstances and similarly panic about 
protecting their account.
Ms P was asked to download remote access software to check if shed a virus from 
clicking on the phishing text link  shes explained they overwhelmed her with 
technical information about how the virus could compromise her Revolut account. 
Most people arent experts in cyber security, so I can see why she followed the 
instructions of who she thought was a trusted professional, particularly given her 
understandable anxiety at the time. And given remote access software is a genuine 
tool used to help people, I dont think she seriously disregarded an obvious risk here.
Ms P recalled she was already logged on to Ps Revolut account. So its likely the 
fraudster only needed the code to complete the payment. They told her this was 
needed to stop the fraudulent transactions and shed need to provide it very quickly.
Given the urgency they created and trust theyd built, I understand why Ms P focused 
on the code and shared this, particularly as it came first in the message. Ive also 
considered that she was oblivious to what was happening on her device  so when 
shed been primed to expect the code for a certain purpose, I can see why she didnt 
stop and think that it could be payment instead. Taking this all into account, I dont think it means she acted with very significant carelessness.
It follows Im not persuaded Revolut has shown that Ms P failed with gross 
negligence. So I conclude P isnt liable for the transaction and Revolut needs to put 
things right  by refunding Ps losses from this unauthorised transaction alongside 
interest to compensate it for the time its been out of pocket.
Revolut shouldve refunded this much sooner and by not, I recognise Ms P suffered a 
lot of distress and worry. But Im looking at the losses P suffered, whos a separate 
legal entity to Ms P and cant be said to suffer distress. I do accept its likely P was 
inconvenienced and its reputation tarnished  I note it had suppliers to pay that 
wouldve been affected by the loss. So I also award £150 to reflect this.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I uphold Ps complaint. Revolut Ltd must:
Pay P the total of the unauthorised transaction, less any amount recovered or 
already refunded  I understand this to be £18,827.99.
Pay 8% simple interest per year on this amount, from the date of the unauthorised 
transactions to the date of settlement (less any tax lawfully deductible).
Pay a further £150 for Ps inconvenience.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask P to accept or 
reject my decision before 23 March 2023.
 
Emma Szkolar
Ombudsman