DRN-2884048
The complaint
Mr D complains that PDL Finance Limited, trading as Mr Lender, lent to him irresponsibly.
What happened
Mr D has explained that when he took out loans he had other loans with several other
lenders and that meant eventually he had to arrange to pay them all off through a Debt
Arrangement Scheme (DAS).
Using information provided by both parties, a brief table of approved Mr Lender loans is set
out here.
Loan Approved Amount Term and highest scheduled 
repayment (rounded)Repaid
1 25 April 2017 £300 6 months  highest £108 6 October 2017
2 8 October 2017 £200 3 months  highest £107 29 December
2017
3 29 December 2017 £450 6 months - £176 29 April 2018
4 4 May 2018 £1,000 12 months - £272 DAS
After Mr D had referred the complaint to this Service, Mr Lender has informed us that the
£25 goodwill payment it had offered within its final response letter (FRL) had been 
withdrawn.
One of our adjudicators looked at the complaint and thought that Mr Lender ought to put 
things right for Mr D in respect of loans 3 and 4. A second adjudicator held the same view.
Mr D seems to have agreed with that outcome. Mr Lender did not and explained that the 
credit checks it did carry out for loans 3 and 4 did not demonstrate to it that Mr D was not
able to afford the loans.
Mr Lender also said that Mr D had declared to Mr Lender when applying for loans 3 and 4 
that he was paying £350 a month for other loans which included short term loans. This, plus 
the declared income of £1,550 and his total expenditure (including the £350) meant that
Mr Lender had calculated Mr D had around £760 a month left over and so it looked that Mr D 
could afford the loan repayments for the Mr Lender loans. It went on, We can only make a 
decision based on the information that is presented to us from our CRA
Mr Lender pointed out that some of the loans referred to by our adjudicator were ones taken 
out so close to the approval dates for loans 3 and 4 that they may not have appeared on its 
credit searches for loans 3 and 4.
Loan 4 was paid in part through a Scottish Debt Arrangement Scheme (DAS) which appears 
to have commenced around August 2018. The principal amount was not paid off. Mr Lender 
has said that £961.49 was repaid and that no interest was applied to it and all records of the 
loan will be removed. Mr Lender says that he paid less than the capital amount borrowed 
and so it does not see how there can be any redress calculation if loan 4 is upheld.
We understand from Mr D that Loan 4 still appears on his credit file. 
The complaint remained unresolved and was passed to me to decide. I issued a provisional 
decision on 15 October 2021 in which I explained that I was planning not to uphold Mr Ds 
complaint about loan 3. And for loan 4, as Mr D had not suffered any loss (£1,000 received 
by Mr D for the loan and around £961 repaid), I made no findings on that loan about 
irresponsible lending. 
Mr D has raised a point relating to his credit file entries for loan 4. Mr Lender has invited
Mr D to approach it directly about that. As that aspect was not part of this complaint I made 
no formal findings about that. 
Since the provisional decision was issued both parties have responded. The provisional 
decision findings are set out in the next section of this final decision and is duplicated in a 
smaller type size than the rest of this final decision to differentiate it. 
The complaint remained unresolved and was passed to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
We have set out our general approach to complaints about short-term lending - including all 
the relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice - on our website.
Mr Lender needed to take reasonable steps to ensure that it did not lend irresponsibly. In 
practice this means that it should have carried out proportionate checks to make sure Mr D 
could repay the loans in a sustainable manner. These checks could include several different 
things, such as how much was being lent, the repayment amounts and the consumers 
income and expenditure.
In the early stages of a lending relationship, I think less thorough checks might be 
reasonable and proportionate. But certain factors might point to the fact that Mr Lender 
should fairly and reasonably have done more to establish that any lending was sustainable 
for the consumer.
These factors include:
having a low income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make any loan 
repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income);
the amounts to be repaid being especially high (reflecting that it could be more 
difficult to meet a higher repayment from a level of income);
having many loans and/or having these loans over a long period of time (reflecting 
the risk that repeated refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become, or was 
becoming, unsustainable);
coming back for loans shortly after previous borrowing had been repaid (also 
suggestive of the borrowing becoming unsustainable).
There may even come a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable.Mr Lender was required to establish whether Mr D could sustainably repay his loans  not 
just whether the loan payments were affordable on a strict pounds and pence calculation.
The loan payments being affordable on this basis might be an indication a consumer could 
sustainably make their repayments. But it doesnt automatically follow this is the case. This 
is because the Consumer Credit Sourcebook (CONC) defines sustainable as being the 
ability to repay without undue difficulties. The customer should be able to make repayments 
on time, while meeting other reasonable commitments, and without having to borrow to meet 
the repayments.
And it follows that a lender should realise, or it ought fairly and reasonably to realise, that a 
borrower will not be able to make their repayments sustainably if they need to borrow further
in order to do that.
My provisional decision findings dated 15 October 2021
I have carefully considered all the arguments, evidence and information provided in this context and 
what this all means for Mr Ds complaint. Mr D seems not to have disagreed with the outcome for 
loans 1 and 2 and so they are not in dispute - I have not reviewed them.
Id like to start with the DAS. It seems to have commenced after the loans with Mr Lender was 
approved as the statement of account I have for loan 4 refers to the special arrangement being in 
place around that time. I have few other details about the DAS. Reading Mr Ds complaint carefully, 
he is not saying that the DAS was in place before the loans were approved and therefore Mr Lender 
ought to have known that and not approved them. He seems to be saying that the Mr Lender loans, 
plus his other debts led to him being in a DAS.
I am sorry to hear this but I look at the circumstances at the time the loans were approved. So, the 
DAS is very relevant information, but not a reason for Mr Lender not to have approved the loans.
For Loan 3, I note that our second adjudicator reviewed Mr Ds credit file and created a brief table to 
show that Mr D had several other loans approved in December 2017. Ive duplicated that table here.
Lender Start date Opening balance Regular payment
Lender S 12/02/2017 £800 £118
Lender T 18/06/2017 £3,751 £156
Lender U 04/12/2017 £450 £127
Lender V 06/12/2017 £100 £118
Lender W 05/12/2017 £100 £119
Lender X 11/12/2017 £334 Not shown
However, Mr Lender says that its credit search results show nothing to cause it concern.
My reading of the credit search results presented to us by Mr Lender differ. Whereas the first set of 
results (loan 1) refers to the Match Level being Individual, the Source: being ElectoralIndividual, 
gives a credit score and then lists a series of categories with False next to each one, and a category 
of Outstanding AAIs as zero, the others are not the same.
For example, for Loan 3, the credit search result has a Match Level as Surname and Source: 
NotApplicable, it gives a lower credit score than for loan 1, and then for most of the categories listed 
theres a N/A next to them. This suggests that no information was searched for, or found. For the category CCJ 3yr the outcome seems to have been noted as False and for Outstanding AAIs 
theres nothing: theres no number or zero or anything  its blank.
So, I think that the credit search results carried out by Mr Lender for loan 3 were inadequate, 
alternatively have not been properly presented to us.
I have often referred to the nature of the credit search results from Mr Lender and the reply I have 
received in the past usually is that it is not able to furnish more detail or any of the original credit 
search results data. And so, I am not likely to receive more from Mr Lender than I have already.
For Loan 3, I do think that Mr Lender ought to have known what other high-cost short term credit 
commitments Mr D had in December 2017. It was the third loan for a six month term and for a larger 
sum than loans 1 and 2.
Using the information Mr D has provided for us I do see that four of the loans approved in 
December 2017 by other lenders were too close to likely have been discovered had Mr Lender carried 
out a more detailed credit search at the time. And I say this because Mr Lender is correct when it says 
that often loans approved relatively shortly before a search is carried out likely would not appear in 
that search.
So even if Mr Lender had done more I doubt it would have seen the other four loans approved in early 
December 2017. Added to which, the two loans Mr D already had and were established before loan 3 
was approved, did have a combined repayment monthly figure of around £374. As Mr D had already 
declared £350 for loans (inc short term) to Mr Lender as part of his expenditure then I doubt that 
Mr Lender would have altered its lending decision for loan 3 even if it had discovered the two earlier 
loans.
I would not have expected Mr Lender to have asked for and reviewed Mr Ds bank statements at this 
stage of the lending relationship. That would have been disproportionate and so I make no reference 
to them here.
For the reasons I have given, I am planning not to uphold Mr Ds complaint about loan 3.
In the what happened section of this provisional decision I said Id refer to loan 4. I have considered 
this carefully and I have provisionally decided that Mr D has shown no loss in relation to loan 4. 
Mr Lender has informed us that £961 of the principal borrowed of £1,000 has been repaid and so 
Mr D has not lost out in relation to Loan 4. I plan not to make any findings on it.
Mr D has raised a point relating to his credit file entries for loan 4. Mr Lender has invited Mr D to 
approach it directly about that. As that aspect is not part of this complaint I say no more about it.
How have the parties responded?
Mr Lender has replied to say it has nothing further to add. So, no further information about its 
credit search results have been sent to us. 
Mr D disagrees strongly with the provisional decision I made. Mr D has sent no more 
information about his DAS or commented on the fact that he received £1,000 from 
Mr Lender and repaid £961.
Because Mr D is so concerned, I have summarised my position in relation to the loans again, 
having reviewed the complaint. Loan 3.
Mr D approached Mr Lender for this loan on 29 December 2017. Mr D had already declared 
to Mr Lender that he was spending around £350 a month on other credit commitments and 
Mr Lender knew this and factored it into the calculations before approving the loan. 
This information seems to dovetail with the information our adjudicator pointed out which 
was that Mr D already had two outstanding loans taken with other lenders in February and 
June 2017 and those monthly combined repayment figures came to about £374. So it seems 
that Mr D had told Mr Lender his situation in relation to those loans when he applied for 
loan 3. 
The other four loans taken by Mr D with other lenders from the 4 to 12 December 2017, 
which was just before Mr D applied to Mr Lender for loan 3, would have been too close in 
time for any of these to have appeared on any credit searches Mr Lender carried out for 
loan 3. And so, its not likely Mr Lenders decision to approve loan 3 would have been altered 
even if it had done more detailed credit searches as its likely Mr Lender would not have 
known of these other four loans.  
Loan 4
And as I explained earlier  as no loss was suffered by Mr D in relation to loan 4, then 
I made no findings on it. Even if it had been lent irresponsibly, there would be no redress as 
thered been no loss. 
Reconsidering the complaint again, I have decided not to uphold Mr Ds complaint.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold Mr Ds complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision before 26 November 2021.
 
Rachael Williams
Ombudsman