DRN-3161520
The complaint
Mrs S complains she was the victim of an investment scam and that HSBC UK Bank Plc 
didnt do enough to recover her money.
  
What happened
The detailed background to this complaint is well known to both parties. So, Ill only provide
a brief overview of some of the key events here.
Mrs S was introduced to an investment broker who claimed to work for an online investment 
company Ill refer to as T. Between 20 May 2019 and 12 June 2020, Mrs S made several 
transactions by both bank transfer and debit card from her HSBC account totalling 
£43,678.45 (four transactions totalling £38,180.30 by online transfer and eight transactions 
totalling £5,498.15 using her Visa debit card). 
The broker told Mrs S to make payments to a cryptocurrency exchange company before 
sending the money to an online wallet. She was given access to a trading account and sent 
pictures showing the balance. The broker sent photos of what she had to press and which 
wallet address to send the funds to. He also sent reports detailing her profits and 
encouraged her to invest more.
When Mrs S attempted to make an international payment of £10,998.96 on 31 May, HSBC 
blocked the payment and contacted her to discuss the payment before allowing it to go 
through. 
She realised shed been the victim of a scam when she was told she couldnt make a 
withdrawal without paying £32,000 for an international monetary fund code, despite having 
already paid a release fee. She asked the broker to close her account and withdraw her 
funds, but the request was declined.
Mrs S contacted HSBC to dispute the payments shed made. She told it that at the time she 
made the payments, she didnt think T was operating a scam and she didnt receive any 
warnings that this might be the case. She said Ts website and the paperwork shed signed 
had made it look legitimate, and she had researched the telephone number and company 
name. She was also convinced by the fact she was paying money to an American bank.
HSBC said the CRM Code didnt apply because these were payments to an international 
account. It also said Mrs S was out of time for a chargeback claim. Mrs S wasnt satisfied 
and so she complained to this service arguing HSBC hadnt done enough to either prevent 
the scam or to help her get her money back by raising a chargeback request or refunding the 
money.
Our investigator was satisfied that T was operating a scam because it wasnt regulated in the 
UK (or any other jurisdiction) to carry out binary-options trading, indicating they were 
operating illegally and not carrying out legitimate trading.  She also noted there were several 
reports in the public domain stating that T was operating a scam and that while this wasnt 
evidence of fraud, it did add to the overall picture of T being scammers. 
Our investigator considered Visas chargeback rules, but she explained the code required 
very specific evidence that Mrs S didnt have, therefore Visa would have deemed the 
chargeback request invalid. She concluded that in declining to process a chargeback claim 
on Mrs Ss behalf, HSBC was properly exercising its discretion. She also explained that from 
1 December 2018, Visa required all merchant acquirers dealing in unauthorised and 
unlicensed binary options, Forex, CFDs and spread betting to re-code under a high risk 
gambling code and if their merchant acquirers processed the transactions under a different 
code, card issuers could process a chargeback on this basis if they would have otherwise 
declined it. But there was a very short time limit for this to have applied and, in this case  
the code wasnt suitable because the claim was made outside of this limit.
Our investigator noted there were no warnings about T on either IOSCOs Investor Alerts
Portal or the FCA website, so she didnt think HSBC ought to have automatically blocked
the payments. And she didnt think the payments Mrs S had made before 31 May were 
particularly unusual or suspicious because her bank statements dating back to January 2019 
showed payments of similar values, meaning the disputed payments didnt stand out as 
unusual. 
But she did think the international transfer on 31 May 2019 should have triggered a warning, 
because it was an international payment to a new payee, and there was no history of Mrs S 
having made international transfers for such large amounts in the months prior. She said that 
if HSBC had invited Mrs S to check whether the payee was registered with the FCA, it was 
likely Mrs S would have looked more closely into T before proceeding with the payments and 
could have discovered they werent regulated. 
Our investigator explained that there is a general principle that consumers must still take 
responsibility for their decisions, but she concluded Mrs S wasnt to blame for what 
happened and she didnt think she could have foreseen the risk that T was operating a 
scam. So, she didnt think it would be fair to reduce the compensation she was entitled to. 
She therefore recommended HSBC should refund the three debit card payments that Mrs S 
had made after 31 May, which comprised of £465.98 (£12.81 transaction fee), £438.02 
(£12.04 transaction fee) and £465.56 (£12.80 transaction fee). She also recommended 
HSBC should refund all international payments, together with the fees of £12.  This should 
include 8% simple interest from the date she made the payments.
HSBC has asked for the complainant to be reviewed by an ombudsman. Its said its unclear 
why Mrs S considered high risk investments were appropriate for her and argued our 
investigator failed to acknowledge that the formation of Mrs Ss relationship with the broker 
was suspicious and the suggestion that she might return $426,180 from an investment of 
$500 was implausible and too good to be true. It disputes that Mrs S couldnt have foreseen 
the risk that T was a scam as she came across it on social media.
It has said its unclear whether Mrs S was dealing with a single merchant, but that she paid 
four separate payees and that there were no warnings about either T or any of the crypto 
exchanges. It has gone on to state that our investigators opinion gave no consideration to 
the fact there were multiple payees, and is inconsistent with other cases where there has 
been no credible material to suggest a scam existed at the time the payments were made. 
HSBC has said its not clear why our investigator concluded there were fraud triggers. Its 
also commented that Mrs S had already considered online reviews so it doesnt accept it 
could have disturbed the scam based on a single conversation with her. Further, it doesnt 
accept Mrs S would have paid attention to a warning (nor does it consider there were sufficient grounds to provide one at the time suggested), arguing its most likely she would 
have continued with the payments regardless of an intervention.
It has also argued that Mrs S should be liable for contributory negligence as she didnt carry 
out appropriate research or question the implausible promises she was made. And it has 
argued that 8% interest should only be applied in exceptional circumstances and interest 
should be limited to the interest rate which had been applied to the sum to be refunded 
before it was transferred. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Chargeback is a voluntary scheme run by Visa whereby it will ultimately arbitrate on a 
dispute between the merchant and customer if it cannot be resolved between them after two 
presentments. Such arbitration is subject to the rules of the scheme  so there are limited 
grounds on which a chargeback can succeed. Our role in such cases is not to second-guess 
Visas arbitration decision or scheme rules, but to determine whether the regulated card 
issuer (i.e. HSBC) acted fairly and reasonably when presenting (or choosing not to present) 
a chargeback on behalf of its cardholder (Mrs S).
Chargeback is a voluntary scheme and HSBC is bound by the card scheme operators (Visa 
in this case) rules. But being the victim of a scam doesnt automatically entitle the payer to a 
refund through the chargeback scheme. HSBC didnt raise a chargeback claim because, for 
the claim to be successful, Mrs S wouldve needed to show the cryptocurrency exchange 
companies didnt provide the intended service, which they did. Im satisfied therefore that 
HSBCs conclusion that the chargeback claim would be unsuccessful was fair.
Should HSBC refund any money?
Im satisfied T was operating a scam because it wasnt regulated in the UK (or any other 
jurisdiction) to carry out binary-options trading meaning its likely it was operating illegally.  
Further there were reports in the public domain stating that T was operating a scam and 
while that isnt evidence of fraud, it does support that T were scammers. 
Im also satisfied that although Mrs S didnt intend her money to go to scammers, she did 
authorise the disputed payments. I understand she wouldnt have authorised the payments if 
shed known the investment was a scam, but HSBC is expected to process payments that a 
customer authorises or instructs it to make, and that is what it did. The Payment Services 
Regulations (PSRs), state that payments are authorised if the payer consented to them and, 
in this case, Im satisfied Mrs S consented to the payments as at the time she believed she 
was making payments to legitimate companies.
However, where the customer has been the victim of a scam, it may sometimes be fair and 
reasonable for the bank to reimburse them even though they authorised the payment. Mrs S 
has lost the payments she made to accounts that she held at cryptocurrency exchange 
companies. Buying cryptocurrency is a legitimate activity and therefore the extent of what we 
would expect HSBC to have done to protect Mrs S is restricted to triggers, meaning I need 
to consider whether the any of the transactions were so unusual that HSBC ought to have 
intervened to warn Mrs S when she tried to make the payments.
Should the payments have triggered a warning?Ive considered the payments in the context of whether they were unusual or uncharacteristic 
of how Mrs S normally ran her account and I agree with our investigator that, up to the point 
Mrs S made the international payment on 31 May, none of the payments were suspicious or 
unusual for how Mrs S normally ran her account.
However, I think the online transfer Mrs S made on 31 May shouldve triggered a warning 
because it was an international payment to a new payee, for an amount which was 
significantly higher than previous payments on the account. The available evidence shows 
that HSBC did contact Mrs S when she tried to make this payment but theres no call 
recording or evidence that Mrs S was given a meaningful warning during the call and, as the 
payment was allowed to go through without the bank keeping a record of what was 
discussed, I think its unlikely that she was.
I think its likely that if Mrs S had been asked more probing questions beyond whether she 
knew the payee, she would have disclosed the involvement of a third-party broker and, if she 
had, HSBC would likely have told her about the risks involved with this sort of investment 
and advised her to do some more research. There is no evidence Mrs S was willing to take 
risks or that she had a history of speculative investments or gambling, so Im satisfied in 
those circumstances its likely she wouldve made further enquiries into whether or not T was 
regulated. If she had, she would likely have discovered T wasnt regulated, or that there 
were other reports that T was operating a scam and she probably would have had second 
thoughts about going ahead with that and all future payments. Consequently, I agree with 
our investigator that HSBC should refund the three debit card payments (and the associated 
fees) that Mrs S made on 3 June 2020 and the four international transfers (and the 
associated fees) she made between 31 May and 12 June.
Ive considered whether there should be any reduction for contributory negligence, and I 
dont think there should. While I accept the brokers assurances were farfetched and Mrs S 
had made payments to multiple payees, the scam was sophisticated and, without a warning 
from HSBC, I dont think Mrs S could reasonably have been expected to do anything to 
protect herself from financial harm in the circumstances. I think HSBC  as the financial 
professional  had better insight into this type of scam and Mrs S wasnt to know that the 
trading account shed been provided with was likely fake or a simulation. 
The refund should include a payment of 8% simple interest on the refunded payments from 
the date they were paid until the date they are refunded. HSBC has argued this puts Mrs S 
in a better position to the position she would have been in if she hadnt made the payments 
as she wouldnt have obtained interest at such a level. However, the sum isnt intended to 
reflect the interest she might have earned on the money, rather, it reflects the fact she has 
been deprived of the money and is based on the current statutory interest rate on judgement 
debt.
My final decision
My final decision is that HSBC should: 
refund £1,369.56 (the debit card transactions) and £37.65 transaction fees.
refund £38,180.30 (the online transfers) and £12 transaction fees.
pay 8% interest* on the above from the date of the claim to the date of settlement.
*If HSBC deducts tax in relation to the interest element of this award it should provide Mrs S 
with the appropriate tax deduction certificate.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs S to accept or 
reject my decision before 18 January 2023.
 
Carolyn Bonnell
Ombudsman