DRN-3098452
The complaint
Mr P has complained about Admiral Insurance (Gibraltar) Limiteds decision to reject a claim
he made under his car insurance policy.
What happened
Mr P brought his car to a garage as he was experiencing issues with the electrics. After
investigation, the garage identified that water had been leaking into the car through a drain
line in the sunroof.
In October 2020 Mr P brought a claim to his insurer, Admiral for the cost to repair the water
damaged electrics to his car. Admiral said it wouldnt meet the claim as it wasnt responsible
for any maintenance issues. Mr P said he couldnt have known about the problem. The drain
tube blockage hadnt been identified when his car was serviced, which Mr P said he
arranged regularly. Admiral said this was a matter between Mr P and the service provider.
Mr P paid for the repairs privately in December 2020. He complained to Admiral about its
decision  and he was unhappy with how long it took to inform him. But Admiral didnt uphold
Mr Ps complaint. It said it acted correctly and it took time to properly investigate the claim Mr
P had made.
Mr P remained unhappy and asked us to look at his complaint. Our investigator thought
Admiral hadnt caused undue delay. He asked Admiral to clarify the reason why it rejected
Mr Ps claim. Admiral said it applied the exclusion for damage caused by wear and tear.
The investigator thought Admiral had unfairly applied its exclusion due to a lack of
maintenance. He didnt think Mr P could have reasonably been aware that the drain lines
needed to be checked when his car was serviced in order to maintain it.
So he recommended Admiral reconsider the claim in line with the remaining terms and
conditions.
Admiral didnt agree. It cited an inclusion under the policy that it is Mr Ps responsibility to
ensure his car is protected from loss or damage. Admiral says it isnt responsible for the
maintenance of the car. 
I issued a provisional decision on 6 September 2021. I thought Admiral had reasonably 
applied the exclusion for damage caused by wear and tear. 
Mr P asked the investigator to comment on my provisional decision  as it differed to theirs. 
The investigator explained that my decision differed to theirs  and if Mr P had any new 
evidence he wanted to provide, to do so. 
As the time has passed for both parties to respond to my provisional decision, the case has 
been passed back to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr Ps policy doesnt provide cover for every eventuality, including wear and tear. This isnt
an unusual exclusion. The purpose of insurance is to provide cover for specific insured
events. Mr Ps policy with Admiral provides cover in the event of loss or damage caused by a
sudden one off event such as an accident, theft, fire or vandalism. It also provides cover in
the event of accidental damage.
Admiral says it applied its wear and tear exclusion as the damage happened over time.
Water had gradually leaked into Mr Ps car due to a blocked drain line in the sunroof. Ive
considered whether Admirals decision to apply this exclusion was reasonable.
Mr P has provided an email from the garage which says that the drain tubes were blocked by
leaves. They say they have no way of knowing how long the drain tubes will have been
blocked and overflowing for but probably quite a long time judging from the amount of water
inside the car. They conclude:
The drain tubes are not checked as part of any service schedule.
It seems if the blockage had been identified sooner, this may have prevented the damage to
the electrics of Mr Ps car from occurring from the water ingress. But there isnt any evidence
to show that the damage occurred due to an insured one off event that is covered under the
policy. From the information available, the damage appears to have happened over time
causing corrosion damage to the electrics. So I dont think Admirably unreasonably applied
its wear and tear exclusion in this case. Admiral has further cited a general condition of the
policy under; Care of your vehicle - that it is for Mr P to protect his car from loss or damage.
I dont think Admiral caused undue delay. I think it properly investigated the claim and this
took time. It referred the case to its in house engineers before reaching its decision.
I understand that Mr P may not have been aware of the issue sooner. But this doesnt mean
I think Admiral should meet the costs of the repairs as I dont think the circumstances of how
the damage occurred are covered under the policy. If Mr P is unhappy with the maintenance
checks the service provider gave, this is something he will need to take up with them
separately.
I understand Mr P will be disappointed with my decision. But based on what Ive seen, I dont 
think Admiral has acted unreasonably in rejecting his claim. So Im not asking it to do any 
more.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. I think Admiral has
reasonably applied its exclusion for wear and tear.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision before 8 November 2021.
 
Geraldine Newbold
Ombudsman