DRN-2881042
The complaint
Mr T complains that Nationwide Building Society have unfairly and unreasonably declined 
his application for further borrowing. He feels they were not upfront with the need for the 
EWS1 form and feels they are questioning his honesty.
What happened
Mr T has a mortgage with Nationwide and he applied for further borrowing of £10,000 on 11 
November 2020. He said that the aim of this was that it was dealt with at the same time as 
the rate switch on his current mortgage, so he could continue to hold one mortgage with one 
lender. 
Following the application, Nationwide instructed a surveyor to value the property. The 
valuation was completed on 30 November 2020 where the surveyor said that an EWS1 was 
needed before a valuation figure could be given. 
The flat that Mr T owns is affected by cladding and because of this, an EWS1 form is 
required. The surveyor said that if a satisfactory EWS1 form was provided, the valuation of 
the property would be £409,513.
Mr T then provided Nationwide with the EWS1 form, but he said they wouldnt accept it. He 
said that Nationwide said the form wasnt completed by someone who had the right 
qualifications in line with guidance from the Institute of Fire Engineers (IFE).
Mr T contacted the IFE to find out what qualifications were needed, and he was told that the 
person that signed the form was appropriately qualified  but Nationwide still didnt accept 
that. The other reason that Nationwide declined the application was because it wasnt clear 
who would be responsible for paying for the cost of cladding remediation work that is 
required. 
However, Nationwide identified that they could have communicated their decision much 
sooner to Mr T and that their communication with Mr T could have been better. So they 
offered £400 compensation in recognition of this. Mr T also has concerns about others who 
may be impacted by Nationwides approach when it comes to properties that require an 
EWS1 form. 
Mr T was unhappy with what Nationwide had said so he brought the complaint to our service 
where it was looked at by one of our investigators. Our investigator didnt recommend that 
the complaint be upheld as she didnt believe that Nationwide had done anything wrong.
Mr T disagreed with our investigator and in summary, made the following comments:
He wanted to know what Nationwides policy was regarding properties that required 
an EWS1 form to be completed.  He believes that if they had told him from the 
outset, it would have avoided months of uncertainty and he would have been able to 
approach other lenders rather than now being tied to Nationwide because of his 
current product
His property is worth £470,000 and his mortgage is £103,000. The additional 
borrowing of £10,000 is minimal against the equity in the property. He believes the 
worst-case scenario is that he might end up being responsible for the costs of fire 
safety works which he said was recently estimated around £11,000. The fact that he 
is credit worthy means he would be able to increase his borrowing to cover these 
costs
He wanted the further borrowing to coincide with the rate switch of his existing 
mortgage so he could have one interest rate across both mortgages. But because 
Nationwide were not upfront, he committed to a new rate and was forced to look for 
another lender for the additional £10,000. He believes Nationwides actions have 
severely disadvantaged him in finding a single, competitive product that meets his 
needs
He concluded by saying that Nationwide have been overly risk averse and have treated him 
unfairly. 
As Mr T disagreed, he asked for the complaint to be reviewed by an ombudsman, so it has 
been passed to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I have thought about what Mr T has said and I appreciate he has very strong feelings about 
his complaint. 
When a lender considers a mortgage application, they need to be confident that the property 
is worth enough, and otherwise good security with acceptable risk, before they agree to lend 
money.  
In order to satisfy themselves of that, a lender would engage an independent surveyor which 
is what Nationwide did in this case. The surveyor they engaged with was properly qualified 
and regulated. 
I can see that Nationwide asked Mr T to obtain the EWS1 form, following on from what the 
surveyor had said and he did this. But Nationwide had concerns that the person that signed 
the form, was not correctly qualified. They said the EWS1 form had to be signed by 
someone who had a specific qualification of that of a chartered engineer. Nationwide said 
that the form was not signed by someone who had that qualification. 
Nationwide said that on the Royal Institute of Chartered Surveyors (RICs) website there is a 
document which lists the relevant bodies who can sign the EWS1 form. It says
The signatory would need a higher level of expertise in the assessment of fire risk presented 
by external wall materials and should be a fully qualified member of a relevant professional 
body that deals with fire safety in the build environment. This should be a chartered engineer 
with the Institute of Fire Engineers or Equivalent.
Mr Ts property was listed as Option B where this means that combustible materials are 
present in external walls. Because of this, there were certain requirements needed in terms 
of who could sign the form.  I can understand why Nationwide questioned the person that 
had signed the form, as this could have had implications further down the line if they didnt 
have the right qualifications.
Mr T contacted the IFE and the technical director confirmed that the person that signed the 
form was appropriately qualified. They said the specialism that the person had in external 
wall facades would constitute as equivalent to chartered engineer status in their opinion. 
Based on what I have seen, I dont believe that Nationwide were unreasonable or unfair in 
asking questions about the EWS1 form. They have guidance from the IFE that they need to 
follow before accepting the form  and I can see they did this here. I appreciate that Mr T 
feels they were questioning his honesty based on the information he had provided them, but 
I dont believe Nationwide were doing this because of that, or to be difficult. Nationwide did take the information provided by Mr T on board but there was still the issue of who would be 
responsible for the remediation work that was required on the property. Part of Nationwides 
process is to know who is responsible for paying the cost of the work involved. 
From the information I have reviewed and the letters that have been provided, its not clear 
who is required to pay for the remedial work. This could impact Nationwides risk if Mr T 
ended up being responsible for some or all of the costs involved.  
Nationwide have to think about protecting their security and part of that is knowing who is 
liable to pay for any work needed to correct the issues surrounding the cladding problem. I 
note the comments that Mr T has made about the equity available in his property and I can 
see the point he is making here. But Nationwide, at the time of the application, were not 
given any indication as to how much those costs might be.  The surveyor gave an indication 
as to how much the property would be valued at once the EWS1 form was received but 
depending on what work may have been required, that valuation could have reduced 
significantly  which could have impacted Mr T. So while I appreciate this would have been 
frustrating for Mr T, there are valid reasons for Nationwide having the concerns that they did.
Nationwide have approached Mr Ts case in the same way they would have done for any of 
their other borrowers in a similar situation. I appreciate that Mr T is frustrated as he wanted 
to borrow further funds to coincide with the product switch on his main mortgage at the time, 
but I dont think that Nationwide have declined Mr Ts application unfairly. 
I can see that Nationwide received the valuation report on 9 December 2020 and there were 
queries relating to the postcode on the EWS1. This was sent back to the surveyor who then 
questioned the remedial work in January 2021. The case was reviewed again by Nationwide 
at the end of January. I dont think Nationwide delayed Mr Ts application on purpose as 
there appeared to be a lot of back and forth with the surveyor  but Nationwides 
communication could have been better with Mr T. 
Mr T asked to see Nationwides policy as he believes he has been treated unfairly, but this is 
commercially sensitive information. When applications are assessed, lenders have their own 
policy that they refer to. This isnt something that would be shared. 
I appreciate that Mr T has concerns about how Nationwides approach may affect other 
borrowers, but Im satisfied that Nationwide have acted fairly in his case  which is what this 
complaint is limited to. 
I think overall, its clear that Nationwide could have communicated with Mr T better than they 
did and they could have progressed his application sooner than they did. I think the £400 
Nationwide have offered Mr T is fair and reasonable in the circumstances. I will therefore not 
be asking them to do anything further. 
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr T to accept or 
reject my decision before 18 February 2022.
 
Maria Drury
Ombudsman