DRN-3082329
The complaint
Mr C complains about the way that HSBC UK Bank Plc dealt with a query about a payment 
showing on his account that he said had been cancelled.
What happened
Mr C bought an item using his bank card for £1,619 on 7 November 2020. He found out that 
the retailer cancelled the purchase but could see that the payment was still showing on his 
account. He is unhappy that when he first contacted HSBC it gave him incorrect information 
about what to do. And he wants to be compensated for his distress and financial loss.
HSBC accepted that when Mr C first got in contact, its agent didnt identify that the payment 
was a pending one. And so, it sent him a link to raise a dispute. But Mr C called back, and it 
then gave him the correct information which was that this was a pending payment and 
couldnt be removed. It paid him £50 in compensation. It didnt accept his claim that it should 
pay him at least £400 due to a lost business opportunity.
Our investigator didnt recommend that HSBC do anything more. HSBC had sent the link to 
Mr C at 14:33 that day. And it logged his further call at 15:01 when he was given the correct 
information. HSBC had apologised and paid compensation. Mr C had explained that he had 
entered a gaming tournament that weekend paying a registration fee of £400 and with a 
potential prize of £5,000. But it wasnt reasonable to expect HSBC to compensate him for 
the amount of the registration fee as he wanted.
Mr C didnt agree and wanted his complaint to be reviewed. He didnt think it had been 
properly looked into and he isnt now asking for £5,000 but compensation reflecting the 
negligence of HSBC. He has asked for the £400 fee as he couldnt participate in the 
tournament.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive listened to a recording of the later call Mr C had with HSBC on 7 November 2020. He 
clearly wasnt happy that the payment was showing on his account. And he wanted it to be 
removed then which he said a different bank had done for him in the past. The person he 
spoke to explained that this couldnt be done as it was pending having been authorised for 
the merchant involved to collect. He was told that if as he said the purchase had been 
cancelled then the amount wouldnt be collected but it could remain as pending for up to 
seven days.
The information provided by HSBC is that the authorisation for the payment was taken at 
13:29 that day and Mr C contacted HSBC through live chat at 13:55 and spoke to an agent 
at 14:33. His call with the other agent Ive described started at 15:01. So, the period when he 
had incorrect information was about half an hour and it is clear he wasnt satisfied with what 
he had been told, even when hed been given the correct information.
Im not looking here at what the retailer involved did and why the purchase was cancelled 
after the authorisation had been taken. But HSBCs error was in wrongly thinking at first that 
this was a payment that had actually been debited - rather than a pending one. Mr C ought 
to have been given the correct information that first time.
Mr C in his complaint form described being in a gaming tournament that weekend and being 
at an event that was planned for months, and due to being absent from there, the distress 
alone was something which I am extremely angry and frustrated about and that this lasted 
all day. He also stated, I am hopeful that I would be reimbursed £5,000 as I would have 
received this as a prize if I was able to attend and take part.
I know Im going to disappoint Mr C when I say that I dont think that HSBC is responsible for 
him not participating in the tournament or any financial loss. He clearly was able to be 
involved in a purchase that day. HSBC wasnt responsible for the pending payment. It was 
his choice to follow this up with HSBC at a time when he says he could have been winning 
an amount of money far in excess of the value of his purchase. I would reasonably have 
expected him to act to mitigate any loss. And this potential loss was something that HSBC 
had no knowledge of at the time. HSBC did cause him some inconvenience over what to me 
seems to be about half an hour. I think that its response is proportionate to reflect what 
happened having considered all the evidence and what Mr C has said.
My final decision
My decision is that I do not uphold this complaint in the sense that HSBC UK Bank Plc need 
not do anything more.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 2 December 2021.
 
Michael Crewe
Ombudsman