DRN-4346034
The complaint
Mr and Mrs P are unhappy with Admiral Insurance (Gibraltar) Limiteds decision to withdraw 
cover on their policy. 
What happened
Mr and Mrs P had a joint annual travel insurance policy underwritten by Admiral Insurance 
Gibraltar Limited (Admiral). They booked a trip away but sadly Mr P was admitted to hospital 
shortly before their holiday. He was advised that it was still medically safe for him to travel 
but there would be a follow up investigation.
As per the policy terms, Mr and Mrs P informed Admiral about the hospital visit before they 
started the trip. This resulted in their policy being cancelled due to the change in Mr Ps 
health. Admiral said they were unable to cover customers on a waiting list for treatment or 
investigations.
Mr and Mrs P didnt think this was fair. Theyre unhappy Admiral didnt apply an exclusion to 
their policy instead of withdrawing cover altogether. And that Admiral didnt provide 
alternative cover for Mrs P.
Our investigator looked into what had happened and said she thought it was fair Admiral 
withdrew cover in the circumstances. She said Admiral had provided evidence to show it 
wouldnt have been able to provide the policy with an exclusion applied and she could see 
they gave Mr and Mrs P the option to put in a cancellation claim and provided assistance to 
help them find alternative cover. 
Mr and Mrs P disagreed. In summary they said:
No other insurer would provide cover for Mr P whilst his medical investigation was 
pending
Why couldnt cover for Mrs P continue?
A cancellation claim wasnt viable as there werent any restrictions on their ability to 
travel
So the case was passed to me to decide. In August 2023 I issued my provisional findings to 
both parties, explaining that I was intending on upholding this complaint. In summary I said:
The relevant rules and industry guidelines say Admiral has a responsibility to handle claims 
promptly and fairly. And they shouldnt reject a claim unreasonably.
Admiral explained to Mr and Mrs P that if a member has received an official diagnosis, the 
underwriting team can review things to decide if they would agree cover. But whilst a 
condition is still under investigation, cover is automatically declined. And Admiral has 
provided evidence from the underwriting team to show this. As our investigator has 
explained, this isnt unusual as the insurer is unable to assess what additional potential risk 
the change in health may cause. So I dont think Admiral were unfair to withdraw cover for 
Mr P.
Admiral provided assistance to help Mr P find alternative cover, but he was unable to obtain 
cover elsewhere during the investigation period. I understand this mustve been frustrating 
and disappointing, especially so soon before travelling, but this isnt something I can fairly 
hold Admiral responsible for. Im satisfied they told Mr P as quickly as possible they could no 
longer provide cover for him and offered a reasonable amount of assistance to help him look 
at other options.
Mr P requested that his policy continue without medical cover benefit. Admiral said they 
package their travel insurance as one whole product, so a policy without medical cover isnt 
something they offer. They also explained theyre unable to exclude or tailor cover once the 
policy has been accepted. I think that is fair.
Mr and Mrs P have questioned why Mrs Ps cover couldnt continue under the policy. 
Admiral said they wouldnt have been able to amend the existing policy and remove Mr P so 
cover could continue on a single person basis for just Mrs P. I dont think thats 
unreasonable.
In their complaint response Admiral reiterated the above and explained the only option would 
have been to setup a new policy under Mrs Ps name. However, I cant see that they were 
given that option at the time. I appreciate it may not have been their usual practice to offer 
Mrs P her own policy, but in the circumstances  particularly that they were due to travel so 
soon, I think it would have been reasonable to provide this option so Mr and Mrs P could 
decide if that was something they wanted to take forward.
I can also see Mr P continued to raise that they werent offered a single policy for Mrs P as 
part of their complaint, but it doesnt appear to have been addressed by Admiral, which Ive 
no doubt also caused frustration. So I think its fair for Admiral to pay £150 to compensate Mr 
and Mrs P for the stress and inconvenience the failure to offer this option caused.
Mr P also raised concerns regarding the cancellation criteria for a successful claim. Im 
satisfied Admiral advised him to contact the claims department so they could consider a 
refund on what theyd paid so far, but I understand Mr and Mrs P wanted to continue with 
their trip. So I dont think Admiral treated them unfairly here.
In conclusion, I said I think Admiral should pay Mr and Mrs P £150 compensation for the 
inconvenience caused by their failure to offer the option of a new policy solely for Mrs P in 
the circumstances. And the additional stress caused by their failure to address this complaint 
point.
Neither party responded to my provisional decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As neither party responded to the outcome set out in my provisional decision, I see no 
reason for me to reach a different conclusion. Putting things right
I direct Admiral Insurance (Gibraltar) Limited to put things right by:
Paying Mr and Mrs P £150 compensation for the inconvenience caused by their failure to 
offer the option of a new policy solely for Mrs P in the circumstances. And the additional 
stress caused by their failure to address this complaint point.
My final decision
For the reasons set out here and in my provisional decision, I uphold this complaint and 
direct Admiral Insurance (Gibraltar) Limited to put things right in the way Ive set out above. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs P and Mr P to 
accept or reject my decision before 27 October 2023.
 
Georgina Gill
Ombudsman