DRN-3296732
The complaint
A company, which Ill refer to as U, complains that Clydesdale Bank Plc wrongly declined 
its application for a Bounce Back Loan.
Mr T is Us director and brings the complaint on its behalf.
What happened
U banked with Clydesdale and approached it for a Bounce Back Loan of £43,000 in March 
2021. 
Clydesdale declined Us application on the basis that it wasnt satisfied U was trading prior to 
1 March 2020, as required by the Bounce Back Loan Scheme eligibility criteria. 
Mr T appealed the banks decision, sending further information that he believed 
demonstrated Us eligibility. He explained that U was a start-up company and had carried out 
work for which it expected to be paid  but its two largest clients had been affected by the 
pandemic, giving rise to Us need for the loan in the first place. He also highlighted that U 
was listed as an active company at Companies House and as trading with HM Revenue & 
Customs. But despite this, and a subsequent complaint, Clydesdale maintained its decision. 
So Mr T referred the matter to us. He said that U met all the Bounce Back Loan eligibility 
requirements as laid down by the government.
One of our investigators looked into things, but he didnt think Clydesdales decision was 
unreasonable. He said, in summary, that: 
While loans provided under the Loan Scheme were backed by a guarantee from the 
government, the decision to lend still rested with the lender. And, in making that 
decision, they were required to carry out certain checks, including fraud, anti-money 
laundering (AML) and Know Your Customer (KYC) checks. 
In completing its checks, Clydesdale was entitled to ask U for information to verify its 
eligibility (including evidence of its trading at the requisite time). In this respect, the 
bank hadnt accepted unpaid invoices as sufficient evidence. 
Overall, the evidence U had provided hadnt satisfied Clydesdales requirements and 
having reviewed this, he didnt the banks decision was unreasonable. 
Mr T didnt accept our investigators view. He made a number of points in response, saying 
in summary that:
A lender participating in the Loan Scheme couldnt have unfettered discretion and 
must treat applicants consistently. He queried whether U had been singled out for 
additional scrutiny.
While the bank could conduct certain checks, these didnt necessarily extend to the 
point they had in Us case. He thought it was unclear exactly what checks U had 
failed.
Clydesdale had acted unreasonably in applying too narrow a requirement to prove 
trading, which was inconsistent with market norms and the purpose of the Loan 
Scheme. Its discretion under the rules ought to be tempered by a reasonableness 
test, and insisting on paid invoices as proof of trading failed this.
New businesses, such as U, would be in the position of having completed work for 
which they were yet to be paid. If invoices of this work werent acceptable proof of 
trading, such businesses were rendered ineligible for a Bounce Back Loan  which 
couldnt have been the intention of the Loan Scheme.
U had provided evidence of its trading and it seemed that the dispute was not about 
whether or not the company was trading, but whether adequate evidence had been 
provided. The nature of the Loan Scheme, in particular the principle of self-
certification, meant the burden of evidence  in the absence of evidence of fraud, 
AML or KYC concerns  ought to be on the bank. 
U had applied for a Bounce Back Loan towards the end of the Scheme, and its 
application had been treated differently to earlier applicants. 
So Mr T asked that an ombudsman review the complaint and it was passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
There is no dispute about the eligibility criteria for a Bounce Back Loan, which included 
 amongst other things  that the applicant was carrying on business on 1 March 2020.
Mr T has raised a number of points within his submissions to us and Ive taken everything he 
has said and provided to us into account. I wont address each and every point he has 
raised, in keeping with the informal nature of our process and which I hope he wont see as 
discourteous. Rather, my findings focus on the matters I consider most relevant to how Ive 
reached my decision.
I consider that there are, essentially, two key issues within Mr Ts challenge to the banks 
decision on Us application. Firstly, he doesnt believe that Clydesdale was entitled to 
conduct the checks it did in Us case. And second, even accepting that it was, he thinks that 
the evidence he provided was sufficient to demonstrate Us eligibility in line with the Loan 
Schemes rules and intentions.
The banks entitlement to verify an applicants eligibility for a Bounce Back Loan
I understand from Mr Ts response to our investigators view that he accepts a lenders 
entitlement to conduct fraud, AML and KYC checks, but he doesnt think that any of these 
extended to what Clydesdale did here in checking whether U met the Loan Schemes 
eligibility criteria. 
In this respect, I understand that Mr Ts view is likely to have been informed by the 
information that was made publicly available about the Loan Scheme. But this isnt exhaustive or definitive  it is a summary of key information, primarily for the benefit of an 
applicant. It doesnt include all the rules and requirements that applied to lenders, as laid 
down by the British Business Bank. 
While lenders werent obliged to verify the self-declared information provided by an 
applicant, they werent prohibited from doing so. 
Under any of the three checks set out above, I think it would be reasonable for the lender to 
verify the information given by an applicant about their business. Such information could 
inform a KYC check or be part of a lenders legitimate efforts to combat money laundering 
and fraud. 
Even if I were to accept Mr Ts suggestion that the verification of an applicants self-declared 
eligibility doesnt fall within the scope of fraud, AML or KYC checks, I still dont think it was 
unreasonable for Clydesdale to take additional measures to prevent loans from being given 
incorrectly. Such measures were not excluded by the Bounce Back Loan Scheme rules.
For these reasons, I think the verification of an applicants eligibility  including their trading 
status  was reasonable. 
Ive taken into account what Mr T has said about U being singled out for additional scrutiny. 
It is, of course, difficult to confirm that Clydesdale treated all applicants in similar 
circumstances in exactly the same way. But from what Ive seen of how both Clydesdale and 
other lenders assessed applications, Im satisfied that the nature of the checks undertaken 
on Us application were in keeping with the typical process followed by the bank and wider 
industry. 
So I dont think Clydesdale acted unfairly in seeking to verify whether U was trading at the 
requisite time within the Loan Scheme eligibility criteria.
The banks assessment of Us eligibility
Having established that Clydesdale was entitled to carry out the checks that it did, Ive gone 
on to consider whether its decision to decline Us application was reasonable.
U was incorporated in October 2019. However, it was not enough for the business simply to 
exist prior to 1 March 2020. Under the Loan Scheme rules, the applicant had to be trading 
before this date.
I appreciate what Mr T has said about how trading might be interpreted. Within the Scheme 
rules, the eligibility criteria refer to trading activity. This is defined as trading or commercial 
activity that generates turnover. Clydesdale was expected to follow these rules and the 
definitions contained within them, rather than the Companies House or HMRC definitions 
that Mr T has referred us to.
Ive reviewed the evidence that Mr T provided Clydesdale about Us trading activity. Having 
done so, I think it was reasonable for Clydesdale to deem this insufficient to show that U was 
trading at the requisite time. Most significantly, the company was unable to demonstrate that 
it had received any income for any trading that it had carried out prior to 1 March 2020. 
Mr T accepts that U didnt receive any income prior to 1 March 2020. But he says that it was 
working  and had billed for that work, but not been paid due to the impact of the pandemic 
on Us clients. He was only able to provide very limited evidence to support this. But even 
accepting what Mr T says of the companys activities before March 2020, I dont think it 
ought reasonably to have led Clydesdale to a different decision. The fact that U hadnt received any income from any of its trading activity meant that it couldnt satisfy this aspect 
of the Loan Scheme eligibility criteria.
Ive considered all that Mr T has said and provided to us and I appreciate his strength of 
feeling over the issue. But ultimately Us demonstrable lack of turnover from any trading 
activity over the requisite period means that I dont think Clydesdale did anything wrong in 
concluding that the company was ineligible for a Bounce Back Loan, and declining its 
application accordingly. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask U to accept or 
reject my decision before 14 March 2022.
 
Ben Jennings
Ombudsman