DRN-3388143
The complaint
Mr D complains Forsakringsaktiebolaget Agria (publ) (Agria) provided misleading 
information and unfairly declined a claim he made under his pet insurance policy.
What happened
Mr D had a pet insurance policy with Agria. In 2021 Mr Ds dog needed a knee operation. 
Mr Ds wife, Mrs D, called Agria to ask if this was covered under the policy. Mr D says Agria 
reassured Mrs D it would be covered. 
A total knee replacement operation went ahead. Mr D made a claim to Agria. But Agria said 
this operation wasnt covered under the policy because it was for a total knee replacement 
prosthesis, not a patella groove replacement prosthesis which was covered under the policy.
The treating vet sent letters of support to Agria on Mr Ds behalf. In these, the vet said Agria 
told Mrs D the patella (kneecap) was covered, but Agria hadnt specified it was patella 
groove replacement that was covered and Agria hadnt known what a patella was. That 
Mrs D asked Agria a specific question and Agria hadnt answered directly or correctly. That 
total knee replacement was the only option left and the right thing to do for Mr Ds dog. And 
the patella groove was replaced as part of the total knee replacement. 
Agria said it was correct to decline the claim, and it hadnt told Mrs D the operation would be 
covered  it said that while its agent hadnt fully understood what a patella groove was, they 
had confirmed that any prosthesis other than specifically for hips, elbows, patella groove and 
eye lens was not covered, and had told Mrs D it wasnt guaranteed the operation would be 
covered. 
Mr D remained unhappy so he brought his complaint to our service. After looking into the 
complaint, our Investigator thought Agria hadnt given misleading information and was fair 
and reasonable to decline the claim under the terms of the policy. 
Mr D still thought Agria had misled Mrs D, as it was the expert and had spoken to her about 
the potential claim in a positive and reassuring manner. Mr D suggested Agria should pay at 
least some of the claim because the prosthesis itself was only part of the cost, as there were 
other elements such as the cost of hospitalisation. 
As Mr D disagreed, this complaint has come to me for decision.
 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive listened to the call between Mrs D and Agria. Mrs D explained their dog had a history of 
knee problems and potentially now needed a new knee. Mrs D said I just want to make sure 
that a new knee is covered, Im assuming it would be. Agria said In regards to a new knee, 
all wed say in our terms, obviously with any claim anyway I have to say we cant guarantee 
a claim over the phone, but our terms say we wont cover the cost of any prosthetics, 
including any veterinary treatment needed to fit the prosthetics, other than the cost of hips, 
elbows, and patella groove or replacements or any eye lens implants. So we say we wont 
cover any prosthetics unless theyre in regards to the hip, elbow or patella groove 
replacements. 
Mrs D asked whether a patella groove is a knee. Agria checked and said Yes, its a knee 
cap. So yes, obviously I have to say I cant guarantee a claim over the phone but its 
something we look to cover for you under the insurance and under our terms, it is included 
under the terms so you are more than welcome to put in a claim for it.  Mrs D explained she 
was meeting the vet the following day and would be told what the operation involved. Mrs D 
asked Agria if the vet could call Agria to confirm whether the operation would be covered. 
Agria agreed and told Mrs D what section of the policy terms it would read to the vet, so 
Mrs D could provide this to the vet. Ive not seen that any discussion took place between the 
vet and Agria about what the specific operation would involve and whether this was covered 
by the policy. 
Its fair to say that at times during the call with Mrs D, Agria spoke positively and reassuringly 
and said Mr D could make a claim. It also said a knee cap was something it looked to cover 
under the policy terms, and I think Agria could have explained more clearly that the patella 
groove and kneecap that were mentioned were simply parts of a knee, not the whole knee. 
But Agria also told Mrs D more than once that it couldnt guarantee a claim would be paid. 
And the call ended with Mrs D saying she would ask the vet to call Agria once the exact 
details of the operation were confirmed, to check whether it would be covered under the 
policy. So I cant fairly say Agria told Mrs D a claim for a new knee would definitely be 
covered under the policy, or that it misled Mrs D. Instead it essentially said a claim could be 
made but it couldnt guarantee that a claim would be paid. 
Im satisfied Agria was fair to decline the claim Mr D made. I say that because the operation 
he claimed for was a total knee replacement. In this operation, I understand the whole knee 
was removed. So the patella groove was removed along with the rest of the knee.
But the letters from the treating vet say the prosthesis that was then fitted was a prosthetic 
total knee replacement, not a prosthetic patella groove replacement. And the policy terms 
and conditions say Agria will not pay Costs for or resulting from: The cost of any prosthesis, 
including any veterinary treatment needed to fit the prosthesis, other than the cost of hips, 
elbows, patella groove replacements or any eye lens implant. So the policy terms entitle 
Agria to say it wont pay for a prosthetic knee, including any treatment needed to fit it. Since 
this operation was to fit a prosthetic knee, I think Agria was fair to decline Mr Ds claim. 
Taking everything into account, Im satisfied Agria has acted fairly and reasonably here, so 
Im not asking it to do anything further, though I realise this isnt the answer Mr D hoped for. 
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision before 19 April 2022.
 
Ailsa Wiltshire
Ombudsman