DRN-1305092
The complaint
Ms B complains that U K Insurance Limited (UKI) unfairly refused a claim under her travel 
insurance policy for cancellation of her holiday.
What happened
Ms Bs parents booked and paid for a holiday for them and her as a present to Ms B. 
Unfortunately, prior to the holiday start date Ms Bs mother was hospitalised with an illness 
and so the trip had to be cancelled.
Ms Bs parents had a joint travel insurance policy with an insurer Ill refer to as X. Ms Bs has 
travel insurance cover through her household insurance policy with UKI. Ms Bs father 
claimed under his policy with X for the cancellation, it met the claim for both him and Ms Bs 
mother but said it couldnt cover Ms Bs portion of the holiday as she wasnt covered under 
the policy.
Ms B submitted a claim to UKI for her portion of the holiday, but it declined the claim  it said 
as she hadnt suffered a financial loss there is no claim to be met. It suggested that X should 
consider this claim under Ms Bs parents policy as it is Ms Bs father that has suffered the 
financial loss.
Ms Bs policy states the following:
Youre covered for
Cancellation of a journey
We will pay up to £5,000 for each insured person for costs that you have paid or 
legally have to pay if you have to cancel your trip, including:


The policy definition of you in the travel section of the policy is:
You, your, yourself, insured person(s)
(section 6 only)
Any adult aged 64 or under at the start of a trip who is:
 the policyholder
 the husband, wife, partner (a person living with
them as though married) or civil partner of the
policyholder living at the same home
 any dependent child.
Ms B was unhappy with this and so brought her complaint to this service. The investigator 
didnt think that UKI had acted unfairly in declining the claim and so didnt uphold this 
complaint. As Ms B didnt agree with the investigator the matter has been passed to me to 
decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im not going to uphold this complaint for broadly the same reasons as the 
investigator, Ill explain.
The policy Ms B has covers her for any losses of costs, as Ms B didnt pay for the holiday, 
she has no costs associated to the cancellation of the holiday. So, it follows there is no cover 
in place under the policy for Ms B to claim. 
Ms Bs father who paid for the holiday does however have a direct financial loss relating to 
the cancellation, but he isnt covered under the policy as he isnt included in it and nor does 
he fall under the definition of you in the policy terms and conditions. So, he also isnt 
eligible to claim for this loss under this policy.
I do appreciate the strength of feeling both Ms B and her father have with regards to this loss 
not being covered by UKI, when they feel they have done everything they can to properly 
insure themselves in the event of something like this happening, and I recognise that the 
whole process has been very frustrating being pushed between insurers. But because of the 
above Im satisfied that this claim isnt one that should be covered under Ms Bs policy.
I know Ms B will be disappointed with this outcome. But my decision ends what we  in 
trying to resolve her dispute with UKI  can do for her.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, my final decision is I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms B to accept or 
reject my decision before 8 September 2020.
 
Amber Mortimer
Ombudsman