DRN-2930263
The complaint
Company A has complained about The Plan Group Limited trading as Plan Insurance 
Brokers. It has complained about the fact that The Plan didnt tell it about changes to its 
commercial motor insurance policy. 
  
What happened
Company A took out a commercial motor insurance policy through its broker (The Plan) over 
a number of years. But it was surprised to find out that its insurer wouldnt cover the driver of 
one if its vehicles at the time of an accident. This was because its insurance policy had 
changed to cover only named drivers at renewal a few years earlier in 2018. It was Company 
As understanding that it had an open policy which allowed other drivers, such as 
employees, to drive on the policy. But, as the policy had changed, the insurer wouldnt cover 
the driver at the time of the accident as he wasnt named on the policy and looked to recover 
its costs from Company A.
So Company A complained to The Plan as it wasnt made aware of the change in cover. The 
Plan explained that it had sent documentation around the time of renewal in 2018 that 
explained the change in cover. But Company A remained unhappy and complained to this 
service. 
Our investigator looked into things for A and upheld its complaint. He didnt feel there was 
sufficient evidence to show that The Plan had clearly made Company A aware of a 
significant change in cover. So he thought they should be held responsible and cover any 
costs Company A incurred.
The Plan accepted that it should have given clear advice to Company A about the suitability 
of the policy when cover was changed by the insurer. But they felt A should take 
responsibility for not reading its policy documentation and realising the change in cover had 
taken place. So, the matter has been referred to me for review.
  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I think the complaint should be upheld. I know this will come as a 
disappointment to The Plan, but Ill explain why. I know The Plan feels that Company A 
should take responsibility as a commercial customer  for any difficulties it has faced. I 
understand its point and I agree A should take some responsibility here and have digested 
its documentation, so I havent awarded any compensation with this in mind.
However, the insurer made it abundantly clear to The Plan that as the change was 
significant it needed to ensure Company A understood the change in cover. Indeed, the Plan 
said it wouldnt continue with the renewal of the policy without a signed document from 
Company A acknowledging this  as the change was so significant. And even though the 
signed document wasnt received by The Plan it continued to place Company A on cover. 
Given this I would expect to see some evidence that this significant change was 
communicated to A and accepted  and yet there isnt any. The calls from around the time 
havent been kept and the notes from around the time of renewal dont suggest this was 
discussed. So, I think the benefit of doubt has to be given to Company A here. 
The Plan have said I agree with you that the client more than likely would have added the 
driver had he known that he was not covered to drive and I think this acknowledgment 
goes to the heart of this case. This was an advised sale and The Plan should have ensured 
the policy was suitable for Company A and that it was fully aware of the significant change in 
cover. I think it is likely A would have taken out a policy that was similar to the one it had 
originally requested or, at the very least, ensured the policy had all appropriate people 
named so they were insured, and this isnt disputed.
I know The Plan would like comment on the insurers position, but that complaint has been 
considered separately and I dont need to revisit that here. And, ultimately, it was The Plans 
error that led to Company A not being insured as it expected to be.
Turning again to The Plans point that there is a greater onus on Company A as a 
commercial customer to consider its position and all the documentation provided by the 
insurer. I accept its point generally and so I havent looked at awarding compensation. But it 
is difficult to say it would be fair for Company A not to have its claim met when it took out a 
policy to cover its business model, which The Plan was fully aware of, only to have it 
changed without any clear advice that its policy was fundamentally changing. And it is 
accepted by all sides that if Company A knew the policy had changed then it would have 
acted differently. 
Given all of this, I think the fair and reasonable thing to do, in the particular circumstances of 
this case is for the complaint to be upheld. I accept that A is a commercial customer, but I 
think The Plan should have considered As position and business model, given the this was 
an advised sale, and ensured it was able to make an informed decision. I know The Plan 
sent some documentation around the time of renewal in 2018 but it failed to get the signed 
authority from Company A which was against its own stipulated position. So, The Plan 
should cover the total costs the insurer is looking to recover in relation to the accident.
  
My final decision
It follows, for the reasons given above, that I uphold this complaint. I require The Plan Group 
Limited trading as Plan Insurance Brokers to cover the total costs the insurer is looking to 
recover from Company A.
  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask A to accept or 
reject my decision before 10 January 2022.
 
Colin Keegan
Ombudsman