DRN-3169823
The complaint
Mr F is unhappy that ERGO Reiseversicherung AG trading as ETI International Travel 
Protection (ERGO) declined his travel insurance claim.
Reference to ERGO here includes all its agents.
What happened
On 11 September 2019, Mr F booked his trip in the UK. On the same day, he took out his 
single trip travel insurance. The underwriter of the policy is ERGO.
Mr Fs intended travel dates were from 17 July to 24 July 2020. The booking was for a group 
of 14 people from five different households, and the total holiday cost was £2,123. 
Mr F cancelled the trip on 29 May 2020, due to government advice at the time. When Mr F 
cancelled the accommodation, the provider asked for a third of the total cost to be paid 
which was £669.60. 
Mr F submitted a claim for this cost to ERGO. The claim was declined as ERGO said Mr F 
has no cover for anything that arises directly or indirectly from regulations set by the 
government of any country. Unhappy with ERGOs response, Mr F made a complaint. 
ERGO assessed the claim and said it was excluded due to Mr Fs reluctance to travel. Mr F 
was unhappy and said he cancelled the trip because of the restrictions placed by the UK 
government on the number of households staying at the accommodation.
Mr F brought his complaint to this service. Our investigator looked into it and said she didnt
think it should be upheld. She said when Mr F cancelled his booking on 29 May 2020, the
advice for the UK was to avoid meeting up with others indoors completely. And for the dates
Mr F had his accommodation booked, the advice was to avoid gathering indoors in groups of
more than two households. She considered this alongside the terms and conditions of his
policy. Theres a list of events for which Mr F had cover for. However, Mr Fs individual 
circumstances  cancellation because of advice given by the UK government  wasnt listed
and therefore, he had no cover. She thought ERGO hadnt treated Mr F unfairly in declining 
his claim.
Mr F disagreed and asked for an ombudsman to decide. So, the complaint has been passed
to me. Hes made several points in response to the investigators assessment. Ive
summarised these below:
He hasnt been given a tangible reason for reaching the outcome the investigator has 
reached.
There have been insurance test cases arising from claims and which were silent on 
the pandemic. Although these contracts were different to his, these claims were
eventually settled, and the principles are the same.
On page 3, paragraph 2 of his policy document, he says there is cover if: You or any 
person who are travelling or have arranged to travel with being quarantined, called 
as a witness at a court of law or for jury service attendance. In reference to the word 
quarantine, the Collins Dictionary defines it as: If a person or animal is in 
quarantine, they are being kept separate from other people or animals for a set 
period of time, usually because they have or may have a disease. Based on that 
definition his view is that the government advice restricting the movement of people, 
at the time he cancelled the holiday, was tantamount to quarantine. With fourteen 
people from 5 households in one place it would have been breaking the advice as it 
would not have been possible to keep separate.
The whole point of taking out insurance is to cover unforeseen events which the 
pandemic was, as neither party knew what was ahead.
I issued my provisional decision on 10 November 2021 as my reasons were slightly different 
to what had been said before and I wanted both parties to have the opportunity to comment 
before I made a final decision. I said the following:
The insurance industry regulator, the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA), has set out rules
and guidance for insurers in the Insurance: Conduct of Business Sourcebook (ICOBS).
ICOBS says that insurers should act honestly, fairly and professionally in accordance with
the best interests of their customers, and that they should handle claims promptly and fairly
and shouldnt unreasonably reject a claim.
I appreciate Mr F feels strongly about how the claim has been assessed. I can also see hes
taken the time to provide substantive points in relation to his complaint. So, Id like to
reassure him that while I wont be responding to each and every point, I have read all his
submissions.
Policy terms and conditions
The starting point is the terms and conditions of the policy. On page 3 of the policy term, it
states:
SECTION 1  CANCELLATION
What is covered
We will pay you up to £5,000 per booking for trips to the United Kingdom, Channel
Islands, Isle of Wight and Europe for the unused proportion of any travel and
accommodation costs or pre-paid non-refundable expenses which you have paid or 
legally have to pay if cancellation of the trip is necessary and unavoidable as a result
of the following events:
[.]
Under this same section, there follows a list of insured events.
1. The death, bodily injury, illness, disease, or complications arising as a direct
result of pregnancy of:
a) you
b) any person who you are travelling or have arranged to travel with
c) any person who you have arranged to stay with
d) your close relative
e) your close business associate.
2. You or any person who you are travelling or have arranged to travel with being
quarantined, called as a witness at a Court of Law or for jury service attendance.
3. Redundancy of you or any person who you are travelling or have arranged to
travel with which qualifies for payment under current United Kingdom redundancy
payment legislation, and at the time of booking the trip there was no reason to 
believe anyone would be made redundant.4. You or any person who you are travelling or have arranged to travel with, are a
member of the Armed Forces, Territorial Army, Police, Fire, Nursing or Ambulance
Services or employees of a Government Department and have your/their authorised
leave cancelled or are called up for operational reasons, provided that the 
cancellation could not reasonably have been expected at the time when you
purchased this insurance or at the time of booking any trip.
5. The Police or other authorities requesting you to stay at your home due to serious
damage to your home caused by fire, aircraft, explosion, storm, flood, subsidence,
fallen trees, collision by road vehicles, malicious people or theft.
In considering the above, what happened in the circumstances of Mr Fs claim isnt covered.
On the same page 3, the policy goes on to say:
What is not covered:
[]
2. Anything arising directly or indirectly from:
[]
g) regulations set by the government of any country.
The General Exclusions section of the policy sets out that there is no cover for anything
caused directly or indirectly by:
15. Your travel to a country or specific area or event to which the travel advice unit
of the Foreign and Commonwealth Office (FCO) has advised against all but essential
travel.
Has the claim been declined fairly?
I dont propose to uphold Mr Fs complaint as I dont think ERGO treated him unfairly. I say
this because:
Mr Fs trip wasnt cancelled for any of the reasons set out in the cancellation section 
of the policy. So, what happened here isnt covered under the terms and conditions 
of the policy. Ive also looked at the remaining sections of Mr Fs policy, but I dont 
think he held any cover which would pay a benefit in the circumstances he found 
himself in.
Ive considered whats fair and reasonable in the overall circumstances of the case, 
taking into account industry rules and guidance and the relevant law.
There are some limited situations where, if I didnt think an insurer had clearly and 
transparently signposted a policyholder to certain exclusions, such as an exclusion 
for claims for travelling against FCO advice, I might think its fair and reasonable for 
an insurer to accept a claim outside of the policy terms and conditions. However, I 
think there are other reasons why ERGO could have fairly declined the claim.
The cancellation section of Mr Fs policy also excludes claims for cancellation arising 
from regulations set by the government of any country.
Its hard to say with any certainty that there was one specific reason for Mr Fs claim. 
I think a combination of factors  the spread of Covid-19, FCO advice and 
government restrictions in the UK  are all likely to have impacted to some degree on 
the cancellation of the trip.
Mr F cancelled the trip on 29 May 2020 and at the time the UK government advised 
against meeting up with others indoors completely. And for the dates Mr F had his accommodation booked (17 July to 24 July 2020), the advice was to avoid gathering 
indoors in groups of more than two households. So not only are the reasons for the 
cancellation of Mr Fs trip not covered as listed insured events under his policy, I 
think its likely the exclusion Ive quoted above about regulations set by the 
government of any country would apply to the circumstances of his claim in any 
event.
Mr F has commented on other insurance test cases which were silent on the 
pandemic and which were then settled. I appreciate this but, Id like to point out that 
our service looks at the merits of individual cases and reaches an outcome based on 
available evidence. I cannot therefore comment on those cases.
Mr F has also referred to page 3 of the policy document which says there is 
cancellation cover if: You or any person who are travelling or have arranged to travel 
with being quarantined, called as a witness at a court of law or for jury service 
attendance. In particular, he refers to the meaning of quarantine. He says the 
definition of quarantine in the Oxford Collins Dictionary is: If a person or animal is in 
quarantine, they are being kept separate from other people or animals for a set 
period of time, usually because they have or may have a disease. Ive considered 
Mr Fs comments. Theres nothing to suggest that the reason he cancelled the trip 
was because he had to quarantine or because he had a disease. Mr F said he 
cancelled the trip because of the UK government advice at the time on 29 May 2020.
I accept that neither party knew what was coming ahead. But while insurance does 
generally provide cover for events that are unforeseen, in the circumstances of this 
case, the policy has no cover for what happened. Mr Fs reasons for cancelling the 
trip is not listed as an insured event under his policy.
Im sorry to disappoint Mr F but I dont think his claim is covered under the terms and 
conditions of his policy and I dont think there are any reasonable grounds upon 
which I could fairly ask ERGO to accept his claim.
Both parties responded to my provisional decision. 
ERGO said it had nothing further to provide.
Mr F responded and said the following:
The words guidance and advice have been confused with regulation (which Mr F 
says has a completely different definition). 
Quarantine is covered in the policy. Mr F does not agree with the interpretation 
reached on this point.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I dont uphold Mr Fs complaint. 
I appreciate Mr Fs comments about the difference in definitions of the words and their 
interpretations of them. Ive reconsidered these and I dont think hes raised anything new 
here to what hes told us previously. 
Ive already considered his point about the interpretation of the word quarantine. Ive said 
what I think about this in my provisional decision and theres nothing further I can add.For completeness, however, I would like to reiterate that Mr F cancelled the trip on 
29 May 2020 and at the time the UK government advised against meeting up with others 
indoors completely. 
And for the dates Mr F had his accommodation booked (17 July to 24 July 2020), the advice 
was to avoid gathering indoors in groups of more than two households. So not only are the 
reasons for the cancellation of Mr Fs trip not covered as listed insured events under his 
policy, I think its likely the exclusion Ive quoted above about regulations set by the 
government of any country would apply to the circumstances of his claim in any event. 
Mr F believes the words guidance and advice have been confused with regulations. Im 
afraid I dont agree. All three words are consistent with action needed to be taken by 
guidance, advice or a directive given by someone in authority. In any case, the crux of the 
complaint is that ERGO declined Mr Fs claim. My role is to decide whether the claim has 
been looked at in line with the policy terms and conditions as this is whats formed the basis 
of his travel insurance contract with ERGO. While insurance covers events that are 
unforeseen, unfortunately, it doesnt cover every eventuality. In Mr Fs claim, what happened 
isnt covered under his policy.
In all the circumstances of this complaint and having looked at everything again, Im not 
persuaded ERGO has treated Mr F unfairly or unreasonably. Im sorry to disappoint Mr F but 
I dont think ERGO needs to do anything further. 
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I dont uphold Mr Fs complaint against 
ERGO.Reiseversicherung AG trading as ETI International Travel Protection.
 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr F to accept or 
reject my decision before 22 December 2021.
 
Nimisha Radia
Ombudsman