DRN-3609105
The complaint
Mr S complains about Bank of Scotland plc trading as Halifax (Halifax) for entries it made 
onto his credit file, and the difficulties he experienced getting matters put right. 
What happened
In late 2021, Mr S took out a loan with Halifax. 
In error, Halifax reported this loan twice to credit reference agencies, so it appeared as 
though Mr S had taken out two loans and was only making repayments on one. 
Mr S became aware of this in December 2021. He contacted Halifax and spent a long time 
on the phone, trying to have his details amended. 
During his call, the agent misunderstood the seriousness of the issue, and what this was 
doing to Mr Ss credit file. They offered him £30 compensation. 
Mr S checked his credit file again in January 2022 and it still appeared that the second loan 
was being reported. He contacted Halifax again. 
Halifax took steps to amend Mr Ss credit file and in early February 2022, when Halifax 
spoke to Mr S again, it acknowledged that it had not taken the impact seriously enough. 
Halifax increased its offer of compensation to Mr S to a total of £280 for his distress and 
inconvenience, and a further £50 to reimburse him for his calls. Mr Ss credit file has been 
rectified. 
Mr S was not happy with this and contacted us. 
Our investigator looked into this matter and set out his view to the parties. This focussed on 
the amount of compensation that Halifax had offered and whether this was enough, as there 
was no dispute that Halifax had acted wrongly in the way it reported the loan. Our 
investigator considered that the offer made by Halifax was reasonable and was in line with 
awards we would make in similar circumstances. The investigator therefore did not 
recommend upholding the complaint. 
Mr S did not accept this view and asked for an ombudsman decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I have paid particular attention to Mr Ss calls and his explanation of how difficult he found 
dealing with this matter, and how the effects on him could have been much worse if he had 
not noticed the issue. He thinks that his credit score could have been completely destroyed. 
He has said that he thinks Halifax should pay him £1000 compensation and should learn 
lessons and change its processes. 
I appreciate how Mr S feels about this matter and how difficult this has been. I have noted 
the difficulties Mr S experienced and have taken these into account. 
As my colleague explained, we do not regulate the processes or policies of financial 
businesses and we cannot make changes to business processes. Our role is to look at 
individual cases and whether a consumer has been treated fairly. Where they have not, we 
can direct businesses to pay compensation. Compensation awards look at the effects on an 
individual but are also based on broad categories.
I appreciate that Mr S has found this matter very difficult and this has felt substantial effects. 
Fortunately he has explained to my colleague that he was able to manage his applications 
well so he did not have to apply for credit while his credit file was wrong. 
He has spent a long time on calls and had to chase progress. Calls were not returned to him 
and he has been very upset by this matter. 
I note, however, that Mr S was able to manage this over a relatively short period of time, and 
the matter was corrected within a couple of months of the loan being issued. This limited the 
reporting issues and meant that the situation was put right quickly. 
In those circumstances, even taking into account the emotional effects on Mr S, I consider 
that the compensation offered is reasonable and is in line with other awards we would make 
in similar circumstances. 
I know Mr S thinks more compensation should be paid, but the amount he has suggested is 
considerably more than we would award for a matter like this.
I realise that this will be disappointing for Mr S, but for those reasons I do not uphold his 
complaint and do not ask Halifax to do anything further.  
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I do not uphold Mr Ss complaint and do not ask Bank of 
Scotland plc trading as Halifax to do anything further. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 7 September 2022.
 
Laura Garvin-Smith
Ombudsman