DRN-3893737
The complaint
Mr B complains about the way Admiral Insurance (Gibraltar) Limited has handled a claim 
hes made on his buildings insurance policy following storm damage.
What happened
Mr B is represented by Mrs B in bringing this complaint. References I make to Mr B and 
Admiral includes respective agents and representatives unless stated otherwise.
The background to this complaint is well known to the parties so Ive included a summary 
here.
Mr B owns a property insured under a buildings insurance policy underwritten by 
Admiral.  The property was damaged following a storm and Mr B made a claim on his 
policy. 
Admiral appointed a loss adjuster (LA) to validate the claim and he undertook a visit 
and inspection. Mr B says there was some back and forth between Admiral and its 
LA that went on for several months so he borrowed money from relations to pay for 
the work to be undertaken privately as damage was continuing.
Unhappy with the progress of the claim and poor communication, Mr B complained. 
Admiral accepted the validation process had not gone as smoothly as it should have 
and paid compensation of £175 in recognition of this. But it thought its 
communication throughout the claim had been acceptable.
Admiral also explained it couldnt take the claim forward until it had undertaken an in-
person interview with Mr B. Mrs B said that, due to Mr Bs personal circumstances at 
the time, this wasnt possible. Admiral was unwilling to waive this requirement so it 
said the claim would be placed on hold until Mr B decided how he wanted to proceed.
Mr B disagreed with this and raised a complaint with this Service. Our Investigator 
agreed there had been some miscommunication through the claim but overall was 
satisfied Admiral had kept Mr B informed. She said, given Mr Bs personal 
circumstances and the potential impact on him of having to attend a face-to-face 
interview, Admiral should find an alternative way of validating the claim.
Following some further comments from the parties, Admiral agreed to waive the 
requirement for a face-to-face interview with Mr B in favour of a phone interview with 
him and a face-to-face interview with Mrs B, which our Investigator thought was fair. 
Mr B disagreed and asked an Ombudsman to make a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im sorry to hear about Mr Bs health and I hope this improves soon. I empathise with 
his situation and understand why this may make dealing with this claim more difficult. 
My role requires me to undertake an independent and impartial review of the 
circumstances of the complaint and say how I think it should be resolved quickly and 
with minimal formality. That may mean at times my decision sounds rather matter of 
fact. I mean no offence by this, it merely reflects the nature of my role.
The terms of Mr Bs policy require him to cooperate with Admirals investigation when 
making a claim. This requirement is common across many insurance policies and is, 
on its face, a reasonable and practical necessity for a claim to proceed.
Admiral has appointed an agent to assist with the validation of the claim and part of 
this process required a face-to-face interview with Mr B as the policyholder. This is 
not uncommon during the course of an insurance claim. 
Mr Bs representative has explained how difficult he would find this as a result of his 
health issues. In recognition of this, our Investigator told Admiral it needed to find a 
different way to validate the claim, to which it has agreed.
So, instead, Admiral proposes to speak to Mr B over the phone  rather than in 
person  and undertake a face-to-face interview with Mrs B in order to move the 
validation of the claim forward. I think this was a positive step on Admirals part and a 
practical compromise in these particular circumstances.
I acknowledge that this way forward may still be challenging for Mr B but Ive not 
seen anything which leads me to conclude theres a medical reason why it wouldnt 
be possible. Ive also seen nothing which shows Mr B needs a legally appointed 
representative to handle affairs on his behalf which might require a different 
approach.
Overall, Im satisfied its reasonable and in line with the policy terms for Admiral to 
investigate the claim as it has proposed, before agreeing to settle it. Admiral wants to 
discuss some matters directly with Mr B and doing this over the phone seems to me 
a fair way forward. I say this as he is the sole policyholder and some of the issues 
Admiral might wish to clarify may only apply to him specifically which would make it 
difficult for anyone else to answer. But for anything related to the claim thats not 
specific to Mr B, Admiral should include this in the face-to-face interview with Mrs. B. 
Taking everything into account, I consider this to be a fair and reasonable way 
forward based on the evidence Ive been presented with.
Admiral accepts that there has been some incorrect information passed to Mr B 
regarding the status of the claim and its claim handling could have been better. 
Based on what Ive seen, Im satisfied the £175 compensation its paid Mr B is a fair 
and reasonable way to recognise the impact of these failings on Mr B.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold Mr Bs complaint and direct Admiral Insurance (Gibraltar) 
Limited to waive its requirement to interview Mr B face to face in order to validate his claim. 
Instead, it should do this by undertaking its enquiries by phone call with Mr B and a face-to-
face interview with Mrs B.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 10 February 2023.
 
Paul Phillips
Ombudsman