DRN-2058776
The complaint
This complaint is about a mortgage Mr L used to hold with Oakwood Homeloans Limited. 
Mr L says that when his property was sold and the mortgage paid off, Oakwood took around 
£20,000 more than it was rightfully owed. 
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties so I wont repeat them again 
here. Instead Ill focus on giving the reasons for my decision. Although Ive read and 
considered the whole file Ill keep my comments to what I think is relevant. If I dont comment 
on any specific point, its not because Ive not considered it but because I dont think I need 
to comment on it in order to reach the right outcome. Ive also rounded the figures involved
What Ive decided  and why
Ill make some general observations before dealing with the substance of the complaint. 
 Were not the regulator of financial businesses, and we dont police their internal 
processes or how they operate generally. Thats the job of the Financial Conduct Authority. 
We deal with individual disputes between businesses and their customers. In doing that, we 
dont replicate the work of the courts. 
Were impartial, and we dont take either sides instructions on how we investigate a 
complaint. We conduct our investigations and reach our conclusions without interference 
from anyone else. Its up to us to decide what evidence we need to decide a complaint, 
where we should get it from, and what weight we should attach to it once we have it. Its also 
our judgement to make on when we have everything we need to reach a fair conclusion.
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Having done so, Ive reached broadly the 
same conclusions as the investigator, and for much the same overall reasons.
The crux of this complaint is the additional sum of just over £20,000 that Oakwood insisted 
on receiving, over and above the redemption balance of around £103,000, when Mr Ls 
property was compulsorily purchased by the local authority. Mr L believes this was stolen 
from him and that he must have it back. I do understand Mr Ls strength of feeling, but the 
inescapable truth here is that by way of a charging order in 2013, a court decided Oakwood 
was entitled to receive that extra money.
Its not within my remit to decide if the courts decision was wrong or somehow unfair. If Mr L 
wants to argue that the money has been taken from him wrongfully, then the only forum 
where that argument can be heard and decided is the court that handed down the charging 
order in the first place.
There is another dimension to this; Mr L believes very passionately that Oakwoods actions 
are rooted in racism, and that a white family would not have been treated in the same way 
his has. I dont doubt Mr Ls certainty, but I have to follow the evidence before me, and as 
Ive said above, Oakwood was acting in accordance with what a court of law had decided 
several years earlier. 
Taking those points to their logical conclusion, it seems to me that it can be inferred Mr L 
believes its the courts decision that was racially-motivated. If thats the case, then that too is 
an argument Mr L would need to put to the court that granted the order. Its not something 
for me to address here.
My final decision
Mr Ls position is an unenviable one, and Im not unsympathetic towards his situation. But for 
all the reasons given, my final decision must be that I dont uphold this complaint or make 
any award against Oakwood Homeloans Limited. 
My final decision concludes this services consideration of this complaint, which means Ill 
not be engaging in any further consideration or discussion of the merits of it.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr L to accept or 
reject my decision before 2 October 2020.
 
Jeff Parrington
Ombudsman