DRN-4040552
The complaint
Mr P is complaining that U K Insurance Limited (UKI) didnt automatically renew his 
commercial vehicle insurance policy.
What happened
Mr Ps van was damaged in an incident, so he contacted UKI to claim on his commercial 
vehicle insurance policy. UKI assessed the claim, but didnt think it was economical to repair 
the van. So it said it would settle the claim by paying the vans market value, less his excess. 
Mr P ultimately decided to retain the van and repair it privately. UKI said he could do so, but 
hed be insured third party only until he repaired it and had an MOT carried out.
In August 2022, UKI emailed Mr P to say the policy had lapsed. Mr P was later stopped by 
the police and is being prosecuted for driving without insurance. So he raised a complaint 
with UKI that it didnt renew the policy. UKI didnt uphold this complaint as it said it had 
emailed Mr P to say the policy hadnt renewed.
Our investigator upheld this complaint for the following reasons:
She didnt think UKI had made it clear that Mr P needed to call to confirm hed had the 
work done;
The settlement letter UKI sent Mr P didnt say it wouldnt automatically renew the policy 
unless he repaired the car; and
UKI hadnt given notice that the policy wouldnt automatically renew before the policy 
lapsed.
The investigator acknowledged that UKI had emailed Mr P to say the policy had lapsed. But 
she thought it was understandable Mr P hadnt acknowledged its content because she didnt 
think he was on the lookout for anything, as hed expected the policy to auto renew. And she 
thought Mr P had lost out as a result. So she thought UKI should provide Mr P with a letter of 
indemnity explaining what happened and saying that it was UKIs fault Mr P was driving 
uninsured. She also thought it should pay him £500 in compensation.
UKI didnt agree with the investigators opinion. It maintained that Mr P was told on the 
telephone what he needed to do and it reiterated that it wrote to Mr P to explain the policy 
had lapsed. 
As UKI didnt agree with the investigator, the complaints been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive decided to uphold this complaint for the same reasons as the investigator. 
Essentially, the issue for me to decide is whether UKI gave Mr P enough information to know 
what he needed to do to keep the policy running on the same terms and whether it gave him 
enough notice it wouldnt automatically renew the insurance policy.
However, Ive first thought about whether it was fair for UKI to not offer automatic renewal in 
the first instance. Ive listened to the telephone call recordings UKI has given us for the calls 
it had with Mr P and Ive also read the correspondence it sent to him. On the telephone, UKI 
explained that the insurance policy would provide third party only cover until Mr P repaired 
the van and had received a new MOT. But I havent seen anywhere that Mr P was told to call 
back to advise when this was done. And I would have expected it to have explained this to 
him. I also would have expected UKI to set out in the settlement letter it sent Mr P that the 
insurance contract had been amended to provide third party only cover and explain to Mr P 
what he needed to do to reinstate comprehensive cover. But it didnt do so.
Mr P has said he wasnt aware he needed to call UKI back and I can understand why, given 
what I said above. I understand he did fix the van and had it assessed for an MOT as UKI 
instructed. So, he did what it asked him to do and I think he would have contacted UKI if hed 
be told he needed to do so. And, had this happened, UKI would have renewed the policy. So 
I think hes lost out as a result of this. But, even if this wasnt the case, Ive now thought 
about whether it did enough to notify him that the policy wasnt going to renew.
Due to the significant potential implications of driving without insurance, if an insurer wishes 
to no longer continue to provide an insurance policy  either by cancelling it or declining to 
offer renewal  it should make it very clear to the policyholder of its intentions and give 
sufficient notice as such. I dont think UKI did enough in this instance to notify Mr P the policy 
wouldnt automatically renew and Ill explain why.
The terms of the insurance policy set out the following:
Automatic renewal 
When your policy is due for renewal, we may offer to renew it for you automatically using the 
payment details you have already given, unless we or you have advised otherwise. We will 
write to you at least 21 days before your policy ends and before taking any payment to 
confirm your renewal premium and policy terms. If you do not want to renew your policy you 
must call us before your renewal date to let us know. 
It is not possible to offer automatic renewal with all payment methods so please check your 
renewal invite for further details. 
If we are unable to offer renewal terms we will write to you at your last known address to let 
you know.
So, under the terms of the insurance policy, UKI sets out that it will write to Mr P to explain if 
it isnt able to offer renewal terms. But it didnt do so. I should also state that, even if the 
policy didnt say as such, I also would consider it good industry practice for an insurer to 
write to give policyholders reasonable notice before the policy lapsed that the policy wouldnt 
automatically renew and explain what they needed to do next to remain insured.
Im also conscious that the terms of the contract specifically sets out that UKI will write to 
Mr Ps last known address if it chooses to not offer renewal terms. So, while I acknowledge 
Mr P chose to use email as his preferred method of contact, UKI was contractually required 
to send a letter to his address. But it didnt do so either. So, for all these reasons, I dont 
think UKI gave Mr P sufficient notice it wasnt going to renew the policy.
I recognise that there is a responsibility for Mr P to ensure hes suitably insured and to read what is sent to him. I acknowledge that UKI emailed Mr P to say that the policy lapsed, but it 
seems Mr P didnt see or acknowledge this email as he reasonably expected the policy to 
automatically renew  especially given the statement of facts sent out at the start said it 
would do so. 
As I said, there was an onus on Mr P to read everything UKI sent out. However, UKI had a 
number of opportunities to notify Mr P what he needed to do, but it didnt do so. And it seems 
to me that Mr P driving uninsured ultimately stems from UKIs failure to give Mr P adequate 
information about how to reinstate his comprehensive cover or that his insurance policy 
wouldnt automatically renew. 
Im satisfied that, had UKI done what it should have done, Mr P would have taken the 
relevant steps to ensure his insurance policy continued with the requisite level of cover. And 
it follows, therefore, that Mr P wouldnt have been stopped and subsequently prosecuted for 
driving without insurance. So UKI should take the following steps to put things right:
Provide Mr P with a letter of indemnity acknowledging it was responsible for Mr P driving 
without insurance; and
Pay Mr P £500 in compensation for the distress and inconvenience this matter has 
caused him.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive set out above, its my final decision that I uphold this complaint and I 
require U K Insurance Limited to compensate Mr P in line with my instructions above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision before 20 April 2023. 
Guy Mitchell
Ombudsman