DRN-2437832
The complaint
Mr A complains about the time it took Wirecard Card Solutions Limited to resolve an issue 
with the display of his online bank statements.
 
What happened
In July 2019, Mr A contacted Wirecard about an issue with the view of his bank statement 
online. The balance column was showing the wrong figures.
 
A few weeks later Wirecard told Mr A the issue had been fixed. Mr A says it still wasnt 
resolved a year later, despite him contacting Wirecard several times.
Wirecard responded to Mr As complaint in September 2020. It said there was a technical 
issue affecting Mr As running balance. The available balance had always been correct, but 
the information displayed regarding the running balance was not correct. Wirecard said the 
issue had now been resolved and paid Mr A £25 as an apology for the inconvenience 
caused.
Mr A acknowledged that the issue had been fixed but he didnt think Wirecard had done 
enough to put things right. He was unhappy with the length of time it had taken Wirecard to 
resolve things despite him contacting it several times.
Our investigator asked Wirecard to provide evidence to show Mr A was able to see the 
correct information (about his available balance) elsewhere. He also asked Wirecard for 
further information to establish if it had taken Mr As issues seriously.
Wirecard didnt respond to our investigators information requests, so he reached a view 
based on the information available to him. The investigator thought Mr As complaint should 
be upheld. He said Wirecard hadnt provided evidence to show it had taken Mr As concerns 
seriously and had tried to resolve them promptly. He recommended Wirecard pay Mr A a 
further £75 (in addition to the £25 it had already paid) to compensate him for the trouble and 
upset hed experienced.
Wirecard didnt respond to our investigators view, despite him chasing it for this. So, his 
complaint has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Wirecard has acknowledged there was an issue with how Mr As balance was displayed on 
his online statements. Mr A has provided evidence that he first made Wirecard aware of this 
problem in July 2019. Wirecard told Mr A the problem had been fixed in August 2019. But  
Mr A contacted Wirecard several times after that saying the issue hadnt been resolved.
From what Ive seen and been told, the issue wasnt resolved until September 2020  14 
months after Mr A had first raised it with Wirecard. And Wirecard hasnt given any 
explanation as to why it took so long.
 
Mr A says he wasnt able to view the correct balances even after downloading his 
statements. He says this made it difficult for him to budget properly and caused him a lot of 
stress and anxiety.
As Ive no evidence to show me otherwise, I think its fair to conclude that Wirecard should 
have resolved the issue much sooner than it did. I also think its communication with Mr A 
should have been much better than it was.
With this in mind, I dont think the £25 Wirecard has paid Mr A is enough to compensate him 
for the impact this situation has had on him. Im persuaded that the issue made budgeting 
difficult for Mr A. And it was no doubt frustrating for him to have to chase Wirecard and wait 
so long for the matter to be resolved. So, I think it would be fair for Wirecard to pay Mr A a 
further £75 to compensate him for the trouble and upset hes experienced.
Putting things right
Wirecard should pay Mr A £75 (in addition to the £25 its already paid him).
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I uphold Mr As complaint and direct Wirecard Card Solutions 
Limited to put things right by doing as Ive said above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision before 6 August 2021.
 
Anne Muscroft
Ombudsman