DRN-1902469
The complaint
Mr M and Mrs B complained about the way U K Insurance Limited (UKI) trading as Privilege 
handled a claim against their motor insurance policy. 
What happened
Mr M and Mrs Bs car was unfortunately damaged by vandalism in August 2019. When Mr M 
spoke to UKI, he changed his mind as to whether they wanted UKI to repair the car or use a 
garage of their choice. After a couple of phone calls with UKI, he told them that theyd like a 
garage of their choice to repair their car.  
UKI sent an engineer to inspect the car. They reported that the cost to repair the damage 
was £2,536. They said this was based on how much it would cost UKI to repair the car 
through one of their network garages. At the time of the inspection, UKI said their engineer 
showed Mr M what was included within the repair costs and the difference in costs between 
using UKIs own network garage, and a private garage. 
UKI offered Mr M and Mrs B a cash settlement in lieu of the repairs as they wanted to use a 
garage of their choice. 
Mr M and Mrs B obtained their own estimates which gave repair costs ranging between 
roughly £4,500 and £6,500. They put this to UKI and asked them to increase the cash 
settlement amount because they didnt think theyd been given enough to repair their car. 
But UKI didnt agree. 
UKI said the estimates Mr M and Mrs B provided were unreasonable, such as the labour 
costs involved, and felt their engineer had reached a fair estimate. UKI also said theyre able 
to obtain cheaper repair costs when using their network garages. 
Mr M and Mrs B complained about this. They felt the engineer whod inspected the damage 
was biased and didnt take all the damage into account. So, they asked UKI to send an 
independent engineer, but UKI didnt agree to that. 
UKI maintained theyd acted fairly by offering to repair the car. And because this was 
rejected, they offered a cash settlement in lieu of the repairs, which was based on what it 
wouldve cost them. So, Mr M and Mrs B brought a complaint to our service. 
An investigator here looked into the matter. He felt UKI acted reasonably by offering to either 
repair the car or pay a cash settlement to the value of what it wouldve cost them under the 
policy. He felt UKI had reasonably shown they couldve repaired Mr M and Mrs Bs car for 
the amount they paid as a cash settlement. So, he didnt recommend the complaint should 
be upheld.
Mr M and Mrs B disagreed. They maintained that UKI didnt take account of all the damage 
caused by the vandalism when inspecting the car. They said they went onto pay for repairs 
to be completed by a local garage which cost them over £6,500. They maintain UKI should 
cover the full costs they paid to repair the damage. 
Our investigator asked why Mr M and Mrs B didnt want UKI to repair the car through their 
network garage. Mr M responded to say hed seen bad customer reviews online and 
therefore didnt want the car repaired there. Our investigator said he didnt think it would be 
fair to ask UKI to increase their cash settlement amount by £4,000 due to this reason. 
The investigator also said hed been unable to verify the invoice Mr M provided showing 
proof of payment for repairs. Mr M did provide further information, but our investigator said 
he still wasnt able to verify this. 
As Mr M and Mrs B didnt agree with what our investigator had said, they asked for an 
ombudsman to decide. So its been passed to me. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
My starting point here is Mr M and Mrs Bs car insurance policy. This covers them for, 
amongst other things, damage caused to their car. The policy also sets out how UKI will 
settle a claim, which says: 
If your car is damaged, we have the option to: 
Pay to repair the damage or repair the damage ourselves;
Replace what is lost or damaged, if this more cost-effective than repairing it; 
or 
Settle your claim by sending you a cheque or by bank transfer. 
This means UKI is entitled to decide how they settle a policyholders claim. In this case, they 
inspected the car and were able to have the repairs carried out through one of their network 
garages, at a cost of £2,536. UKI said this was a more cost-effective way to settle the claim 
given the discounts available to them when using a network garage. Given the terms above, 
I dont think they acted unreasonably by deciding to settle the claim in this way. 
Mr M and Mrs B opted to have repairs carried out at a garage of their choice. When they first 
made the claim, they agreed to use one of UKIs network garages, but later changed their 
mind. The estimates they provided were significantly higher than what UKI gave. They said 
they opted to use their own garage because Mr M had found bad customer reviews online 
for UKIs network garage. 
Ive given this a lot of thought. I accept this wouldve been of some concern to Mr M and Mrs 
B to find bad reviews for the garage. But Ive not seen from the claim notes that this was 
raised to UKI at the time, or that UKI only offered one garage to them. Although, Mr M has 
said this was the case during a telephone conversation between him and UKI. In any event, 
Im not persuaded on balance it would be fair or reasonable for me to require UKI to use Mr 
M and Mrs Bs estimates over their own due to this reason alone. Had the repairs been 
carried out by UKI to an unsatisfactory standard, Mr M and Mrs B couldve raised this with 
UKI at that time. 
Theres a dispute present here about whether UKIs estimate is too low, and whether Mr M 
and Mrs Bs estimates are too high. The question I need to answer here is whether I think 
UKI has demonstrated they applied the policy terms in a fair and reasonable way. And in this 
case I think they have. I note Mr M and Mrs B said there was further damage that UKI hadnt accounted for in their 
estimate. For example, the damage caused to the roof, both on the outside and the inside. 
From the claim notes I can see UKI said roof repairs were included in their estimate. 
UKI said Mr M and Mrs Bs car showed pre-existing damage and had previously been 
deemed a category N write off. They said there was signs of previous poor repairs. For 
example, the roof showed signs of cracked paintwork which had split, and parts of the 
bodywork had warped and become distorted due to poor previous repairs. They said their 
engineer considered one of the reasons why Mr M and Mrs Bs quotes were so high was due 
to the excessive labour rates accounting for the previous poor repairs. 
UKI also said whilst theyd included repairs to the roof in their estimate, they felt that 
replacing the roof would be deemed as betterment given the issues that they felt were pre-
existing and not claim-related. They also said the estimates Mr M and Mrs B provided most 
likely included replacing the roof, which they wouldnt have agreed to pay as part of the claim 
in any event.
To summarise things, Ive given a lot of thought to what Mr M and Mrs B and UKI have said 
here. Overall, UKI were required to settle the claim in line with the terms set out above. I 
think they did this by carrying out the inspection and offering to repair the car through one of 
their network garages. 
As Mr M and Mrs B opted to choose their own garage, UKI paid them a cash settlement of 
the costs they wouldve incurred to repair their car. Ive not seen anything here that 
dissuades me from thinking UKI wouldve been able to repair the claims damage caused to 
the car to the condition it was in prior to the incident. I think as Mr M and Mrs B decided to 
use their own garage, it was fair and reasonable on balance for UKI to pay them the cash 
settlement, which the policy entitles them to do. So, for the reasons set out above, I wont be 
requiring UKI to do anything else here. 
I accept this outcome will come to disappoint Mr M and Mrs B. But my decision ends what 
we  in attempting to resolve their dispute with UKI  can do for them. 
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, my final decision is I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs B and Mr M to 
accept or reject my decision before 8 February 2021.
 
Liam Hickey
Ombudsman