DRN-1307013
Complaint
Mr N complains that he has been discriminated against when applying for a new account 
with TSB Bank plc (TSB) because of the basic banking accounts he holds jointly with his 
wife. He also is unhappy that he was never told of the change of these joint accounts to a 
new style of account. 
Background
Mr N has two linked  complaints, firstly, his former Islamic Joint accounts with his wife were 
changed to a Classic Essential Account (CEA) without his knowledge. Secondly, as a result 
of being a CEA account holder, he was declined for a new account in his name.
TSB say all Islamic Account holders were written to about the account change and provided 
a copy of the letter sent to all account holders. The letter confirmed the date the accounts 
would change to a CEA and other options open to the customers. As to Mr Ns application 
for a sole account, TSB say that this was declined after going through its checks and 
searches, which customers must go through when opening new accounts and this was 
explained to him. Mr N still felt that he was discriminated against and the case was then 
referred to this service.
The investigator looked into the matter and collected all the available information. She said 
that Mr N and his wife would have been advised in writing of the change of accounts.
On looking at the application for a sole account the investigator also felt that TSB hadnt 
treated Mr N any different than any other customer when opening a new account. It is noted 
that TSB also gave a leaflet to Mr N on how to improve his credit rating. The investigator was 
satisfied the joint CEA wasnt behind the decision to refuse a sole account in his name. 
Mr N was not happy with the outcome and asked for the case to be referred to an 
ombudsman for a final decision.
My findings
 
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Having done so, Ive come to the same 
conclusion as the investigator and for much the same reasons.
In coming to my decision on the change of the joint Islamic accounts to CEAs, I think TSB 
wrote to Mr N telling him what was happening given that it was writing to all customers 
effected by the change.  
I understand that Mr N says he didnt receive the letter notifying him of the change of his 
account to a CEA, but TSB have provided a copy to this service of the generic letter sent to 
all Islamic account customers. While TSB doesnt keep copies of these individual letters, 
other letters, such as the letter in response to his complaint were sent using addresses from the same central database as the change of account letters. I say this as Mr N did receive 
the letter which referred him to this service. 
I have also seen copies of bank statements from TSB which also show the account identified 
as a CEA, in addition if Mr N used on line banking this would also show the account type . 
Taking this into account, I am satisfied, on balance its likely this was posted to Mr N and that 
he could have been aware of the change in his account in other ways too.
I can understand how frustrating it must have been for Mr N to have his request for the 
account declined. But a bank is entitled to decide who it offers accounts to, just as 
customers are entitled to decide who they bank with. So what I need to consider is whether 
TSB in making this decision treated him unfairly. TSB (indeed all banks) will usually 
complete checks when considering whether or not to open an account.  I can see that on 
declining Mr Ns account they provided a leaflet explaining that he should check his credit 
rating.  
Mr N says he was told that the reason for declining the account was due to the fact he had a 
basic CEA, but I havent seen any evidence to support this. It might be that TSB gave this as 
a potential reason for the decline here. But TSB undertake a series of different checks when 
opening new accounts and the fact that Mr N held a CEA wasnt, in my view, the reason it 
declined the opening of the account. I say this because TSB have explained that this wasnt 
the case here. Instead, the reason was related to the credit checks TSB performed when 
seeing if he was eligible for the account, which is why it gave him the leaflet it did here. 
I understand also that Mr N was expecting a letter from TSB after he complained at the 
branch , but he simply got a letter stating the matter had been dealt with and referred him to 
our service should he be unhappy with the outcome. While I realise Mr N wasnt happy with 
how TSB responded, he was given the information he needed to take his complaint further, 
as he has.
I understand Mr N will be disappointed with my decision, but I am satisfied that he hasnt 
been discriminated against by TSB.  I think that, on balance, its more likely than not that 
TSB wrote to Mr N and his wife about the change of account details. And I am satisfied he 
was treated no differently to any other customer during the account opening process. It 
follows that I cant ask TSB to do any more here
 
My Final Decision
For the reasons above my final decision is that I do not uphold the complaint against TSB 
Bank  plc.  Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs N 
and Mr N to accept or reject my decision before 19 May 2020.
Barry White
Ombudsman