DRN-2398424
The complaint
Mr and Mrs M complain that Lloyds Bank PLC when it was trading as Cheltenham & 
Gloucester (C&G) mis-sold them a payment protection insurance (PPI) policy.
Lloyds Bank is responsible for dealing with this complaint. So from now on Ill just refer to 
Lloyds as the seller.
What happened
Mr and Mrs M took out a PPI policy alongside a joint mortgage in 2004. 
The policy protected their mortgage repayments in the event that Mr M couldnt work. 
Our adjudicator didnt uphold the complaint. Mr and Mrs M disagreed with the adjudicators 
opinion. 
Mr and Mrs M mainly complain that the PPI wasnt something they wanted or needed. They 
said no written or printed details of PPI were provided and the assistant stated that PPI was 
necessary to obtain and guarantee the mortgage they were applying for. 
Mr and Mrs M told us the reason for taking out PPI was to obtain the mortgage although they 
had made it clear they really did not want or require it.
Mr and Mrs M say their mortgage payments would have been covered by Mr Ms employers 
sickness benefit scheme, life insurance and savings.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding this case. 
Id like to reassure Mr and Mrs M that Ive looked at the complaint afresh  and Ive 
independently reached the same conclusions as our adjudicator and decided not to uphold 
their complaint. Ill explain why.
It wouldnt be reasonable to expect Mr and Mrs M to remember exactly what was discussed 
so long ago when they took out the policy. This means that what they say about the way 
they were sold PPI isnt enough on its own for me to be able to uphold their complaint.
I have to decide what I think is most likely given the available information and the wider 
circumstances. 
On their mortgage application form, Mr and Mrs M were offered the option to say whether or 
not they wished to apply for PPI. So although I don't know how the assistant presented or 
explained PPI to Mr and Mrs M, they wouldve seen that it was up to them to say if they 
wanted to have it. And if Mr and Mrs M hadnt wanted PPI then they couldve marked the box 
saying they didnt wish to take it out. That box is left blank on Mr and Mrs Ms mortgage 
application.
But the box is marked next to where it says:
I wish to apply for C&G Payment Protection Plus cover and have completed the relevant 
proposal form at the back of this application form
Payment Protection Plus Cover is what C&G called its PPI. 
So, at the time, I think that Mr and Mrs M wouldve understood that PPI wasnt something 
they had to have with the mortgage - it was an option they could choose if they wanted.
And it looks like they did. Mr M filled in his details and signed a separate PPI application 
form in order to take out cover  indicating that he wanted to have 100% of the benefit of the 
policy. 
The mortgage was a major financial commitment repayable over a substantial number of 
years. Mr and Mrs Ms home couldve been at risk if their mortgage payments werent kept 
up to date. PPI provided dependable cover and taking into account everything theyve told 
us about their circumstances, it looks like the policy offered them better protection than they 
had otherwise. 
So, I can see why Mr and Mrs M mightve felt PPI was useful to have.
I can completely understand if theyve forgotten these details as this happened such a long 
time ago. 
But, based on the information Ive seen, I think its likely that Mr and Mrs M decided they 
wanted the benefits that PPI offered when they took out their mortgage. 
And, on balance, I find that it was added to their mortgage account when they chose to buy 
the policy to cover Mr M  when they could see that it was up to them to say if they wanted 
to take it out.
Lloyds says it wouldve advised Mr and Mrs M to have PPI. And it looks to me like that 
recommendation was suitable based on what Ive seen of Mr and Mrs Ms circumstances at 
the time. 
Ive taken into account that Mr M told us that he wouldve been able to rely on getting full 
sick pay for a minimum of 12 months, and some sick pay for even longer than this. 
Looking at what hes told us about his circumstances, I dont know how likely it is that Mr M 
wouldve got as much sick pay as he now thinks. Being entitled to 12 months full sick pay 
would be quite unusual generally  and not a typical arrangement in Mr Ms line of work. 
What Mr M remembers about his sick pay entitlement seems unlikely to me. We asked for 
more information about this. But Mr M hasnt been able to send me anything further to show 
hes correctly remembered the amount of sick pay he couldve relied on. 
I appreciate its frustrating for Mr M that he doesnt now have access to paperwork from 
2004 that would confirm the information hes told us. But it means I dont feel I can attach 
much weight to this information.And whilst I accept that Mr M is certain about everything hes told us, its not enough in these 
circumstances for me to be able to uphold his complaint, just based on what he says.
I've taken into account that Mr M mentioned his employer offered health and sickness cover 
as part of his works package. From what hes described about this, it sounds more like 
critical illness cover  in other words, insurance that paid out in the event of long term, 
serious, life changing or life limiting conditions. PPI provided a different sort of benefit. 
Redundancy money wouldnt have helped if Mr M was off sick. And although he was eligible 
for death in service benefit from his employer, PPI paid out in different circumstances.
I think its likely that Mr M couldve had some sick pay entitlement and I've kept this in mind 
when thinking about whether PPI was right for him. 
But the policy wouldve paid out on top of any sick pay  and for up to 12 months per claim. 
And the PPI wouldve also paid out if Mr M lost his job unexpectedly and became 
unemployed.  
The monthly benefit paid out on this policy wouldve covered Mr and Mrs Ms mortgage 
repayments and also paid some extra to help them with their household bills and other costs. 
If theyd taken out home insurance with the lender the PPI would've also paid those monthly 
premiums for them as well. And Mr M couldve made multiple claims on the policy if hed 
needed to. 
The policy offered Mr and Mrs M wider protection than if theyd just been relying on Mr Ms 
employer. It gave Mr and Mrs M long term protection for their mortgage plus some extra 
financial help. It meant they could depend on being able to make their mortgage monthly 
repayments even if Mr M wasnt able to work. I think its likely that Mr and Mrs M might have 
found it hard to afford to keep up the monthly mortgage repayments without Mr Ms income 
coming into the household as he appears to have been the main earner. I think that couldve 
been an important consideration for them at the time. 
And although they had other cover in place, it didnt duplicate the benefits PPI offered. 
Mr and Mrs M also had some savings. But there was no guarantee when they took out this 
mortgage that they would always have savings to rely on. Having PPI meant Mr and Mrs M 
could keep their savings secure in the long term as they wouldnt have been forced to use 
this money to pay the mortgage. And given that they chose not to use all their savings to 
reduce the cost of their borrowing I can see why they mightve valued a PPI policy that 
meant they wouldnt have to draw on savings just to pay their mortgage if Mr M couldnt 
work. 
Overall, I think the policy was suitable for Mr and Mrs M.
There were some things the policy didnt cover  like pre-existing medical conditions, at least 
for the first 24 months of cover. 
Although Mr M mentioned having a pre-existing medical condition he also told us hed never 
had to take time off work because of it. So I think its unlikely that Mr M wouldve expected to 
claim under the policy for this condition. Or that he wouldve been put off taking out the 
policy because of it. So this information doesnt change my decision. And it doesnt look like any of the other policy limitations or exclusions wouldve affected 
Mr M. So I dont think having more information about these policy terms wouldve stopped 
him taking out the PPI.
I dont know if Mr and Mrs M knew how much PPI would cost them when they took it out. But 
they set up payment arrangements with their bank when they applied for the policy. And Ive 
also seen a copy of Mr and Mrs Ms mortgage agreement which they signed a couple of 
weeks after applying for PPI. I cant see anything in their mortgage agreement that is likely to 
have made Mr and Mrs M think that PPI was a condition of getting this mortgage  theres 
nothing in the mortgage special conditions to suggest this. 
So it looks like they wanted this type of cover and were happy to pay for it at the time. It 
seems to have been affordable for them when they took it out.  
Looked at overall, its possible there were some failings in the way this policy was sold. But 
I think Mr and Mrs M still wouldve decided to buy the policy for Mr M even if theyd been 
better informed as it gave them useful protection in their particular situation. I dont think 
better information wouldve put them off buying PPI given the benefits it offered them.
So I dont find that Mr and Mrs M have lost out as a result of anything that Lloyds did wrong 
when it sold them this PPI. This means that Lloyds doesnt need to do anything to put things 
right.
In coming to my decision Ive thought carefully about everything that Mr and Mrs M have 
said, including the comments made in response to our adjudicators view. I appreciate they 
feel strongly about this complaint. I understand that what Ive said will come as a 
disappointment. In my decision I've dealt with all the main points that have an impact on the 
outcome of this complaint and I hope that setting out the reasons as Ive done will help 
explain how Ive reached my decision.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M and Mrs M to 
accept or reject my decision before 8 January 2021.
 
Susan Webb
Ombudsman