DRN-4140407
The complaint
Mr A complains that Killik & Co LLP (Killick) was responsible for unnecessary delays after 
he instructed it to: 
sell his holdings, which resulted in Mr A not achieving the full value he could have 
expected had some of the investments been sold sooner
transfer his ISA to a third party (whom I will call C). Mr A said he lost out 
substantially from his money being invested with C later than it could and should 
have been. 
To put things right Mr A told us he wants financial compensation to enable him to purchase 
the additional investment units that would have been secured had the money been in his 
C account sooner and to provide redress for the lower prices obtained on the sale of 
investments due to Killiks delays implementing his instruction to sell.
What happened
Mr A held a stocks and shares ISA with Killick comprising holdings in four sub-accounts and 
funds that included UK and non-UK stock. Killick provided a managed service in respect of 
Mr As holdings. 
On 11 January 2022, Mr A informed his investment manager at Killick that he wanted to 
transfer out in-specie to C  in other words, move his existing holdings to his new provider. 
Within a few days, C informed Mr A that it couldnt accept all the holdings in his Killick 
account. This prompted Mr A to request that Killick retain the holdings that C could not hold. 
Killick informed Mr A that as he was transferring out, Killick would no longer manage his 
portfolio and explained that his accounts would be restricted to prevent any purchases or 
sales until Mr A provided further instructions.
On 24 January 2022, Mr A requested that the transfer was changed from in-specie to a cash 
transfer and gave instructions to Killick to liquidate his entire ISA portfolio.
The restrictions on Mr As accounts were lifted and all the sales orders were actioned on 
24 January, with the majority trading over the course of the day as the relevant stock 
exchanges opened. All trades were settled by 28 January 2022.
The cash transfer was managed for Killick by a custodian business (whom Ill call P) and 
processed through Altus  a system which allows providers to action transfers 
electronically.
On 25 January 2022, P received cash transfer requests from C via Altus for three of the 
sub-accounts and the final account was requested on 31 January 2022. 
C was required to register its bank details on Altus so that the cash funds could be paid. All 
of the cash transfers were made by BACS - a form of bank transfer that usually takes three 
days to arrive in the recipients account. Funds that were in two of the sub-accounts were 
paid on 31 January 2022 (£25,266.17) and 3 February 2022 (£130,204.74) and the 
combined funds from the other two sub-accounts (total £241,627.30) were paid on 
4 February 2022. This left only some few remaining funds which Killick needed to follow up 
with C in order to conclude matters between them.
Mr A was charged £25 in respect of each of the cash transfers and Killick refunded £50 in 
recognition of the fact that it could have moved the cash into a single account before paying 
to transfer it. 
Mr A was able to start placing trades through his new provider on 9 February 2022. 
He complained to Killick about how long the transfer had taken and said the cash 
shouldve been transferred almost immediately after the sales had settled, so in the week 
of 24 January
Mr A told Killick he was also unhappy that his holdings werent sold more quickly after he 
had emailed instructions shortly after 6am on 24 January 2022 and then spoken to his 
investment manager a couple of hours later, around 8am. He felt he had lost out 
financially due to market prices falling over the course of that day.
Killick didnt uphold his complaints. It said (in summary):
with regards to the execution of trades, Killik acted promptly and without undue 
delay to sell Mr As stocks as soon as it was possible to do so, and
the transfer request was reviewed within a reasonable timescale when it was 
received and then action was taken to progress the transfer as quickly as 
possible. 
Mr A wasnt happy with this response and he asked this service to investigate. 
Our investigator didnt uphold Mr As complaint. He thought Killick had acted fairly and 
reasonably and, as the transfer had completed well within the expected 30 day timescale, 
he wasnt proposing to ask Killick to do anything more. 
Mr A didnt agree. He mainly felt that the investigator hadnt properly understood the 
complaint or fully reviewed all the evidence. So his complaint comes to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having looked at the complaint afresh, Ive reached the same conclusion as our 
investigator and for largely the same reasons. Ill explain my approach and how I've 
reached my decision.
Its part of my role to identify and concentrate on the core issues I need to address in order 
to reach a fair outcome. Its my understanding that the crux of Mr As complaint is that his cash shouldve been with C 
and available for him to re-invest by 27 or 28 January latest. And he has a secondary 
complaint relating Killicks failure to effect some of the sales in a timely manner.
In his response to the investigator, Mr A put things this way and highlighted the following:
 The "restrictions" to stop any purchases or sales were unnecessary.
 In any event, lifting of the "restrictions" should have been an almost instantaneous 
process.
 Although you may be correct that the majority of stocks by number were US, by value 
the majority of my investments were UK (or European?). My complaint about the delays 
to the sales does not relate to the need to wait for the US market to open. It relates to the 
time taken for the "restrictions" to be lifted and/or for the (non-US) trades subsequently to 
be carried out.
 It should not take anything like 30 days to transfer cash. The "final" payment that you 
refer to is shown on my (C) account as taking place on 9th February for £241,627.30 (that 
is, it represents substantially the largest part of the overall transfer).
I will deal with each of these points in turn.
The Altus system used by Killick and C to facilitate clients transfers required Killick to 
submit valuations of each of Mr As sub-accounts. Altus does not permit valuations with 
purchases or sales pending as this will impact on any valuation already entered onto the 
system and the transfer will not be able to proceed until the process is re-started with the 
correct up-to-date figures. 
To prevent any chance of a sale or purchase going through unexpectedly and holding up 
the transfer, Killicks usual process is to restrict accounts that are being transferred-out. 
This is done by removing the stock from the screens that could be accessed by Mr As 
investment manager to eliminate any risk that a sale of the stock could be requested 
whilst in the process of being transferred. 
This involved Killick and its custodian P making manual changes to Mr As accounts which 
included funds that were going to be sold. I appreciate that Mr A thinks that restrictions 
were imposed unnecessarily. But Killicks explanation for imposing restrictions on his 
accounts seems reasonable to me and I havent seen anything to make me think it did 
anything wrong when it did this.
When Mr A changed his instructions, the restrictions needed to be removed to allow 
trading before the sales could proceed. Killick has said this was done as quickly as 
possible and I've seen nothing to suggest that I cant reasonably accept this information 
at face value. 
Given that when Mr A told Killick to sell his holdings he had four sub-accounts that needed 
further manual adjustment by both Killick and its custodian P, I dont think it took an 
unreasonable length of time to remove the restrictions. Killick said it inputted all orders 
following Mr As call to his investment manager. The sales were able to proceed later the 
same day. Killick said the majority of the UK and European stocks would have been dealt 
with at the time sell orders were placed. Where there was some delay before trades were 
executed, that seems mainly to be because most of the holdings appear not to have been 
UK stocks and the US and other foreign stock exchanges didnt open until later in the day. 
US sales would not have been possible before around 2:30pm British time when the US 
market opens. I understand that the Hong Kong stock would have dealt at approximately 
01:30am when the local market opened and the Japanese stocks at around 12am. The small balance of unsold funds related to stock that wasnt traded daily and an investment 
that was affected by a corporate action.
On balance, based on all the information I've seen and been told, I dont find that Killick 
was responsible for any significant avoidable delay when it came to selling Mr As 
holdings. So I cant fairly hold Killick responsible for any investment loss in these 
circumstances. 
HM Revenue and Customs guidelines say:
ISA transfers should take no longer than:
15 working days for transfers between cash ISAs
30 calendar days for other types of transfer'  
The thirty day countdown for selling Mr As stocks and shares and transferring the cash 
proceeds to C effectively started on 24 January 2022 when Mr A confirmed that these were 
his new instructions. 
Killick has provided information showing that the vast bulk of Mr As cash was sent to C 
over the course of the week commencing 31 January 2022. On 4 February 2022, C sent 
a message to Mr A confirming that some of his expected cash (around £25,000) was now 
available to him and the same day, P also sent the final payment to Mr As new provider. 
By 9 February 2022, all the big transfers to Mr As account had completed and he was 
trading on 10 February 2022. 
So it seems clear that the transfers were completed comfortably within the expected 
timescale that HM Revenue and Customs says these should happen. 
Ive kept in mind that Killick has explained that BACS was used for the payments, which 
usually takes up to three days for a transfer to complete. Whilst it took just 12 calendar 
days for the transfer to complete, Im mindful that there are faster ways to make 
payments. Killick explained it is Ps standard method of payment and so free to clients. 
BACS is widely used and generally a very dependable means of transferring money 
between accounts. So it seems a sensible payment option to me. Mr A wouldve had to 
specifically request a different payment method and it wouldve cost him extra. I dont 
know if Mr A was aware of this at the time  but it makes no overall difference. I say this 
because, in an effort to be helpful, Killick transferred cash across to Mr As new provider 
piecemeal, just as soon as the various trades settled. Some of the cash raised from 
liquidation of the stocks was paid on 31 January 2022. This meant that within the next 
three days, Mr A had some funds available to him for investment purposes. But it doesnt 
look like getting started on re-investing was a particular priority as it was a week or so 
later before he actually instructed any trades. So the fact that BACS transfers took up to 
three days doesnt seem to have been something that impacted particularly on him. 
In these circumstances, I cant fairly or reasonably uphold Mr As complaint that Killick 
unreasonably delayed the transfer or hold it responsible for any investment loss. 
I acknowledge that Mr A feels strongly about his complaint and I can understand that with 
such a large amount of money at stake and volatility in the financial markets, this was a very 
stressful time for him. I also appreciate he is concerned that there are some contradictions 
between what Killick and C told him about what was happening whilst the transfer was 
underway. I have concentrated on what I consider to be the main points that affect the 
outcome of his complaint. If I have not referred to each point hes raised its because it makes no difference to the outcome of his complaint and I have nothing further I can usefully 
add to what our investigator has said already. 
I appreciate that my decision will be disappointing for Mr A but I hope that setting things out 
as I've done helps to explain how I've reached my conclusions. 
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I do not uphold this complaint against Killik & Co LLP.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 June 2023.
 
Susan Webb
Ombudsman