DRN-3959067
The complaint
Mr B complains that Novaloans Ltd trading as cash4unow (Novaloans) gave him a loan he 
couldnt afford to repay. Mr B went on to say that the high interest rate had a damaging 
effect on his finances. 
What happened
Mr B took one loan from Novaloans for £600 on 2 February 2022. Mr B was due to make five 
monthly repayments of £190.13 and one final payment of £190.11. Mr B has had problems 
paying the loan and Novaloans says an outstanding balance remains due and this was being 
collected by a third-party solicitor. 
Following Mr Bs complaint, Novaloans issued a final response letter. It detailed the checks 
that it carried out before granting the loan. It was satisfied that based on these checks Mr B 
could afford his repayments. So, it didnt uphold his complaint, but it did offer Mr B the option 
of either rescheduling the missed payments over the remainder of the term or it was 
prepared to set up a repayment plan.   
Unhappy with this response, Mr B referred his complaint to the Financial Ombudsman. 
The complaint was considered by an adjudicator who didnt uphold it. He concluded 
Novaloans made a reasonable decision to provide the loan because based on the 
information Novaloans gathered the largest monthly repayment looked affordable for Mr B.  
Mr B said he didnt agree, and he asked for an ombudsmans decision.  He sent several 
emails as to why he disagreed with the adjudicator, and Ive summarised these below.
Mr B was trying to borrow money from any source he could. 
Mr Bs credit report showed a lot of outstanding debt and it wouldve shown that he 
couldnt afford the loan.
Novaloans shouldve reviewed his credit report before it was approved.  
Mr B explained that he had another complaint against another lender, and this was 
overturned as a result of the information contained within his credit report. 
The adjudicator went back to Mr B to explain why his comments hadnt changed his mind 
about the case. Mr B didnt agree and said that had Novaloans reviewed his bank 
statements it wouldve seen numerous betting transactions. Mr B then asked for a decision. 
Novaloans didnt respond to the adjudicators assessment. 
As no agreement has been reached, the case has been passed to me for a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about short-term lending - including all the 
relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice - on our website.
Novaloans had to assess the lending to check if Mr B could afford to pay back the amount 
hed borrowed without undue difficulty. It needed to do this in a way which was proportionate 
to the circumstances. Novaloans s checks could have taken into account a number of 
different things, such as how much was being lent, the size of the repayments, and Mr Bs 
income and expenditure. 
With this in mind, I think in the early stages of a lending relationship, less thorough checks 
might have been proportionate. But certain factors might suggest Novaloans should have 
done more to establish that any lending was sustainable for Mr B. These factors include:
Mr B having a low income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make any
loan repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income);
The amounts to be repaid being especially high (reflecting that it could be more
difficult to meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income);
Mr B having a large number of loans and/or having these loans over a long
period of time (reflecting the risk that repeated refinancing may signal that the
borrowing had become, or was becoming, unsustainable);
Mr B coming back for loans shortly after previous borrowing had been repaid
(also suggestive of the borrowing becoming unsustainable).
There may even come a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly 
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable for Mr B. The adjudicator didnt consider 
this applied to this case because there was only one loan. 
Novaloans was required to establish whether Mr B could sustainably repay the loan  not 
just whether he technically had enough money to make his repayments. Having enough 
money to make the repayments could of course be an indicator that Mr B was able to repay 
his loan sustainably. But it doesnt automatically follow that this is the case. 
Industry regulations say that payments are sustainable if they are made without undue 
difficulties and in particular, made on time, while meeting other reasonable commitments and 
without having to borrow to make them. If a lender realises, or ought reasonably to have 
realised, that a borrower wont be able to make their repayments without borrowing further, 
then it follows that it should conclude those repayments are unsustainable.
Ive considered all the arguments, evidence and information provided in this context, and
thought about what this means for Mr Bs complaint.
Having done so, Im satisfied Novaloans carried out proportionate checks which showed it 
that Mr B could afford the repayments, so I am not upholding the complaint and Ive 
explained why below. 
I appreciate Mr B has had another complaint about a similar lender upheld at the 
Financial Ombudsman Service, but each case is considered on its own merits, and Ive 
outlined above some of the factors that are considered when deciding whether a lender has 
carried out proportionate checks before granting a loan. Novaloans has shown, that as part of the affordability assessment it asked Mr B for details of 
his income and expenditure. Mr Bs income was declared as being £2,155 per month and he 
also declared his monthly outgoings were £422. This left more than sufficient disposable 
income for Novaloans loans to reasonably conclude that Mr B could afford his repayments of 
around £190 per month. 
Before this loan was approved Novaloans also carried out a credit search and it has 
provided a summary of these results in the final response letter. I want to add that although 
Novaloans carried out a credit search there isnt a regulatory requirement to do one, let 
alone one to a specific standard. 
Therefore, its entirely possible that the information Novaloans received may not entirely 
reflect the information Mr B can see in the credit report he can obtain. There could be for a 
number of reasons for this, such as Novaloans only asking for certain pieces of information. 
But what Novaloans couldnt do, is carry out a credit search and then not react to the to the 
information it received  if necessary.  
Novaloans was also entitled to rely on the results it was given, and Ive looked at the results 
to see whether there was anything contained within it that wouldve either prompted 
Novaloans to have carried out further checks or possibly have declined Mr Bs application. 
In my view, there isnt anything in the results, which wouldve led Novaloans to have carried 
out further checks. For example, there werent any County Court Judgements or insolvency 
markers. There also hadnt been any defaults recorded on Mr Bs credit file within the year 
preceding the loan. But Novaloans was aware of two accounts being defaulted between 13 
and 36 months before this loan was approved.  
Novaloans was also aware, based on the results it received from the credit reference 
agency, that Mr B had opened three new accounts within the last six months. Mr B hadnt 
used any payday loans within the six months preceding the loan application and neither 
were there any active payday loans. This wouldnt have suggested to Novaloans that Mr B 
was likely dependent on this type of credit. 
I also dont think, Novaloans being aware of two defaults which couldve been recorded up to 
three years before the loan being approved wouldve led it to have carried out further checks 
or that suggested the loan was likely to be unstainable for Mr B.  
There was also nothing else in the information that Ive seen and that in my view, wouldve 
led Novaloans to believe that it needed to go further with its checks  such as verifying the 
information Mr B had provided. So, I dont think, in this case, Novaloans needed to review 
Mr Bs bank statements and so it wouldnt have been aware of the betting transactions that 
Mr B says he was making at the time. 
This was Mr Bs first loan, so I think it was reasonable for Novaloans to have relied on the 
information Mr B provided along with the credit search results which showed he had 
sufficient disposable income to afford the repayments he was committed to making. So, Im 
not upholding Mr Bs complaint about the loan.
An outstanding balance remains due so Mr B may wish to contact Novaloans to discuss a 
way forward. But I would remind Novaloans of its regulatory obligation to treat Mr B fairly and 
with forbearance  if necessary. 
My final decision
So, for the reasons Ive explained above, Im not upholding Mr Bs complaint. Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 10 March 2023.
 
Robert Walker
Ombudsman