DRN-2857226
The complaint
Mr M is unhappy that Barclays Bank UK PLC sold him a personal loan on the promise that it
could be incorporated into his mortgage at the time of an upcoming review, only to confirm
later, at the time of his mortgage review, that this wouldnt be possible.  
What happened
In June 2019, Mr M undertook a review of his financial position with his Barclays bank
manager. At that time, Mr M had a mortgage with Barclays, as well as an existing personal
loan.
Mr M was looking to borrow some additional money, and it was suggested to him by his
bank manager, in consultation with his Barclays mortgage advisor, that he take a new
personal loan for the maximum amount of borrowing available to him  which was £36,000 
on the understanding that this new loan, as well as his existing loan, be refinanced into his
mortgage when the mortgage was up for review in November 2019. This was to take
advantage of the lower rate of interest available to Mr M on his mortgage as opposed to the
higher rates of interest incurred by the personal loans.
However, in November 2019, when Mr M applied for the further advance on his mortgage, in
line with the plan of action arrived at in collusion with his bank manager and mortgage
advisor, his application was rejected on the grounds that Barclays do not permit further
advances for the purposes of debt consolidation on mortgages where any part of that
mortgage is on an interest only basis  as a part of Mr Ms mortgage was. Mr M wasnt
happy about this, so he raised a complaint.
Barclays looked at Mr Ms complaint. They acknowledged that Mr M had been given
incorrect information about the possibility of refinancing the loans into his mortgage at the
time of the mortgage review, but they felt that because the loan had been applied for on the
basis of loan consolidation, which would have resulted in a reduction of Mr Ms monthly
outgoings, that the loan was suitable for Mr M and so hadnt ben mis-sold. So, Barclays
upheld Mr Ms complaint on the basis of Mr M being given incorrect information only and
offered Mr M a payment of £400 to compensate him for this.
Mr M wasnt satisfied with Barclays response and felt that the only reason he had taken the
loan was because he had been told that it could be refinanced into his mortgage. So, he
referred his complaint to this service.
One of our investigators looked at this complaint. But they also felt that Mr M hadnt been
mis-sold the loan because the loan was applied for to be used for debt consolidation. Our
investigator also agreed that Barclays shouldnt have told Mr M that the loan could be
incorporated into his mortgage, but they felt that £400 that Barclays had offered Mr M for this
represented a fair and reasonable resolution to this complaint. So, they didnt Mr Ms
complaint either.
Mr M remained dissatisfied, so the matter was escalated to an ombudsman for a final
decision.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
On 5 May 2021 I issued a provisional decision on this complaint as follows:
It isnt in dispute that Mr M was told by Barclays while in branch that he could take a
personal loan to assist him with his immediate financial needs, and that the loan 
could be refinanced into his mortgage at an upcoming mortgage review date so that 
Mr M could benefit from a lower rate of interest. And it also isnt disputed that Mr M 
accepted the loan being offered to him on this basis.
So, it must have been incredibly frustrating for Mr M to then be told, at the time of the
mortgage review, that the plan of action which he had agreed with Barclays wasnt 
available to him, and that the reason for this was because neither the bank manager 
or mortgage advisor that he spoke with in branch, and communicated with 
afterwards, were aware that Barclays wouldnt approve further advances for debt 
consolidation where any part of the mortgage was on an interest only basis.
There are a number of factors that muddy the waters of this complaint moving 
forwards from this point, including the fact that on the loan application that Barclays 
have provided to this service shows that the loan was being applied for on the basis 
of home improvement, and not debt consolidation, as well as several email 
discussions between Mr M and Barclays which do refer to Mr M using the proceeds 
of the loan to pay off his debts.
However, its difficult to look past the fact here that Mr M was told by his Barclays 
branch manager and his Barclays mortgage advisor that he could accept a loan for 
£36,000  a not insignificant sum  on the promise that that loan could be refinanced 
into his mortgage in a few months time, to benefit from a lower rate of interest. Only 
for Barclays to renege on that promise.
In their complaint response letter, Barclays explained that they didnt feel that the 
loan was mis-sold to Mr M because, despite the rate of interest being higher than Mr 
M had been promised it would be - after it was refinanced into his mortgage - the fact 
that the loan was slated to be used for debt consolidation meant that overall, Mr Ms 
financial position had been improved by the taking of the loan.
Im not convinced by this argument, and instead I consider that while the loan may 
still have been suitable for Mr M on the basis of his using the loan for debt 
consolidation, I do feel that the loan was mis-sold to him. And I say this because Mr 
M took the accepted the loan having been told that he would be repaying the loan at 
a lower rate of interest than he now is.
This doesnt feel fair to me, and so my provisional decision here will be that I will be
upholding this complaint in Mr Ms favour and instructing Barclays to reduce the rate 
of interest on the loan to match the rate of interest on Mr Ms mortgage, 
retrospectively effective from the date of Mr Ms mortgage review.
This will mean that Mr M will have made several loan repayments at a higher rate of 
interest than would be necessary, following the implementation of the above. 
Barclays should therefore give Mr M the option of having these overpayments 
returned to him, without interest, or to leave the overpayments in place, thus reducing 
the balance of the loan and the monthly repayment amount moving forwards.Finally, Barclays should pay Mr M £400 to compensate him for the distress and
inconvenience he has incurred.
In my provisional decision I gave both Mr M and Barclays the opportunity to provide any 
comments or further information that they wished me to consider before moving to a final 
decision. Barclays didnt respond to my provisional decision, whereas Mr M stated that his 
intention with the loan was to add it to the interest only portion of his existing mortgage and 
asked whether this could be incorporated into my final decision.
I can appreciate Mr Ms concerns here, but having re-reviewed the further advance 
application documents from 2019, its notable that these confirm that while a further advance 
on the mortgage of approximately £60,000 was being applied for, £36,000 of this advance  
the amount equivalent to the loan amount  was being applied for on a repayment basis, 
with the remaining £24,000 only being applied for on an interest only basis.
As such, given that the loan amount appears to have been applied to be added to the 
mortgage on a repayment basis, I dont feel that I can fairly ask Barclays to allow this loan 
amount to now be paid on an interest only basis in line with the interest only portion of Mr 
Ms mortgage.
It follows from this that my final decision will be a confirmation of my provisional decision, as 
per my instructions to Barclays below. I hope that Mr M can understand, given the above, 
why I feel its fair that this should be the case.   
Putting things right
Barclays must reduce the rate of interest on Mr Ms loan to match the rate of interest on Mr 
Ms mortgage - effective retrospectively from the date of Mr Ms mortgage review in 2019.
This will mean, following the implementation of the above, that Mr M will have made several 
loan repayments at a higher rate of interest than necessary. Barclays must therefore give Mr 
M the option of having these overpayments returned to him, without interest, or to leave the 
overpayments in place, thus reducing the balance of the loan and the monthly repayment 
amount moving forwards.
Finally, Barclays must pay Mr M £400 to compensate him for the distress and inconvenience 
he has incurred.
  
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint against Barclays Bank UK PLC on the basis 
explained above.  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 5 July 2021.
 
Paul Cooper
Ombudsman