DRN-4269160
The complaint
Mr Y has complained that Admiral Insurance (Gibraltar) Limited didnt pay him enough for 
the market value of his car under his motor policy when it was a total loss following an 
accident. He has also complained that his excess was unfairly increased.
What happened
Mr Y was involved in an accident in September 2022 and Admiral deemed his car was a 
total loss. Admiral said Mr Y said his bought his car in July 2020 for £15,747. 
Following its investigation into the market value of the car Admiral ultimately offered Mr Y 
£15,750 to which additional interest was added following previous valuations. Along with that 
Admiral paid compensation, £25 for delays in responding to his complaint and £100 for the 
trouble and upset caused. 
It also explained that Mr Ys address hadnt been updated before the accident. And with 
change of address the excess increased from £1,300 to £1,500. 
Mr Y remained dissatisfied and brought his complaint to us. He said he wished for Admiral to 
pay him a further £7,750 as that amount would be required to replace his car. He further 
wished Admiral to pay another £7,000 as punitive damages because of the method of 
Admirals car valuation system. Mr Y said the first offer Admiral made was £14,080 and then 
it raised it to £15,010 and finally offered £15,750. He considered this to be unreasonable.
The investigator was of the view having regard to the trade guides that Admirals ultimate 
valuation was reasonable. She was also of the view that given the change of Mr Ys address 
Admiral had shown the increase in the excess was also correct. Lastly, she felt the 
compensation offered was appropriate and in line with the level of compensation we 
normally made in disputes of this nature. 
Mr Y remained unhappy, so his complaint has been passed to me to decide.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so Im not upholding this complaint. Ill now explain why. 
First, I have no authority whatsoever to have Admiral pay any punitive damages as Mr Y has 
demanded. This is an independent resolution service, not a court of law. Secondly, there is 
no concept of punitive damages in the UK court system either. All I can award is 
compensation should I consider Admiral caused delay or trouble or upset. And these awards 
of compensation are not punitive nor are they fines against any business either. They merely 
are awarded when the business actions caused distress and inconvenience.
Under Mr Ys motor policy, Admiral has agreed to pay Mr Y the market value of his car 
should it be deemed a total loss in the accident which occurred here to Mr Y. Our role is to 
check and make sure Admiral came its market valuation reasonably. This service is not a 
motor valuation service either. However, our approach as to how we consider motor 
valuations should be carried out is fully detailed on our website. So, my role is to see if 
Admiral adhered to this. I consider it did. 
As Admiral explained motor valuations is not an exact science and is subject to varying 
market forces. We look to see if Admiral adhered to our general principles in valuing Mr Ys 
car which is to look at the various trade guides. As the investigator explained Admiral looked 
at two trade guides and she also looked at another. Taking all three of them together the 
ultimate value of Mr Ys car is in line with the trade guides. Mr Ys schedule states his car is 
not modified also. Notwithstanding this Admiral confirmed it took account of the optional 
extras on the car in its valuations and use of the trade guides in its letter of 28 December 
2022. Trade guides are used as they are more likely to reflect the actual selling prices rather 
than adverts which only reflect the asking price. This service believes this is the fairest way 
to ensure a reasonable valuation for a car. 
Further I consider it reasonable that Admiral added the correct amount of interest on its final 
offer for the valuation of Mr Ys car which is again in accordance with our approach and it is 
what I would have required them to do, had it not done so. This means that Mr Y was 
appropriately compensated for not having this full valuation initially. 
Turning to the increase in the excess, during Admirals investigation it noted that Mr Y had 
forgotten to have his change of address noted. So, when it changed his address it caused 
the excess increase. Admiral has shown us that the increase in excess was fair as it would 
have been applied before the accident had Mr Y remembered to tell it of his change of 
address. Further such an excess increase would be applied to anyone else in the same 
circumstances as Mr Y which means Mr Y wasnt singled out or treated any differently to any 
other customer in similar circumstances given Admiral adhered to its own underwriting guide 
in calculating it.  
Lastly Admiral paid Mr Y some compensation. It agreed it had delayed in dealing with Mr Ys 
complaint following his claim. And it decided to pay £25 for this. And it further paid £100 
compensation for Mr Ys trouble and upset. I consider this is broadly fair. Its in line with the 
level of awards this service pays in such circumstances and is in line with awards I have 
made previously in similar circumstances. Admiral did take a little time to come to a fair 
valuation of Mr Ys car, but I also consider the fact that it paid interest on the final uplift to be 
appropriate too. 
I appreciate its always distressing when a much-loved car, kept in good condition has been 
deemed a total loss but Admiral didnt cause the accident and its role is merely pay the 
market value of it under its policy with Mr Y, which I consider it did here. 
My final decision
So, for these reasons, its my final decision that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr Y to accept or 
reject my decision before 19 September 2023.
 Rona Doyle
Ombudsman