DRN-2082095
The complaint
Mr W complains that Monzo Bank Ltd blocked and then closed his account. Hes also 
unhappy about how long it took Monzo to return money in his account to him. He says this 
caused him trouble and upset. And he wants Monzo to pay him compensation.
What happened
Mr W had a current account with Monzo.
On 24 August 2019, Monzo decided to review Mr Ws account. Whilst it completed its review 
Monzo restricted Mr Ws account. This meant Mr W wasnt able to use his account. The 
bank wouldnt tell Mr W much about what was happening  only that it was conducting a 
review. Following its review Monzo decided to close Mr Ws account immediately. But, again 
without providing reasons. The bank returned Mr Ws closing balance of just over £200 to 
him on 29 August 2019.
 Mr W complained about the lack of information. He said he hasnt done anything wrong and 
hes been a good customer of the bank since opening his account. Mr W says because he 
couldnt access the money in his account after it was closed, he wasnt able to buy food and 
had to cancel plans hed made with friends. So, he had to borrow money from friends and 
relatives to get by which was embarrassing and stressful. Mr W told the bank he didnt have 
any money and needed the funds in his account urgently, but the bank simply referred him to 
a charity website, which he found hurtful. He says the bank took too long to return the money 
in his account to him.
Monzo said it hadnt done anything wrong when it decided to review and close Mr Ws 
account. It apologised and said at the time it had a back log of work. But had returned the 
money in Mr Ws account to him as soon as it could. Mr W wasnt happy with this response. 
So, he brought his complaint to us and one of our investigators looked at it. She said Monzo 
hadnt done anything wrong when it had closed Mr Ws account. But she said given what Mr 
W had told Monzo about his circumstances it should have returned his account balance to 
him sooner. 
The investigator noted Mr W had another account with a different bank, which had funded Mr 
Ws Monzo account. So, she asked him to provide his account statements to support what 
hed said about having no other money to use. And better understand the impact Monzos 
actions had on him. 
Mr W said he no longer had access to his other account statements. So, he couldnt provide 
anything to show he had no other money. Following this, the investigator contacted Mr Ws 
other bank and obtained copies of his account statements for August 2019. Mr Ws other 
bank told the investigator that Mr W did still have access to his statements, which showed 
Mr W had other funds at his disposal. Based on this information the investigator said, whilst 
Monzo should have returned Mr Ws closing balance sooner, the banks actions hadnt left 
Mr W with no money to afford basic essentials as hed claimed. So, she said Monzo didnt 
have to do anything further to resolve Mr Ws complaint. Mr W disagreed. He said its not right that Monzo had done something wrong, and he 
doesnt receive any compensation. He wants the bank to pay him £100 for the trouble and 
upset he says hes suffered. 
As no agreement could be reached the complaint has come to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having looked at all the evidence, Im satisfied first of all that Monzo was within its rights to 
review Mr Ws account and that it was entitled to block it while it carried out that review. 
Monzo also werent obliged to tell Mr W why it was carrying out a review of his account  as 
much as hed like to know. And it wouldnt be appropriate for me to require it do so.
Monzo was also within its rights to close the account and did so in line with the account 
terms and relevant regulations.
Mr W says Monzo took too long to return his closing balance to him and as a result he was 
left with no money. Hes told us and Monzo that he had to borrow money to pay for food and 
basic essentials from his friends and relatives. Based on what Mr W had said about his 
situation, Monzo apologised to Mr W at the time and explained that it took them 5 days to 
return Mr Ws money to him due to a back log of work. 
Since Mr W brought his complaint to us, the investigator has established that when Monzo 
closed his account Mr W did in fact have another bank account with funds available to him. 
 From looking at the statements for this other account, I can see that on the day Monzo 
blocked and closed Mr Ws account, he had access to just under £1,000. I can also see that 
on 26 August 2019, Mr W received a payment of £1,625 into the account, which meant his 
available balance was £2,074.05. And between 27 and 29 August 2019 further credits were 
made into the account and Mr W continued making payments out of the account. So, its 
clear to me that Mr W did have access to money when Monzo closed his account. And I 
think its unlikely he wouldve needed to rely on others to buy food and basic essentials. 
When I weigh everything up, I think the immediate closure of Mr Ws Monzo account and the 
time it took the bank to return his closing balance did not have the impact on him that Mr W 
said it did. Monzo has already apologised to Mr W for any upset and inconvenience hed 
been caused when it closed his account, and I think that is a reasonable way to resolve Mr 
W's complaint, so Im not going to ask them to do anything more.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont require Monzo Bank Ltd to do anything more to resolve Mr 
Ws complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 9 September 2020.
Sharon Kerrison
Ombudsman