DRN-1942883
The complaint
Ms H is unhappy that U K Insurance Limited wont pay her home insurance claim for 
damage to her property following the installation of a gas boiler.
What happened
In March 2019 Ms H wanted a new boiler installed. She enquired via social media and 
received a response from a contractor who Ill refer to as Mr G. He advised her he was a 
registered Gas Safe fitter and she agreed for him to do the work. He insisted that Ms H go 
out and buy the parts for it and that he be paid in cash. In the course of carrying out the work 
he cut a water pipe and water started leaking through the ceiling. He managed to stop this 
but broke the stop cock in the process. In the course of doing the work Mr G also damaged a 
wall and broke kitchen units and a worktop. He left the house in a mess and refused to 
return.
It transpired that Mr G wasnt Gas Safe registered and was forbidden from carrying out gas 
work under a prohibition notice. Ms H had the system checked by a Gas Safe Inspector who 
advised that the system had been fitted incorrectly and was dangerous. In particular the flue 
wasnt safely attached resulting in Ms Hs daughter suffering carbon monoxide poisoning. 
Ms H had to have the work completely redone, costing her over £4,000. Mr G was later 
convicted, on a number of counts, of carrying out work not approved by the Health and 
Safety Executive and of contravening a prohibition notice. He received a prison sentence.
Ms H referred a claim to UKI. She considered that as Mr G had knowingly committed a 
criminal offence while carrying out the work in her house the damage was malicious. UKI 
advised that it didnt consider the damage to be malicious as it thought that Mr G didnt 
intend to cause the damage. It said the damage was faulty workmanship which is specifically 
excluded under the policy, but it would cover any damage caused by the escape of water. 
Ms H said the main damage was to the heating system and to her kitchen units.
On referral to this service our investigator ultimately thought that UKIs position was 
reasonable, in that it couldnt be shown that Mr Gs intention was to commit damage. She 
pointed out that the damage to the system also wasnt covered under the escape of water 
term in the policy.
Ms H was unhappy with this and the matter has been referred to me for further 
consideration.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Firstly I appreciate Ms Hs efforts to put before us detailed and helpful information.
I understand that what Mr G did was a very serious criminal offence, for which, together with 
other similar offences, he received a prison sentence. 
I have to consider what term in the policy the matter could come under. Theres an exclusion 
for faulty workmanship in the policy but first of all it has to be decided whether the damage 
comes under any cover in the policy. As our investigator pointed out, under the escape of 
water cover, tanks, pipes, appliances or heating systems themselves. arent covered. That 
normally refers to the fact that its the policyholders responsibility to repair a leak  the 
insurer will cover the damage caused by it. I understand that in the course of doing the work 
Mr G damaged kitchen units, a worktop and a wall as well.
Ms H believes the damage is covered under Vandalism or malicious acts. Ms H believes it 
is malicious. She has pointed out that Mr G entered her property with the clear intention of 
committing a criminal act. And that in the course of that act deliberately caused damage to 
her property knowing full well that acting in the way he did would cause the damage or he 
recklessly did so not caring that what he did would cause damage.
Damage caused by a malicious act is damage caused to a property intentionally by another 
person. And the arguments in this case have centred on what Mr Gs intent was. I dont think 
it was helpful for UKI to surmise that Mr G had a good intent. Even if he believed he was 
competent to do the work he clearly knew the risk he was putting Ms H and her family under 
by falsely claiming to be Gas Safe registered. But the question is did he intend to do the 
damage to the property or did he incompetently or negligently fit ther boiler? And I would say 
the evidence is that he did not intend to do damage to the property. He had some past 
credentials as a gas fitter so presumably believed he was competent to fit the boiler and 
pipework. He may have been deluded or reckless in that belief. And I understand the 
difficulty of second guessing what another persons intent was, without being able to ask 
them. But I dont think that its most likely that he intended to do damage to the property so it 
cant be classed as malicious.
I think the same thing can be said for the kitchen units etc. I dont think its been shown that 
Mr G set out to damage them, rather that he did so in the course of doing the work.
Ms H has made the point that Mr G caused the damage in the course of carrying out a 
criminal act. But there the damage would have to be caused deliberately in order to carry out 
the criminal act e.g. breaking and entering a property to burgle it. Here the criminal acts were 
essentially carrying out work not approved by the Health and Safety Executive (i.e. not being 
registered as a Gas Safe fitter) and doing that work in contravention of a prohibition notice. 
the carrying out of the work itself was the criminal act rather than the damage. Though I do 
note that he was heavily criticised for being reckless and dishonest by the judge.
Lastly I have considered whether the claim could come under accidental damage. This is 
defined in the policy as sudden and unintentional physical damage that happens 
unexpectedly. However the damage was caused because Mr G was negligent and 
incompetent so I dont think it could be described as accidental, within that definition. In any 
event this is caught by the faulty workmanship exclusion.
I understand that UKI has said it will cover damage caused by the water leak, subject to the 
normal terms and conditions of the policy. Ms Hs main concern is the cost of reinstalling the 
boiler and pipework. And I believe the damage caused by the leak was quite small. 
Nevertheless Ms H has referred to it so if she wants to pursue this she should contact UKI 
directly.
I can understand that it was very distressing for Ms H as her family and home were put at 
risk. And its difficult for her to understand why her insurer wont pay out for the reinstallation 
of the boiler. I hope I have explained why. But unfortunately I dont think that Ms Hs 
insurance covered the damage done by Mr G. My final decision
I dont uphold the complaint 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms H to accept or 
reject my decision before 4 November 2020.
 
Ray Lawley
Ombudsman