DRN-3165918
The complaint
 Mr and Mrs C complain about the poor workmanship they experienced from Inter Partner 
Assistance SA (IPA), following a claim under their home emergency policy. 
 
What happened
  Mr and Mrs C reported a leak in their home. IPA sent the first engineer who couldnt gain 
access to the leak as some cupboards prevented this. Mr and Mrs C said that IPA then sent 
several contractors who couldnt resolve the issue.
These engineers attended several times but were unable to repair the leaks and on one 
occasion failed to attend, when they said they would. Leaving Mr and Mrs C to be frustrated 
not least as they both suffer from health issues and are elderly. 
IPA eventually told Mr and Mrs C to instruct a third-party engineer to repair the leaks, obtain 
all invoices and complete a reimbursement form for it to consider, in order to prevent further 
damage to their property. 
Mr and Mrs C acted on IPAs instruction and got a third-party engineer to carry out the 
repairs. This cost Mr and Mrs C a total of £4,515. Mr and Mrs C submitted the invoices, 
reports and reimbursement form to IPA for consideration and raised a complaint about the 
poor workmanship and customer service issues. 
In its final response, IPA accepted that there were poor customer service issues such as 
failing to return calls to Mr and Mrs C, misleading advice given to them and failing to attend 
appointments. It offered £250 compensation for the trouble and upset caused. It also 
accepted that it was unable to alleviate the home emergency and offered to reimburse Mr 
and Mrs C the cost of the policy limit of £500. 
Mr and Mrs C were unhappy with this outcome and referred the complaint to our service. 
One of our investigators considered the complaint and ultimately didnt uphold it. His view 
was that there was no evidence to show that the failed repairs carried out by the IPA 
engineers, caused further damage, it only highlighted poor workmanship. He thought that the 
works carried out by the third-party engineers wouldve always needed to be done and its 
evident that the work would always have exceeded the policy limit. He recommended that Mr 
and Mrs C make a claim via their home insurance policy and concluded that IPAs payment 
of £500 (the policy limit) as well as £250 for the poor service was fair. 
IPA accepted the view. Mr and Mrs C didnt. They said that IPA misled them throughout. Not 
only by saying it could fix the leaks, when it could not. But also told them that it would 
reimburse the third- party engineer costs, when it did not. There were poor customer 
services issues and ultimately this led to them being out of pocket as IPA failed to honestly 
communicate with them. So, they asked for a decision from an ombudsman. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
 My provisional decision
I considered the complaint and I thought the complaint should be upheld. I issued a 
provisional decision on 22 October 2021 and asked both parties to send me anything else by 
19 November 2021. In my provisional decision I said:
Having done so, Im minded to uphold this complaint and Ill explain why Ive reached this 
decision.
IPA accepted that there were customer service failings. These included Mr and Mrs C having 
to chase for updates, IPA failing to attend appointments when it said it would and the poor 
behaviour of the IPA engineers. For those failings, IPA offered and paid £250 compensation. 
I have considered this amount and I think that this is fair and reasonable in the 
circumstances, so I wont be asking IPA to offer any more. 
The remaining issue is whether the £500 paid by IPA for the failure to repair the leaks is fair 
and reasonable, given the circumstances of the complaint. The main reason why IPA said 
that it would only offer £500 was because this was the policy limit. Also, it said that there was 
work undertaken by Mr and Mrs C that wasnt either covered by the policy or wasnt to fix the 
leaks. These were the trace and access work, reinstatement work and the replacement tap.
I have reviewed the terms and conditions of the policy and I cant see any term that indicates 
about trace and access or reinstatement works. I think that its not mentioned because trace 
and access or reinstatement works are not included. In any event, Mr and Mrs C provided a 
report from the independent engineer who carried out the repairs which said: when I arrived, 
I found that the wall cavity was already exposed showing the third-party repairs to the down 
service hot and cold pipework. The third-party repairs were unsuccessful
Mr and Mrs C confirmed that they hadnt undertaken any renovations work at their home for 
several years and most definitely not before IPA had attended, as they were both shielding 
due to the Covid 19 restrictions and their health issues. So, I think that the exposure work 
wouldve been carried out by Mr and Mrs Cs home insurers (as they confirmed), so wasnt 
included in the work undertaken by the independent engineers, whom Mr and Mrs C 
instructed. 
I have reviewed the correspondence between the parties and its clear that IPA accepts that 
it was unable to fix the leaks and that it classed it as an ongoing emergency. Mr and Mrs C 
describe the leaks as extensive as they required them having to repeatedly empty filling 
buckets of water over a three-week period, corrosion forming on their property and a strong 
smell of damp as a result of the leaks. Because of the ongoing emergency, IPA told Mr and 
Mrs C to instruct a third-party engineer to carry out the repairs. 
IPA told Mr and Mrs C to obtain invoices, reports, receipts, proof of payment and complete a 
reimbursement form, once all the work had been finished. These documents were submitted 
as requested by IPA, who then decided not to reimburse Mr and Mrs Cs full costs. It did 
however later reimburse £500  the policy limit in recognition of it not being able to fix the 
emergency.
Mr and Mrs C obtained a report from the independent engineer. The report concluded that 
some compression fittings that had been installed by IPA, were still leaking and some other fittings used were incorrect which effected the water pressure in the property. The engineers 
had to replace pipes and lag pipework, to prevent further leaks and corrosion. Those repairs 
seemingly have been successful as Mr and Mrs C have not complained of any further 
issues. 
Whilst I accept that the policy has a limit of £500 for repairs, I think that had IPA successfully 
carried out the repair as it was contracted to do, no further damage such as the rust and 
continual leaks wouldve occurred. On balance, Im satisfied that further damage was likely 
caused due to IPAs failure in repairing the leaks sooner. Consequently, I dont think its 
reasonable that IPA rely on the policy limit when further damage (that couldve been 
avoided) was caused to Mr and Mrs Cs property.  
I have reviewed the works carried out by the independent engineer and I do think there are 
elements within, that would not have been required for the complete repair and I have taken 
this into consideration. I have also taken into account that IPA has already paid £500. 
To put matters right, I think its fair and reasonable for IPA to reimburse some of Mr and Mrs 
Cs costs. Mr and Mrs C provided further evidence to show the breakdown of the 
independent engineers costs. The total costs for the two-day repair work was £4,515.
I accept that the reinstatement work, isnt included in the policy terms. The independent 
engineers said that the repair of the leak took just over a day for it to complete. And on day 
two, they undertook reinstatement work plus insulating pipework.
I think that its fair that the reinstatement work costs, should be met by Mr and Mrs Cs home 
insurers, as this was work that wasnt covered by the policy. But, the insulation of the 
pipework, I think is part of the repair of the leak, which I think IPA ought to cover. 
Accordingly, I think its fair and reasonable for IPA to pay for 75% of the total cost of repairs. 
Which equates to £4,515 minus the £500 already paid and less the cost of the tap 
installation, which was extra work at £262.50, leaving a balance of £3752.50.  75% of that 
balance, would be about £2,814.38. 
I note that Mr and Mrs C had to obtain a quote from the independent engineers, which was 
submitted to IPA. They were charged an additional £132. As IPA instructed them to obtain 
this quote and the independent engineers wouldnt have been involved, had IPA fixed the 
leak, I think it is only fair that IPA reimburse them for this extra charge as well. 
IPA has already paid £250 for the trouble and upset it caused which is fair in the 
circumstances and I dont make any further offer regarding this. 
Responses to my provisional decision
IPA said that it was disappointed that the decision had changed. It offered to pay a 
contribution of 50% of Mr and Mrs Cs costs, as it felt this was fair.
Mr and Mrs C responded and said that:
The ombudsman had understood the complaint.
There were several hidden costs that they wouldnt be able to recover. But given the 
distress and inconvenience caused and that they had to change their insurance 
providers, that they had been with for years, the offer of 50% contribution towards 
their costs was unfair. Especially as IPA instructed Mr and Mrs C to get a third-party 
engineer and didnt say that it would only cover half of the costs. 
Finally, IPA should not send out engineers who couldnt do the work and IPA shouldnt mislead its customers.
I have carefully considered the responses from both parties. IPA offered to pay a 
contribution of 50% towards the costs that Mr and Mrs C incurred. IPA said that this would 
be a fair contribution. 
Mr and Mrs C said IPA sent engineers who were unable to fix the leak. IPA recognised that it 
was unable to fix the leaks as it classed the event as an ongoing emergency and told Mr 
and Mrs C to instruct a third-party engineer to carry out the repairs it couldnt. Im satisfied 
that had IPA completed the repairs, the ongoing leaks and further damage wouldnt have 
been caused to Mr and Mrs Cs property. 
Furthermore, Im satisfied that Mr and Mrs C acted on IPAs instruction by getting a third-
party engineer, obtaining invoices, reports, receipts, proof of payment and completed a 
reimbursement form, once all the work had been finished. In the circumstances, and given 
the reasons outlined in my provisional decision, I think that IPA should pay a contribution of 
75% towards the costs Mr and Mrs C incurred. 
IPA should also reimburse the additional £132, as IPA instructed them to obtain the quote 
from the independent engineers. Who wouldnt have been involved, had IPA fixed the leak. 
So, I think it is only fair that IPA reimburse them for this extra charge as well.
IPA has already paid £250 compensation for the trouble and upset it caused, which is fair in 
the circumstances and I dont make any further offer regarding this. 
 
Putting things right
 I direct Inter Partner Assistance SA to put things right as I set out below. 
 
My final decision
 For the reasons Ive given, I uphold Mr and Mrs Cs complaint and direct Inter Partner 
Assistance SA to:
To reimburse Mr and Mrs Cs balance costs of £2,814.38.
To reimburse Mr and Mrs C £132 for the cost of the independent engineers quote.
IPA has already paid Mr and Mrs C £250 compensation for the distress and inconvenience 
caused, which I think is fair.
Inter Partner Assistance SA must pay the above amounts within 28 days of the date on 
which we tell it Mr and Mrs C accept my final decision. If it pays later than this, it must also 
pay interest on the above amounts from the date of my final decision to the date of payment 
at 8% a year simple.
If HM Revenue & Customs requires Inter Partner Assistance SA to deduct tax from the 
interest payment referred above, Inter Partner Assistance SA must give Mr and Mrs C a 
certificate showing how much tax they deduct if they ask them for one.
 Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs C and Mr C to 
accept or reject my decision before 15 December 2021.
 
Ayisha Savage
Ombudsman