DRN-4235218
The complaint
Mr R complains that the car he hired under a hire agreement with Care by Volvo Car UK 
Limited trading as Care by Volvo (CVUK) was faulty. 
What happened
Mr R entered into a hire agreement with CVUK in March 2022. He says that in the cold 
months of December to March the car wasnt safe as the screen wash and wipers would 
freeze even though he used the correct anti-freeze. Mr R also says that one of the key 
reasons he chose the car was the remote heating system, but he says this has failed on 
several occasions. Mr R says the £50 refunded by CVUK was not an acceptable resolution 
for this issue. He says he is being charged for faulty goods and wants a refund of four 
months rentals and an apology for being provided with faulty goods. 
CVUK issued a final response letter in February 2023. It noted Mr Rs complaint about the 
screen wash not coming through to his windscreen which he thought was due to freezing 
weather conditions. CVUK said that as Mr R hadnt had the car looked at by a Volvo 
approved retailer it wasnt upholding this part of his complaint. CVUK said that it was 
explained to Mr R when he called in January 2023 that the car couldnt be collected at that 
time but that an approved retailer could collect on 6 February. It said it wasnt its role to 
arbitrate between Mr R and the retailer. CVUK did uphold Mr Rs complaint about not being 
able to precondition the car and offered him a goodwill gesture of a £50 refund because of 
this. It said Mr R should visit a Volvo approved retailer to have the issue diagnosed.
Our investigator didnt uphold this complaint. She said that as the car supplied was new it 
was reasonable that Mr R would expect it to be free from defects. She noted Mr Rs 
comment about the wipers and windscreen fluid freezing due to cold weather conditions but 
said she had seen no evidence of this fault. Because of this she didnt think she could say 
this issue meant the car wasnt of satisfactory quality. Regarding the issue with the remote 
heating app, she thought the evidence Mr R had provided was inconclusive and that even if 
there was an intermittent fault, she didnt think this was enough to say the car wasnt of 
satisfactory quality.
Mr R didnt agree with our investigators view. He said that he could provide evidence of the 
windscreen wiper issue and he didnt accept this was a weather-related issue as the car was 
new when delivered and he was using the correct product to allow for temperatures of minus 
15 degrees. He said it wasnt acceptable that every time there was adverse weather that the 
wipers wouldnt work. He said he had reported the issue to both CVUK and the garage. In 
regard to the app, he said this was an integral part of the car and a reason why he chose the 
car he did. He said it should allow the car to be started remotely 100% of the time but this 
doesnt happen.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr R entered into a hire agreement to hire a new car. Under the regulations, specifically the 
Consumer Rights Act 2015, CVUK can be held liable if the car wasnt of satisfactory quality 
when supplied. In this case the car was new when supplied and so it is reasonable that Mr R 
would expect the car to be fault free.
Mr R reported the issue with the screen wash not coming through to the windscreen to 
CVUK in January 2023. By this time Mr R had been in possession of the car for around nine 
months. Given the nature of the issue I think it reasonable that CVUK explained that Mr R 
would need to visit a Volvo approved retailer for the issue to be investigated. I understand 
that Mr R wanted his car to be collected but his local approved retailer wasnt able to 
facilitate this at the time. An offer was then made for Mr R to have his car collected but he 
said he had a preference for a different retailer. 
I can understand why this issue has upset Mr R. He has explained he is using the required 
products to prevent an issue with the fluid freezing but the windscreen wash isnt coming 
through to the wipers in the colder months. However, I havent any further evidence to show 
that the issue is due to a fault. CVUK explained that the issue should be looked at by an 
approved retailer and I agree this is a reasonable approach. When it was explained the 
collection of the car wasnt possible, Mr R didnt then take the car to be investigated, and 
when the offer of a collection was made, he didnt then accept this. Had the car been 
collected and investigated at that time this issue may have been resolved. Therefore, the 
fault hasnt been investigated and until this has happened, I do not find that I can say CVUK 
is required to do anything further. 
Regarding the remote heating app, I note Mr Rs comments about why this was an important 
feature of the car. I accept Mr Rs testimony about the app not working as he expected and 
have looked at the videos he has sent. Mr R raised this issue in January 2023 and CVUK 
upheld this part of his complaint in its letter dated February 2023. It provided a goodwill 
gesture of £50 and said Mr R should visit an approved retailer for diagnostics to take place. I 
find that this was a reasonable response to the issue. I understand Mr R doesnt think that 
£50 is enough. But as I have no further evidence of a fault with the remote heating app and 
Mr R was advised shortly after raising the issue to visit a retailer to have this diagnosed, I 
find that CVUKs response has been reasonable. 
In conclusion, as neither of the issues Mr R has raised have been diagnosed or investigated, 
I do not find I have enough evidence to say that there are faults present with the car that 
mean it wasnt of satisfactory quality. CVUK has said that the issues should be investigated 
by an approved retailer, and I find this a reasonable response. If faults are identified through 
that process, then we would expect the appropriate action to be taken. But in this case, 
based on the information provided as part of this complaint, I do not find that there is enough 
evidence to say that the car wasnt of satisfactory quality at supply.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision before 6 November 2023.
 
Jane Archer
Ombudsman