DRN-2718011
The complaint
Mr A complains about how EC Insurance Company Limited (ECIC) handled his claim under 
his wheelchair extended warranty insurance.  
What happened
Mr A had an extended warranty on his wheelchair. The warranty says ECIC is the insurer of 
the warranty. Another business, which Ill refer to as F, is the scheme administrator who 
dealt with Mr As claim on the warranty insurance and Mr As complaint about his claim. Ive 
set out in my findings why I think ECIC is the correct business for this complaint to be about.
In August 2019 the joystick on Mr As wheelchair developed problems. Mr A says the 
joysticks linked to a control box containing a program which enables the wheelchair to be 
adapted to the terrain or circumstances he requires and he can select his preferred settings. 
The wheelchair can go much higher speeds than typical wheelchairs.
Mr A contacted F about the problem who agreed to repair the wheelchair under the warranty 
insurance using a mobility equipment supplier, which Ill refer to as L. It was important to 
Mr A for the problem to be fixed quickly as he was going on a family holiday with lots of 
cycling planned for which Mr A would use his wheelchair.  
An engineer from L repaired the wheelchair but Mr A says following the repair the wheelchair 
didnt respond as usual, for example not following directions. Mr A contacted L several times 
to repair the new problem. Ls engineer came without prior appointment so Mr A missed the 
engineer and the problem remained unfixed. Mr A says the wheelchair continued to drive 
unpredictably and on one occasion the wheelchair hit a bollard accidentally which meant he 
hurt his back and damaged part of the wheelchair.
Mr A says L offered an alternative wheelchair, of a different style, to loan. He had to do a 
round trip of a considerable distance to get the wheelchair which he says caused him a lot of 
inconvenience and taxi fare for the wheelchairs delivery. Mr A was only able to try the 
wheelchair when he got home and realised it wasnt suitable for several reasons. That meant 
Mr A couldnt go out biking on his family holiday which he says ruined the trip for him. His 
own wheelchair problems continued and Mr A said he had to be extremely careful when 
using it, only using it at half speed, in case the wheel chair suddenly veered off unexpectedly 
again.
Mr A contacted F who said it was only responsible for authorising the repair, not the quality 
of the repair. Mr A disagreed and complained to us. He wanted the repair put right and 
compensation for his distress and inconvenience.
F told us it doesnt accept its responsible for the faulty repair. F says it paid for the repair 
and liaised with L when relations between Mr A and L broke down, but Mr A sourced and
dealt with L directly and L isnt one of its approved repairers.
My first provisional decision
Ive made two provisional decisions. in the first I explained why I was intending to uphold this 
complaint against ECIC. I said:
Which business should this complaint be about?
The extended warranty insurance document F sent us shows that the insurer, who provides 
cover under the warranty, is ECIC and F is the scheme administrator. Although the 
insurance document doesnt specifically say F is acting as ECICs agent its reasonable for 
me to believe that F is ECICs agent because:
the warranty insurance document says Mr A needs to contact F to make a claim
F confirmed to Mr A that the repair could be carried out under the warranty. As F 
confirmed cover it would have done so on ECICs behalf
F confirmed to us that it paid the repair under the warranty insurance terms. As ECIC 
provides cover F would have paid on ECIC s behalf
the warranty insurance document says that complaints must be made to F. F has 
dealt with Mr As complaint about his claim and it would have done so on ECICs 
behalf
we notified F that we considered that it was acting as ECICs agent, which its not 
disputed.
So I think ECIC is the correct business for this complaint to be about. Ill now refer to ECIC to 
include its agent F.
Which business is responsible for any failed repair?
ECIC says its not responsible for a failed repair as Mr A contacted L direct to repair his 
wheelchair and L isnt one of its approved repairers. Mr A says he originally bought his 
wheelchair from L and it was L who introduced him to ECIC (its agent F) to get insurance 
which was a condition of his funding arrangement to buy the wheelchair.
Mr A understood the two business had a close business relationship, and from what he says 
I think his understanding was reasonable. He also says when he asked ECIC if it had an 
approved repairer list or if it could recommend a repairer ECIC told him it didn't have an 
approved repairer in his area and it could only suggest L.
There is evidence to support that Mr A reasonably understood L was the equivalent of 
ECICs approved repairer. He had to get ECIC to pre-authorise the repair before it 
happened. He sent the repair cost estimate, which was clearly from L, to ECIC and it wrote 
to Mr A that the estimate was acceptable and he should contact L to have the repair done. 
ECIC didnt tell Mr A that he should contact another business from its approved suppliers list 
to get an estimate or show any concern L wasnt on the approved list.
The warranty insurance document says theres no cover for repair by a repairer not 
approved by the manufacturer or ECIC. ECIC confirmed cover for the repair to be done by L 
and I think Mr A reasonably understood L was a repairer approved by ECIC.
The extended warranty insurance covers the wheelchairs breakdown repair (subject to the 
warranty terms). Taking into account the relevant law, regulations and guidance, and on a 
fair and reasonable basis, Mr A can reasonably expect the repair to be done with reasonable 
care and skill.Ive seen Mr As and Ls comments about why there were further problems with the Mr As 
wheelchair following the repair. From the information its reasonable for me to conclude that 
the repair wasnt done with reasonable care and skill. As L was in effect acting as ECICs 
approved repairer for the repair under the warranty insurance ECIC is responsible for the 
faulty repair.
Impact on Mr A
Mr As detailed the impact the failed repair had on him. In summary he says:
one of his annual leave days was spent having to be in bed while he waited for L to 
try to repair the damage it had done when repairing the original fault without L telling 
him what was happening
he spent two subsequent annual leave days trying to get the damage fixed and 
travelling about a 90-mile round trip to get a loan wheelchair from L which turned out 
to be unsuitable for his needs. He had to pay £110 for a taxi to deliver the loan 
wheelchair to his house as L refused to do so
he injured his back a result of the wheelchairs unpredictable drive
he had the general inconvenience and stress of the wheelchairs unpredictable drive, 
for example it was difficult for him to get through doors and on and off public 
transport
his family holiday was greatly affected as he wasnt able to do biking as planned
he had the frustration of repeatedly chasing L to get the repair done, for which hes 
provided evidence.
I dont have any medical evidence about how badly Mr A hurt his back and theres no 
evidence he has any long-term back injury. Ive based my compensation award on the 
evidence I have.
I think its reasonable for ECIC, who was responsible for the claim repair, to pay Mr A £400 
compensation and refund to him the £110 taxi fare to reflect his distress, inconvenience and 
direct financial loss due to the repair not being carried out with reasonable care and skill.
The £110 refund will on the basis that Mr A provides evidence to ECIC that he made the 
payment. Interest must be added on the refund as Ive detailed below.
Before I made my decision I asked Mr A to clarify if his wheelchairs problems had now been 
resolved. He says his wheelchair was extremely difficult to drive for over three months but 
then seemed to reset itself after which he had fewer problems driving it or it maybe he'd got 
so used to the unusual handling he noticed the problem less. And in December 2019 he 
claimed for accidental damage to the wheelchair (which occurred in the incident when he 
hurt his back) during which he thinks the engineer working on his wheelchair resolved the 
problem. But he also said hes been shielding during the pandemic so he cant be certain 
that his wheelchair is fully working.
Based on the information I have at present I wont be asking ECIC to do anymore in relation 
to Mr As claim for his wheelchair repair as part of this complaint. But I may reconsider this 
point if Mr A provides updated evidence on the issue that theres still a problem relating to 
the failed repair.ECIC didnt agree with my first provisional decision. In summary it said:
it and F wasnt responsible for Ls engineer who carried out the repairs. The policy 
says ECIC will pay for the repair, which it did. It didnt arrange or undertake the 
repairs
L responded quickly to Mr As complaint about the repairs, agreed to re-programme 
the joystick on 22 August 2019 and attempted to do so that day, but Mr A had gone 
out
L couldnt send another engineer before Mr As holiday but arranged for a temporary 
chair as an alternative which L believed was suitable for Mr As needs as it was the 
same make and model as a chair hed used before
L offered to arrange an engineer to do the repair as soon as practicable on Mr As 
return from holiday but he didnt take up the offer
it didnt agree L carried out the original repairs without reasonable skill and care and 
it had seen no evidence to suggest there was an issue with the repair. It considered L 
responded reasonably as soon as Mr A told it there was an issue with the repair.
Mr A didnt think £400 compensation sufficiently acknowledged his distress and 
inconvenience caused by the problems with the repair. He provided more information about 
the impact on him and responded to the points ECIC raised about the offers of repair and the 
loan wheelchair, which I detailed in my second provisional decision. Mr A thinks he paid for 
the taxi in cash so has no documentary evidence of the payment.
My second provisional decision
Having considered the parties responses, in my second provisional decision I explained why 
I still thought ECIC was responsible for Mr As wheelchair not being repaired with reasonable 
care and skill and why I was increasing the compensation ECIC needed to pay to Mr A. 
I said:
ECIC says it didnt arrange or undertake the wheelchair repair so isnt responsible for the 
repair. But I explained in my first provisional decision why I thought L was in effect acting as 
ECICs approved repairer for the wheelchairs repair under the warranty insurance and why 
ECIC is responsible for the faulty repair. ECICs response doesnt change my mind on that 
point.
Ive seen emails between Mr A and L which detail how the problems with his wheelchair 
happened due to the initial repair. So I think there is evidence that the initial repair wasnt 
carried out with reasonable care and skill which caused ongoing problems as to how the 
wheelchair drove and reacted.
Mr A says on 22 August he returned to his home to find a note that L had attended to repair 
his wheelchair when he was out. He says he hadnt known what time L would be attending 
and phoned it several times to try and get that information. He had to go out to get items for 
his holiday, as he had to stay in bed while his wheelchair was initially repaired. Mr A says he 
was at most 15 minutes away from his home and thought L would phone him if it did attend 
while he was out so he could return immediately.
Ive seen evidence which supports Mr A did phone L several times to try and find out when it 
would attend that day. I think it would have been reasonable for L to call Mr A to confirm the 
time it would attend and reasonable to call him when it found he wasnt at home. L knew Mr A wanted to get the new problems with his wheelchair repaired before he went on holiday 
and it knew Mr A hadnt been able to go out while it was doing the initial repair.
Mr A says that before he got his own wheelchair he had previously tried the type of 
wheelchair L offered to loan him as a temporary alternative which is why he agreed to do the 
90-mile round trip to try the alternative. He says L told him the loan wheelchair was a similar 
specification to his and could go 8mph, which was essential for his biking holiday. He 
couldnt try the wheelchair at Ls store as it didnt have a hoist so he couldnt transfer to the 
wheelchair. It wasnt until he returned home with the wheelchair that he discovered hed 
been given the standard model which only goes 5mph, so not suitable for his needs. Also, 
after sitting in the wheelchair for about half an hour the seat became very uncomfortable for 
Mr A. In addition, the loan wheelchair was displaying an error code that he couldn't reset.
Mr A set out his disappointment and frustration about the loan wheelchair in an email to L at 
the time, which Ive seen. Im satisfied that he wouldnt have made the 90-mile round trip if L 
had told him he wouldnt be able try out the wheelchair or that it didnt go the same speed as 
his own wheelchair. Mr A would have been saved the inconvenience of the trip and the £110 
taxi fare to get the loan wheelchair home. I think Mr A acted reasonably in not using the loan 
wheelchair given that it was uncomfortable, not fit for his needs and had an error code which 
he couldnt reset.
Ive also seen emails between Mr A and L after his holiday trying to arrange for L to attend to 
repair his wheelchair. Mr A says there were also calls between them. He understood that an 
appointment was eventually set for 24 October. However that got called off as L hadnt 
booked the engineer. So I dont think Mr A did turn down Ls offer to attend to do the repair 
after the holiday. Mr A was clearly still trying to get the repair done.
It was in late October that Mr As wheelchair drive improved, he believes that it reset itself 
and later in the year the joystick was replaced. Mr A hadnt said that he still has problems 
with his wheelchair.
Im satisfied that the evidence shows L didnt take reasonable care and skill in doing the 
initial repair which caused Mr As wheelchair to have problems for several months. Im also 
satisfied that L should have reasonably resolved the problems sooner than it did. And as L 
was ECICs approved repairer for the wheelchairs repair under the warranty insurance ECIC 
is responsible for the faulty repair.
Mr As provided more evidence about the impact on him. He says theres no medical 
evidence that he hurt his back as he treated it with pain relief and didnt go to his GP. Hes 
sent evidence that he asked to his employer if he could work from home as hed hurt his 
back which ties in with when Mr A says the accident occurred due to the problems with the 
wheelchair. Mr A hasnt said his back was permanently damaged.
Mr A has detailed how the problems with his wheelchair constantly affected his 
independence given his reliance on it. When he was in his wheelchair he was always 
anxious about the wheelchairs unpredictable drive and the anxiety, as well as the practical 
impact of the having to deal with the drive, affected him all the time on a daily basis.
I dont think my first proposed award of £400 compensation is enough to acknowledge the 
overall impact on Mr A. Looking at the whole picture, as well as Mr As family holiday being 
badly affected, his lost annual leave days, the inconvenience of the lengthy trip to get a loan 
wheelchair which was useable, injuring his back and the frustration of trying to get L to do 
the repair Mr A also had the constant stress and upset of the wheelchairs unpredictable 
drive and the considerable daily impact on his independence.Overall I think that Mr A had substantial distress and inconvenience and that compensation 
of £700 is a reasonable amount to acknowledge that.
Mr A doesnt think he can evidence the taxi fare to get the loan wheelchair back to his home 
as he thinks he paid in cash. ECIC hasnt disputed that Mr A had to pay to get the 
wheelchair home and I dont think the £110 taxi fare sounds an unreasonable amount. So 
Im intending to say ECIC must pay Mr A that amount plus interest as Ive detailed below.
Responses to my second provisional decision
Mr A agreed and ECIC said it had no further comments.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As Mr A agreed, and ECIC said it had no further comments on, my second provisional 
decision I have no reason to change my mind. For the reasons Ive given above I uphold this 
complaint. 
Im satisfied that L didnt take reasonable care and skill in doing the initial repair which 
caused Mr As wheelchair to have problems for several months. L should have reasonably 
resolved the problems sooner than it did. As L was ECICs approved repairer for the 
wheelchairs repair under the warranty insurance ECIC is responsible for the faulty repair. 
As a result of the faulty repair Mr A had distress and inconvenience and had to pay for a taxi 
to deliver a loan wheelchair to him which wasnt appropriate for his needs. ECIC hasnt 
disputed that Mr A had to pay to get the wheelchair home and hasnt said the £110 taxi fare 
was an unreasonable amount. So ECIC should pay Mr A the £110 for the taxi even though 
he hasnt got documentary evidence of payment and £700 compensation for his distress and 
inconvenience.
Putting things right
ECIC must pay Mr A £700 compensation for his distress and inconvenience and £110 to 
refund him for the taxi fare plus interest as Ive detailed below.
My final decision
I uphold this complaint and require EC Insurance Company Limited to pay Mr A:
£700 compensation for his distress and inconvenience, and
£110 to refund him for the taxi fare to deliver the loan wheelchair plus interest* at 8% 
simple a year from the date Mr A made the payment to the date of settlement. 
*If EC Insurance Company Limited considers that its required by HM Revenue & Customs to 
take off income tax from that interest it should tell Mr A how much its taken off. It should also 
give Mr A a certificate showing this if he asks for one, so he can reclaim the tax from HM 
Revenue & Customs if appropriate.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision before 23 April 2021.
 
Nicola Sisk
Ombudsman