DRN-2745520
The complaint
Mr R and Mrs R (the complainants) say Shacklocks LLP (S) wrongly closed Mr Rs 
Nationwide Building Society (NBS) account in the course of implementing the investment 
recommendations it issued on 15 October 2019. In addition, they say S was wrong not to 
have provided recordings of telephone calls it conducted; that S overcharged for its advice 
and took too long to refund the overcharge; and that S mishandled their complaint by 
drawing it out to the end of the eight weeks complaint handling time limit.
The complainants seek compensation for financial loss (relevant to this is Mr Rs profound 
displeasure that the loss of his NBS account means he has also lost the opportunity to 
benefit from membership shares allocations if NBS was to become a bank in the future), a 
refund of the fees they paid and compensation for the trouble and upset the matter has 
caused them.
What happened
S disputes the complaint. In the main, it says:
Its recommendations resulted from the complainants request for a review of their 
finances; it had a lengthy meeting with them on 16 October 2019 to discuss the 
recommendation report of 15 October 2019; the report explicitly set out [one of] the 
recommendations to transfer Mr Rs NBS Cash Individual Savings Account (ISA) to 
a Stocks and Shares ISA on the Old Mutual Wealth (OMW) platform but to retain 
two non-ISA NBS accounts; the relevant illustration, discussed and agreed with Mr R, 
showed his lump sum contribution of £20,000 into the OMW ISA alongside the 
transfer of £6,490.76 from the NBS ISA; on 17 October 2019 Mr R provided 
information on the NBS ISA that was requested by the adviser; the recommendations 
were discussed and agreed again in a meeting around two weeks thereafter; the 
complainants then proceeded to complete/sign documentation relevant to 
implementing the recommendations, including the OMW ISA application (which 
expressly showed the lump sum and transferred amounts) and the OMW ISA transfer 
authority form (which featured the NBS ISA as the source of the transfer); and 
thereafter, in November 2019, Mr R received communication directly from OMW 
confirming receipt of his transfer request and confirming receipt of the transfer 
amount from NBS.
Based on these facts it rejects the claim that it wrongly closed Mr Rs NBS account.
S does not currently make audio recordings of telephone calls and there is not a 
regulatory requirement upon it to do so.
There was a disbursement (of £3) it incurred in its work for the complainants. 
Normally such a disbursement is passed on to the client. However, because this was 
not agreed in advance with the complainants it refunded the amount to them and it 
has apologised that it took a few weeks to do so (during which it sought to clarify the 
matter).
The complainants complained in writing on 4 February 2020, it acknowledged Mr Rs 
verbal complaint five working days thereafter, it spoke to him since then and sent the 
complainants an interim letter on 19 March 2020, and then it issued its complaint 
response in writing on 3 April 2020. It does not consider that it mishandled the 
complaint.
There is no merit in the complaint, but as a gesture of goodwill it offered  for 
acceptance within 14 day  to refund the fee it applied to the NBS ISA transfer.
[The complainants do not appear to have accepted this offer at the time.]
One of our investigators looked into the complaint and concluded that it should not be 
upheld. He agreed with S position for broadly the same reasons presented by S. He also 
noted that complaint handling is not a regulated activity so he made no finding on the 
complaint in this respect, but he commented that S acknowledged the complaint and issued 
its final response to it within the eight weeks period prescribed by the regulator. 
The complainants rejected this outcome. 
In the main, Mr R stressed that there is clear provision within the recommendation report that 
their NBS accounts were to be retained and untouched, yet S went against this by 
transferring and closing his; in addition, they had been assured by the adviser, during their 
discussions with him, that this will be observed; the adviser was aware that the NBS account 
and its funds (and also the £20,000 capital) were intended for short term emergencies and to 
supplement their future expenditure (including holidays); he was also aware of the objective 
to maintain the account in case a future opportunity arose to benefit from membership 
shares allocations if NBS became a bank; there is no merit in S reference to the non-ISA 
NBS accounts that were retained because it was expressly instructed to discount those 
accounts from its advice, so his NBS ISA account was the only NBS account that was 
supposed to be retained; and his calculation of the fee refund he should have received was 
£3 plus but the refund he received was for only £3.
Mr R also rejected the idea that he and Mrs R read, understood and agreed the 
recommendations report. He said, or suggested, that the report was unusually cumbersome 
and that they refused, at the time, to sign an undertaking that it was understood and agreed, 
so S has no evidence to assert this.
The matter was referred to an ombudsman. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Complaint Handling
In isolation, this is not a complaint matter this service would address. Our remit, in terms of 
investments, is to determine complaints about regulated activities and complaint handling is 
not a regulated activity. 
Nevertheless, I share the investigators observations about how S addressed the complaint. I 
have seen a copy of its interim response of 19 March 2020 and its final response of 3 April 
2020 is one of the key documents in the complaint. Both were within eight weeks of the 
submission of the complaint, so in terms of complying with the regulators eight weeks 
complaint handling period it appears that S was compliant.
Fee Overcharge
The fee overcharge issue appears to have been resolved. There does not appear to be 
meaningful dispute over S explanation of it and Mr R concedes that £3 was refunded. It is not clear whether (or not) there is evidence to substantiate the claim, or suggestion, from 
him that the relevant figure was not just £3 but was £3 plus, or £3 something. In any case, 
and on balance, I do not consider this  and how ever many pence might or might not be 
outstanding  to be of value to the merits (or otherwise) of the overall complaint. In the main, 
I am satisfied that S sought to rectify this fee issue and did so by refunding the £3.
Recorded telephone calls
No claim about a financial loss has been made in this respect. Given the documentation sent 
and the meetings that happened with regards to the recommendations and their 
implementation, telephone calls (and telephone call evidence) does not appear to be 
prominent in the events leading to implementation of the recommendations. In terms of the 
calls made about the complaint, I refer to my statement(s) above about complaint handling. If 
the complainants view the lack of recorded telephone calls, by S, to be a regulatory concern 
and if they dispute S assertion that it was not required to record such calls, they can 
consider presenting their concerns to the regulator.
The NBS ISA account (and the transferred funds)
This appears to be the key issue in the complaint. Unfortunately for the complainants, I am 
not persuaded that they have established a case for it, and I do not consider that the balance 
of evidence supports their complaint about it  to the contrary, the balance of evidence 
appears to defeat their complaint about it.
I do not accept the suggestion that the complainants did not read, understand and/or agree 
the recommendations report at the time it was issued (and discussed). Overall evidence of 
their conduct at the time shows that they did  irrespective of whether (or not) they signed 
the declaration they have referred to. 
There is evidence of correspondence between the parties at the time. Within it is the letter, 
from Mr R (to S) of 17 October 2019, that S mentioned. In this letter Mr R said  
Please find enclosed information requested in our meeting yesterday.
When do you require the funds made available to reinvest?
I am halfway through the booklet/report you supplied yesterday
[my emphasis]
The above, as emphasised, shows that Mr R was engaged in reading the report the day 
after his (and Mrs Rs) meeting with the adviser. It is reasonable to conclude that he did that 
with the purpose of understanding the reports contents. Despite his comments about the 
nature of the report, I have not seen evidence that he subsequently fed back that it was 
unclear or that he (and Mrs R) disagreed with any of its contents.
Added to the above finding is the fact that both parties met again around a fortnight after the 
report was issued. The report appears to have been the only reason for that meeting, so I 
am satisfied that it contents and implementation of its contents were the matters discussed. 
As S has highlighted, there is evidence of signed and dated (dated 30 October 2019, the 
date on which the second meeting between the parties took place) documentation for the 
transfer of Mr Rs ISA to OMW and for his application for the OMW ISA. The former clearly 
set out that the source of the transfer was Mr Rs NBS ISA account. There is also 
documentation of the complainants raising the money for the lump sum payment he made 
into his OMW ISA and a copy of their signed cheque in payment of that lump sum into the 
OMW ISA.In light of all the above, it is inconceivable that the complainants did not agree with the report 
and its contents  contents which they actively implemented. In the same context, it is also 
inconceivable that Mr R could not have been aware of and known  before the transfer of his 
NBS ISA account, as he completed the documentation for that transfer and after the transfer 
 that he was engaged in the process of bringing his NBS ISA account to an end and 
opening up a new/transferred ISA with OMW. Furthermore, as S also highlighted, there is 
evidence of communication directly from OMW to the complainants which refers to the 
implemented recommendations, including Mr Rs ISA transfer.
It is not clear why Mr R presently disputes the transfer and its effect in closing the NBS 
account, but as I stated at the outset of this sub-section the balance of evidence defeats his 
dispute. If closing down the NBS ISA account was contrary to his instruction and if the same 
was the case for the notion of using capital of around £20,000 as a lump sum for a 
prospective OMW ISA, he had requisite awareness/knowledge and a succession of 
opportunities before and during the activities that led to the transfer to object, but he did not. 
As he raised no such objection  and as he actively engaged with the transfer  the 
reasonable inference to be drawn is that he agreed with the transfer and that the transfer 
matched his instruction. 
Conclusion
For the reasons given above, I am not persuaded to uphold any of the complaint issues 
presented by the complainants.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I do not uphold the complaint from Mr R and Mrs R.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr R and Mrs R to 
accept or reject my decision before 19 August 2021.
 
Roy Kuku
Ombudsman