DRN-4089111
The complaint
Mr K complains about London General Insurance Company Limited (LGI), and the repairs 
completed to his television after he made a claim on his Accidental Damage insurance 
policy.
What happened
When Mr K purchased his television, he took out an Accidental Damage insurance policy 
underwritten by LGI.
Unfortunately, Mr Ks television screen was accidentally damage in January 2023. So, he 
contacted LGI to make a claim on his policy. LGI accepted Mr Ks claim on 26 January, and 
they instructed an engineer, who Ill refer to as E, to attend Mr Ks home and repair the 
television on their behalf. As E were working on behalf of LGI, LGI are responsible for Es 
actions during the claim process.
E didnt attend Mr Ks home until 15 February. And after they had completed the repair, there 
was an issue with the televisions sound. Mr K was unhappy about this, as he felt the way E 
had completed the repair had led to the sound issue. LGI agreed to send E back to Mr Ks 
home to check the quality of the initial repairs. And they accepted the back board hadnt 
been clipped in properly and they rectified this issue. But E thought the issue with the sound 
was due to a fault with the mainboard. And, as Mr Ks policy excluded any repairs needed 
due to a mechanical breakdown, LGI didnt think this was something they were obligated to 
repair. Mr K was unhappy with this, so he raised a complaint.
Mr K was unhappy with the way E had repaired his television. He provided photos and video 
recordings which he felt provided E had failed to take proper care of his television and had 
failed to complete the initial repair correctly. Mr K explained the sound on the television was 
working prior to the damage and so, he thought the sound issue was related to either the 
accidental damage or the quality of the repair completed by E. So, he thought LGI should 
either repair his television or, if this wasnt possible, replace it covering the cost or pay him a 
settlement amount that would allow him to arrange a replacement himself.
LGI responded to the complaint and upheld it in part. They accepted the service E provided, 
including the time taken to attend Mr Ks home and the way in which Mr Ks television was 
placed during the repair couldve been improved. And they paid Mr K £50 to recognise any 
upset this caused. But they didnt think they had acted unfairly when not agreeing to repair 
the issue with the sound, as they thought E had confirmed the issue related to the main 
board, which they felt was a mechanical breakdown. So, they suggested Mr K make a claim 
on his television five-year guarantee and they explained they would provide evidence to 
show the issue had occurred within the five-year period if this was required. Mr K was 
unhappy with this response, so he referred his complaint to us.
Our investigator looked into the complaint and didnt uphold it. They thought the £50 LGI 
paid was fair to recognise the level of service E had provided, and the impact this had on Mr 
K. And after considering Mr Ks comments and the photographic evidence he provided, they 
didnt think they were able to say the sound issue had definitely resulted from the repairs E 
completed. And as the sound issue related to the main board and so, the mechanics of the 
television, they didnt think LGI were unfair when refusing to complete additional repairs or 
pay for a replacement. So, they didnt think LGI needed to do anything more.
Mr K didnt agree. He thought the photos hed provided showed the repair hadnt been 
completed correctly or that the television hadnt been properly positioned during the repair 
process. And he stated E had agreed the sound issue had been caused due to the 
accidental damage, before changing their opinion in their official report. Mr K maintained the 
sound issue was caused by either the initial damage, or the quality of the repair, and so, he 
maintained the TV should be repaired, or replaced, by LGI. As Mr K didnt agree, the 
complaint has been passed to me for a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im not upholding the complaint for broadly the same reason as the 
investigator. Ive focused my comments on what I think is relevant. If I havent commented 
on any specific point, its because I dont believe its affected what I think is the right 
outcome.
First, I want to recognise the impact this complaint has had on Mr K. I recognise Mr K took 
out the insurance policy with LGI to help protect him against both the financial impact and 
inconvenience caused when his television was damaged accidentally. And I dont think Mr K 
was unreasonable to expect that any repairs completed by LGI would leave him with a fully 
functional television. So, when this wasnt the case, I can understand why Mr K would feel as 
though LGI had treated him unfairly. And I appreciate this wouldve been compounded by Mr 
Ks general unhappiness with the level of service E provided, and the way they conducted 
the repairs.
But for me to say LGI should do something more than they have already, such as pay for a 
replacement television or cover the costs of further repairs, Id need to be satisfied LGI have 
done something wrong and failed to address these errors already. So, Id need to be 
satisfied LGI acted outside of the policy terms and conditions when explaining to Mr K that 
they were unable to conduct further repairs needed to restore fully functional sound to the 
television. Or, if I think they did act within these terms, that they acted unfairly in some other 
way that hasnt already been compensated for. And in this situation, I dont think thats the 
case.
Before I explain why Ive reached my decision, I think it would be useful for me to explain 
exactly what Ive been able to consider, and how. Its important to note it is not my role, or 
the role of our service, to re-underwrite the claim as we dont have the expertise to do so. 
Instead, its my role to consider the actions LGI have taken and thought about whether these 
actions were fair and reasonable, based on the evidence available to LGI at the time.
And, where there is a dispute over actions taken, or comments made, in person, I must think 
about what I think is most likely to have happened, based on the balance of probabilities.
In this situation, the main point in dispute centres around the fault with the televisions sound 
and when it was most likely caused, and how. Mr K thinks the issue with the sound was 
caused either by the accidental damage, or during the repairs completed by E. Whereas, 
LGI feel the fault was caused by a mechanical issue, unrelated to the damage or their 
repairs.Ive first looked at the policy terms and conditions. And these explains that LGI will look to 
repair, where possible, accident damage resulting from an unforeseen and sudden incident, 
which is accidental in nature. And it goes onto explain that if this accidental damage leaves 
the television uneconomical to repair, they will provide a replacement or, if unavailable, an 
alternative settlement.
But the policy also explained under the section what you are not covered for that LGI wont 
cover any issue resulting from a mechanical breakdown. And alongside this, it explains that 
a customer should refer to the {retailer} guarantee terms and conditions if the product 
breaks down.
In this situation, I can see from the claim form Mr K submitted that the damage was 
described as the screen is broken and lines running through the display. And Ive seen 
photos of the screen before and after the repair, which satisfied me the damage to the 
screen was repaired satisfactorily. I cant see that Mr K reported an issue with the sound at 
the time and so, I dont think I can say for certain that the sound issue was caused by the 
initial incident that caused the accidental damage.
But I think its accepted there was an issue with the sound found when the repairs were 
initially completed. And I think LGI took this issue seriously, as I would expect them to do, by 
asking E to reattend to look at the quality of the first repairs and the issue with the sound.
Ive considered the engineers report from this attendance. And Im satisfied he needed to 
clip the backboard back into the television, which shouldve been done previously. So, I do 
recognise why Mr K would have concerns about the quality of the repairs and make the 
assumption that the issue with the sound was caused by E.
But I can see on the second attendance, E state the sound fault was caused due to an issue 
with the main board of the television. And as the main board is a separate mechanical part to 
the screen, I dont think I can say LGI have acted unfairly, based on the evidence available 
to them, by deeming this issue to be a mechanical breakdown. In their response to Mr Ks 
complaint, they directed Mr K to his television guarantee, which follows the guidance in the 
policy terms and conditions. So, I think theyve acted in line with the policy terms here and I 
dont think I can say theyve done anything wrong when doing so.
But I do appreciate Mr Ks concerns about the way the first repairs were completed, and Ive 
looked at the photos hes provided. Ive also took into consideration the fact LGI agreed the 
television itself couldve been positioned in a safer way while the repair was completed, and 
they offered £50 to recognise this and the delays leading up to the first repair. So, I do think 
E couldve provided a better level of service.
But I dont think this means I can say for certain that the repairs E completed led to sound 
fault with Mr Ks television. While I do understand the coincidental timing, and because of 
this I completely understand Mr Ks rationale, without substantive evidence such as a 
separate report confirming the main board was damaged, I dont think I can say LGI should 
be responsible for the repair to the sound fault.
And Ive also seen nothing to suggest the cost of this repair would deem the television to be 
uneconomical to repair. So, even if I were to say LGI were responsible for this repair, I 
wouldnt have been able to say LGI were responsible for the replacement of the television.
I also think the £50 LGI offered to recognise the short delay in arranging for E to attend Mr 
Ks home, and the service E provided during the repair, to be a fair one that falls in line with 
what I wouldve directed, had it not already been made.I think it takes into consideration part of the delay being caused due to part availability whilst 
also still recognising the fact Mr K had to wait longer than I wouldve expected for an 
attendance. I think it also fairly takes into account the impression E created by the way they 
positioned Mr Ks television but also considers the fact there is no substantive evidence to 
show this caused any additional damage to Mr Ks television. I also think it takes into 
account the fact Mr K has an alternative method of arranging for a repair to the sound fault, 
without incurring a cost to himself. So, while I appreciate Mr K is unlikely to agree, I dont 
think LGI need to do anything more on this occasion.
I can see LGI have signposted Mr K to his television guarantee. And I think this was a fair 
suggestion. If Mr K has followed, or intends to follow this process and any investigation or 
repair finds the fault with the soundboard likely to be caused by previous repairs, I would 
expect LGI to consider this new information upon receipt of satisfactory evidence from Mr K.
My final decision
For the reasons outlined above, I dont uphold Mr Ks complaint about London General 
Insurance Company Limited.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr K to accept or 
reject my decision before 23 May 2023.
 
Josh Haskey
Ombudsman