DRN-3995642
The complaint
Ms B complains that JC Roxburgh (Financial Services) Limited mishandled her pension 
when they mistakenly sold all of her investments, rather than a proportion of them. She 
thinks she may have suffered a financial loss as a result of the error.
What happened
Ms B had a pension portfolio valued at around £1,100,000. Roxburgh were her financial 
advisers and helped manage her funds.
Generally speaking, Ms Bs portfolio was split in half between two discretionary fund 
managers (DFMs). She had 50% of her funds invested in a Brewin Dolphin portfolio and 
50% invested in a Roxsure 7 portfolio.
Roxburgh say that in February 2020, as part of a regular review of her funds, Ms B agreed to 
move those invested in the Roxsure 7 portfolio into the Roxsure Select portfolio as this 
offered more regular rebalancing.
Roxburgh say their intention was to sell the funds held in Roxsure 7 in order to move that 
part of Ms Bs portfolio into Roxsure Select.
However, on 21 February 2020 Roxburgh erroneously sold Ms Bs entire portfolio, including 
the funds invested with Brewin Dolphin. They then used all of the funds to purchase shares 
in the Roxsure Select portfolio. So as a result, 100% of Ms B funds were invested in 
Roxsure Select instead of just 50% of her funds with the remainder not being held with 
Brewin Dolphin as expected.
Ms B noticed Roxburghs error and informed them of it.
Roxburgh say that they initially agreed to keep the funds where they were while they looked 
into assessing any losses their error caused. They say they had a conversation with Ms B on 
6 March 2020 during which it was agreed theyd rebalance her funds by putting 50% of the 
value of her pension back into Brewin Dolphin.
Roxburgh say 50% of Ms Bs funds were sold on 6 March 2020. And on 9 March 2020 those 
funds were used to repurchase the Brewin Dolphin portfolio.
Ms B says Roxburgh encouraged her to make a formal complaint about the error during their 
meeting on 6 March 2020. So, Roxburgh raised a complaint on her behalf with their 
complaints handler.
On 17 March 2020 Ms B spoke to Roxburghs complaint handler and followed this up with an 
email. In summary she said she was disappointed Roxburgh made the error and didnt spot 
it themselves. She said it was agreed Roxburgh would immediately rebalance the portfolio 
but when they did it on 6 March, it left the portfolio unbalanced. Ms B didnt think Roxburghs 
analysis of any losses was accurate or followed the data she could see on her SIPP 
providers portal. And she said Roxburgh had encouraged her to make a complaint but that 
had delayed things and made communication more difficult. Ms B also said this was the 
second time an error of a similar nature had been made.
In response Roxburgh said they didnt dispute the error was made or that it was Ms B who 
made them aware of it. But they said Ms B had initially agreed to keep the funds where they 
were before agreeing to rebalancing them on 6 March. They said the imbalance came about 
because there was a significant drop in the market resulting in the 50% of funds that were 
sold being protected from the drop and the 50% that remained invested suffering a fall in 
value. So, when the Brewin Dolphin funds were purchased, they were able to buy a larger 
amount.
Roxburgh said their analysis had shown their error had resulted in a £35,690.57 gain for 
Ms B. And the data theyd used was more accurate than the information available to Ms B 
through her SIPP portal. Roxburgh said as Ms B was clearly unhappy, directing her towards 
making a complaint was the right thing to do.
Ms B remained unhappy with Roxburghs response and so brought her complaint to our 
Service. Our investigator wasnt satisfied with Roxburghs calculations and said to put things 
right Roxburgh should complete a calculation that compared the notional value of what 
Ms Bs fund would have been had the error not occurred with the current position of the 
funds.
Roxburgh felt their calculation had already shown Ms B hadnt suffered a loss. They have 
since sent several explanations which they say demonstrate this. However, theyve recently 
revised their estimate and now believe that Ms B had actually gained by £55,501.57 from 
their error.
Roxburgh also acknowledge that the same issue occurred in 2019, but at that time theyd 
completed an analysis which showed no loss. They said Ms B never complained about that 
issue, but they completed a buy/sell analysis which showed Ms B to have been £10,887.69 
better off as a result of their error in 2019.
While trying to resolve the complaint informally Roxburgh apologised for their errors and 
offered Ms B £500 for the trouble and upset theyd caused.
Ms B remained unhappy with Roxburghs calculations and explanations. So, this complaint 
has been passed to me for a decision.
My provisional decision
In my provisional decision I said;
Theres no dispute that Roxburgh made an error in February 2020 when they sold Ms Bs 
entire portfolio and moved it all into the Roxsure Select portfolio. So, the issue I must 
determine in relation to that aspect of the complaint is whether Roxburgh did enough to put 
things right once the error was identified.
I appreciate Ms B found it upsetting that Roxburgh made a significant error by selling all her 
investments. And that it was her, and not Roxburgh that identified the error. But my role isnt 
to punish a business for their mistakes. My role is to look at what the business did to put 
things right and say whether that left Ms B in a worse position than had the error not 
occurred.
Where the evidence is incomplete, inconclusive or contradictory, I reach my decision on the 
balance of probabilities  that is, what is considered most likely to have happened given the evidence that is available to me, and the wider surrounding circumstances.
Once Roxburghs error was pointed out to them by Ms B, they made a reasonable effort to 
sort things out and get Ms Bs funds re-invested in the correct way. But the issue here is that 
the error wasnt easily reversible, and I think its likely Ms B was always going to find herself 
in a different position to where she would have been had the error not been made.
However, Roxburgh needed to ensure that the position Ms B was in due to their error hadnt 
caused her a financial loss. And its the loss calculation that Roxburgh have since completed 
which is now in dispute.
Considering the full circumstances of the complaint, I dont think Roxburghs calculations 
followed a fair approach in assessing any potential losses. Ill explain why.
The calculations Ive seen so far dont appear to take into account the value of the Roxsure 
Select portfolio Ms B would have had, if the transaction had been processed correctly on 21 
February 2020.
Roxburgh say the calculation should focus on the Brewin Dolphin funds as it was only those 
that were sold erroneously. And they say the Roxsure 7 funds were correctly sold. It appears 
from Roxburghs calculations that the Brewin Dolphin side of Ms Bs portfolio benefited from 
the error made and the time the funds were out of the market. But I disagree that the 
calculation needed to only focus on the Brewin Dolphin side of the portfolio. I say that 
because I think Roxburghs error also affected the number of shares Ms B would have held 
in the Roxsure Select funds. And overall that may well have an impact.
When trying to correct the error Roxburgh sold 50% of the value of Ms Bs pension on 6 
March. And while I dont dispute that was what was agreed as the best way forward between 
Ms B and Roxburgh, that didnt necessarily leave Ms B in the same position (in terms of her 
Roxsure Select holdings) that she would have been in if Roxburgh hadnt made an error at 
all. So, any calculation thats looking at whether Roxburghs error left Ms B better or worse 
off, needs to include the position of the Roxsure Select portfolio as well as the Brewin 
Dolphin portfolio.
When Roxburgh sold 50% of the value of Ms Bs pension it meant that more than 50% of the 
shares she held in the Roxsure portfolio were sold  thats evidenced in the contract notes 
Roxburgh provided. And so, any calculation omitting this half of Ms Bs portfolio doesnt take 
into account whether she would have had more, or less, units in those funds than she ended 
up with.
Roxburgh says the Roxsure and Brewin funds that Ms B was invested in were managed 
portfolios so the number of units in each fund cant be used for a comparative calculation. 
But I disagree. Roxburgh have sent in the buy and sell contract notes over this period. And I 
havent seen any persuasive evidence that the number of units held in each fund would have 
changed over the period in question between 21 February and 9 March. So, I think a 
calculation based on the number of units that should have been held in each of the DFMs 
portfolios on 21 February comparative to their notional value on 9 March is a fair and 
reasonable basis for a calculation to be made.
If everything had gone to plan on 21 February Roxburgh say that the funds Ms B already 
held with Brewin Dolphin would have remained untouched. So, in my view, Ms B would have 
held the same number of units in each of the Brewin funds on 9 March as she did on 21 
February. Roxburgh say it was always their intention to sell all the Roxsure 7 funds  which 
were valued at £572,540.89 on 21 February 2020  and use the proceeds of the sale to 
purchase Roxsure Select funds.Given that, I think its most likely that Ms B would have held £572,540.89 worth of Roxsure 
Select funds on 21 February 2020, not the £1,121,698.93 that she ended up with. And she 
would have kept the same number of units she already held in all of her Brewin Dolphin 
funds on 21 February 2020. Therefore, this is the basis on which I think Roxburgh need to 
do their loss calculation in order to give a fair and reasonable view on whether their error 
caused Ms B a loss.
Ms Bs funds on 9 March ended with a larger imbalance than when she started. And I can 
see that added to her upset and frustrations. But I dont think the imbalance was avoidable 
when Roxburgh were trying to put things right. It was a large drop in the market between 6 
March and 9 March 2020 that caused the imbalance to occur. And Roxburgh had no way of 
knowing that there would be such a drop in the market that would leave Ms Bs funds 
unbalanced. However, Ive considered how this added to Ms Bs upset and frustration when 
thinking about the award Im minded to make for the upset that Roxburghs error caused.
I can also see Ms B feels that Roxburghs handling of her complaint was poor and didnt 
follow their documented process. Ms B was concerned that Roxburghs complaint handler 
didnt share with her the extent of the complaint he was looking into before reaching his 
findings. And then didnt provide her with details of the loss calculations when answering her 
complaint.
Complaint handling in itself isnt something our service can consider as its not an activity 
thats regulated in the same way Roxburghs other activities are. So, I wont comment on that 
specifically in this decision. But what is clear is that Roxburghs complaint didnt initially 
answer all of Ms Bs complaint points.
I say that because in her email to the complaint handler on 17 March 2020 when Ms B 
sought to clarify her complaint she said;
7. At our meeting on 6th March, we all also noted that this is the second time the 
same error has been made ie incorrectly selling our Brewin Dolphin holdings. This 
happened on 30th August 2019 and was corrected on 5th September 2019. No 
analysis was provided at that time to assess whether this had any negative impact on 
our funds.
In their final response to Ms B, Roxburgh didnt address this point saying it didnt form part of 
the current complaint. However, I disagree. Roxburghs complaint handler had given Ms B a 
chance to express her dissatisfaction with the services shed received from Roxburgh and 
this earlier incident formed part of that.
Roxburgh said that Ms B hadnt previously complained about the same error in 2019 as 
shed been happy with their explanation at the time. But that didnt prevent her from 
complaining later - like she did in March 2020. So, Roxburgh ought to have answered her 
complaint in their final response letter.
Roxburgh have since sent a brief loss assessment for the 2019 error and deemed there to 
be no loss to Ms B. But again, I dont think the loss calculation goes far enough, neither does 
it demonstrate in a clear and simple format that Ms B didnt suffer a loss. So, I think 
Roxburgh should complete another calculation for the error in 2019 following the same 
principles as Ive already explained.
The loss calculation will need to first of all assess what the notional position of Ms Bs funds 
would have been on 28 August 2019 had the correct funds in the correct proportions been 
sold. Roxburgh will then need to compare what those funds would have notionally been 
valued at on 4 September 2019 when they attempted to correct the error.Ms B also asked for Roxburgh to consider refunding the fees shed paid them for their 
ongoing advice during the period when the error was made. I can appreciate why Ms B feels 
that she shouldnt have to pay Roxburgh fees for the period in question. However, our 
approach is to, as closely as possible, put Ms B in the position she would have been in if the 
error hadnt happened, and everything had gone to plan.
Ms B had an agreement with Roxburgh that meant she was paying for their ongoing advice. 
And the movement of funds and changes to her portfolio (had they been done correctly) 
formed part of the on-going fees that she was paying for. So, Roxburghs on-going fees were 
always something Ms B was going to pay. It wasnt an expense that would have been 
avoided had the error not occurred.
My direction below will look to ensure Roxburgh have accurately calculated whether Ms B 
suffered a loss as a result of their actions. And it will compensate her if she did suffer a loss. 
But it wouldnt be fair or reasonable to separately direct Roxburgh to refund their fees during 
the period in question.
However, as Ill go on to explain, I think Roxburghs error caused significant upset and 
inconvenience for Ms B. So, Im minded to say Roxburgh need to compensate Ms B for the 
upset and inconvenience their actions caused.
The responses to my provisional decision 
Roxburgh responded to my provisional decision, making several points. In summary they 
said;
Theyve acted transparently throughout and have always provided data to support 
their calculations.
The units held in a model portfolio such as Ms Bs can move dramatically even over 
short periods of time.
The benchmark used in the calculations didnt accurately reflect the global equity 
investments in Ms Bs portfolio.
They would need mandated access from Ms B to her pension provider to get the 
required information to complete their calculations.
Roxburgh also supplied a new calculation theyd completed to try and assess whether Ms B 
had suffered a loss in 2020.  
Ms B seems to broadly accept my decision and didnt provide any new evidence for me to 
consider. She did, however, raise concerns about the amount of time it may take Roxburgh 
to do the calculations. She also said that while she is willing to provide authority for 
Roxburgh to contact her pension provider, this must be on the condition that she first agrees 
what information is required from her provider and have agreement that shes included on 
any correspondence and information between the parties.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.Ive also reconsidered the findings I made in my provisional decision. 
As I said in my provisional decision, this isnt a complaint where theres a perfect solution 
and despite Roxburghs best efforts, Ms B will always end up in a different position to where 
she would have been had the error not occurred. However, while I think Roxburgh have tried 
to be as helpful as they can be, I still remain unsatisfied that the calculations accurately 
demonstrate the position Ms B would have been in but for Roxburghs error. 
The role of our informal service is to provide answers on the basis of what is fair and 
reasonable in considering the full circumstances of the complaint. So, Ive considered what I 
think to be the fairest and simplest way to calculate whether or not Ms B has suffered a loss 
as a result of Roxburghs error. I set that out in this decision. 
Roxburgh still maintain that the units in a model portfolio can and will move dramatically, 
even across short periods of time. But in this case, Ive seen no evidence that the portfolios 
were adjusted on a daily basis. The purchase and sale contract notes dont demonstrate 
units being bought and sold daily. And Information Ive seen on the Brewin Dolphin portfolio 
suggests its rebalanced once a month. So, I think its fair to calculate the loss on the basis 
that the number of units purchased on 21 February 2020 would have remained the same 19 
days later on 9 March 2020.
I fully appreciate that, so far, none of Roxburghs calculations or explanations have shown 
Ms B has suffered a loss. And, it may well be that the calculation Im directing to be done 
demonstrates that Ms B gained from Roxburghs error. But if nothing else it may give Ms B 
peace of mind that she hasnt suffered a loss. 
 
Roxburgh have done a further calculation which has highlighted some areas of clarification I 
need to address. One fund in the Brewin Dolphin portfolio - JOHCIM CntlEurp  wasnt 
repurchased after the error. I think a fair and reasonable assumption would be to add its 
value of £11,174.66 back into the total value when calculating the notional Brewin Dolphin 
portfolio. 
In Roxburghs latest calculations they used a notional value of 50% of the units bought in 
Roxsure Select  which were valued at £560,849.47. Whereas in their previous submissions 
Roxburgh said they would have used the proceeds of the Roxsure 7 sale (£572,540.89) to 
purchase units in Roxsure Select. 
If possible, Roxburgh should use the purchase figure of £572,540.89 to determine notionally 
how many units would have been purchased in each fund. Using the same proportions as 
they actually were. However, if Roxburgh are unable to accurately calculate exactly how 
many units they would have bought with the higher amount, I think it would be fair to assume 
the difference in the two figures (£11,691.42) left over would have remained in cash, so 
needs to be added on to the notional value of the Roxsure portfolio. 
Roxburgh questioned the index used as a benchmark in my provisional decision as it may 
not have closely followed the actual returns Ms Bs plan would have seen. Ive considered 
Roxburghs comments and Ive amended the benchmark to be used to more closely reflect 
the actual returns Ms Bs pension has seen should any losses be identified.
Roxburgh have also said theyre unable to gain accurate information about Ms Bs funds 
from the September 2019 error without Ms Bs mandated access to her provider to retrieve 
the necessary information. This is fairly common when information is required from third 
parties, and I think its a reasonable request Roxburgh have made. So, in order for Roxburgh to complete the calculations, Ms B should allow them access to 
the information they require. Ms B would like Roxburgh to explain exactly what information 
they require and to see the information thats provided. I think thats a reasonable request, 
so long as no commercially sensitive information is included. Otherwise, Roxburgh should 
provide Ms B with the information its used and the calculations its conducted so that Ms B 
is able to get them checked if required.  
In summary, Ive seen no new information to change my mind on the findings that Ive 
already reached in this decision. However, Ive made some changes to the way in which 
Roxburgh need to put things right which Ive already shared with both sides. 
For the reasons Ive explained in this and my provisional decision, Im upholding Ms Bs 
complaint and direct Roxburgh to calculate any losses as follows.
Putting things right
In awarding fair compensation for any potential losses Ms B has suffered my aim is to 
explain to Roxburgh how to calculate (as close as possible) the position she would have 
been in had Roxburgh not made an error. And then to compare that to the position she found 
herself in after Roxburgh attempted to put right their mistake.
If Roxburgh are unable to accurately complete the calculation themselves, they may wish to 
consider using an actuary or other suitably qualified person to carry out the loss assessment.
For the August 2019 error (Calculation 1)
Roxburgh should calculate compensation by comparing the notional value that Ms Bs 
pension would have been on 4 September 2019 had Roxburgh done everything right on 28 
August 2019 (Value A) with the actual value of Ms Bs pension on the same date (Value B).
Calculating Value A
Value A should be calculated using the notional number of units Ms B would have had 
across her entire portfolio had Roxburgh correctly rebalanced her portfolio on 
28 August 2019.
The number of units in each fund should then be revalued using the actual value of the units 
in each of the funds on 4 September 2019.
Value A should also include any notional cash reserves Ms B would have had taking into 
account any fees or charges that would have been paid.
Calculating Value B
Value B is the actual value of Ms Bs entire portfolio (including any cash) on 4 September 
2019 after Roxburgh had attempted to correct the error.
If Value A is higher than B, then the difference between A and B is the loss.
For the February 2020 error (Calculation 2).
Roxburgh should calculate compensation by comparing the notional value that Ms Bs 
pension would have been on 9 March 2020 had Roxburgh done everything right on 21 
February 2020 (Value C) with the actual value of Ms Bs pension on the same date (Value 
D).Calculating Value C
To calculate Value C Roxburgh must calculate the notional value of the Brewin Dolphin 
portfolio; the notional value of the Roxsure select portfolio; and any notional cash reserves 
as of 9 March 2020
Calculating the notional value of the Brewin Dolphin Portfolio
Roxburgh must use the exact number of units Ms B already held on 21 
February 2020 in each of the Brewin Dolphin funds before any units were 
sold.
Roxburgh must then revalue the units using the actual price of the units of 
those funds on 9 March 2020.
Calculating the notional value of the Roxsure Select portfolio
Roxburgh must calculate the number of units Ms B would have bought on 21 
February 2020 in each of the Roxsure Select funds  in the same proportions 
as she actually bought them  had she just used the proceeds of the sale of 
her Roxsure 7 funds. So, £572,540.89.
Roxburgh must then revalue the units using the actual price of the units of 
those funds on 9 March 2020
Add in any notional amount Ms B would have held in cash on 
21 February 2020 taking into account any fees or charges that would have been 
paid.
Calculating Value D
Value D is the actual value of Ms Bs entire portfolio (including any cash reserves) on 
9 March 2020 after all the purchases of the Brewin Dolphin portfolio.
If Value C is higher than D, then the difference between C and D is the loss.
Loss of returns
If either Calculation 1 or Calculation 2 shows a loss, I also consider that Ms B will have lost 
out on investment returns on that amount between then and now. So, any losses need to be 
brought up to date as set out below.
To bring the loss up to date, the loss amount should be revalued in line using this 
benchmark: For half the investment Brewin Dolphin MPS Global Equity; for the other half 
Roxsure Select MPS. The index should be used on any losses from 4 September 2019 for 
Calculation 1 and from 9 March 2020 for Calculation 2 until the date of my final decision. I 
consider this benchmark fair as:
Ms B was already invested in these two-model portfolios at the time of the advice.
Its likely any additional funds Ms B had would have been invested in line with her 
objective of having 50% invested in each model portfolio.
The compensation amount should if possible be paid into Ms Bs pension plan. The payment 
should allow for the effect of charges and any available tax relief. The compensation shouldnt be paid into the pension plan if it would conflict with any existing protection or 
allowance.
If a payment into the pension isnt possible or has protection or allowance implications, it 
should be paid directly to Ms B as a lump sum after making a notional reduction to allow for 
future income tax that would otherwise have been paid. If Ms B hasnt yet taken any tax-free 
cash from her plan, 25% of the loss would typically be tax-free and 75% would have been 
taxed according to her likely income tax rate in retirement presumed to be 20%. So, making 
a notional reduction of 15% overall from the loss adequately reflects this.
Details of the calculations should be provided to Ms B in a clear and simple format. 
The compensation amount must where possible be paid to Ms B within 60 days of the date 
Roxburgh receives the required authority from Ms B. Further interest must be added to the 
compensation amount at the rate of 8% per year simple from the date of my final decision to 
the date of settlement for any time, in excess of 60 days, that it takes Roxburgh to pay Ms B.
Income tax may be payable on any interest paid. If Roxburgh considers its required by HM 
Revenue & Customs to deduct income tax from the interest, it should tell Ms B how much its 
taken off. It should also give Ms B a tax deduction certificate if she asks for one, so she can 
reclaim the tax from HM Revenue & Customs if appropriate. 
Roxburghs error clearly caused considerable upset and inconvenience to Ms B. It was the 
second time a similar error had occurred, and it took for Ms B to identify herself that the error 
had been made. There were considerable sums of money involved at a time where the 
market was fluctuating greatly. And Ms B was left in a different position to where she should 
have been, meaning her portfolio was more heavily weighted towards Brewin Dolphin than 
before.
While Roxburgh made efforts to demonstrate why they feel Ms B hasnt suffered a loss, I can 
appreciate why she hasnt been convinced by their calculations and wasnt reassured that 
their error hadnt caused her a loss. Considering the full circumstances of this complaint, 
Roxburgh should also pay Ms B £500 for the upset and inconvenience they caused.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint and require JC Roxburgh (Financial 
Services) Limited to pay compensation as set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms B to accept or 
reject my decision before 20 April 2023.
 
Timothy Wilkes
Ombudsman