DRN-1804840
The complaint
Mr and Mrs C have complained that, at the time they took out an equity release mortgage, 
the advisor who sold the loan, Age Partnership Limited (which I will refer to as APL), failed to 
explain how the early repayment charge (ERC) on the mortgage worked. 
Mr C, who has dealt with the complaint throughout, says that the ERC is connected to the 
failure of a Gilt investment made, he presumes, in his name, as he has had to pay for its 
failure.
In order to resolve the complaint, Mr and Mrs C want the ERC to be significantly reduced 
and the excess they have paid to be returned to them. 
What happened
In January 2011 Mr and Mrs C contacted APL to discuss an equity release mortgage. There 
were numerous discussions between Mr and Mrs C and APL over several months, with two 
recommendations  the first dated 10 January 2011 and the second dated 6 May 2011. The 
discussions culminated in Mr and Mrs C taking out an equity release mortgage with a lender 
I will refer to as AV, which completed in June 2011. They borrowed £34,200 secured against 
their home. 
An equity release mortgage is intended to be a long-term commitment. In common with this 
type of loan, no repayments are due; instead interest rolls up over the term of the loan and 
the balance is repaid when the property is sold  usually on the death of the last surviving 
borrower, or if one of the borrowers has to go into long-term nursing care. Borrowers are, of 
course, allowed to repay the mortgage at any time, but if they do so, an ERC may apply. 
The mortgage offer dated 31 May 2011 shows how interest on the debt will accrue annually, 
at a fixed rate of 7.52%. Section 13 of the mortgage offer sets out details of the ERC. AV 
calculates its ERC against Gilt yields. The mortgage offer says:  You will incur an early 
repayment charge if the Gilt yield is lower on the date of early repayment than on the date 
the lifetime mortgage completed. This is explained more fully in your terms and conditions 
booklet.
The mortgage offer shows that the maximum ERC payable is £8,550.
In line with AVs requirements, Mr and Mrs C took advice from their own solicitors before the 
mortgage completed. 
I understand that in 2019 Mr and Mrs C repaid their equity release mortgage to AV, incurring 
an ERC of £8,550.
In May 2019 Mr C complained to AV about the ERC, saying that he and Mrs C had been 
sold the mortgage without full knowledge of how the ERC worked and that they should have 
been made fully aware of this at the point of sale. AV referred Mr C to APL. 
In its final response letter dated 4 July 2019, APL set out the chronology of the discussions 
that had taken place with Mr and Mrs C about the mortgage, and specifically when and how 
APL had explained how the ERC worked. The complaint wasnt upheld, so Mr and Mrs C 
brought it to us. 
Mr C has explained that his understanding is that if the investment fails, he has to pay a 
penalty, but if it is a healthy investment he receives nothing. Mr C says this puts the 
investor in a win-win situation, but he is forced into a lose-lose position as he has had to pay 
back a substantial sum to a failed investment into which he had no input, or knowledge or 
control of.
An investigator looked at the complaint, but didnt think it should be upheld. He was satisfied 
that the details of how the ERC operated and the maximum amount that could be charged 
were set out in the documentation and that APL had explained to Mr and Mrs C how the 
ERC might apply if they repaid the loan early.
Mr C didnt agree with the investigators findings. Hes made some further points, which I 
summarise below.
there is an anomaly in the loan agreement which consisted of APL investing its own 
funds, which at the time of him repaying the loan was a failed investment;
this was no fault of Mr and Mrs C, as they were not in control over it, or had full and clear 
knowledge of the investment which resulted in them being charged £8,000 over and 
above the full amount of the loan they were already responsible for;
Mr C doesnt dispute the legality of the loan, but he disputes the fairness of the lending 
system;
he paid back £58,000, including the mystery Gilt attachment of £8,550, which is not far 
off payday lending territory;
a fairer system would be for him to repay the part of £8,550 that was in activation for the 
length of time I had the loan, roughly £1,062 and returning to me the balance of £7,438;
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive taken note of everything Mr C and APL have said, and have noted in particular that Mr C 
is concerned that a failed investment has resulted in him having to pay the ERC and that 
APL used its own funds for this.
The ERC is a term of the mortgage contract between Mr and Mrs C and AV  not APL. Its 
up to AV to decide the terms on which it will lend money, including how it calculates the 
ERC. In this case, the ERC is linked to an index of government Gilt yields. AV marks the 
starting point of the index at the start date of the mortgage and if the Gilt yield has fallen at 
the time of redemption of the mortgage, an ERC will be payable.The loan was subject to the SHIP (Safe Home Income Plan) rules. SHIP (which has now 
become part of the Equity Release Council) was an organisation which issued a code of 
practice which advisors and lenders followed in relation to the sale and operation of equity 
release mortgages. 
Before AV released the funds, it had to be satisfied that Mr and Mrs Cs solicitors had 
explained the terms of the equity release mortgage to them, including how the ERC worked. 
The solicitors were required to complete what is known as a SHIP Certificate confirming it 
had given this advice to Mr and Mrs C. Im satisfied AV would not have released the funds 
without the SHIP Certificate.  
But Mr C says that APL failed to explain how the ERC worked before he and Mrs C took out 
the loan. 
After reviewing the available evidence, Im satisfied that the explanations given by APL of 
how the ERC operated in 2011 were clear. 
In particular in January 2011 the adviser told Mr and Mrs C  If you were to win the lottery 
and want to pay it off then it could be at zero. Let me just explain that when you take out the 
plan they write down a Gilt rate, thats an investment thats on the stock market and it 
depends on how well the investment performs over the years. If you pay it back in 45 years 
time, as an example, if the Gilt rate has fallen then you may have to pay that penalty but if 
its gone up you wouldnt pay any penalty whatsoever. So we dont exactly know what the 
penalty is going to be but at least we know the worst case scenario. I think we said its highly 
unlikely that its going to be something you pay off in the future anyway.
In May 2011 APL told Mr and Mrs C  there is what they call a Gilt rate which is a 
government-based investment. So when you take this out they write down what that interest 
rate is, if you win the lottery and want to pay it off in 10 years they will also compare what the 
difference is, if thats gone up, thats when you will have to pay a penalty; if its gone down 
then you wouldnt have to pay a penny. So we dont know exactly what the penalty is going 
to be but we do know the worst case scenario
I also note that the mortgage documentation sets out how the ERC operates and that this is 
related to Gilt yields. 
The adviser used the phrase if you win the lottery as an example of how Mr and Mrs C 
might at some point have the money available to pay off the mortgage. I appreciate Mr C 
finds this condescending, but I think it is a relatable way of illustrating where a lump sum 
might come from to repay a mortgage. It also reflects that the discussion was in the context 
of this being a long-term commitment, and that it would only be if Mr and Mrs C came into a 
large lump sum that theyd be thinking about paying off the mortgage.
In relation to the Gilt yield, I think Mr C has misunderstood the position; from what hes told 
us, Mr C believes APL was investing its own funds on behalf of Mr and Mrs C and that it is 
the failure of this investment that has resulted in the ERC of £8,550 when the mortgage 
was repaid in 2019. That is not how the ERC operates. As I explained above, AV 
benchmarks the mortgage against a particular Gilt index at the date of completion, and it is 
the movement in that specific index which determines whether or not an ERC is payable.Im satisfied APL didnt mislead Mr and Mrs C about the ERC or how it worked. I am also not 
persuaded by Mr Cs contention that APL told him (or he assumed) that it was investing its 
own funds on Mr and Mrs Cs behalf which would determine whether or not an ERC would 
be payable at some point in the future or whether Mr and Mrs C would receive some return 
on that investment. 
That is directly contradictory with how the ERC (applied by AV, not APL) actually works and 
what is recorded in the evidence about the (correct) advice APL did give about the ERC. In 
the circumstances, I am unable to find that APL led Mr and Mrs C to believe there was an 
investment made on their behalf which would affect the ERC.
I appreciate this isnt the outcome Mr and Mrs C were hoping for. I do understand and 
sympathise that, when they sold their home, Mr and Mrs C had to pay the ERC, and I know 
that £8,550 is a large amount for them to have to repay. But that was a term of the contract 
they entered into with AV. They did that on APLs recommendation, but also after having 
been advised by their own solicitors about how it worked. After looking at the evidence and 
taking note of everything both parties have said, Im satisfied that APL clearly explained how 
the ERC would operate before the mortgage was taken out. In the circumstances, there is no 
basis upon which I can find APL to have been at fault.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs C and Mr C to 
accept or reject my decision before 4 November 2020.
 
Jan O'Leary
Ombudsman