DRN-2966644
The complaint
 
Ms H complained that Santander UK Plc gave her £800 cash instead of £1,000 when she 
made a withdrawal at a branch.
 
What happened
 On 30 September 2020, Ms H went to a Santander branch to withdraw £1,000 in cash, as 
she was about to get a new boiler. Theres a conflict of evidence about what happened:
- Ms H, in her later complaint to Santander, she said I do not remember the cashier 
counting out the notes due to me. Her son subsequently acted as her representative 
in the complaint to this service, and he said My mother said the cashier did count 
money out in front of her but she never really paid any attention as to what was 
counted out of what the denominations were.  
- Santander said that its cashier counted out the notes by hand to Ms H, and then put 
them in an envelope for Ms H. Santanders notes say that the money handed out was 
50 x £20 notes.
Ms H left the branch with the sealed envelope. Ms H, who lives alone, had a lift straight 
home from the branch, from a relative. She put the money in a safe place without opening 
the envelope. The only visitors she had during this period were her son, and young 
grandchildren who couldnt reach the place where Ms H had put the envelope.
On 4 October, Ms H had the new boiler fitted, and she opened the sealed envelope to pay 
the workman. She said there was still a rubber band around the money, but only £800 in 
cash, not £1,000. Ms Hs son took her to the branch, where she withdrew another £200. She 
complained.
Santander didnt uphold Ms Hs complaint. In its final response letter on 6 October, it said 
that it had checked that the branch and cashier had balanced on 30 September, and also the 
CCTV evidence. 
Ms H wasnt satisfied and, represented by her son, complained to this service.
Our investigator asked both sides for more information.
He asked Santander for a copy of the CCTV it had mentioned, and Santander said this 
wasnt available as it had been deleted after 24 days. He also asked for more information 
about the cashing up and balancing. Santander said two members of branch staff had 
previously checked the CCTV. It said the cashier who had served Ms H wasnt required to 
cash up every day because of her experience and length of service, but the branch as a 
whole had balanced that day.
The investigator asked Ms Hs son for a copy of the boiler invoice. This showed a boiler 
installation on 4 October, costing £1,475, and Ms Hs son said he contributed the £475 
towards the bill. He sent evidence showing hed withdrawn a total of £550 on 2 and 3 
October. 
After receiving the information from both sides, the investigator upheld Ms Hs complaint. He 
said this case was finely balanced, as both sides had provided information and evidence to 
support their point of view. He said it was possible the full amount had been paid out but that 
£200 of it had gone missing between 30 September and 4 October. But there wasnt much 
opportunity for that. So on balance the investigator considered it was likely Ms H didnt 
receive the full amount. So he thought Santander should refund the missing £200, with 
interest from the date of the transaction.
Santander didnt accept this. It said that all its evidence confirmed that the relevant checks 
had taken place. It acknowledged that CCTV was no longer available, but this had been 
reviewed at the time. The branch had provided evidence confirming the branch had 
balanced. So Santander asked for an ombudsman decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
 Its unfortunate that the CCTV evidence was deleted after 24 days, despite the fact that Ms 
H had raised her dispute well within that timescale. It means that the only evidence I have is 
what both sides have said, rather than any independent factual evidence. 
However, it often happens that I dont have all the evidence Id like. When that occurs, I take 
my decision on what I consider is more likely than not to have happened, taking into account 
all the circumstances of the case.
There are some small inconsistencies in both sides evidence:
- In Ms Hs complaint to Santander, she said she didnt remember the cashier counting 
out the notes. But in her sons complaint form to this service, he said the cashier did 
count the money but she hadnt paid attention;
- Santanders evidence from the branch said it had checked and the cashier balanced 
on 30 September. But Santander also told us the cashier hadnt balanced that day 
because she wasnt required to balance daily.
I think both of these small inconsistencies can be explained by confusion. Ive borne in mind 
that in both cases, different people are involved in the conflicting evidence. So I dont 
consider they are relevant to my decision. 
Ive looked carefully at Ms Hs account of events. She said she went straight home from the 
branch in a relatives car, so the missing £200 couldnt have been lost or stolen on the 
journey. And in any case, the whole amount handed over was together in an envelope, so 
its unlikely any third party could have accessed just £200 of a larger sum.
Ms Hs son promptly produced the invoice when it was requested, showing that Ms H did 
indeed have a new boiler on 4 October. This backs up the reason for the withdrawal and the 
date, meaning that Ms H wouldnt have a reason to open the sealed envelope until that day. 
She reported the problem straightaway. Ms Hs son promptly provided evidence of his own £550 withdrawals prior to the new boiler, 
which bears out his statement that he provided £475 towards his mothers new boiler. And 
Ms H did withdraw a further £200 on 4 October, which adds credence to her statement that 
she really didnt have the full £1,000 in her possession. 
I recognise that Santander said that the branch balanced on 30 September. But whether a 
particular cashier, or a branch, balances doesnt necessarily prove what happened. 
Ultimately, I dont know what happened in this particular case, but there are always 
scenarios that could lead to a branch or till balancing, but a customer being out of pocket. 
That could be because of a mistake with a banks systems, or because of a cashiers 
involvement. So the till or branch balancing is compelling evidence to support Santanders 
version of events here. But its not an automatic reason that means that I can conclude it 
wasnt responsible for Ms H being out of pocket. Instead I have to consider all of the 
circumstances of a dispute. 
Santander also said that, given the location and date of the transaction, there were some 
new notes introduced at this time which might have stuck together. But I dont think this is 
the answer to what happened, because the amount in the envelope would have been 
checked and re-checked when Ms H took the money out to pay the boiler man, and found it 
wasnt what she was expecting.
This case is indeed finely balanced, but taking all the evidence and circumstances into 
account, I think its more likely than not that Ms H wasnt given the full £1,000 which was 
debited to her account on 30 September 2020. So I order Santander to refund her, together 
with interest.
My final decision
 My final decision is that I uphold this complaint and I order Santander UK Plc to pay Ms H:
- £200 representing the missing money; plus
- Interest at 8% simple on the £200 from 30 September 2020 to the date of payment. 
- I also order that if Santander makes a deduction for income tax, it should tell Ms H 
how much it has taken off, and must provide a tax deduction certificate if she asks for 
one. This will allow her to reclaim the tax from HMRC if appropriate.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms H to accept or 
reject my decision before 21 September 2021.
 
Belinda Knight
Ombudsman