DRN-3795592
The complaint
A charity, which I will call P (or simply the charity), complains that HSBC UK Bank Plc 
wrongly declined a cheque and then accused the charitys trustees of fraud.
The charity is represented in this complaint by one of its trustees, Miss C.
What happened
Miss C told us:
In December 2021, she gave one of the charitys suppliers a cheque for £15,000. 
The cheque was correctly completed, and was signed by her and one other trustee. 
They were both signatories on the charitys bank account. 
HSBC declined the cheque, but there was no reason for it to have done so. Even if 
there had been a reason, HSBC should have contacted her (or her fellow trustee) 
rather than writing to the supplier to say the cheque is suspected to be fraudulent.
She was able to pay the supplier by a different method (six daily payments of £2,500 
each), but the charitys reputation with the supplier has now been harmed. The 
supplier has also lost trust in her, and will deal only with other representatives of the 
charity.
To resolve the complaint, she would like an apology, the ability to talk to the bank on 
the phone if she has a problem, and a full explanation for the suspected fraudulent 
activity.
HSBC told us:
A cheque for £15,000 was presented on the charitys account. That was unusual 
activity, so one of its Relationship Managers should have reviewed the matter and 
contacted the customer. That did not happen, and so its cheque team declined the 
cheque.
It now accepts that if its Relationship Manager had attempted to contact Miss C, she 
would have confirmed that the cheque was genuine and that the charity did want to 
pay £15,000 to the supplier.
Its decision to decline the cheque was solely due to concerns about the cheque itself, 
and was not in any way connected to Miss Cs telephone security status or to other 
issues such as credit checks.
It is sorry for any concern caused by the terminology used in the letter it sent to the 
supplier. 
It would like to offer £150 compensation to reflect its failure to contact Miss C and her 
fellow trustee.
One of our investigators thought HSBCs offer was fair and reasonable in the circumstances. 
He said the charity had not suffered a financial loss, and he thought the £150 payment was 
fair compensation for the inconvenience HSBC had caused.
Miss C did not accept our investigators conclusions. She accepted that there might not have 
been a financial loss to the charity, but she said her integrity  and that of the other trustee 
and the charity itself  was called into question. She considers that is worth considerably 
more than any financial loss.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Its clear that HSBC has made an error. If HSBC had done what it says it should have done 
 and contacted Miss C (or her fellow trustee) to ask whether the cheque was genuine  
then Miss C would have confirmed that she did intend to pay the supplier. In that case, 
HSBC would have honoured the cheque and there would have been no problem.
The dispute is now about what HSBC should do to put things right.
I am satisfied that the charity has not suffered a financial loss. Miss C was able to pay the 
supplier through another method. That would have been inconvenient  and I think the 
charity should receive a payment to apologise for that inconvenience  but the supplier was 
still paid and the charity still received the services it needed.
I know Miss C would like me to order HSBC to pay compensation for the distress she has 
suffered personally, but she is not the complainant here. This complaint is about a cheque 
drawn on the charitys bank account, and it is the charity and not Miss C personally who is 
HSBCs customer in respect of this issue. Our investigator was right to say that he could not 
consider recommending compensation to Miss C, and the charity is not itself capable of 
feeling distressed.
In any event, I dont think HSBC has accused Miss C of fraud. Whilst it has said it suspected 
the cheque was not genuine, and that it suspected fraud associated with the cheque, Ive 
seen nothing to suggest that it ever said it thought Miss C (or her fellow trustee, or the 
charity) had committed fraud. If a third party had forged Miss Cs signature, or amended the 
cheque in some way, then the fraud would have been committed by the third party and not 
by Miss C. It is very unfortunate that the supplier has lost trust in Miss C and the charity, but 
I dont think that is HSBCs fault  and so I will not make an award for damage to the 
charitys reputation.
I accept HSBCs evidence that a cheque for £15,000 was unusual activity for the charitys 
account. I also accept Miss Cs evidence that the charitys account received a grant payment 
for the same amount shortly before she issued the cheque. If HSBC had contacted her, she 
would have been able to explain that she knew about both the payment and the cheque, and 
I have no doubt that she would have been able to reassure HSBC. But I do think it was 
reasonable for HSBC to have been concerned  if Miss C had had no knowledge of the 
£15,000 payment, then that would have suggested something had gone seriously wrong.In fact there is no evidence of any fraud here, and no evidence of criminal activity of any 
kind. There was simply a mistake by HSBC; it should have contacted Miss C (or her fellow 
trustee) about the cheque, and it failed to do so.
Im aware that there is a dispute about whether (and when) Miss C failed security verification 
when telephoning HSBC, but I dont think that has anything to do with HSBCs decision to 
decline the cheque. It didnt even try to call her about the cheque, so the issue of security 
verification did not arise.
Looking more generally at Miss Cs calls to HSBC, I dont think the bank has done anything 
wrong. I can understand why Miss C was frustrated about the way HSBC applied its security 
processes, but I think HSBC was entitled to act as it did.
Putting things right
If HSBC had contacted Miss C  as it should have done  it would not have declined the 
cheque. That means Miss C would not have had to make six separate payments to the 
supplier. I consider that £150 represents fair compensation for that inconvenience.
I can see that HSBC has apologised to Miss C for any concern caused by the terminology in 
its letter to the charitys supplier, but I cant see that it has explicitly apologised for declining 
the cheque. It accepts it should have contacted Miss C about the cheque, and I am satisfied 
it would not have declined the cheque had it contacted her  so it follows that I think HSBC 
should also apologise to the charity for declining the cheque.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint against HSBC UK Bank Plc.  I order HSBC 
UK Bank Plc to pay P £150, and to apologise to P for declining the cheque.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask P to accept or 
reject my decision before 3 January 2023.
 
Laura Colman
Ombudsman