DRN-3878244
The complaint
Miss C says Gain Credit LLC trading as Lending Stream irresponsibly lent to her.
What happened
This complaint is about two short term loans Lending Stream provided to Miss C between 
October 2018 and April 2019. Miss Cs borrowing history is as follows:
Loan 
numberStart date Loan 
amount (£)Term Repayment
(£)End date
1 12/10/2018 400 6 months124.16 x5
122.83 x1 08/04/2019
2 21/02/2019 320 6 months111.01 x5
84.95 x1 08/04/2019
Our adjudicator didnt uphold Miss Cs complaint and thought the loans werent unaffordable 
for her. Miss C disagreed, she says at the time of loan 1 shed recently opened a credit card 
account and had a loan with another lender. She also says she took out six loans within ten 
months and that suggests she was struggling financially, and Lending Stream shouldnt have 
lent.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about short-term lending - including all of 
the relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice - on our website. 
Lending Stream needed to take reasonable steps to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. 
In practice this means that it should have carried out proportionate checks to make sure 
Miss C could repay the loans in a sustainable manner. 
These checks could take into account a number of different things, such as how much was 
being lent, the repayment amounts and the consumers income and expenditure. With this in 
mind, in the early stages of a lending relationship, I think less thorough checks might be 
reasonable and proportionate.  
But certain factors might point to the fact that Lending Stream should fairly and reasonably 
have done more to establish that any lending was sustainable for the consumer. These 
factors include:
the lower a consumers income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make 
any loan repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income);
the higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income); 
the greater the number and frequency of loans, and the longer the period of time 
during which a customer has been given loans (reflecting the risk that repeated 
refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, 
unsustainable).
I think that it is important for me to start by saying that Lending Stream was required to 
establish whether Miss C could sustainably repay her loans  not just whether the loan 
payments were affordable on a strict pounds and pence calculation. 
Ive carefully considered all of the arguments, evidence and information provided in this 
context and what this all means for Miss Cs complaint.
Given the loan terms and their costs, I think Lending Streams checks went far enough, it 
searched Miss Cs credit file and asked her about her income, normal living costs and credit 
commitments. Those checks showed Miss C could afford the repayments on both loans 
throughout their terms.
Ive considered Miss Cs point about the lending on her credit file around the time of the 
loans but the checks Lending Stream carried out, which I think were reasonable in the 
circumstances, showed Miss C had no delinquent or defaulted account and suggested she 
was managing her credit well. So while she had other credit elsewhere, that on its own isnt 
sufficient to say Lending Stream shouldnt have lent to her in this instance.
Having thought about everything, I dont think Lending Stream lent any of the loans unfairly 
to Miss C and so I wont be asking it to do anymore.
I appreciate my findings will likely disappoint Miss C, but I hope my explanation helps her 
understand why Ive reached these conclusions.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss C to accept 
or reject my decision before 15 February 2023.
 
Oyetola Oduola
Ombudsman