DRN-3319186
The complaint
Mr G complains that Hargreaves Lansdown Asset Management Limited (HLAM) delayed the 
transfer of his ISA and SIPP which resulted in him losing out.
What happened
Mr G held a stocks and shares ISA and SIPP with HLAM. He was transferring these to 
another provider. A request to transfer was made in March 2021. On 11 March HLAM told 
Mr G it had received the request about his holdings and confirmed how the transfer process 
would work.
On 8 April 2021, Mr G asked HLAM when his cash balance would be transferred as it was 
out of the market and he wanted to reinvest it. HLAM responded on 22 April to say that it 
would be transferred after all the holdings had been transferred but it could be actioned as a 
priority. Mr G replied the same day to ask for this to happen. Mr G then chased around five 
times and received a response on 19 May to apologise for delay and was told the cash 
transfer had been actioned. It arrived in Mr Gs account on 20 May 2021.
Mr G complained. He explained that hed missed a surge in the market and has lost out as a 
result of his cash being held with HLAM. HLAM apologised for the delay and paid him £150 
compensation. It later said that it would give him the difference between the investments he 
made with that cash on 20 May, and what those investments wouldve been worth had he 
purchased them on 26 April. It also offered simple interest of 8% on the remaining cash that 
hadnt been invested from 26 April to 20 May.
Our Investigator felt that the method of redress HLAM had offered was reasonable but didnt 
agree with the dates it used. Our investigator said that Mr G had asked on 8 April about his 
cash balance, and it took HLAM too long to respond. He said had HLAM responded in a 
reasonable time  five working days  Mr G wouldve requested the cash balance to 
transferred earlier. So, he asked HLAM to use the date of 19 April as a start date to when 
Mr G wouldve received his cash balance. This worked out to allow five working days to 
respond and then the next working day to receive the funds. HLAM agreed.
Mr G disagreed. He explained that looking at his actual investment activity wasnt fair 
because hed missed the surge in the markets and so his strategy had changed. He feels he 
lost out more than HLAM was offering financially so asked for an Ombudsman to review the 
complaint.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Did HLAM make an error?
Ive had a look at whether HLAM shouldve transferred Mr Gs cash balance earlier. I can 
see that on 11 March 2021 HLAM told Mr G how the transfer would work. It said to him that 
any cash balance would be transferred after all the stock holdings had transferred. It also 
told him to make contact if he wanted the cash balance transferred earlier.
I can see Mr G asked HLAM on 8 April when his cash would be transferred, and he indicated 
that he wanted to reinvest the cash as soon as possible. HLAM didnt respond to this email 
until 22 April which I think is too long. Mr G responded on 22 April to say he wanted his cash 
balance transferred immediately and then chased this five times until HLAM responded 
almost a month later to say this had now been actioned. Mr G received his cash balance on 
20 May 2021, so Im satisfied there was a delay, as well as poor customer service here.
I agree with our Investigator that if HLAM responded in a reasonable time frame, Mr G 
wouldve received his cash to reinvest on 19 April 2021. This date allows five working days 
for HLAM to have responded to Mr Gs email of 8 April, and then process the transfer and for 
Mr G to receive it.
Is the method of redress fair?
Following our Investigators view, HLAM has agreed to do the following to put Mr G back in 
the position hed have been in had the delay not happened:
- Compare the units Mr G bought (around £11,000 worth) on 20 May 2021 with what 
he couldve bought for the same amount on 19 April 2021. Calculate the difference of 
those missing units and pay this by way of a restitution payment into his ISA.
- Pay 8% simple interest on the remaining cash balance (around £65,404) from 19 
April 2021 to 20 May 2021 when he received the cash into his account.
I consider this to be fair redress in the circumstances and Ill explain why. Mr G has said he 
missed a surge in the market, and by the time hed received his cash balance his investment 
strategy had changed. I dont doubt this, its clear Mr G regularly looks at his investments 
and trades accordingly. But this also means its impossible to know, without the benefit of 
hindsight, what Mr G wouldve done if hed received the cash on 19 April 2021. Its simply 
too speculative, particularly as when he received the funds, he only invested around £11,000 
of it.
I think that HLAM using the actual investments he made is reasonable. Whilst Mr Gs 
strategy may have changed, he did decide to purchase units in nine different stocks. So, I 
think its fair for HLAM to look at what he purchased and work out if hed have been able to 
purchase more units for his money on 19 April 2021. I can see that hed have been able to 
purchase additional units in some stock and less in others. So, HLAM calculated the 
monetary loss overall here and has offered to pay Mr G this loss as a restitution payment 
into his ISA to ensure it doesnt affect his ISA allowance. I think this is fair and reasonable.
For the remainder of the cash balance, over £65,000, its too speculative to know what Mr G 
wouldve done had he received it earlier. We dont know how much wouldve been invested 
or where it wouldve been invested. So, HLAM has offered to pay 8% simple interest on this 
amount between 19 April 2021 and 20 May 2021 to represent the fact Mr G was, to some 
extent, deprived of his funds. This is fair redress as it applies an interest rate that is in line 
with our approach for when consumers are deprived of their funds. I have noted that HLAM 
told Mr G he could continue to trade before the transfer had completed, but I also 
understand that Mr G was keen not to delay the transfer any further so I can see why he 
chose not to. In the absence of knowing exactly what Mr G wouldve done, I think the 
redress offered is fair and reasonable.
Trouble and UpsetIts clear that HLAMs communication to Mr G was poor. He sent many emails that werent 
responded to and this wouldve caused frustration, particularly as Mr G was keen to trade. I 
can see HLAM has already paid Mr G £150 for the distress its errors caused him and I think 
this is fair and reasonable for the impact here. Whilst there was a delay, the financial loss is 
being redressed separately, and I think £150 reflects the impact of the frustrations Mr G 
experienced.
Putting things right
To put things right, Hargreaves Lansdown Asset Management Limited must do the following:
- Compare the units Mr G bought (around £11,000 worth) on 20 May 2021 with what 
he couldve bought for the same amount on 19 April 2021. Calculate the difference 
and pay this by way of a restitution payment into his ISA.
- Pay 8% simple interest on the remaining cash balance (around £65,404) from 19 
April 2021 to 20 May 2021 when he received the cash into his account. Pay this by 
way of a restitution payment into his ISA.
My final decision
I uphold this complaint. Hargreaves Lansdown Asset Management Limited must follow the 
instructions Ive set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision before 12 May 2022.
 
Charlotte Wilson
Ombudsman