DRN-2834612
The complaint
A company, which Ill refer to as C, complains that it was unable to apply for a business 
account with Lloyds Bank PLC.
 
Cs director, Ms J, brings the complaint on its behalf.
What happened
Ms J wanted to open an account for C, and during April and May 2020 she attempted to 
arrange a branch appointment to do so. But Lloyds wasnt accepting appointments at the 
time due to the Covid-19 pandemic.
 
In June, Ms J called Lloyds and was told to apply for Cs business account online. She 
attempted this, but C was ultimately unsuccessful because it didnt meet Lloyds criteria. Ms J 
called back, she wasnt happy at being given wrong information, and she also raised a 
further query about applying for a Bounce Back Loan for C. During this call she was told C 
could apply for a Bounce Back Loan using her personal current account, but this information 
was also incorrect.
 
In the end, Ms J was able to obtain a business account and a Bounce Back Loan elsewhere. 
But she also complained to Lloyds. She was unhappy the bank hadnt opened a business 
account for C, and she was disappointed with the wrong information shed been given 
because it had wasted time and been inconvenient. Ms J felt Lloyds shouldve done more to 
adapt to the pandemic initially, and still held in-branch appointments or found viable 
alternatives.
 
In its final response letter, Lloyds acknowledged it hadnt provided good service. It accepted 
that Ms J had been given wrong information about opening a business current account and 
applying for a Bounce Back Loan. The bank clarified that it wasnt taking on any business 
current account applications from new customers in the current circumstances. But it was 
able to open business accounts for existing customers, providing they met the banks 
eligibility criteria. Lloyds explained C didnt meet its criteria, so it wasnt able to open a 
business current account. The bank also confirmed that C couldnt apply for a Bounce Back 
Loan using Ms Js personal current account.
 
In recognition of the mistakes it had made Lloyds offered to pay compensation of £178. The 
bank said this was to apologise for the inconvenience caused by the mis-information it had 
provided, and to cover the cost of phone calls Ms J had made.
 
Shortly after Lloyds letter had been sent, Ms J contacted the bank again. She said she 
hadnt received the letter, but shed spoken with a member of staff in the meantime who she 
felt wasnt trying to help her.
 
Lloyds sent a further response. While it couldnt locate the specific call Ms J had complained 
about, it apologised if she hadnt received the help shed asked for and offered a further £75 
compensation. In the same letter, Lloyds reiterated that it shouldve provided the correct 
information about business accounts and Bounce Back Loans to begin with. It recognised 
this had caused some inconvenience, but still maintained that C wasnt eligible for a 
business current account.
Ms J remained unhappy, so she brought Cs complaint to our service. An investigator here 
considered what had happened, but she didnt think Lloyds needed to do anything more. In 
summary, she agreed the level of service the bank provided was poor and that 
compensation was a fair way of putting things right. Nonetheless, the bank was entitled to 
set its own criteria for business current accounts. Shed checked Cs circumstances and was 
satisfied it didnt meet Lloyds eligibility criteria at the time, so the bank hadnt acted 
unreasonably by not accepting Cs application.
 
Ms J didnt accept what our investigator said. She felt it unfair that C hadnt been able to 
open an account in branch, and thought Lloyds shouldve done more to assist.
 
As an agreement couldnt be reached, the complaint has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In support of Cs complaint, Ms J has sought to raise a number of points. Shes provided 
several detailed submissions and its clear she feels very strongly about what happened. Ive 
summarised the complaint in far less detail. And its important to mention that I havent 
commented on everything Ms J has raised. I dont intend any discourtesy by this. Rather, it 
reflects the informal nature of this service.
 
Ms J called Lloyds in June 2020 to enquire about a business account for C. At the time, the 
bank was only accepting business account applications from existing customers who were  
among other criteria  managing their business through their personal accounts. And I think 
thats a decision Lloyds was entitled to make, which wasnt unreasonable in the 
circumstances.
 
In Cs case, Ms J accepts it wasnt trading at the time. But shes said the banks decision not 
to hold in-branch appointments in April and May because of the pandemic, prevented C from 
opening a business account and beginning to trade. Shes also said the bank shouldve 
found alternative ways of working.
 
While I understand Ms Js frustration, it is, broadly speaking, up to Lloyds to determine how it 
wishes to operate. And such decisions  like choosing to run a reduced in-branch service at 
the time  is a matter of the banks commercial discretion. So, I dont find that the bank acted 
unfairly or unreasonably here.
 
In any event, as Ive said above, Lloyds required potential applicants to meet certain criteria 
before a business account could be opened. Our investigator previously set this out in full, 
so I wont repeat it here, but of particular relevance to Cs circumstances; Lloyds wouldnt 
open a business account at the time if the applicant was a limited company.
 
C is a limited company. So, it still didnt meet the banks criteria to apply for a business 
account. And on that basis, I dont think Lloyds was wrong not to accept an application from 
C. 
Ive noted that C was eventually able to obtain a business account  and subsequently a 
Bounce Back Loan  from another bank, but that doesnt mean Lloyds decision not to 
accept an application was wrong or unreasonable at the time.Lloyds has already accepted that the service it provided couldve been better. And I agree 
that the bank shouldve given Ms J the correct information when she called. Clearly, these 
errors put C to some inconvenience in attempting applications for a business account when 
it wasnt eligible. Ms J also had to spend time on the phone with the bank. So, I think 
compensation is a fair way of putting things right.
  
The bank has already paid £253. This reimbursed Ms J for calls she had to make  and it 
includes an amount to recognise the inconvenience and poor service Lloyds provided on 
more than one occasion. So, taking everything into account, I think thats a fair sum of 
compensation in the circumstances. And Im not requiring Lloyds to take any further action.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask C to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 October 2021.
 
Simon Louth
Ombudsman