DRN-2226996
The complaint
Mr B complains that Admiral Insurance Company Limited misled him about how much hed 
be charged to deal with a mis-fuelling problem.
  
What happened
Mr B had taken out car insurance with Admiral for his partners car  this covered him to 
drive it. In February 2020 Mr B accidentally put petrol in the car instead of diesel. Mr B found 
a phone number for breakdown cover on Admirals website. He rang this number and asked 
how much it would cost him to deal with the problem. Mr B says he was told it was covered 
on his policy  that thered be no charge. 
Mr B was put through to the recovery company who handle breakdown issues for Admiral - 
Ill call them Company C. Company C sent out a mechanic and the problem was resolved. 
Mr B says he didnt hear anything else from Admiral until April 2020, when they sent him a 
bill for £251.10. Mr B complained that hed been told thered be no charge.
 
Admiral said all calls to their advertised phone number for breakdown cover are handled by 
Company C on their behalf. Our investigator reviewed Company Cs call records. The 
investigator thought the call handler was unclear when explaining his cover  and that was 
why Mr B used Company C. Our investigator didnt think Admirals invoice should be 
cancelled, because ultimately Mr B wouldve had to pay for the fuel tank to be drained and 
flushed. But she thought Admiral should pay £100 compensation for the trouble and upset 
caused by having to deal with demands for payment for a fee Mr B didnt reasonably think he 
owed.
Admiral didnt agree  they said it was made clear to Mr B when he first rang that the call 
handler could find no record of him having breakdown cover. Because Mr B rang after 6pm 
on a Saturday evening the call handler was unable to contact Admirals main office to 
confirm this. Admiral said in those circumstances they have an agreement in place to 
provide a breakdown service, but the customer would be told that if theyre not covered 
Admiral will recover all costs from them. Admiral agreed that later in the call Mr B was told 
mis-fuelling was covered as standard under their package - but when Mr B asked about the 
cost, he was again told hed be charged if he wasnt entitled to the cover.
Having reviewed this case I wrote to both parties, setting out my provisional findings. I 
explained that I was minded to uphold Mr Bs complaint for the following reasons:
The customers first call was answered by Company C, but the call handler 
introduced the service as Admiral Customer Service Group. So I think it was 
reasonable for Mr B to assume he was speaking to Admiral.
The call handler told Mr B his details werent on the system. I think its clear from the 
customers replies that he thought the call handler meant he was unable to see Mr 
Bs insurance policy. At no point in that conversation did the call handler make it clear 
that he was referring to breakdown cover.
Towards the end of that first call, Mr B again asked for clarification as to what he 
would be charged. I dont think the call handler answered his question adequately  I 
think he gave a unclear response which left the customer with the impression that his 
question would be answered when he was transferred to a fuel assist team.
The call handler from the fuel assist team expressly told Mr B he wouldnt have to 
pay for the service  that it was covered by his Admiral policy.
I explained that, based on what Id seen so far, I thought Admiral did give Mr B misleading 
information. And I thought Mr B wouldve acted differently if hed been given correct 
information - if Company Cs first call handler had made it clear to Mr B that hed be charged 
for this service unless he had additional breakdown cover on his policy, he wouldve ended 
the call at that point. Mr B provided evidence that he had breakdown cover through his bank 
account. The terms and conditions say they wouldnt have charged for taking the car to a 
local repair place, or for arranging a specialist fuel drain company, but Mr B would have had 
to pay the cost of the drain and flush service.
I said that I was minded to direct Admiral to cancel the £25 admin fee from the outstanding 
invoice to Mr B, in addition to paying him £100 compensation for the distress and 
inconvenience caused. The deadline for comments has now passed. Admiral hasnt 
responded, but Mr B has accepted my provisional thoughts. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im satisfied that Mr B reasonably believed that hed spoken to Admiral before being 
transferred to Company Cs fuel assist team. In that initial call I can see that Mr B told the 
call handler that he was confused by what he was hearing. Mr B stressed that he had 
insurance with Admiral and that he was still making monthly payments - he told the call 
handler twice that hed renewed the policy in January. Im not persuaded that the call 
handler made it clear that he was questioning whether Mr B had the additional breakdown 
cover - not whether he had an insurance policy with Admiral. 
The call handler went on to tell Mr B that they could arrange assistance for him even though 
they couldnt find his details on file - but if they provided him with a service he wasnt entitled 
to, the cover provider would pass on all charges plus an admin fee of £25. Because Im not 
persuaded that the call handler gave Mr B a clear explanation as to what cover he had in 
place, Im not satisfied that this explanation about possible additional charges adequately 
cleared up the confusion.
Mr B told the call handler that he also had breakdown cover with his bank account, but their 
quote for dealing with the problem was quite expensive. The call handler then said: OK, so 
its got instructions here that fuel assist is included as a standard, driver not to be charged 
for drain and flush, including 10 litres of correct fuel. 
Before the call handler referred Mr B to Company Cs fuel assist team, Mr B again asked: 
because youve not got my details on the record after this all goes, what charges am I 
looking at? I think the call handlers reply was vague and unclear. He initially said he didnt 
know, then repeated that Mr B would be charged if he wasnt entitled to it, then he 
acknowledged that the main thing Mr B was looking for was a quote. The call handler dealt 
with this by saying hed pass Mr B to the fuel assist team, who would have a word with him. 
The call handler reassured Mr B that if he wasnt happy after speaking to the fuel assist team 
he could just say no and go elsewhere. I find that the call handler led Mr B to believe the fuel assist team would confirm how much 
this service would cost him before asking whether he wanted to go ahead. And Ive seen that 
the call handler from Company Cs fuel assist team, told Mr B: Now, total, as this service, 
sorry, is actually covered by Admiral, so you wouldnt have to make a payment over the 
phone or anything like that It is under your Admiral policy already. 
Taking these two phone calls together, Im satisfied that Mr B reasonably believed thered be 
no charge, because this service was covered by his existing insurance policy. I can see that 
Mr B made it very clear that he wanted to know how much this service would cost him so he 
could choose the cheapest option. Mr B told us that hed been quoted in the region of £100 - 
£150 by other companies hed contacted before he rang Admiral. I find that Admirals call 
handlers didnt explain things to him clearly  Im satisfied that Mr B wouldnt have agreed to 
go ahead with Company C if hed been told hed be charged over £250 for this service.
Putting things right
I understand that Admiral hasnt pursued Mr B for payment of the outstanding invoice whilst 
his complaint is reviewed. It wouldnt be fair or reasonable for me to direct Admiral to cancel 
their invoice for the drain and flush service, because thats something Mr B wouldve had to 
pay for in any event. Im persuaded that Admiral should cancel their fee for the 
administration of the fuel assist service, because I find their handling of this to have been 
poor and led Mr B to make a decision he wouldnt otherwise have made. 
I can understand Mr Bs stress and anxiety at receiving an invoice for £251.10 for something 
he thought had been covered by his insurance policy. Mr B has told us that this disputed 
invoice has been an additional source of financial worry for several months at a time when 
money was already tight  his partner having been furloughed due to COVID 19. I think £100 
compensation is fair and reasonable in these circumstances. 
  
My final decision
I uphold Mr Bs complaint. I direct Admiral Insurance Company Limited to cancel the £25 
administration charge from their invoice to Mr B, and pay him £100 compensation for the 
stress and anxiety hes been caused. 
  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 12 February 2021.
 
Corinne Brown
Ombudsman