DRN-3162207
The complaint
Mr C complains about Building Block Insurance PCC Limited (BBI) rejecting a claim under 
his pet insurance policy for treatment to his dog after it was hit by a car.
References to BBI include their agents who administer the policy.
What happened
Mr C had a dog covered by a pet insurance policy with BBI that he took out in October 2019. 
In April 2021 his wife was walking the dog in a wooded area near to his home. Unfortunately, 
the dog became frightened and ran off, not responding to her calls for it to return. The dog 
crossed a field and then ran onto a dual carriageway where it was unfortunately hit by a car. 
The dog was injured but was taken to a vet where it was treated and made a recovery. 
Mr C made a claim under his policy for the cost of treatment but BBI declined the claim. 
They said that as the dog wasnt under control at the time of the incident, this meant it wasnt 
covered under the policy.
Unhappy at the rejection of his claim, Mr C complained. But BBI didnt uphold his complaint. 
In their final response they said that the dog had gained access to a road and that the claim 
had been declined as the dog wasnt under sufficient control at the time of the incident. BBI 
referred to the policy terms and conditions that required a dog should be under control at all 
time and due care taken to prevent a dog from escaping and causing injury as a result. 
Unhappy at BBIs response, Mr C complained to this service. The main part of his complaint 
was that BBI had unfairly declined his claim. He wanted BBI to accept his claim and pay for 
the cost of treatment.
Our investigator upheld Mr Cs complaint, concluding BBI hadnt acted reasonably in using 
the clause about a dog not being under sufficient control to decline the claim. He thought the 
circumstances of the incident meant his wife had taken reasonable care, as the dog was 
being walked in a familiar area, a significant distance from the road where the incident 
occurred. Having upheld the complaint, the investigator thought that BBI should assess Mr 
Cs claim without using the clause, applying the claim limits that would apply. If Mr C had 
already paid for the cost of treatment, the investigator said BBI should add simple interest.
BBI disagreed with the investigators conclusions, and requested an ombudsman review the 
complaint. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
My role here is to decide whether BBI has acted fairly towards Mr C.
 
The main issue in Mr Cs complaint is whether BBI acted fairly in declining his claim by 
applying the policy clause requiring that a dog be under sufficient control and that 
reasonable care should be taken. Mr C maintains that BBI acted unfairly in applying the 
clause, whereas BBI say that they dog wasnt under control at the time of the incident.
Ive considered both views carefully, together with the supporting information and evidence, 
including the recording of a conversation between Mr C and BBI. From what Mr C told BBI 
about the circumstances of the incident, his wife was taking the dog for its daily run in the 
morning in a wooded area. Mr C says the dog was off its lead but suddenly, out of character, 
ran off. Mr C says that the dog (which was about two years old) would return when called but 
didnt on this occasion. Mr C says that the dog hadnt run off before the incident. 
BBI say that the dog wasnt under sufficient control, referring in their final response to the 
following General Conditions set out in the policy:
4. You must provide proper care and attention to Your pet at all times and take all 
reasonable precautions to prevent accidents, injury or damage, as well as arranging 
and paying for Treatment for Your pet to reduce the likelihood off illness or Accidental 
Injury.
6. You must ensure that Your dog is under control at all times, and due care should 
be maintained to prevent Your dog from escaping and causing Accidental Injury to 
Your dog or any other persons or animals.
Ive thought about these conditions carefully. The terms proper care, reasonable 
precautions, under control and due care arent defined in the policy. Ive thought about 
what would be reasonable in the circumstances of the incident. While Mr Cs dog wasnt on a 
lead when it ran off, it was in a wooded area that was some distance (I understand up to one 
km) from the road, which was across a field). 
Given these circumstances, I dont think it was unreasonable for the dog not to have been on 
a lead. Nor does the condition require a dog to be on a lead at all times, implying that 
control includes the ability to call the dog back. Mr C says the dog was in a wooded area 
that was familiar to both his wife and the dog and that his dog had always responded to 
being called if necessary, and I dont have any reason to doubt that. Similarly, given the 
description of the circumstances, I dont think Mr Cs wife hadnt shown due care. Given 
these conclusions, Im persuaded by Mr Cs views and that his wife had been acting 
reasonably at the time of the incident.
 
Ive also considered that, where an insurer relies on an exclusion (or, in this case, a General 
Condition) to decline a claim, the onus is on them to show that it applies. Based on what Ive 
concluded, I dont think BBI have shown that it was reasonable to apply it, so I consider they 
acted unfairly and unreasonably in declining Mr Cs claim.
 
Given these conclusions, Ive thought about what BBI need to do to put things right. As I 
dont think they can rely on the General Condition they cited to decline the claim, then they 
should assess the claim in line with the remaining terms and conditions of the policy, 
including any limits on the costs of treatment and any policy excess (as appropriate). If Mr C 
has already paid for the cost of treatment, then in addition BBI should pay interest on the 
assessed amount to settle the claim at the rate of 8% simple from the date Mr C paid the 
cost of treatment to the date Mr C tells us he accepts my decision (if he accepts the 
decision).
My final decisionFor the reasons set out above, my final decision is that I uphold Mr Cs complaint. I require 
Building Block Insurance PCC Limited to:
Assess Mr Cs claim in line with the remaining terms of the policy, including any limits 
on the costs of treatment and any policy excess (as appropriate).
If Mr C has already paid for the cost of treatment, then in addition BBI should pay interest on 
the assessed amount to settle the claim at the rate of 8% simple from the date Mr C paid the 
cost of treatment to the date he tells us he accepts my decision (if he accepts the decision).
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 10 February 2022.
 
Paul King
Ombudsman