DRN-3593189
The complaint
Mr K complains that Shawbrook Bank Limited (Shawbrook) has rejected the claim he made 
under sections 56 and 75 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974 (the Act) in relation to a solar 
panel system he says was misrepresented to him by the supplier.
Mr K is represented by a claims management company (the CMC).
Background
In or around September 2014, Mr K was contacted by a representative of a company Ill call 
P to talk about purchasing a solar panel system (the system) to be installed at his home. 
After being visited by a representative of P, Mr K decided to purchase the system and 
finance it through a 15 year fixed sum loan agreement with Shawbrook. The system was 
subsequently installed.
In June 2020 the CMC made a claim to Shawbrook on Mr Ks behalf under section 75 of the 
Act. The CMC said that, following a cold call, P had made a number of representations about 
the system that had turned out not to be true, and it was these misrepresentations that had 
induced Mr K to enter into the contract with P. The CMC said the following 
misrepresentations had been made:
the total cost of the system was documented as £7,990 to mislead Mr K, as when the 
interest was added the total cost was actually £15,627.60;
the system would generate free electricity;
the system would be self-funding; and
the feed in tariff (FIT) and savings on his electricity bills would provide enough 
income to cover the monthly loan payments.
Shawbrook didnt agree the system had been misrepresented to Mr K or that there were any 
other reasons for the claim to be upheld. 
One of our adjudicators looked into what had happened. Having considered all the 
information and evidence provided, our adjudicator didnt think that P had misrepresented 
the system to Mr K and found no reason to uphold the complaint.
The CMC didnt agree with the adjudicators view. It conceded that Ps quote (on which the 
adjudicator had relied) stated that the FIT income and savings from the system would not be 
enough to cover the loan payments for the first three years. But the quote did show that the 
system would begin to pay for itself from year four, and would make enough money to pay 
for its cost in year 12 or 13. But instead, based on the actual performance of the system, it 
will take Mr K 25 years to break even. This proved that the system had been misrepresented 
to him. And where a person is unaware that a representation is false, the possibility that they 
might have found out it was false by taking reasonable care is not in law a defence to an 
action for misrepresentation.
As an agreement couldnt be reached, the case has been passed to me for review.
My findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I do not uphold it. I will explain why.
Relevant considerations
When considering whats fair and reasonable, Im required to take into account relevant law 
and regulations, relevant regulatory rules, guidance and standards and codes of practice, 
and, where appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry practice at the relevant 
time. In this case the relevant law includes sections 56 and 75 of the Act.
Section 75 provides protection for consumers for goods or services bought using credit. As 
Mr K paid for the system with a fixed sum loan agreement, Shawbrook agrees that section 
75 applies to this transaction. This means that Mr K could claim against Shawbrook (the 
creditor) for any misrepresentation or breach of contract by P in the same way he could have 
claimed against P (the supplier). So Ive taken section 75 into account when deciding what is 
fair in the circumstances of this case.
Section 56 is also relevant. This is because it says that any negotiations between Mr K and 
P, as the supplier, are deemed to have been conducted by P as an agent of Shawbrook.
For the purpose of this decision Ive used the definition of a misrepresentation as an untrue 
statement of fact or law made by one party (or his agent) to a second party which induces 
that second party to enter the contract, thereby causing him loss.
What happened?
If there is a dispute about what happened, I must decide on the balance of probabilities  
that is, what I consider to have been most likely to have happened, given the evidence that 
is available and the wider surrounding circumstances.
Mr K says that during a sales meeting he was told that the system would be entirely self-
financing and come at no additional cost.
There are several documents that have been provided by both parties. These include the 
credit agreement and solar quote, titled System Performance and Returns. Ive considered 
these, along with Mr Ks testimony and recollection of the sales meeting, to decide on 
balance what is most likely to have happened.
The quote is a detailed document that sets out key information about the system, the 
expected performance, financial benefits and technical information. P, via Shawbrook, has 
told this service that this formed a central part of the sales process and the representative of 
P would have discussed this in detail with Mr K, explaining any benefits of the system, prior 
to him agreeing to enter into the contract.
Having thought carefully about the available evidence, Im satisfied that on balance the 
quote did form a central part of the sales process and therefore accept that the salesperson 
went through it during the meeting. So, Ive taken this into account, along with Mr Ks version 
of events, when considering if there have been any untrue statements of fact.The credit agreement sets out the amount being borrowed (i.e. the cash price of the system), 
the interest to be charged, the total amount payable, the term of the loan and the contractual 
monthly repayments.
Cost of the system
On balance, Im satisfied that Mr K was told that the overall cost of the system was more 
than its cash price. The credit agreement makes it clear that £7,990 is only the cash price. It 
sets out a clear breakdown of the deposit, the amount of credit provided, the total charge for 
credit, the monthly payments, and the total amount repayable, £15,627.60.
Having considered all the evidence, including Mr Ks recollections, Im satisfied that they 
were told that there would be a monthly loan repayment due. The quote makes this clear, as 
set out in the table below. Overall, Im satisfied that the two documents, the quote and the 
credit agreement, made it clear that it would cost Mr K more than the cash price as he had 
decided to pay for it with an interest-bearing loan.
Self-funding
I accept that Mr K was told by P that the system would be self-funding over a certain period 
of time. Page 10 of the quote states that it would take seven years for the overall benefits 
that Mr K could expect to receive to match the cash price of the system.
Page 17 of the quote has a table detailing the estimated performance of the system over 20 
years. This too shows that after year seven the overall benefits that Mr K could expect to 
receive would reach the cash price of the system.
The same table shows that the total amount payable under the loan agreement would be 
reached by the end of year 13.
Another table on the same page shows that the average FIT income and savings from the 
system would exceed the monthly loan repayments starting in year four.
So Im satisfied that P told Mr K that the system would pay for its cash price in seven years, 
and for the loan in about 13 years, as supported by the table above. Im also satisfied that 
the system would begin to pay for itself in year four, after three years of a modest shortfall. If 
those were untrue statements of fact, and if Im satisfied that this was what induced him to 
enter into the contract, and that he subsequently suffered a loss, then that could amount to a 
misrepresentation.
The CMC says it is untrue because it will actually take 25 years for the system to pay for 
itself. So Ive gone on to consider the performance of the system and whether this is in line 
with the contract between P and Mr K.
Performance
The MCS certificate and quote set out that the system is expected to produce 2,998 kWh a 
year. I have looked at Mr Ks FIT statements and can see that his system, on average, has 
generated 2,850 kWh a year. This is slightly less than estimated by P at the point of sale, so 
Im satisfied that the system is performing as expected, in terms of energy generation, if not 
financially. So the reason Mr K has not seen the expected financial returns is not because 
the system is defective, but for some other cause.
I have also looked at the assumptions used by P, including the self-consumption rate, 
expected annual increase in utility prices (EPR) and expected annual RPI inflation increase. 
I am satisfied that Ps method for calculating these is fair and reasonable.
P used Office of National Statistics (ONS) data between 1993 and 2013 to calculate the 
utility price and RPI inflation. I have looked at the actual yearly increases between 2016 and 
2020, and the increases have been lower than predicted by P at the point of sale, and I think 
this explains why Mr K hasnt been receiving the financial returns he may have been 
expecting from the solar panels. Since actual energy prices have been lower than the 
modelling predicted, the savings achieved through the energy generated by the system have 
been correspondingly lower.
As I have explained, the assumptions used by P were based on the information available 
from the ONS at the time. And based on this, I dont consider it unreasonable for P to have 
used them as the basis for calculating the potential financial income Mr K could have 
expected to receive from the system. So, whilst I can appreciate that the returns may not 
have been as high as estimated at the point of sale, Im not persuaded that this was due to 
unreasonable assumptions being used by P at the time Mr K entered into the contract.
Summary
Having carefully considered the evidence provided by all parties in this complaint, Im
satisfied that there were no untrue statements of fact made by P that induced Mr K to enter 
into the contract for the system, and I have found no other reason to uphold this complaint.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr K to accept or 
reject my decision before 18 August 2022. 
Richard Wood
Ombudsman