DRN-2892312
The complaint
Mrs D complains that Lloyds Bank PLC gave her unsuitable investment advice. She says 
she was advised to invest in products which had a higher risk profile than was suitable for 
her cautious attitude to risk. The complaint is brought on her behalf by a claims management 
company.
What happened
The background to this complaint was set out by our investigator, so I wont repeat all the 
detail here. In brief summary, following a meeting with Lloyds in May 2002, Mrs D invested 
£300 a month in a multi-manager fund. Following a further meeting in October 2006, she 
invested £4,000 in a fund in an ISA wrapper. She surrendered the investments in 
February 2007.
Mrs Ds representative says she was a cautious risk investor whose only investment 
experience was limited to with profit bonds. The investments were too risky for her.
Lloyds says that in 2002 Mrs D was assessed as having a low to medium attitude to risk. Her 
risk attitude changed to cautious in 2006. Lloyds said its recommendations matched her 
attitude to risk and were suitable for her.
Our investigator didnt recommend that the complaint should be upheld. She couldnt 
conclude that the investment wasnt suitable for Mrs D.
Mrs Ds representative didnt agree saying, in summary, that:
Mrs D had never invested directly in equities before; her only experience was in with 
profit bonds which would not have exposed her to the risks of equity investments.
The 2002 meeting was suggested by Lloyds. Mrs D was not looking for investment 
advice, so the banks record that she was looking for capital growth is probably 
inaccurate.
The 2002 investment was in a balanced risk fund and the 50% equity content was not 
appropriate for a cautious risk investor. 
The 2006 investment wasnt suitable because Mrs D had less than four years 
experience of equity investment; she was due to retire before the minimum 
recommended term of the investment; and she was due to suffer a significant drop in 
income.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The investments which are the subject of this complaint took place many years ago and 
were surrendered around 14 years ago. The bank does not have a full record of what 
happened, which isnt unreasonable or unsurprising given the time thats passed. And I cant 
be certain exactly what was discussed. In cases like this, where the evidence is incomplete, 
inconclusive, or contradictory, I reach my decision on the balance of probabilities  in other 
words, what I consider is most likely to have happened in light of the available evidence and 
the wider circumstances.
2002 investment
I dont find the advice given by Lloyds was unsuitable for the following reasons:
The records which are available show that Mrs D was looking to invest some of her surplus 
monthly income to obtain a better return than bank deposits. I dont find the fact that Lloyds 
may have instigated the discussion with Mrs D to make a difference to my conclusions  it 
offered her a meeting and she accepted, so it seems more likely than not that she wanted to 
discuss her investment and savings options.
Lloyds recorded her attitude to risk as low/medium. Mrs Ds representative says this wasnt 
appropriate for her. Ive thought about this very carefully. 
Mrs D did have some investment experience. She held two with profit bonds, and she also 
invested £250 a month in a mini equity ISA. Although her investment experience was limited, 
it doesnt automatically follow that she had a low risk attitude to investment. And, whilst 
Mrs D expected to work for only around another seven years before she retired, that didnt 
mean she wasnt prepared to take some risk with her investment  particularly bearing in 
mind that the monthly amount represented a relatively small proportion of her overall capital 
and income available for investment. Often consumers are prepared to take a slightly higher 
level of risk on a small proportion of their investments, with a view to obtaining a higher 
return.
So I think it more likely than not that Mrs D understood and agreed that her attitude to risk for 
this investment was low/medium.
Lloyds recommended she invested in a multi-manager fund which was described as a 
balanced portfolio. This was a lower risk than its progressive and opportunities funds, 
but a higher risk than its cautious fund. It had been established that Mrs Ds attitude to risk 
was low/medium, and not cautious. The fund invested in a balance of equities and fixed 
interest securities in the UK and overseas. So although there was some exposure to 
equities, including overseas, there was also investment in fixed interest securities which are 
inherently less risky. The fund was also well diversified, so the risk was spread. Taking all 
this into account, I dont find the overall level of risk was unsuitable for Mrs D.
I also note that Lloyds recommended Mrs D invest £50 each month in the fund; but Mrs D 
decided to invest £300. 
Taking into account all the circumstances here, I dont find Lloyds recommendation was 
unsuitable.
2006 investment
When Mrs D met with Lloyds in 2006, her circumstances had changed as she was due to 
retire within the next year. I can see that her attitude to risk was reviewed and it was agreed 
she had a cautious attitude. Her representative seems to agree this was appropriate.Lloyds recommended she invested £4,000 in a fund within an ISA wrapper. Mrs D had some 
more investment experience since shed been advised in 2002. This fund was invested 
mainly in bonds with 5% in UK equities. And it was aimed at consumers who had a cautious 
approach to investment. I find this matched Mrs Ds agreed objectives.
The investment was designed for the medium to long term. Mrs D made Lloyds aware that 
her circumstances would be changing as she would be retiring within a year. Its clear that 
Lloyds took this into account in making its recommendation and that Mrs D was comfortable 
that the investment left her with enough quickly available savings, should she need to 
supplement her income. 
Overall I dont find Lloyds advice was unsuitable.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, my final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs D to accept or 
reject my decision before 29 July 2021.
 
Elizabeth Dawes
Ombudsman