DRN-3452675
The complaint
Mr C complains Royal & Sun Alliance Insurance Limited (RSA) has unfairly declined to 
include another driver on his motor insurance policy.  
What happened
The background to this complaint is well known to the parties, so Ive included a summary 
here. References I make to Mr C include the actions of his representative, Mr C junior. 
Mr C has a motor insurance policy underwritten by RSA which provides insurance 
cover for him and Mr C junior.
Following a number of claims on the policy, RSA says it will only provide cover for 
Mr C if Mr C junior is removed from the policy.
Mr C complained and when RSA didnt change its position, he brought his complaint 
to this Service.
Our Investigator didnt uphold it, saying she thought RSA was entitled to decide on 
what terms it would provide cover and she was satisfied it hadnt treated Mr C 
differently than it would have other consumers with the same circumstances.
Mr C asked an Ombudsman to make a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As a broad principle, insurers are entitled to decide who they do business with and 
on what terms policies are offered. The risk assessment they undertake in deciding 
whether to offer cover is legitimate exercising of their commercial judgement and not 
something I would interfere with.
That said, I would expect an insurer to treat a consumer fairly and the same as it 
would other consumers with similar circumstances. 
RSA has shown there have been a number of claims on Mr Cs policy and the 
amount paid out under these claims exceeds £5,000.
Having looked at RSAs underwriting criteria  the principles on which it offers cover - 
Im satisfied RSA is entitled to decline renewal cover based on this number of claims 
and the amount paid out. Im also satisfied, this approach would apply to other 
consumers with similar claims histories.
In this case, RSA hasnt actually declined cover, but said it will only renew it without 
cover for Mr C junior as it says the majority of the claims are related to fault claims he 
was involved in. This requirement appears in keeping with its underwriting criteria in 
light of the number of incidents Mr C junior has been involved in. 
Overall, Im satisfied RSA has acted fairly and in line with its underwriting criteria by 
offering renewal on the terms it has set out, so I wont be asking it to do anymore.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 31 May 2022.
 
Paul Phillips
Ombudsman