DRN-4219684
The complaint
Mr and Mrs P have complained that Barclays Bank UK PLC (Barclays) mis-sold them a 
packaged bank account and a Tech pack. Their account history is as follows:
Fee-free Current account taken out in February 1991
Upgraded to a fee-paying Additions account in October 2000
Migrated to a fee free current account with a fee-paying Tech pack in January 2017 
Mr and Mrs P say that they were not told they could keep their fee free account.
What happened
One of our adjudicators looked into this complaint and they didnt think the Additions 
account, or the Tech pack had been mis-sold. Mr and Mrs P disagreed and so the complaint 
has been referred for an ombudsmans decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve explained our approach to complaints about packaged bank accounts on our website 
and Ive used that to help me deicide this case. I think it might help to explain that where 
matters are in dispute and evidence is incomplete, I have to base my decision on what I 
think was most likely to have happened, based on everything that is available.
Firstly, I have considered whether Mr and Mrs P were given a fair choice to take out the 
Additions account.
Mr and Mrs P have explained that they cannot fully recall the conversation that took place 
when the account was sold. But they do not recall being told that they could continue with 
their fee-free account. I have carefully considered this. But given that they had held a fee-
free account for 9 years at that point, I would have expected them to know that fee-free 
accounts were an option available to them. They have not explained what they were told that 
made them believe that suddenly a fee-free account was not an option for them, especially 
as in the UK fee-free accounts are widely available with most, if not all, banks and building 
societies.
So given Mr and Mrs Ps weak recollections of the sale and given that theyd had a fee-free 
account for many years by that point, I think it is more likely that they agreed to the account 
because of the benefits it provided  such as the overdraft benefits that the Additions 
account came with.
When this account was taken out, it cost £5 per month and came with an interest free 
overdraft buffer zone of £100. At this point the Additions account did not come with 
insurance benefits. And by having the Additions account, Mr and Mrs P no longer had to pay 
the £5 monthly overdraft usage fee (which was applicable to fee-free accounts).
I can see from the earliest statements that we have been provided, that Mr and Mrs P did 
regularly use their overdraft in the run up to taking out the Additions account. So having the 
Additions account meant that Mr and Mrs P could potentially have saved money on a 
monthly basis when it was initially taken out, compared to what they were being charged in 
interest and charges to use the overdraft on the existing fee-free account. So I think that this 
is most likely the reason why they agreed to this account.
When selling the Additions account, Barclays was required to give Mr and Mrs P enough 
information about the account, so they understood what they were agreeing to. And based 
on Mr and Mrs Ps recollections of the sale, it seems highly likely that the overdraft features 
were discussed. I also cant see anything that they were not told that may have changed 
their decision to take out this account.
I note that Mr and Mrs P have explained that they do not think that the overdraft benefit was 
beneficial enough to make their account not mis-sold. I also note that Mr and Mrs P have 
requested calculations to demonstrate if the account was beneficial to them. 
I can see that what happened is around the time of the upgrade Mr and Mrs P exceeded 
their agreed overdraft limit. So, when comparing the overdraft charges before and after the 
upgrade, the account cost them more on a monthly basis than their fee-free account. But this 
is because they were being charged a £20 unauthorised overdraft fee. This fee would have 
been charged on the account  regardless of whether it was a fee-free account or a fee-paid 
account. Barclays would not have known at the time of the upgrade that Mr and Mrs P were 
going to repeatedly exceed their overdraft limit for months after the upgrade, I say this 
especially as this is not something that had occurred before the upgrade. So I dont think the 
fact that Mr and Mrs P operated the account in an unarranged overdraft after the upgrade of 
the account means that Barclays did anything wrong by arranging for the upgrade to take 
place. 
Ultimately if Mr and Mrs P had used their overdraft within its agreed limit, they likely would 
have saved money from upgrading their account - at least I think that was the case when it 
was sold to them. 
I appreciate, that due to changes made to the benefits over time, the account may not have 
been as good value for money for Mr and Mrs P it was when it was first sold to them. But this 
doesnt mean that Barclays was wrong or acting unfairly by selling the account to them when 
it did. 
So overall Barclays did not do anything wrong in selling the account in the first instance as it 
could have been useful to Mr and Mrs P. And it was up to Mr and Mrs P to change the 
account if it no longer was useful to them, once the benefits and their overdraft usage 
changed.In relation to the Tech pack added to the account in 2017, I should highlight that the Tech 
Pack was not sold to Mr and Mrs P. What actually happened was in 2017 Barclays decided 
to change the products it offered and withdrew the Additions account. Barclays replaced the 
Additions account with a fee-free current account that included a Tech pack. This was to 
ensure that account holders were able to continue to receive similar insurance benefits that 
the Additions account provided. Barclays did however need to give all account holders the 
option to opt out of adding the pack to the account, if they no longer needed the insurance 
benefits that they provided.
This means that Barclays did not need formal consent to for the pack to be added, as they 
were in essence essentially changing the structure of the benefits that Mr and Mrs P were 
already paying for with the Additions account - rather than it being a sale of a totally new 
product. I say this because previously, Mr and Mrs P had an account that came with benefits 
for a monthly fee, whereas after the change, they had an account that had an additional 
pack added that came with similar benefits, that they paid for on a monthly basis. 
Barclays was entitled to make these changes. However, when taking these actions Barclays 
needed to notify its customers in good time and explain the changes clearly and explain 
what options its customers had.
Barclays has provided a copy of a letter it sent to Mr and Mrs P in 2016 before it changed 
their account. I note that the letter was personally addressed to Mr and Mrs P at the address 
it held for them at the time. The letter gave Mr and Mrs P information on the upcoming 
changes that would be happening on their account. The second page of the letter gave 
several options, including opting out of the change and choosing to have a fee-free account 
without the pack instead. It gave Mr and Mrs P the option of calling to make this change or 
visiting a Barclays branch to do so.
Given this, I think that Barclays did enough to highlight that Mr and Mrs Ps account was 
changing from an Additions account to a fee-free current account that came with a Tech 
pack. And that it highlighted to Mr and Mrs P that they could opt out of having this pack, if 
they wished to do so. 
I also think that Barclays had given Mr and Mrs P a reasonable amount of time to consider 
the changes being made to the account, before they came into effect. I cant see that they 
contacted Barclays to either opt out of the change or query it. So, I cant say that Barclays 
did anything wrong in relation to the changes that happened on the account, or that it needs 
to refund the fees Mr and Mrs P paid for the Tech pack since it was added to their account.
I appreciate that this may come as a disappointment to Mr and Mrs P, but overall, I dont 
think that the Additions account was mis-sold or that Barclays did anything wrong in relation 
to the migration to the Tech pack. I do hope however that they understand the reasons why I 
have reached this outcome.
My final decision
Because of the reasons given above, I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs P and Mr P to 
accept or reject my decision before 25 August 2023.
 
Charlie Newton
Ombudsman