DRN-4390111
The complaint
Ms S complains as she says that Lifetime Protection Services Ltd trading as Bon Accord Life 
mis-sold her an unemployment insurance policy. Ill refer to Lifetime Protection Services Ltd 
as LPSL.   
What happened
Ms S took out an unemployment insurance policy. She claimed on the policy in 2023 but was 
unhappy as it wouldnt pay out as quickly as she expected. Ms S is unhappy because she 
says the implications of payment in lieu of notice and the deferred period werent properly 
explained to her during the sale. And shes also explained shes having to pay premiums 
during the time the policy isnt paying out.
LPSL looked into what had happened and didnt uphold the complaint. They said the options 
had been fairly presented to Ms S during the sale and shed been provided with the relevant 
policy documentation, including a key features document. Ms S complained to the Financial 
Ombudsman Service. 
Our investigator looked into what happened and didnt uphold Ms Ss complaint. He didnt 
think the policy had been mis-sold as he thought LPSL had explained the key information 
about how the policy worked. 
Ms S didnt agree and asked an ombudsman to review her complaint. She said she 
sometimes found it hard to process information and that some of the key facts hadnt been 
explained to her. So, I need to make a decision.    
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
LPSL didnt give Ms S advice about the policy. So, in line with the relevant rules and industry 
guidelines, they needed to ensure she had enough information to decide if the policy was 
right for her. That included giving her clear, fair and non-misleading information about the 
main features of the policy. They didnt need to make sure the policy was right for her as 
they werent giving her advice. 
Im not upholding Ms Ss complaint because: 
Im satisfied Ms S was given enough information to decide if the policy was right 
for her during the call. Ms S had a discussion with LPSL about the deferred 
period and I think it was made adequately clear to her that she wouldnt receive 
payment during this time. 
The terms which impacted on Ms Ss claim are common  similar terms appear in 
lots of income protection policies.
Ms S did ask about the impact of statutory redundancy. But I dont think Ms S 
clearly explained that she was asking about the impact of payment in lieu of 
notice or identified that as a feature of the policy which was particularly important 
to her. 
Ms S is having to pay premiums during the time that shes claiming. Thats not 
unusual and lots of policies require premiums to be paid whilst a claim is ongoing. 
Some policies offer a premium waiver, which usually is at an additional cost. But 
Ms S didnt suggest to LPSL that this was a feature of cover which was 
particularly important to her. And, as Ive outlined above, they werent providing 
her with advice about the suitability of the policy for her. 
Ms S didnt let LPSL know that she found it difficult to process information, so 
they didnt have the opportunity to address this during the call. 
Even if I accepted that LPSL didnt give clear, fair and non-misleading information 
during the call I still dont think it would be fair and reasonable to uphold this 
complaint. I say that because I can see that Ms S was provided with information 
by LPSL which says shed receive more information from the insurer about the 
policy benefits and exclusions following the sale. This would provide her with 
access to the full policy documentation which explained more about how the 
policy worked.  
Ms S says she didnt receive the full policy documentation or details about how to 
access it. However, I think it would have been reasonable for Ms S to follow this 
up with the insurer or LPSL if she didnt receive it. The follow up email from LPSL 
directed Ms S to check the information carefully as they werent providing advice 
about the policy. I cant fairly conclude LPSL did something wrong here.  
I also note that that LPSL mentioned there was a cooling off period during the 
call. This refers to a period of time in which Ms S could ask further questions or 
cancel if she wasnt happy with the level of cover offered. I think Ms S was 
therefore aware that there was an opportunity to cancel the policy if it wasnt right 
for her. The policy also renewed prior to Ms Ss claim, and she kept the cover in 
place which further suggests she was happy with the level of cover she had.   
My final decision
Im not upholding this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms S to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 November 2023.
 
Anna Wilshaw
Ombudsman