DRN-1528531
 
The complaint
Miss B complains that Advantage Insurance company Limited (Advantage) unfairly 
increased the premium on her policy when she changed her car. 
I have referred to Hastings throughout my decision as it has been acting on behalf of 
Advantage in this case.
What happened
Miss B had a motor insurance policy with Hastings and paid for this in monthly instalments. 
Mid-way through the policy term Miss B decided to change her car. As part of her research, 
before buying her new car she did an online quotation for a new policy, to get an idea of 
cost.
When Miss B bought the new car, she contacted Hasting and was surprised that the 
additional premium to amend her policy was much higher than she had been quoted for a 
new policy online with Hastings.
Miss B enquired about cancelling the existing policy so she could go for the cheaper online 
quote. Hastings advised her she could do that but would have to pay a cancellation fee and 
she would lose any no claims discount (NCD) that she had from this policy year.
Miss B continued with the policy at the higher price, but said she felt as if she was being held 
to ransom and so complained to Hastings about this  she also said that she had had a new 
multi-car policy quote which she felt was priced too highly.
Hastings didnt uphold her complaint in its final response it said:
It was unable to trace any multi-car policy quote but explained that the prices quoted 
represent the risk presented and they are calculated using system driven statistics.
It explained there was a difference between the details Miss B had entered for the online 
quote and the ones it held on her current policy and that this would have influenced the 
quotes. It also said that new policies can have discounts applied to them at the start that 
arent available on mid-term changes.
 
Hasting did however offer Miss B £20 as a gesture of good will  this reflects the mid-term 
adjustment fee she had to pay.
Miss B was unhappy with this and so brought the complaint to our service. The investigator 
looked into things but didnt think that Hastings had acted unfairly and so didnt uphold the 
complaint. In summary she said:
Hastings had provided information to show there was a difference between the 
details of the online quote and Miss Bs current policy.
Hastings had provided information to show how the premium was calculated- 
showing the increase was fair
The terms and conditions of the policy advise that changes mid-term can result in an 
extra premium being charged
Hastings couldnt trace the multi-car quote, but that it was entitled to decide what 
risks were acceptable to it and what it wants to charge to cover those risk and then 
its for the customer to decide if the price is acceptable to them.
Miss B disagreed with the investigator, she said to the best of her knowledge the details on 
the current policy mirrored those of the online policy. She also said that the multi-car policy 
quote was done over the phone but may have been done on her partners account with 
Hastings as they are also insured by it.
The investigator let Miss B know that if the quote was carried out under her partners policy, 
they would need to raise it as an issue with Hastings themselves if unhappy with it as it cant 
be looked at under this complaint.
The matter has now been passed to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I have to let Miss B know that I have come to the same conclusions as the 
investigator, for broadly the same reasons, Ill explain.
Given the multi-car quote was likely carried out on Miss Bs partners Hastings account I 
havent looked into this further. As the investigator said Miss Bs partner will need to take this 
up separately with Hastings if they are unhappy with how it was dealt with.
To attract new business insurers and comparison websites often apply large discounts that 
arent available to mid-term changes  this is standard industry practice. While I understand 
that that can be disappointing it is something businesses are entitled to do when attracting 
business, so I cant say Hastings has been unfair in offering this on new policies.
When a contract of insurance is taken out, both parties agree at the start on the term of the 
policy, the risks that will be covered and the premium that will be due. If either party wants to 
make changes to the policy the other party is entitled to renegotiate the terms.
In this case Miss B in buying a new car was changing the risk that Hastings had agreed to 
cover, so in turn it was entitled to set new terms for the contract. As the new car presented a 
higher risk for Hastings it offered to cover the car but at an increased premium to reflect that 
increased risk. 
Hastings has provided evidence showing the difference between the information entered on 
the online quote and Miss Bs current policy details. The differences were:
Detail Current 
policyNew quote
Named driver 
licence held16 years 18 years
Policy holder 
licence held2 years 3 years
Vehicle value £5,699 £4,345
Mileage 3000 6000
Purchase date 28/7/19 24/7/19Hastings has provided information to this service which shows how it rates certain risks and 
calculates its prices. It has also shown me how it calculated the new online quote based on 
the information provided. I have considered this information and am satisfied that Hastings 
has applied the ratings fairly and priced Miss Bs policy correctly for the mid-term 
adjustment. Unfortunately, I cannot share this information with Miss B due to it being 
commercially sensitive.
I understand why Miss B was disappointed that she would lose any NCD earned in the policy 
year if she cancelled mid-term, and would have to pay a cancellation fee, but I cant say 
Advantage was wrong to say it would apply this. I say this because, when insurance is 
applied for, insurers apply discounts for the number of years a customer has been claim 
free, so its unfair if an insurer gives a full year NCD for only a part year as its misleading to 
other insurers and unfair on other consumers.
In terms of the cancellation fee  the policy terms state:
If the primary policyholder or we cancel the policy at any other time, well refund the 
part of premium on a pro-rata basis for the period of cover that hasnt been used for 
each car, minus our after 14-day cancellation fee and our other non-refundable fees.
So, I think Hastings wouldve been fine to apply a cancellation fee if Miss B had decided to 
cancel.
In all I dont think Hastings has acted unfairly when dealing with Miss Bs mid-term 
adjustments and so wont be asking it to do anything further to resolve this matter for Miss B.
I appreciate that this isnt the outcome Miss B wanted and this will come as a disappointment 
to her, but this does bring to a close what we can do for her in trying to informally resolve this 
dispute.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, my final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss B to accept 
or reject my decision before 28 July 2020.
 
Amber Mortimer
Ombudsman