DRN-4006515
The complaint
Mr S complains that Mulsanne Insurance Company Limited mishandled his claim on a motor 
insurance policy. 
What happened
The subject matter of the claim and the complaint is a five-door hatchback car, first 
registered in 2019.
For the year from September 2021, Mr S had the car insured on a comprehensive policy 
branded with the name of an insurance intermediary. Mulsanne was the insurance company 
responsible for dealing with any claim.
Unfortunately, Mr S reported that in late July 2022, the car had been in an accident and 
sustained damage to the offside (drivers side) doors.
In August 2022 Mr S, with help from a family member Mr K, complained to Mulsannes 
claims handlers about delay in getting the vehicle in for repairs.
By a final response letter dated early October 2022, the claims handlers accepted the 
complaint and apologised.
In mid-October 2022, Mr S complained to the intermediary.
Mr S brought his complaint to us later in October 2022.
By a response letter dated mid-November 2022, the intermediary accepted the complaint 
and offered £250.00 compensation. 
Our investigator didnt recommend that the complaint should be upheld. She thought that 
Mulsanne had acted and responded fairly to Mr Ss complaint.
On behalf of Mr S, Mr K disagreed with the investigators opinion. He asked for an 
ombudsman to review the complaint. Mr K says, in summary, that:
Nothing ever surfaced from the insurance company regarding any apology or 
goodwill compensation. 
The insurance company is in place to help sort out things like this, but they have 
dragged their heels and left Mr S to struggle, costing him money which he hasnt got.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The policy terms included the following definition:
We/Us/Our
[the intermediary], and the insurers who underwrite this policy whose details are 
shown in the certificate of insurance.
The certificate of insurance gave details of Mulsanne. So I consider that  in offering cover 
and dealing with the claim and the complaint  the intermediary was acting on behalf of 
Mulsanne. I hold Mulsanne responsible for the acts or omissions of the intermediary.
The policy terms said that Mulsanne would provide a small courtesy car while the 
policyholders car was being repaired. There was a Courtesy Car upgrade option that 
wouldve provided a larger hire car. But that upgraded cover only applied if the policyholder 
had agreed to pay any additional premium and the schedule stated that this section was in 
force. 
Theres no evidence that Mr S had paid for such upgraded cover.
In my view, the accident and the need to make a claim were bound to cause Mr S some 
distress and inconvenience, for which I cant hold Mulsanne responsible.
However, it took about seven or eight weeks before an engineer inspected the car on behalf 
of Mulsanne. He said it was not roadworthy. It took a further four or five weeks before 
another engineer authorised the repairs on behalf of Mulsanne.
The intermediary has accepted (on behalf of Mulsanne) Mr Ss complaint about that 
timescale. I dont consider that by this timescale, Mulsanne treated Mr S fairly.
The impact on Mr S was that he was left with an unroadworthy car for longer than he 
expected, and he had to chase for progress and updates. 
I accept Mr Ks statement that Mr S had to use buses to pick up his granddaughter from 
school every day including in bad weather. But I dont think that wouldve been the case 
during the school summer holiday. So it mustve started after the school holiday ended in 
early September 2022.
However, Mr S and Mr K have fallen short of providing enough detail and evidence to show 
that Mulsanne caused Mr S a financial loss.
I accept that the intermediary wrote its final response in mid-November 2022 offering 
£250.00 compensation. As the intermediary sent that response to us later in November 
2022, I accept that it sent that response to Mr S in mid-November 2022.
From what Mr K told us on about 25 November 2022, the car went in for repair on about 9  
November 2022 and Mr S got it back on about 24 November 2022.
He sent us a copy of an invoice that shows that, between those dates, a car hire company 
provided a hire car at a cost of about £600.00. I would expect Mulsanne to have paid that 
invoice. But the invoice post-dates Mr Ss complaint to us. So Mr S is free to make a further 
complaint to Mulsanne if it hasnt paid that invoice.
Mr K also sent us a copy of an invoice for the excess of £400.00. The final response had 
said he would have to pay that amount. I consider that he had to pay it as a result of the 
accident and claim and not as a result of Mulsannes delay.Incidentally, the investigator sent the intermediarys November 2022 final response to Mr K 
in late December 2022. So he had seen it by then.
Im satisfied that the intermediary made its offer on behalf of Mulsanne.
Putting things right
Ive thought about how much compensation I wouldve directed Mulsanne to pay if there had 
been no offer or payment.
In early January 2023, the intermediary asked us if it should pay the £250.00 and we said 
that it should. But the intermediary replied that it would wait to hear from the ombudsman.  
So Im not sure that the intermediary has made the payment. I find it fair and reasonable to 
direct Mulsanne to pay Mr S £250.00 for distress and inconvenience insofar as it (or the 
intermediary on its behalf) hasnt already paid that amount. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, my final decision is that I direct Mulsanne Insurance 
Company Limited to pay Mr S £250.00 for distress and inconvenience insofar as it (or the 
intermediary on its behalf) hasnt already paid that amount. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 4 April 2023.  
Christopher Gilbert
Ombudsman