DRN-4297758
The complaint
Mr J complains Arch Insurance (UK) Limited unfairly declined a water damage claim against 
his property investors insurance policy. 
What happened
As the background to the complaint is known to all parties, in this decision Ill summarise my 
understanding and focus mainly on giving the reasons for reaching the outcome I have. 
Mr J owns a flat he rents to a tenant. In 2021, he says the tenant experienced a blackout 
which he says was due to water damage following a build up of water on the patio, caused 
by a blocked drain. Mr J arranged repairs which included electrical rewiring, replacement 
flooring, and decoration, amongst other things. He raised a claim to Arch through his 
property manager and provided photos. 
Arch sent a loss adjuster to the property. They concluded, broadly, that the volume of water 
seen in photos wasnt sufficient enough to breach the door lip, nor was there evidence water 
penetrated through failed brickwork. They also contacted Mr Js repairing electrician but say 
their response on the proximate cause was vague and inconclusive. 
Arch later declined the claim. They didnt think Mr J demonstrated the loss was the result of 
an insured peril. Mr J didnt agree  he says water levels on the patio reached two feet and 
this caused internal damage, and hes now out of pocket. As he didnt agree with the claim 
decision, he asked our Service for an impartial review. 
The investigator didnt recommend it be upheld. She thought Arch considered and reached a 
claim outcome fairly and reasonably. Mr J asked for an ombudsman to decide, so the case 
was passed to me. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
With any insurance claim, its for a policyholder to demonstrate theyve suffered loss or 
damage as the result of an insured peril. In this case, Mr J says water built up on the patio, 
entered the property, and caused damage. 
Ive reviewed photos Mr J provided which show water sitting on the patio, but I cannot 
establish the volume of water based on these photos alone. But I do note engineers Mr J 
appointed say they attended to a four-inch water flood, so I think its safe to say this was the 
likely volume of water found on the patio. As mentioned above though, its for Mr J to 
demonstrate this sitting water on the patio was the cause of damage hes claiming for. 
Ive considered the various reports provided by experts  Mr Js own engineer and Archs 
loss adjuster. Both parties attended Mr Js property and so Im satisfied theyre appropriately 
placed to both consider and determine the cause of damage. I do note Archs loss adjuster 
attended a few months following the date Mr J says damage occurred. 
Arch contacted Mr Js engineer for further comments as they found their initial report vague 
and inconclusive on the cause of damage. The engineer says they responded to a nuisance 
tripping of an RCD main switch, the insulation resistance on the circuit was very low between 
the lounge and bedroom causing it to trip, and there was more than one faulty cable section 
 making it impossible to isolate the fault. Therefore, the engineer renewed the entire circuit, 
and stated the cause was usually either due to water ingress or heat damage due to the 
close proximity of hot pipes. 
Arch didnt consider the engineers comments to be compelling or persuasive on the cause. I 
think thats reasonable. I say this because its my view the repairing engineer was most 
appropriately placed to determine the cause of damage. Thats because they carried out 
repairs to the areas said to have been water damaged, and visited the property shortly after 
Mr J says damage occurred. Arch concluded if water damage was the cause, this ought to 
have been immediately apparent to the engineer. Based on their comments, Im not 
persuaded this was the case. 
Ive also considered the loss adjusters findings following their visit. They didnt consider the 
volume of water was sufficient enough to breach the door lip threshold. Nor did they find 
evidence brickwork had failed allowing water to penetrate it and enter the property. They 
also reviewed photos Mr J provided of the property while restoration works were ongoing. 
They concluded, broadly, that they would have expected to see evidence such as water 
marks or staining around areas where water was said to have entered and caused damage. 
And photos provided do not support this. 
All things considered  I accept Mr J has demonstrated water built up on the patio. Thats not 
disputed here. What is disputed is the cause of the issues Mr J went on to rectify by rewiring 
the electrics, replacing flooring, and decorating, amongst other things. Im not persuaded, on 
balance, to agree it would be reasonable to conclude Arch failed to consider the claim fairly. 
I find they took reasonable steps to validate the claim by sending a loss adjuster to Mr Js 
property, reviewing photos provided, and requesting further comments from his repairing 
engineer  which I dont find were persuasive here. Nor do I think their comments support 
the cause was the result of a build up of water on the patio entering the property. So, it 
follows, I dont require Arch to take any action. 
I accept my decision will come as a disappointment to Mr J. But it ends what we  in 
attempting to informally resolve his dispute with Arch  can do for him. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above, my final decision is I dont uphold the complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr J to accept or 
reject my decision before 6 November 2023.
 
Liam Hickey
Ombudsman