DRN-4087233
The complaint
Mr K and Mrs K complain that Nationwide Building Society blocked their account without 
notice, which led to charges from missed payments. The account was later closed. Theyd 
like to be compensated for the charges and inconvenience.
What happened
Mr K and Mrs K held a joint business account with Nationwide. In October 2020 Nationwide 
placed the account under review, and blocked access to the account while they did so. They 
asked for further information about the transactions on the account, in particular about 
deposits being made into the account. Mr K says he provided information in branch, but 
Nationwide say they dont have a record of this. The account remained blocked.
In January 2021 Mr K and Mrs K raised a complaint. Nationwide responded to say that the 
terms of the account allow them to restrict transactions while they carry out a review. They 
felt the blocks were applied correctly.
In February 2021 Nationwide wrote to Mr K and Mrs K to say they would no longer be 
offering banking facilities to them, and that the money in the accounts was available to 
collect from branch. Mr K went to collect the money in June 2021, but found Nationwide 
were only willing to pay him a single cheque covering all the balances held by him  
including sole accounts, as well as the joint business account. Mr K explained he needed 
separate cheques for accounting purposes, but Nationwide wouldnt budge.
Unhappy with this Mr K and Mrs K referred the complaint to our service. Our investigator got 
Nationwide to agree to send a cheque for the joint business account separately. But they felt 
the reason for the blocks was reasonable, so they wouldnt ask Nationwide to compensate 
for any losses resulting in the block. They couldnt see Nationwide had caused any delays. 
They also found that the account was closed in line with the terms. 
Mr K and Mrs K didnt agree, saying they had received rude and unprofessional customer 
service. They accepted Nationwide closed the accounts as per the terms and conditions. But 
they said because separate cheques for the various accounts hadnt been issued, they had 
been deprived of their money for two years. As a result of this they had been unable to run 
their business efficiently, and it caused a great deal of stress.
As no agreement could be reached, the complaint was passed to me to decide. After 
reviewing the file, I was minded to uphold the complaint in part. I issued my provisional 
decision that said:
Its right to say that Nationwide have certain legal and regulatory obligations to meet as part 
of their role in providing accounts to their consumers. These obligations mean that on 
occasion they need to review accounts and ask for further information from the consumer to 
understand how the account is being used. This is what happened with Mr K and Mrs Ks 
account, so I dont see this as unreasonable in itself. Its also not unreasonable for them to 
restrict the use of the account while they do so. This is in line with their obligations.
In this case the review began in late October 2020, but it wasnt until early February 2021 
that the review was completed. This is much longer that Id expect these types of review to 
take. Nationwide havent been able to adequately explain why this took such a long time. But 
I also accept they were waiting for information from Mr K and Mrs K to review.
Ive considered what Mr K has said about providing information in branch in November 2020, 
although Nationwide dont have a record of this. Its unclear what information Mr K was trying 
to provide at the time, so I cant say that this likely would have changed Nationwides 
decision. And Ive not seen anything to suggest Mr K provided any of the information asked 
for about the funds in the account after this.
But Nationwide could have been clearer around what was happening, and how their review 
was progressing. There clearly werent good lines of communication between both parties, 
so I can see why Mr K and Mrs K would be frustrated by this. 
Reviewing the account statements, I cant see that there were regular outgoing payments 
from this account  most were carried out by cheque.
Mr K and Mrs K have accepted that once the review was complete Nationwide were acting 
within their terms in closing the account. Having reviewed the terms around when they can 
close accounts with no notice, and also considered the wider circumstances of the 
complaint, Im satisfied that this is the case.
The funds were made available to withdraw in February 2021, but it isnt until June 2021 that 
Mr K attends branch to withdraw them. He was originally offered a cheque for the balances 
across all his accounts  but he asked for cheques in the names of the different capacities 
he held accounts. I dont find this to be an unreasonable request, and I can see why it would 
be disappointing that Nationwide didnt honour this relatively straightforward request. Im 
glad to see Nationwide have now offered to send the funds as a joint cheque.
That being said, Ive seen nothing to suggest that it would have been impossible, or too 
complex, for Mr K to take this cheque and cash it elsewhere. So, I dont agree that 
Nationwide withheld the funds from Mr K and Mrs K, and I think there is more Mr K and 
Mrs K could have done to mitigate their circumstances.
Overall, Im satisfied Nationwide were reasonable to block and then close Mr K and Mrs Ks 
account. But I can see their communication on what was needed From Mr K and Mrs K and 
the status of the investigation wasnt to the standard Id expect to see. I havent seen 
anything that Id consider rude or unprofessional, but I see why Mr K and Mrs K would feel 
frustrated and upset by the service theyd received and the length of time between the block 
and the releasing of the funds, and its reasonable for Nationwide to pay some compensation 
to reflect the impact of this. Having considered this, I find £100 would be an appropriate 
amount for them to pay
Nationwide accepted this as an outcome. Mr K and Mrs K disagreed saying that Nationwide 
had caused the delay by not agreeing to issue separate cheques to begin with, and it was 
their right to withdraw money as they require. They reiterated they had handed in all the 
relevant documentation to branch, and they were not updated during the investigation. They 
said they had not attended branch until June 2021 because they were vulnerable members 
of society, so it was not feasible to do so earlier. They commented they were disappointed 
by the level of compensation, and suggested this be discarded and they would pursue this 
through court.
Having reviewed the responses to my provisional decision it now falls on me to issue my 
final decision.What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I remain satisfied with the conclusions drawn in my provisional decision. 
Ive considered the additional points raised by Mr K and Mrs K, but will only make reference 
to those I feel are necessary to reach a fair outcome on this complaint.
Mr K held accounts with Nationwide is various capacities  so to be clear this decision solely 
concerns the account held jointly with Mrs K.
There doesnt seem to be any dispute that Nationwide were entitled to carry out a review of 
Mr K and Mrs Ks account  and during this review they were entitled to ask Mr K and Mrs K 
for more information about how the account was being run.
I considered what Mr K and Mrs K have said about giving the required documents to branch 
 but ultimately, I dont have enough evidence to support this. Mr K has commented that 
CCTV should be checked. But considering the length of time that has passed I think it 
unlikely any CCTV will be available for review. And in any case if CCTV could be found of 
Mr K or Mrs K in branch it would be unlikely to demonstrate what documents may have been 
handed in, and whether these would have likely changed Nationwides decision to close their 
account. I remain satisfied that Nationwide closed the account in line with their terms.
I agree with Mr K and Mrs Ks points that the review took much longer than is reasonable, 
and they were not properly updated during this process. I also agree that the request for the 
cheques to be issued in the capacity the accounts were held was reasonable, and its 
disappointing that Nationwide didnt agree to this originally.
But Im not persuaded this means Mr K and Mrs K had no access to the funds in the account 
 Nationwide were willing to allow Mr K to withdraw the available balance and theres no 
indication to me that there would have been a dispute between Mr K and Mrs K over 
ownership of these funds. I havent seen anything to show that it would have been 
impossible or onerous on Mr K and Mrs K to accept a cheque in a sole name and apportion 
the funds afterwards. So, I think there could have been more they could have done to 
mitigate the circumstances.
Likewise, I appreciate Mr K and Mrs K were potentially vulnerable individuals in the context 
of the pandemic  and I can understand the reluctance to attend branch. But Ive also seen 
nothing to suggest alternative arrangements were sought before June 2021. I remain 
satisfied that the funds have been available to Mr K and Mrs K since February 2021.
But there have been failings by Nationwide that Ive identified  around the length of time the 
review took, and the communication during this period. Its right that compensation is 
offered. Ive taken on board that Mr K and Mrs K wish to pursue this through other means, 
but my role here is to decide what a fair and reasonable outcome would be. So, Im still 
minded that as part of my decision Nationwide should pay Mr K and Mrs K £100 to reflect 
the distress caused.
My final decision
My final decision is that Nationwide Building Society must:
Issue a cheque in joint names for the balance of the joint accountPay Mr K and Mrs K £100 compensation
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs K and Mr K to 
accept or reject my decision before 17 May 2023.
 
Thom Bennett
Ombudsman