DRN-2546292
The complaint
Mr P complains that American Express Services Europe Limited (AESEL) (AmEx) closed
his account by mistake, and told him he had to pay all of his debt straight away, although he 
said he was paying in line with an arrangement reached with AmEx.
 
What happened
Mr P told us this 
- AmEx closed his card by mistake.
- AmEx told him he had only seven days to repay the card balance.
- AmEx then investigated, realised it was wrong, and reinstated the account.
- AmEx offered Mr P £25 in compensation.
Mr P said that wasnt a reasonable offer for what had gone wrong here.
AmEx said something quite different. It said it closed Mr Ps account because it had reached
an agreement with him to make specific payments onto his card, but he hadnt paid the
agreed amounts.
AmEx said this 
- AmEx had spoken to Mr P before the account closed. Hed agreed to pay £100 to the
account.
- When he didnt make that payment, AmEx closed his account.
AmEx also said that it then contacted him, and supported him to reinstate his account.
AmEx upheld a complaint about the call Mr P made to make a payment, just before his card
was closed. AmEx said the wrong team dealt with this call, and if it had been passed through
to the team Mr P had been discussing payments with, he wouldve been prompted to make a
larger payment. So AmEx paid him £50 in compensation for that.
AmEx didnt think it was a mistake then to close Mr Ps account. It said the account was
closed because he hadnt paid enough.
AmEx thought that the call Mr P made to complain about the account closure couldve been
handled better, so it paid £25 compensation for that.
Our investigator didnt think this complaint should be upheld. He didnt think that what AmEx
had done in cancelling Mr Ps card was unfair or unreasonable. 
Mr P didnt think wed looked into his complaint properly. He said his account wouldnt have
been closed if he hadnt been misadvised about how much to pay. He said that AmEx told
him what payment to make, then closed his account because it wasnt enough. And Mr P
said that AmEx was aware of his mental health issues, which included memory problems.
Mr P said AmEx had admitted that the card was cancelled in error, and that he had been
misadvised. He shouldve been passed to a specialist team. Mr P said he doesnt yet know if
this will affect his credit file. But its already caused him distress.
Our investigator didnt change his mind. Because there was no agreement, this case was 
passed to me for a final decision.
My provisional decision
I issued a provisional decision on this complaint and explained why I did propose to uphold 
it. This is what I said then: 
AmEx no longer has call recordings of the phone calls it had with Mr P. But it has 
written summaries of the calls. Ive read those very carefully.
Mr P complained to AmEx about a number of points. Im going to set those out as 
headings, and deal with each point in turn.
There are some points in this complaint where Mr P says AmEx has accepted it got 
things wrong, but I dont think it has accepted that. So Ill set out whether I think 
AmEx has made a mistake, and also whether it admitted that mistake.
Mr P said that he paid what he was advised to pay, when he called AmEx on 24 
January. He said hed been misadvised, and shouldve been put through to a 
different team.
On the call of 24 January, it was Mr P who said how much he wanted to pay. He said 
hed agreed to pay £29 in January, and then £100 in February and March. But on the 
earlier call, hed actually agreed to pay £100 each month in January, February and 
March.
Mr P wasnt told, on the call on 24 January, to pay the wrong amount. Hed made a 
mistake about how much he was supposed to pay then.
But I still think its AmExs fault that he paid the wrong amount. Mr P asked AmEx if 
he was speaking to the financial difficulties team. He wasnt. But the call handler at 
AmEx said he was.
And Mr P told AmEx on this call that he had memory problems. I think that makes it 
even more important that he was put through to the right team, who could check he 
was paying the agreed amount.
I think if Mr P had been put through to the right team, he wouldve been told the right 
amount to pay, and he wouldve paid it. Thats why I think its AmExs fault that Mr P 
paid the wrong amount.
He said his account closed because he was told to pay the wrong amount. He didnt 
think that his account wouldve closed, if hed been given the right advice on this call 
by AmEx.
Ive said I dont think Mr P was told to pay the wrong amount. He made a mistake 
about the amount. But AmEx didnt correct him. It shouldve done. And if it had, I 
dont think his account wouldve closed. So I also think its AmExs fault Mr Ps 
account closed.
He said he was told that he had to pay the card off within a week.Ive checked the call notes carefully, and I dont think that Mr P was told that he had 
to pay the card off within a week. It would be very unusual for a credit card company 
to say that. I can see that AmEx said it could put a payment plan in place for him.
He said AmEx then admitted it had wrongly advised him on the call.
I cant see any call notes that say AmEx accepted, when it spoke to Mr P, that it had 
made a mistake on the call and wrongly advised him. But I think AmEx did make a 
mistake about this, even if it doesnt.
He said AmEx accepted it had closed the card by mistake. 
I cant see any call notes that say AmEx accepted that it had made a mistake when it 
closed Mr Ps card. But I think AmEx did make a mistake about this, even if it doesnt.
He said when he complained, the call handler was rude to him.
AmEx paid Mr P £25 for this, because its call handler thought the call couldve been 
better. 
Our service cant consider this point, because we cant consider complaints which 
are just about how a financial business deals with a complaint. Its only the matters 
that Mr P was actually complaining to AmEx about  the problem with the payment 
and the account closure  that we can help him with.
He was concerned about the effect on his credit file.
I think it was AmExs fault that Mr Ps account was closed. So, if it has recorded this 
account closure on his credit file, it should delete that, and replace it by saying Mr P 
was in an arrangement to pay at this time.
He said this was all very distressing.
I think this would be distressing. And I think it couldve been avoided if AmEx had put 
Mr P through to the right team when he called on 24 January. So I think AmEx should 
pay Mr P £200 more in compensation, for the distress and inconvenience he 
experienced when his account was then closed. AmEx cant count the payments it 
has already made to Mr P towards that amount.
I invited the parties to make any final points, if they wanted, before issuing my final decision. 
AmEx sent us a reply. Mr P said hed requested documents from AmEx, so we waited until 
hed been sent those before we asked him to reply. He then sent a substantive reply.
  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
AmEx said it didnt think the account was closed in error, it said the account was closed 
because Mr P didnt make the right payments. I set out in my provisional decision that I 
thought AmEx was responsible for not telling Mr P how much he needed to pay.
AmEx had then supported Mr P to reopen his account. I note this, and I think AmEx did the 
right thing here. AmEx said it didnt think it had asked Mr P to make full payment within seven days. Ill return 
to this point below, when Im looking at the letters Mr P has sent us.
AmEx didnt think that Mr P had been treated poorly. It said Mr P hadnt given it a great deal 
of information about his support needs or the financial difficulties he was in. AmEx said some 
key information was only given two days before the account was set to cancel.
AmEx said it could agree in hindsight that Mr Ps call of 24 January should have been 
passed to the financial difficulties team. But Mr P had told it specifically how much AmEx had 
previously said he needed to pay. So AmEx thought it wasnt fair to expect the call handler to 
ignore what Mr P had said and transfer him elsewhere when he seemed sure.
I dont think thats a fair summary of the call on 24 January. 
I said in my provisional decision that Mr P asked AmEx if he was speaking to the financial 
difficulties team. He wasnt. But the call handler at AmEx said he was. 
I also noted that Mr P told AmEx on this call that he had memory problems. So I still think 
that Mr P should have been put through to the right team. And if he had been put through to 
the right team, many of the problems that followed would have been avoided.
Mr F has sent our service letters from AmEx, which he has highlighted for us. Ive looked at 
those carefully.
I can see that AmEx sent Mr P a letter dated 14 Nov 2019, which was a notice of default. 
That letter asks Mr P to pay £29 within 14 days. It then sets out a number of consequences if 
Mr P doesnt make this small payment. 
That letter isnt asking Mr P to pay the full balance, which is shown on the letter as 
£1,462.52. Its only asking him to pay £29 within the next 14 days, and explaining what might 
happen if he doesnt do that. 
AmEx sent Mr P another letter on 6 December 2019, which asked him to get in touch within 
the next seven days. 
And it wrote again on 18 December, asking Mr P to contact it within seven days. 
It then wrote a third time, on 31 December. This last letter said AmEx had made a number of 
attempts to get in touch, and because none of these had been successful, Mr Ps account 
was under review for cancellation. 
None of these letters contains any demand for payment.
So I still dont think that AmEx demanded that Mr P repay his card within seven days. 
Mr P also said that AmEx had admitted it had made a mistake. He sent us the notes from a 
call that AmEx made to him on 18 February 2020. 
Those notes show that AmEx said the complaint was upheld due to [Mr P] not being 
transferred to the correct team to discuss payment. 
I did know about that when I wrote the provisional decision. AmEx accepted, in the letter it sent Mr P about his complaint, that it got this wrong. It didnt 
transfer him to the financial difficulties team, and it shouldve. Ive mentioned this in the what 
happened section above. So I took that into account when I made my provisional decision.
Mr P said AmEx had admitted it had wrongly advised him on a call, and accepted it had 
closed the card by mistake. But I dont think AmEx admitted either of those things. 
I do think AmEx got things wrong. So Ive set out where I think it made mistakes. 
Ive considered everything that Mr P has now sent to us. But I havent changed my mind. Ill 
now make the award I originally proposed. 
 
My final decision
My final decision is that American Express Services Europe Limited (AESEL) must amend 
Mr Ps credit file, as noted above, and pay Mr P a further £200 in compensation.
  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision before 8 March 2021.
 
Esther Absalom-Gough
Ombudsman