DRN-4111432
The complaint
Mr M complains about Haven Insurance Company Limiteds (Haven) valuation of his car 
following a claim under his car insurance. He also complains about the repairs carried out 
following a previous claim and about the price he has been paying for his insurance.  
What happened
Mr M was involved in a car accident which he reported to Haven. Mr Ms car was declared a 
total loss and Haven assessed the pre-accident valuation at £4,365. As there was existing 
finance on Mr Ms car, £2,315.81 of the settlement was sent to the finance company and, 
after deducting the excess, the remaining £1,549.19 was sent to Mr M. 
Mr M felt the valuation wasnt fair, so he complained. Haven responded and explained their 
engineer had taken into account pre-existing damage to Mr Ms car and their valuation was 
reasonable. Mr M also raised a complaint about repairs carried out by Haven following a 
previous claim, and this is why his car had damage prior to the more recent claim. Haven 
explained, when they handled the previous claim, the damage linked to the accident related 
to the passenger side  which they repaired. They explained the damage to the drivers side 
wasnt linked so they were correct in not repairing this. Mr M also complained about the price 
of his policy for the last few years and Haven explained these were rated and priced 
correctly.     
After considering all of the evidence, I issued a provisional decision on this complaint to     
Mr M and Haven on 14 April 2023. In my provisional decision I said as follows:  
    
Car valuation
My starting point is Mr Ms car insurance policy document. This sets out the terms 
and conditions and says, if Haven decide a car is beyond economical repair, theyll 
settle the claim by paying the market value of the car. The policy defines market 
value as The cost of replacing your car with one of similar make, model and 
specification, taking into account the age, mileage and condition of your car. To 
determine the market value, we will typically request the advice of an engineer and 
refer to guides and any other relevant sources. The dispute here relates to the 
valuation, so the next point Ive considered is whether Haven acted fairly when 
carrying out their valuation.  
In assessing whether a reasonable offer has been made, we obtain valuations from 
motor-trade guides. These are used for valuing second-hand vehicles. 
We find these guides to be particularly persuasive, largely because their valuations 
are based on nationwide research of likely selling prices. The guides refer to 
advertised and auction prices to work out what the likely selling price for the same 
vehicle would be. This takes into account all the specifications of the vehicle as well 
as any extras and the mileage.  
Mr M is unhappy with Havens valuation of his car as he thinks its worth more. Ive 
seen that Haven reached their figure by using an industry recognised tool to find out 
the market value of the car. I can see the engineer instructed by Haven used Glasss 
to arrive at a valuation of £5,050 but, having taken into account the pre-existing 
damage, they reduced the valuation by £685, therefore arriving at a valuation of 
£4,365. 
I can see our investigator looked at four motor guides to get their valuation for Mr Ms 
car at the time of the incident. I can see this took into account the make, model, age, 
mileage and specification. Using CAP the market value given was £5,425, Glasss 
gave a figure of £5,070, Cazoo was £5,815 and AutoTrader was £5,580. Taking 
these figures into account, the average is £5,472.50. 
Given that the difference between this valuation and what Mr M received is £422.50, I 
dont believe, in the circumstances of this case, Mr M received a fair settlement. I say 
this because Haven only used one motor-trade guide  and in this case it produced 
the lowest valuation when compared with the other three guides. Its not the role of 
this service to put an exact value on a car. When looking into these types of 
complaints we check the relevant trade guides and consider whether the insurer has 
made a reasonable offer in line with them. Its our role to make sure Haven is giving 
Mr M a fair price using a fair and recognised approach. 
In this case, I cant say that has happened here as Havens valuation relied on only 
one guide  and thats the guide which, based on the valuations obtained by our 
investigator, produced the lowest valuation. Haven havent provided any information 
to explain why the other three trade guides werent used so I dont think theyve 
followed a fair approach here. And given this has then led to what I believe is a fairly 
significant reduction in the amount paid to Mr M, I dont think Mr M has received a fair 
price. Based on the information provided about Mr Ms car and using the trade 
guides, I dont think Haven have carried out a fair valuation. After making deductions 
from the settlement amount, Haven have already paid Mr M £1,549.19, so they 
should pay Mr M £422.50 together with 8% simple interest from the date of loss to 
the date of settlement. 
I do acknowledge a significant proportion of the claim settlement went to the finance 
company and Mr M says this has left him in a position where its difficult to find 
another car. I do acknowledge Mr Ms concern here, but I cant say Haven have 
acted unfairly here. 
The terms and conditions of Mr Ms policy says, if a car is bought under finance, then 
any settlement made will be used to pay any sums owed to a lender. So, while I do 
acknowledge the impact this has had on Mr Ms ability to buy another car, Haven 
have acted reasonably and in line with the terms and conditions of the policy.   
   
Repairs following previous claim
I can see Mr M was involved in an accident separate to the one which led to his car 
being declared a write-off. Haven carried out repairs to Mr Ms car, but he feels they 
didnt repair all damage sustained as a result of that earlier accident. 
Mr M says the damage which wasnt repaired led to Haven deducting the sum of 
£685 for pre-existing damage from his claim settlement. Haven say they assessed Mr 
Ms car at the time and the repairs they carried out were limited to all damage 
sustained as a result of that earlier accident. 
Haven have provided information relating to the previous claim and this shows, when 
Mr M first reported the accident, he explained the circumstances and described the 
damage as being to the rear passenger side of his car. The notes show Mr M later claimed the damage was to the drivers side and the garage had repaired the wrong 
side. The information Ive seen shows Mr M explained the damage was to the 
passenger side and the repair invoice from the garage supports this as it sets out the 
damage and the repairs they carried out. Images provided by Haven also show there 
is damage to the passenger side of the car. And given the accident circumstances 
described by Mr M, I dont think it was unreasonable for Haven to take the view that 
the accident wouldnt have caused any damage to the drivers side of Mr Ms car. So, 
while I acknowledge it was frustrating for Mr M to have a deduction applied to his 
claim settlement for pre-existing damage, I dont think it was unreasonable for Haven 
not to have carried out repairs to the drivers side as part of Mr Ms previous claim. 
Pricing
I understand Mr M is concerned about the price of his premiums over the last few 
years  he feels the premiums have unfairly increased over this period of time. 
The role of this service when looking at complaints about insurance pricing isnt to tell 
a business what they should charge or to determine a price for the insurance they 
offer. This is a commercial judgement and for them to decide. But we can look to see 
whether we agree a consumer has been treated fairly  so is there anything which 
demonstrates theyve been treated differently or less favourably. If we think someone 
has been treated unfairly, we can set out what we think is right to address this 
unfairness.
Haven have provided information showing the prices theyve charged Mr M since 
2017 and the factors which have affected the price. In the three policy years between 
2017 to 2020, I can see the price Mr M was charged reduced each year. There is a 
price increase in policy year 2021/2022 but there is a key factor which has affected 
the price here. Its a different car which was insured, and Haven say this presented a 
totally different risk. So this would, understandably, lead to different risk ratings when 
compared to Mr Ms previous car. Taking into account the information Ive seen, I 
dont think Haven have treated Mr M unfairly here.  
 
So, subject to any further comments from Mr M or Haven, my provisional decision was that I 
was minded to uphold this complaint and require Haven to increase their settlement offer. 
Following my provisional decision, Haven have responded to say they accept the decision. 
Mr M has responded and says the settlement is too low and wants Haven to buy him the 
same car. He also feels he shouldve been given a choice as to whether he wanted his car 
back. Given that both parties have responded, I see no reason to delay making a final 
decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I see no reason to depart from my provisional decision. So, Ive decided to 
uphold the complaint for the reasons set out in my provisional decision and copied above.
I acknowledge Mr Ms point about Haven finding him a car for the settlement offered, but the 
terms and conditions of Mr Ms policy says, where they consider the car to be beyond 
economical repair, theyll pay the market value of the car. So, by paying the additional 
£422.50, Im satisfied Haven will be paying the market value  and this is in line with the 
terms and conditions. I do acknowledge Mr M says its difficult to find a similar car with the settlement amount hes left with, but this is down to Haven having to settle the finance on the 
car. The requirement to settle the finance is set out in the terms and conditions so I cant say 
Haven have acted unreasonably here. 
Mr M says he shouldve been given a choice on whether he wanted his car back. I can see 
Mr M did ask Haven about the possibility of buying his car back but was informed at the time 
that they werent able to authorise this as the car still had finance on it. So, I cant say Haven 
have acted unreasonably here. Once the finance was cleared and the settlement paid, I 
cant see Mr M raised this again with Haven. If Mr M does still wish to proceed with buying 
his car back, he will need to raise this with Haven.    
Putting things right
Ive taken the view that Haven havent carried out a fair valuation of Mr Ms car. So, Haven 
should pay Mr M £422.50 together with 8% simple interest from the date of loss to the date 
of settlement. Haven should provide Mr M with a certificate showing any taxation deducted.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold the complaint. Haven Insurance Company Limited must 
take the steps in accordance with what Ive said under Putting things right above.   
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 1 June 2023.
 
Paviter Dhaddy
Ombudsman