DRN-3823998
The complaint
Mrs G complains that her Homeserve plumbing and drainage policy underwritten by Aviva 
Insurance Limited responded to her claim, but its engineer damaged her floor tiles and the 
area around her bath. Mrs G thinks Avivas offer of settlement for the damage is inadequate 
and she would like Aviva to pay for replacement floor tiles.
What happened
In April 2022 Mrs G called Aviva about a problem with her tap. Aviva sent an engineer who 
said the tap needed to be replaced. Mrs G didnt like the replacement on offer and said the 
engineer told her a better tap could be sourced, but he didnt do so. Two further visits by 
engineers took place and the leak was stopped, but damage remained.  
Mrs G said the engineer removed the mastic around the bathroom shelving, bath panel and 
beading, without explaining the reasons and this caused water leakage through the ceiling. 
She said that the engineer dropped tools on her bathroom floor causing tiles to crack. 
Mrs G complained to Aviva saying it should pay for the repairs and repair her floor and 
compensate her for the problems it had caused. Aviva responded that its loss adjusters 
surveyor would assess the damage and report on its engineers work. It said this wouldnt 
include broken floor tiles as these werent mentioned when Mrs G first called about the 
damage. Mrs G said this was because she didnt notice the damage as it was well hidden.
Mrs G obtained a quote of £4,250 to have the bathroom and water damage repaired. 
Following the surveyors report, Aviva said it would rectify damage to her bathroom and the 
ceiling below, but it didnt accept its engineer had damaged the floor, saying that the tiles are 
damaged in several areas. It said Mrs Gs quote for the work is excessive and the surveyor 
said this should be costed at £1,200 + VAT, which it would pay or carry out the repairs.  
Aviva repeated its offer for the repairs and offered £220 compensation for Mrs Gs stress 
and inconvenience concerning extra appointments. Mrs G wasnt happy with Avivas 
response and brought her complaint to our service. 
Our investigator recommended the complaint be upheld and said Aviva should pay for all the 
damage based on its costing. He said Avivas engineer had said there was no damage to the 
tiles and so the damage must have come as part of an engineers visit. The investigator said 
that Aviva should pay Mrs G further compensation of £150 for causing her ongoing worry.  
Aviva disagreed with the investigator, saying it was the last engineer to visit who reported no 
damage to the tiles and he didnt think the first engineer had cut the mastic seals as he was 
there to fix the tap. Aviva said Mrs G first called about her leaking tap only two weeks after 
having it fitted and noted that it took her ten weeks to call back about replacing the taps 
when the damage was continuing. Aviva requested an ombudsman review the complaint.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I have looked carefully at the record of Mrs Gs claim to see if Aviva has made a fair offer of 
settlement and to decide if it was the intervention of Avivas engineer that caused the 
damage to Mrs Gs bathroom and led to water penetration of her ceiling. In order to do this I 
have to rely on the available evidence, which includes reports and photos. I have seen the 
surveyors report about the damage, but little about the engineers visits.  
Aviva acknowledged that it was likely that its engineer who visited Mrs Gs home on 23 June 
2022 had tried to access the taps under the bath panel and panelling at the back of the bath. 
I agree that this would seem to be the most likely explanation for this damage. 
Aviva pointed out that under the terms of the policy it is only required to stop the cause of the 
damage, not to repair. That would normally be the responsibility of the consumers home 
insurer, but if the damage was caused by Avivas agents, then its Avivas responsibility to put 
this right. Im pleased that Aviva is prepared to pay what it would have cost it to put right the 
damage. I think this is fair and as Mrs G wanted to have the work done privately, it is in 
accordance with the policy that this is at Avivas rate. Its surveyor has costed this at £1,200 
and so long as the payment includes the repair of the kitchen ceiling, I think this is fair. 
Aviva declined Mrs Gs request that it pay for her broken floor tiles as it said she hadnt 
reported the damage to it when she first made her complaint. And because there were 
several areas of damage. Aviva said the final engineer to visit Mrs Gs home reported no 
damage to the floor tiles, but Mrs G had stated that the damage occurred before his visit. 
The engineers visit reports, where present, are very brief and theres no photos from the 
visits. The surveyor reported that the damage to the floor tiles was not the result of any 
actions by an engineer. This may be correct, but I havent seen any evidential support for 
this conclusion and there are other possible explanations.
As stated above, Aviva has accepted that its engineer likely caused damage to the bathroom 
panels and seals in order to repair the tap. Its possible that while doing this he broke floor 
tiles in the vicinity. I realise that Aviva has said that the final engineer to visit had reported no 
damage to tiles, but he may not have been looking for this at the time. I cant be certain 
when the tiles were laid or when they were cracked, but I dont think it likely that Mrs G 
caused damage in different areas of the floor and more likely that this happened as she has 
said. 
And so on balance, I think it would be fair for Aviva to also pay for the repair of the floor tiles 
shown in Mrs Gs photos. As she has had the work done, I expect Aviva to increase its 
payment in accordance with a reasonable estimate as to what it would have cost Aviva to 
have the floor tiles replaced and fitted.  
Mrs G has described the distress she has suffered over the months as a consequence of the 
prolonged uncertainty about her claim and the impact on her finances and health. I think 
Aviva could have done more to progress Mrs Gs claim and reach a fair decision about the 
additional damage caused. I agree with the investigator that it would be fair for Aviva to pay 
Mrs G further compensation of £150 for the distress and inconvenience she has suffered. 
Final decision
For the reasons I have given above it is my final decision that the complaint is upheld.
I require Aviva Insurance Limited to pay Mrs G for the repairs to the damage to her home in 
line with its estimate for the work, and including repair of the kitchen ceiling. And to pay her a 
reasonable sum in respect of the repair of the floor tiles in her bathroom. I also require Aviva Insurance Limited to pay Mrs G further compensation of £150 for the 
distress and inconvenience she has been caused by the prolonged rejection of her claim.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs G to accept or 
reject my decision before 12 January 2023.
 
Andrew Fraser
Ombudsman