DRN-3322888
The complaint
This complaint is about a mortgage Mr C used to hold with Clydesdale Bank Plc trading as 
Yorkshire Bank (CB). Hes unhappy that CB made changes to the security for the mortgage 
debt at the request of his former partner without his knowledge or consent, and disclosed his 
address to his former partner. Mr C is seeking compensation for the impact of CBs actions 
on him and his family.
What happened
By way of a provisional decision dated 14 January 2022, I set out my provisional conclusions 
on how this complaint should be determined. The following is an extract from the provisional 
decision.
Mr C and his former partner had a joint mortgage over a property, where they lived together. 
Their relationship ended many years ago; Mr C left the mortgaged property (his former 
partner has continued to live there) and has since remarried and started a family. For 
reasons I shant disclose here, Mr C has gone to great lengths to try to ensure his former 
partner doesnt know where he and his new family live.
During the intervening years, the financial affairs of Mr C and his former partner (including 
the mortgaged property) have been the subject of highly contentious legal disputes. In 2016, 
a court order determined that the joint legal and equitable interest in the property be split into 
two parts; one to be owned by Mr C, the other by his former partner, but both continuing to 
act as security for CBs lending. However, that hasnt been the end of the financial and legal 
disputes between Mr C and his former partner.
In 2019, Mr C discovered that CB had made changes to the way the joint mortgage debt was 
secured against the (now) two properties. This had happened at the request of his former 
partner and without his involvement. Mr C also discovered that since around 2012, CB had 
been issuing statements to his former partner that revealed where he and his new family 
lived. This, he has told us, has resulted in great distress to him and his family and  Mr C 
says  resulted in various incidents of harassment, some of which amounted to violence and 
property damage.
In a final response dated 10 January 2019, CB rejected both complaints. In a second final 
response dated 15 March 2019, CB revisited the address disclosure issue, but not the 
changes to the security. This time, CB agreed it had breached Mr Cs personal data by 
revealing his address to his former partner, and offered him £1,000 compensation. In a third 
final response dated 14 May 2019, CB offered Mr C a further £1,000 compensation for the 
data breach, making £2,000 in all. Again CB didnt revisit the aspect of the changes to the 
security for the borrowing. In the meantime however, the mortgage had been repaid in full.
Mr C referred his complaint to us by email on 11 July 2019. Its been with us a long time, not 
helped by a change of case-handler after the first investigator to whom the case was 
assigned left the service. 
In November 2021, the current investigator issued his assessment of the case. After 
considering everything both parties had told us, he concluded that the £2,000 was fair 
compensation for the impact CBs disclosure of his address had on Mr C and his family. He 
didnt think further redress was warranted. 
Mr C has asked for the complaint to be reviewed by an ombudsman. He remains of the view 
that the circumstances justify a higher award of compensation, and also points out that the 
investigator didnt address the changes to the security for the mortgage.
By way of a decision dated 10 February 2022, I confirmed, with reasons, that our remit to 
consider the merits of this complaint was limited to just the issue of the data breach.  This 
decision sets out my findings on that. As theyre different from the original investigators 
recommendations, this is a provisional decision that allows both parties the opportunity to 
comment before I finalise it.
What Ive provisionally decided  and why
Although Ive read and considered the whole file, Ill keep my comments to what I think is 
relevant. If I dont comment on any specific point its not because Ive failed to consider it but 
because I dont think I need to comment on it in order to reach what I think is the right 
outcome in the wider context. My remit is to take an overview and decide whats fair in the 
round, at the same time ensuring I dont reveal any information that might introduce the risk, 
however small, of Mr C being identified when the decision is published.
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
This is a serious and sensitive case; but in one key respect, its a relatively straightforward 
one. Thats because its not a complaint where I have to decide fault. Its common ground 
that the data breach happened; CB has admitted as much, and agreed to pay Mr C 
compensation for the impact it had on him. What that leaves for me to decide is whether the 
current offer (£2,000) is a fair settlement, or whether CB needs to do more.
Strictly speaking, CB isnt responsible for the actions of Mr Cs former partner; she acted 
alone and in her own capacity when she harassed Mr C and his new family. But she was 
able to do so because of the information CB wrongly disclosed to her.  In that context, CB 
effectively became an enabler to Mr Cs former partner. 
The nature of the underlying relationship between Mr C and his former partner was known to 
the business. Its possible she might have found out where Mr C lived by other means, but 
I can disregard that; the simple fact is, she found out through CB. Also, the manner in which 
the information was revealed (on monthly account statements) meant that even after Mr C 
and his family moved, their new address was passed to his former partner.
Im largely limited to awarding financial compensation; thats a blunt instrument at the best 
of times. Also, I cant put myself in Mr Cs shoes; only he and his family can truly know what 
the impact has been on his family and himself of the actions of his former partner. This is 
very much a subjective area; everyone reacts to and perceives things differently, especially 
in the moment. What I have to do is take a step back and assess things objectively.
In doing that, Ive factored in that the harassment (so theres no ambiguity, I use that generic 
term to cover all of the events and incidents that Im unable to reveal in detail) went on for 
many years, so it wasnt simply in the moment. There were many, many moments, the 
impact of which was cumulative. Theres another dimension; consumers who find out something has gone wrong often, after 
the event has come to light, pose the question what if something even worse had 
happened?. Normally, I wouldnt award compensation for something that could have 
happened but didnt. But this is different; throughout the period the harassment was going 
on, Mr C and his family knew it was going on (albeit not how or why) and lived constantly 
with the fear of what might happen next.
Mr C has explained these actions made him and his family feel unsafe in their previous 
home and their current one. They were unable to feel relaxed and have had to take steps to 
protect themselves and their property. Hes also explained hes been caused significant 
stress, upset and worry by not knowing how this information was obtained and continues to 
experience the effects of these disclosures. 
Clydesdales mistakes have clearly caused sustained distress, severe disruption to Mr C and 
his familys daily life for a number of years and the disclosure made will likely have long term 
effects as Mr Cs former partner still knows where they are. It will have been particularly 
distressing when the harassment resumed after Mr C had moved his family to a new 
location, believing this had made them safe again.
Overall, taking everything into account, I dont think CBs offer of £2,000 is sufficient. I have 
decided, provisionally, that an award of £5,000 would be fair and reasonable. I refer 
Clydesdale to information we have on our website about awards to show why I consider 
Mr C fits into this redress bracket.
https://www.financial-ombudsman.org.uk/consumers/expect/compensation-for-distress-or-
inconvenience. 
There is one other thing; in neither of the final responses in which CB admits to the data 
breach does it actually apologise for it. The nearest CB comes to an apology is in the 
14 May 2019 letter in which it expresses regret for the difficulties caused; thats really not 
good enough. That said, Im generally not one for ordering an apology in a decision; an 
apology given under duress has no value. But Id like to think that CB will realise that it has 
much to apologise for, and will provide a sincere and full apology to Mrs C and his family 
without any order from me.
I gave the parties two weeks to reply to the provisional decision; both have done so already. 
Both parties have accepted my provisional findings, although Mr C remained unhappy that 
Ive only considered the data breach.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive considered afresh everything that both parties have said and provided. Having done so, 
I wont be departing from my provisional conclusions. 
Ive noted Mr Cs disappointment that I havent considered the security changes. But the 
reasons for that were set out clearly in my jurisdiction decision, and Mr C has given me no 
new grounds to revisit that decision.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint by ordering Clydesdale Bank Plc trading as 
Yorkshire Bank to pay Mr C £5,000 compensation for the impact of its admitted data breach.My final decision concludes this services consideration of this complaint, which means Ill 
not be engaging in any further discussion of the merits of it.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 18 March 2022. 
Jeff Parrington
Ombudsman