DRN-3550402
The complaint
Mr R complains that Metro Bank PLC wont refund money he lost after he had fallen victim to 
a scam. 
What happened
The circumstances which led to this complaint are well-known to both parties, so I wont 
repeat them in detail here. But, in summary, I understand them to be as follows. 
A friend of Mr R recommended an investment opportunity that interested him. Mr R said he 
was put in contact with a representative of the investment company and was told the return 
on the investment would be 170% within two to three weeks. Hes said that he carried out 
some checks on the company and, satisfied with these checks and trusting his friends 
recommendation, he decided to invest. But unknown to him at the time, Mr R was dealing 
with fraudsters.
Mr R made a faster payment, to the account details the fraudster provided, of £10,303.60, in 
branch on 16 February 2021. This was followed by a card payment of £1,722.57 on            
18 February 2021. Mr R realised hed fallen victim to a scam when he lost contact with the 
representative after hed made the payments. Mr R was also in a group with other investors, 
who similarly had not been able to communicate any further with the investment company.
 
Mr R reported the matter to Metro. Metro issued its final response on 16 June 2021 not 
upholding Mr Rs complaint. In summary it said it was unable to recover any funds from the 
payment Mr R made in branch. It added that it had provided an effective warning prior to    
Mr R making the payment and, as it hadnt been able to establish contact with Mr R, despite 
attempts, it couldnt establish if he met his requisite level of care when making the payment.
 
Unhappy that Metro didnt refund the money he lost, Mr R then brought his complaint to our 
service and one of our Investigators looked into things. Our Investigator thought the 
complaint should be upheld in part. In summary, our Investigator didnt think the warning 
Metro provided, at the time of the payment in branch, was effective. He added that he 
thought Metro ought to have asked more probing questions at the point Mr R was making 
the payment, and had it done, it would have made the difference and stopped Mr R going 
ahead with the payment in branch and the subsequent card payment he made. So, our 
Investigator thought Metro was, at least in part, responsible for the loss Mr R had suffered. 
But our Investigator also considered that Mr R should share some responsibility for his loss. 
He said this because he didnt think Mr R had a reasonable basis for believing the 
investment he was making payments towards, was legitimate. He said this because he 
couldnt see that the company was a legitimate company (albeit there is a legitimate 
company of a similar name). But alongside this he also thought the rate of return being 
offered, of 170% within two to three weeks was way too good to be true. So our Investigator 
thought both parties should share some responsibility for the loss, and Metro should refund 
Mr R 50% of his loss, along with interest. 
Neither Mr R, through his representative, nor Metro agreed with our Investigators view.   
As agreement couldnt be reached the complaint has now been passed over to me for a 
decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In deciding whats fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of a complaint, Im required to 
take into account relevant: law and regulations; regulators rules, guidance and standards; 
codes of practice; and, where appropriate, what I consider to be good industry practice at the 
time. 
In broad terms, the starting position at law is that a firm is expected to process payments 
and withdrawals that a customer authorises, in accordance with the Payment Services 
Regulations and the terms and conditions of the customers account. However, where the 
consumer made the payment as a consequence of the actions of a fraudster, it may 
sometimes be fair and reasonable for the bank to reimburse the consumer even though they 
authorised the payment. 
Metro is a signatory of the Contingent Reimbursement Model (CRM Code). The CRM Code 
sets out standards that firms, such as Metro, are expected to meet in terms of protecting 
their customers from the risk of financial harm. But it also sets out expectations that a 
customer should meet. As a starting point, a customer should receive a refund if they fall 
victim to an authorised push payment (APP) scam such as this one.
 
There appears no dispute between the parties here that Mr R was scammed and that he 
was tricked into making the payments. He thought he was investing his money. But even 
though he was a victim of a scam, hes not entitled to a refund if Metro can fairly and 
reasonably demonstrate that one of the exceptions in the code applies.
The CRM Code only covers authorised push payments, so for the purposes of Mr Rs 
complaint I am only considering the bank transfer payment, under the scope of the CRM 
Code. Ill address the card transaction later.
 
Unfortunately, I think the evidence suggests Mr R didnt have a reasonable basis for 
believing he was dealing with a legitimate financial business when he made the transfer. I do 
recognise Mr R was introduced to the investment by his friend who had already invested and 
who had told him about their profits. But I find the initial offering itself, of turning a profit of 
170% within such a short timeframe (two to three weeks) is improbable to the point of being 
too good to be true. I dont think delivering such a profit is plausible and I cant see Mr R 
asked how this could be achieved, so Im not persuaded he was provided with a persuasive 
answer as to how this could be possible.
 
Alongside this, theres also the channels through which the investment was discussed and 
the deal was made. The evidence of communication between Mr R and the scammer, that 
has been submitted to this service, shows it to be through social media and messaging 
apps. That seems an unusual set up for a legitimate investment company.
I appreciate Mr R has told us that he carried out some research on Companies House and 
found a company (that had almost an identical name), which he genuinely believed was the 
company he had been dealing with. Im mindful that this on its own may not have been 
enough to have prevented Mr R from proceeding to make the payments. But taken 
collectively, with the other red flags such as the implausible levels of return and method of 
communication being used, and considering the specific circumstances of this case and the factors in the round, on balance, I think there were sufficient unusual factors here that Mr R 
ought to have acted far more cautiously than he did. 
Im satisfied, therefore, that Mr R didnt have a reasonable basis for believing he was making 
a payment for a legitimate investment, so Metro isnt required to provide him with a full 
refund under the CRM Code. 
However, as I explained above, the CRM Code also sets out standards that firms are 
expected to meet. It says Metro needed to be on the lookout for factors that might indicate 
an enhanced risk that Mr Rs payment instruction was part of a scam. Where such a risk is 
identified, the firm needs to take reasonable steps to provide the customer with an effective 
warning. 
In this instance, I dont consider the warning, that Mr R received in branch, would be 
considered as effective under the CRM Code. Mr R told Metro the purpose of the payment 
was a financial opportunity and the evidence Metro has provided shows he was read a 
scam alert. But the warning doesnt provide enough information about what an investment 
scam could look like, how they play out and what the common themes of these types of 
scams are (such as rates of return that are too good to be true). It also doesnt provide 
details to explain that legitimate investment firms can be cloned.
  
For the reasons Ive explained, Im not satisfied Metro gave an effective warning in respect 
of the payment Mr R made in branch. It follows that Mr R didnt ignore an effective warning 
when making this payment, so Metro cant rely on this exception to reimbursement. In the 
circumstances, Metro should be at least in part, responsible and so, under the CRM Code, it 
should be liable for 50% of the loss for this payment made in branch. 
 
Should Metro have done more to protect Mr R? 
In addition to its responsibilities under the CRM Code, when Mr R made the payments, 
Metro should fairly and reasonably have had systems in place to look out for unusual 
transactions or other signs that might indicate that he was at risk of fraud (among other 
things). 
Im satisfied that the first payment Mr R made was unusual and out of character and so 
Metro should have asked him more questions about it, to satisfy itself he wasnt at risk of 
financial harm. I think Metro should have asked Mr R questions about the investment, such 
as but not limited to, how he found out about the investment, the rate of return and what 
checks hed completed. Im persuaded that Mr R would have answered Metros questions 
honestly and the scam would have come to light. I say that as I think, given the rate of the 
return Mr R had been promised, the method of communication the fraudster was using and 
the different company name on Companies House, there would have been enough red flags 
that Metro ought to have realised Mr R was at risk of financial harm. I think had it then 
spoken to Mr R in detail about how these types of scam work and how prevalent they are, 
Im persuaded on balance that its more likely than not he wouldnt have proceeded with the 
payment he made in branch.
I also think it would have prevented him from subsequently making the payment for 
£1,722.57 by card, so Metro could have also prevented this payment and should be partially 
liable for this loss. But, for the same reasons Ive set out above, in relation to Mr Rs 
reasonable basis for belief for the payment made in branch, I also think Mr R should share 
responsibility.Overall, I consider Metro could have prevented Mr R from making the payments he did and 
so, along with refunding 50% of the money Mr R paid through the branch, it should also 
refund 50% of Mr Rs loss, from the card payment he made. 
Recovery 
Ive also considered whether Metro could have done more to try to recover the money once 
it had been told of the scam. Wed expect a business to take reasonable steps to try to 
recover the money from the bank it was sent to. Metro did try and recover the funds Mr R 
had made in branch, but unfortunately no funds remained. 
Regarding the card payment Mr R made, the only potential option for recovery would be the 
chargeback scheme. Metro are bound by the card scheme providers chargeback rules 
which in this case is Mastercard. At the time Mastercard didnt cover claims relating to 
investment withdrawals, so there was no opportunity to recover the money through the 
chargeback scheme. 
Putting things right
For the reasons explained above Metro Bank PLC should now;
- Refund Mr R 50% of the money he lost, being £6013.09 (made up of £5151.80 from 
the payment made in branch and £861.29 from the card payment).
- Pay 8% interest on this amount from the date the transactions took place, to the date 
of settlement.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint in part.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 December 2022.
 
Stephen Wise
Ombudsman