DRN-2259261
The complaint
Mr R complains that Santander UK Plc mis-sold him a payment protection insurance (PPI) 
policy. The complaint is brought on his behalf by a third party.
What happened
This complaint is about a PPI policy taken out in 1994. The policy was taken out to cover 
Mr Rs mortgage. It provided him with cover for accident, sickness and unemployment.
Our adjudicator didn't recommend that the complaint should be upheld.
Mr R didnt agree. His representative said, on his behalf and in summary, that:
Mr R had cover through his employment, so the PPI wouldnt have paid out if hed made 
a claim.
He had a well-paid job with savings of at least £5,000.
He wasnt aware that the policy had been added to the mortgage.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding this case.
Ive decided not to uphold Mr Rs complaint for the following reasons:
Santander doesnt have a full record of the sale, which isnt surprising given it took place so 
long ago. In cases like this, I reach my decision on the balance of probabilities  in other 
words, what I consider is most likely to have happened in light of the available evidence and 
the wider circumstances.
Ive not seen anything to persuade me that Santander didnt make Mr R aware that the PPI 
was optional. I say this because Mr Rs mortgage had been agreed around 10 years before 
he took out the PPI. So it must have been clear that the PPI was a separate product and 
Mr R must have reasonably realised it wasnt a requirement to have a PPI policy with a 
mortgage.
The bank advised Mr R to take out the policy and it doesnt look like it was unsuitable for him 
based on what Ive seen of his circumstances at the time. I say this because:
Mr R was eligible for the policy given his circumstances and the terms and conditions.
Mr R recalls he would have received three months full pay from his employer followed by 
three months half pay if he couldn't work due to sickness or an accident. The PPI would 
have paid out in addition to the sick pay that he would have received from his employer. 
Mr R initially told us he didnt have any other means of meeting the repayments, 
although he later recalled he may have had some savings. I don't expect him to 
remember now exactly what he had available more than 20 years ago. But, even with his 
sick pay and some savings, I have to take into account that the PPI was to cover a 
mortgage. This was a long-term financial commitment and Mr Rs home was at risk if he 
didnt keep up with the repayments. Its not clear now exactly how long the PPI would 
have paid out for. But it would have been for at least up to 12 months in the event of a 
successful claim for accident or sickness, and possibly up to 24 months. So I think the 
PPI could have been a useful benefit, in addition to Mr Rs existing arrangements. It also 
covered Mr R if hed become unemployed.
Mr R wasnt affected by any of the conditions limiting the policys main benefits such as 
those affecting self-employed people or people with pre-existing medical conditions. As 
he could have benefitted from the full extent of the cover I think it unlikely he needed 
better advice or information about the policys exclusions and limitations.
Its not clear whether the cost of the policy was clearly communicated to Mr R before he 
agreed to purchase it. He may not have been told the monthly cost until after the 
mortgage had started. For this reason I have considered whether clearer information 
about the cost would have affected Mr Rs decision to purchase the policy. He had 
chosen to take out the policy, knowing he would have to pay something for it. The policy 
was competitively priced and apparently affordable. So I think it unlikely he would have 
made a different decision if better information about the cost had been provided.
Its possible the information the bank gave Mr R about the PPI wasnt as clear as it should 
have been. But, for the reasons Ive explained, I dont think Santanders recommendation 
was unsuitable and I dont think Mr R would have made a different decision about taking out 
the policy if better information had been provided to him  overall, I think he would still have 
taken out the policy.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, my final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision before 25 January 2021.
 
Elizabeth Dawes
Ombudsman