DRN-3450988
The complaint
Mr W complains that Guy Salmon Limited (Guy Salmon) misrepresented his hire purchase 
agreement to him. He says that when he took a four year agreement, he was told they would 
be in touch after three years to change the car on similar terms for him, and that he wasnt 
made aware that for a four year agreement, the GAP insurance and warranty would run out 
after three years, and hed also have to MOT the car. 
What happened
Mr W acquired a car from Guy Salmon in March 2018 through a hire purchase agreement. 
This was a four year agreement, with 47 regular monthly payments followed by a balloon 
payment at the end if he wanted to keep the car. 
In early 2021 he received a renewal notice for his warranty with costs to extend it for a 
further year. Around this time Guy Salmon have also said he was sent a quote to extend his 
GAP insurance, and theyve said there was a phone call from a sales executive from Guy 
Salmon to him to discuss the potential to change his car. 
In April 2021, Mr W complained to Guy Salmon. In their final response letter (FRL) dated 21 
May 2021, they have said his complaint was that hed been offered a four year PCP 
agreement to enable the monthly payments to match his budget, but he was told by the 
sales advisor that he would be in touch after three years to change him to a new car and 
PCP agreement for the same monthly payment as this one, without needing any further 
deposit from Mr W. 
He also complained that it wasnt made clear that he would have to pay for an extension for 
the warranty and GAP insurance or an MOT after three years. Finally, he said that he had a 
number of electrical faults while he owned the car, and therefore didnt feel comfortable 
owning the car without a warranty. As a result of this, Mr W had contacted the finance 
company and voluntarily terminated the agreement at a cost to himself of around £1300. 
Guy Salmons FRL did not uphold Mr Ws complaint. They said there was no record of any 
conversations that took place during the sales negotiations, so they could not be certain 
what was said at the time. But they highlighted the paperwork that was available and 
completed, and that these were signed by Mr W confirming he understood them. They said 
that there was a call to Mr W from the dealership before the end of year three to discuss 
potentially changing his car, but he had declined to discuss it further and was instead looking 
to voluntarily terminate the agreement, so had been in touch with the finance company about 
this. 
They said they felt the terms and conditions of the finance agreement were clearly stated 
and would therefore not be upholding the complaint. 
Unhappy with this, Mr W brought his complaint to our service. The investigator here who 
investigated the complaint did not uphold it.  They explained that the concerns Mr W had 
amounted to him believing the agreement had been misrepresented to him. They said they 
felt the paperwork produced was clear about the term of the agreement, and that the GAP 
insurance and warranty werent linked to the finance agreement and were provided as 
optional products. 
They said in the absence of any clear evidence of a misrepresentation, they couldnt uphold 
the complaint. 
Mr W didnt agree with this and asked for an Ombudsman to review the case and make a 
final decision. He felt it was wrong that there was no further paperwork available from the 
meeting with the sales advisor or details of the facts he was told verbally, and if these dont 
exist, it cant be a compliant sale. He said hed worked in financial services for 35 years and 
this was his understanding; if documents werent available, for whatever reason, its not a 
compliant sale.   
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The purpose of my decision isnt to address every point raised. The purpose of my decision
is to set out my conclusions and reasons for reaching them. I also focus on what I think is
material and relevant to reach a fair and reasonable outcome. So, although I have read
everything that has been supplied to me, I may not address every point that has been raised.
I know the timeline Ive given above is set out in less detail than given by Mr W in his
submissions. Ive read the full detail of Mr Ws complaint and considered the timeline
provided as well as the information each side has sent us. I want to assure Mr W Ive read
and considered everything hes sent and said. If I havent responded to a specific point it
isnt because I havent considered it, because I have. Im going to focus on what I think are
the key issues in Mr Ws case. My approach is in line with our rules and role as a free
alternative to the courts. I want to assure all parties that no discourtesy is intended.
There are also certain things Mr W has commented upon during his correspondence with us 
and the business which move away from the complaint hes raised, and that means I cant 
comment on them. Mr W has raised points about the service he received more generally 
from the dealership, as well as mentioning problems he had with the cars electrics. These 
dont form part of his complaint, and they arent points I can answer or make comment on 
here. 
The service he received from Guy Salmon over the three years of owning the car doesnt 
form part of the complaint he raised about how he was sold the car, and when raising this 
particular complaint with them, he hasnt complained to the business about this level of 
service. I will consider his comments as part of my investigation into the sales process but 
am not making any finding about the service he received generally from Guy Salmon. 
Alongside this, any concerns he wanted answering about the quality of the car itself like the 
electrics would need to be raised with the finance company separately, so I cant comment 
on those either. 
In considering this complaint Ive had regard to the relevant law and regulations; any 
regulators rules, guidance and standards, codes of practice, and (if appropriate) what I 
consider was good industry practice at the time. 
This is a complaint about misrepresentation. When considering misrepresentation, Im 
looking at two things  whether there was a false statement of fact and, if there was, whether 
it was the false statement of fact that induced Mr W to choose the deal/car. Its important for me to emphasise this definition because it means that to be satisfied that the agreement was 
misrepresented to Mr W, I need to see a clear false statement of fact given to him, which 
directly led him to take the agreement. 
Mr W has said that he was told during the sales process that he would be able to change the 
car after three years, not the four years of the agreement, and wouldnt have to pay anything 
more to do this. This information is not mentioned in the contract or associated paperwork, 
which just outlines a four year agreement. And as has been discussed at length, there is no 
recording of any sort of the conversations between the sales advisor at Guy Salmon and Mr 
W. 
Mr W feels that if the evidence from the interview isnt available, it makes the sales process 
non-compliant, but I dont agree with this view. Guy Salmon have confirmed that the level of 
service they offer is non-advice; they present options to a consumer, for them to make their 
own decision. This is opposed to a formal advice process seen in some areas of financial 
services, where the sales advisor would likely ask questions and then give a formal 
recommendation of the best option for a consumer. This tallies with Mr Ws recollections that 
he was given a series of quotes at the time (which now arent available to supply to him). 
There wouldnt be a requirement from a compliance point of view for Guy Salmon to keep 
recordings of meetings with customers, or all quotes provided. The consumer is provided 
with quotes, and selects what suits them best, in their opinion.  
So, the only evidence of this conversation is Mr Ws testimony. Guy Salmon have said that 
all they can comment is that a sales advisor would know that they couldnt guarantee what 
deal would be available to offer a consumer in three years time, so dont accept that the 
advisor would have promised any specific deal to end the agreement after three years. 
Without any corroborating evidence of something being misrepresented, I cant say that Guy 
Salmon have done anything wrong here. I am also taking into consideration that they did 
contact Mr W before the end of three years, to discuss changing the car. Mr W had decided 
by this point that he didnt want to get another car from the dealership, which was absolutely 
his prerogative. But this meant he didnt discuss his options with them, so potentially they 
may have been able to produce a new agreement and car for him which would have met the 
expectations he says were outlined by the sales advisor at the original point of sale. 
Finally, Mr W has said that he wasnt made aware that the GAP insurance or warranty would 
run out after three years, but the agreement would last for four years, and that he would 
have to pay to extend them. He also says he wasnt made aware that an MOT would be 
required after three years. Im satisfied that the relevant information was provided to him. Ive 
seen the GAP insurance invoice that shows its for 36 months, and length of warranty would 
be a standard question for a consumer to consider when acquiring a car. 
And there was no requirement to extend these for year four. Whilst I appreciate that Mr W 
felt he would need a warranty extension because hed had electrical issues with the car, that 
is a preference, not any requirement to buy the extension on the warranty. The same applies 
with the GAP insurance, there was no requirement to extend it.  
There has been no suggestion that Mr W was told these products would last for four years, 
just that it wasnt highlighted they lasted for three years. Again, this doesnt qualify as a 
misrepresentation in my opinion, as Mr W has been given no false information that led to him 
taking the agreement. Im satisfied that these add-on products were provided and the 
information about the term they lasted for was provided to Mr W, or was freely available to 
him if this was an important factor to him in his decision.Similarly, its commonly available information about when a vehicle will need its first MOT, so 
Id expect Mr W to research this were it a key part of his own decision making process.  
 Im sorry for any confusion that occurred here when Mr W acquired the car in 2018.  But on 
the basis of the evidence available, and taking into account the balance of probability, Im 
not persuaded that the agreement was mis sold to him in anyway. I dont agree there was a 
non-compliant sales process, and Im not persuaded that the agreement was 
misrepresented to him. As such, I wont be asking Guy Salmon to do anything further.    
My final decision
I am not upholding this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 26 October 2022.
 
Paul Cronin
Ombudsman