DRN-1929271
The complaint
Mr F says PDL Finance Limited (PDL), irresponsibly lent to him. Mr F has said he 
couldnt afford the loan repayments and had to take further borrowing in order to do 
so.
What happened
This complaint is about one short-term loan PDL provided to Mr F in April 2016. 
Mr Fs borrowing history is as follows:
Loan Date Taken Date Repaid Instalments Amount Monthly 
Repayment
1 06/04/2016 Unknown 5 £400.00 £161.92
At the time Mr F raised his complaint with PDL it confirmed it had passed the 
outstanding debt on the loan to a debt collection agency. But it offered to recall 
that debt and then nothing more would be owed by Mr F. Since then Mr F has 
repaid the loan and PDL has subsequently withdrawn its offer.
Our adjudicator didnt uphold Mr Fs complaint. They thought the checks PDL had 
carried out before lending to him were reasonable and the information it obtained 
wouldnt have given it any cause to reconsider giving Mr F the loan.
Mr F didnt agree. He thought the offer might have been generous a few years ago but 
now that he had paid off the capital plus an additional £300 interest, he didnt think that 
was still the case.
As the complaint remains unresolved, it has been passed to me for decision in my 
role as ombudsman.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about short-term lending - including 
all of the relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice - on our website.
PDL needed to take reasonable steps to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In 
practice this means that it should have carried out proportionate checks to make sure 
Mr F could repay the loan in a sustainable manner. These checks could take into 
account a number of different things, such as how much was being lent, the repayment 
amounts and the consumers income and expenditure. With this in mind, in the early 
stages of a lending relationship, I think less thorough checks might be reasonable and 
proportionate.
But certain factors might point to the fact that PDL should fairly and reasonably have 
done more to establish that any lending was sustainable for the consumer. These factors 
include:
the lower a consumers income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
make any loan repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of 
income);
the higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be 
more difficult to meet a higher repayment from a particular level of 
income);
the greater the number and frequency of loans, and the longer the period 
of time during which a customer has been given loans (reflecting the risk 
that repeated refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become, or 
was becoming, unsustainable).
There may even come a point where the lending history and pattern of lending 
itself clearly demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable.
I think that it is important for me to start by saying that PDL was required to 
establish whether Mr F could sustainably repay his loan  not just whether the loan 
payments were affordable on a strict pounds and pence calculation.
Of course, the loan payments being affordable on this basis might be an indication a 
consumer could sustainably make their repayments. But it doesnt automatically follow 
this is the case. This is because the relevant regulations define sustainable as being 
without undue difficulties and in particular the customer should be able to make 
repayments on time, while meeting other reasonable commitments; as well as without 
having to borrow to meet the repayments. And it follows that a lender should realise, or it 
ought fairly and reasonably to realise, that a borrower wont be able to make their 
repayments sustainably if theyre unlikely to be able to make their repayments without 
borrowing further.
Ive carefully considered all of the arguments, evidence and information provided in 
this context and what this all means for Mr Fs complaint. After doing so, Ive decided 
not to uphold the complaint. Ill explain why.PDL has told this service about the checks it carried out before approving the loan. This 
included information about Mr Fs income and expenditure to establish whether the loan 
was affordable for him as well as a credit check. It said Mr F had confirmed he was not 
in an IVA, bankruptcy or debt management plan, nor was he using the loan to repay 
other loans or for gambling.
Before the first loan was agreed, Mr Fs income was recorded as being £2,200 per 
month. His expenditure was recorded as £1,535 (which included other loan 
repayments) a month. So, this would leave Mr F with a disposable monthly income of 
£665.00. Taking this into account I dont think the loan looks unaffordable on a pounds 
and pence basis.
As Ive said above, in the early stages of a lending relationship, I think less thorough 
checks might be reasonable and proportionate. But I dont think there was anything in the 
information that Mr F provided to PDL which would have caused it to be concerned that 
he was having problems managing his finances.
Its possible that Mr Fs financial circumstances werent correctly reflected in either the 
information he provided, or any other information PDL obtained. And if his circumstances 
were different  which Mr F has said is the case  Mr Fs actual financial position may 
well have been more apparent if further information  such as bank statements or more 
in- depth credit checks  had been obtained. Mr F has given us a copy of his bank 
statements from around the time of the borrowing, and I see they show he had been 
using other short- term credit providers, but I wouldnt have expected PDL to have 
gathered such detailed information at the first point of lending to him.
PDL could only make a decision based on the information it had available at the time. 
That information  and the fact the loan was the beginning of the lending relationship  
I dont think indicated there was a greater risk of the loan being unaffordable or 
unsustainable for Mr F.
In these circumstances, I dont think PDL needed to take further steps to verify the 
information provided  such as asking Mr F for evidence of his income and outgoings 
which PDL could have gathered from his bank statements or copies of any bills, as 
examples. I have considered the information that was provided to, and obtained by PDL 
before it lent to Mr F. And there isnt anything in this information that may have led PDL 
to conclude that it should decline Mr Fs application for the loan. And there isnt anything 
to have prompted it to ask for more information about Mr F. So, I dont think PDL was 
wrong to have provided this loan, based solely on the information it had.
So overall, in these circumstances, I think the assessment PDL did for this 
loan was proportionate. And I think its decision to lend to Mr F wasnt 
unreasonable.
I appreciate my conclusion to Mr Fs complaint will be a disappointment to him, but I 
hope I have managed to explain how and why Ive reached it.My final decision
For the reasons given above, Im not upholding Mr Fs complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr F to accept 
or reject my decision before 21 August 2020.
 
Catherine Langley
Ombudsman