DRN-2255395
The complaint
Ms M is unhappy with the service she received from Lloyds Bank PLC on two occasions. 
She would like compensation and an apology for the trouble and upset she says these 
experiences have caused her. 
What happened
In April 2020 Ms M went to a Lloyds branch to pay a bill. When she got to the branch there 
was a long queue ahead of her. Ms M had a letter from the NHS with her to confirm that due 
to health conditions she was a vulnerable person. Ms M went to the front of the queue and 
she asked a Lloyds adviser if there was any priority for vulnerable customers like her. Ms M 
says the adviser asked people in the queue and their reaction upset her and she left the 
branch.
Ms M then went to another Lloyds branch and was able to pay the bill as she had intended 
to. She says at this branch they provided details about how to complain about what had 
happened if she was unhappy. Ms M didnt complain at this point.
In June 2020 Ms M went back to the first branch where shed had the incident with the 
queue, to use a cash machine. The cash machine retained her card. Ms M tried to get 
assistance from a Lloyds adviser. She says it was the same adviser she dealt with 
previously at the head of the queue. He told her shed need to speak to the business who 
issued the card as it wasnt a Lloyds related card. Ms M says Lloyds staff were racist, 
unhelpful and lazy with her.
Ms M complained to Lloyds and they found no evidence to conclude that the adviser had 
acted inappropriately, provided poor service or given wrong advice. They added that it was 
possible the adviser had asked another customer if Ms M could go in front but that they 
couldnt be held responsible for the reaction of anyone in the queue. In relation to the card 
being retained in June and any inconvenience caused, they offered Ms M £75. 
Ms M remained unhappy so she referred her complaint to our service. An investigator looked 
into Ms Ms complaint but didnt find that Ms M had been treated unfairly or differently to how 
any other customer wouldve been treated. Ms M remained unhappy and her complaint has 
now been passed to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Although a number of issues have been raised, this decision only addresses those issues 
I consider to be materially relevant to this complaint. However, Ive given careful 
consideration to all of the submissions made before arriving at my decision.
There are three main complaint issues in this case. For ease Ill address each in turn.
the April visit to the branch
This pandemic has presented huge challenges for everyone - for businesses in how they try 
to continue to offer their services and their customers in how theyve had to adjust their 
everyday lives. Ive kept this in mind when coming to my decision as these are 
unprecedented times for everyone.
Ive carefully considered what Ms M has told us about the situation outside the branch when 
she arrived. Shes said there was a considerable queue with a long wait and didnt feel 
comfortable waiting, so she approached the advisor managing the queue. Ms M says it 
wasnt her intention to skip the queue. But based on what shes told our service she asked 
either to use a cash machine inside the branch, or about facilities available to vulnerable 
customers - her account on this point has differed. Either way, I think it was understandable 
for the advisor to interpret her request as that she wanted priority access to the branch. 
Ms M has described how the advisor asked customers in the queue if they had any 
objections to letting her go ahead of them. I accept that this didnt turn out well because the 
people in the queue reacted insensitively to the suggestion someone would go ahead of 
them. In my view thats a real shame. 
But I dont think I can fairly say thats the advisors fault. It seems to me he attempted to 
enable her access to the branch without a lengthy wait - and without people whod be 
queuing for quite some time feeling they were being treated unfairly - and that for reasons 
outside of his control, the people queueing didnt respond supportively. 
Im sorry Ms M was made to the feel the way she did. But for the reasons set out above, I 
dont think Lloyds treated her unfairly.  
Ive noted that Ms M has told us Lloyds have since made her aware during a phone call that 
they have a department that can help vulnerable customers. Id encourage Ms M to speak to 
Lloyds about any arrangements they may be able to put in place to help her moving forward. 
Ms Ms card being retained by the cash machine 
Ms M says she used a Lloyds cash machine in June 2020 and it retained her card  a card 
issued by another bank. Unfortunately, these things can and do happen. She says the 
branch staff  including the advisor managing the queue in April 2020  werent helpful as 
they said shed need to contact the bank which issued the card. I accept that Ms M found 
this unhelpful, but it was the correct advice.
Lloyds says it doesnt know why the cash machine retained the card, but accepts its 
possible there mightve been a machine error. So it paid her £75 compensation. In my view 
this is a fair amount. 
In any case, card issues are the reasonability of the card issuer, not the cash machine owner 
(Lloyds). So I cant make an award against Lloyds for this - or the service she received 
related to it. 
the allegation of racism by Ms M
Ms M has said she thinks the branch staff  and in particular the advisor managing the 
queue in April 2020  are racist. Im sorry to hear that Ms M feels this way. But I havent seen anything to support her accusation and for the reasons Ive explained above, Im 
satisfied Lloyds treated her fairly having carefully considered all of the evidence.
summary 
Overall, having carefully considered everything thats happened here - whilst not 
downplaying the impact these incidents have had on Ms M - I dont conclude that Ms M was 
treated inappropriately, unfairly or unreasonably by Lloyds. So I dont require Lloyds to do 
anything further. 
I know Ms M will be disappointed with this outcome. But my decision brings to an end what 
we  in trying to informally resolve her dispute with Lloyds  can do for her.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold Ms Ms complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms M to accept or 
reject my decision before 24 November 2020.
 
Daniel O'Shea
Ombudsman