DRN-3014462
The complaint
Mr P complains that AXA PPP Healthcare Limited added an exclusion to his medical 
insurance policy.
What happened
Mr P has medical insurance with AXA through his business. Hes had an AXA healthcare 
policy for nearly 40 years.
In 2016 Mr P was diagnosed with inclusion body myositis (IBM) which is a muscle wasting 
condition. His consultant neurologist recommended Mr P have regular physiotherapy and 
exercise to increase muscle strength. Mr P claimed for physiotherapy and other treatments 
in relation to the condition which AXA accepted.
At the policys renewal on 21 December 2018 AXA wrote to Mr P that under his policy terms 
there was a limit of 20 physiotherapy sessions per person, per policy year when referred by 
a GP but unlimited sessions when referred by a specialist.
On 19 December 2019 Mr P received a letter from AXA telling him that after 19 March 2020 
it wouldnt cover treatment for his IBM, muscle weakness and associated symptoms and it 
added a specific exclusion to the policy. AXA had reviewed Mr Ps claims relating to IBM 
since 2016 and other medical evidence and it considered his IBM to be a chronic condition, 
which the policy didnt cover.
Mr P complained to us. He says the policy definition of a chronic condition is very confusing 
and AXA is unfair not to continue to cover the physiotherapy sessions when it had previously 
told him he could have unlimited sessions.
Mr P wants AXA to continue to cover his IBM. He says AXAs refusal to continue the cover 
for his condition, which has a serious impact on his life, has caused him much stress and 
anxiety. 
Our investigator said AXA reasonably added the exclusion to the policy.
Mr P disagreed and wanted an ombudsmans decision. He sent us a recent report from his 
consultant neurologist and other medical information which he said showed treatment was 
helping his condition.
What I provisionally decided  and why
I made a provisional decision that I was intending to not uphold the complaint. I said: 
I have to decide whether AXA fairly and reasonably added the specific exclusion for all 
treatment for IBM, muscle weakness and associated symptoms to Mr Ps policy.
AXA emphasised to Mr P that its decision to exclude the treatment for the condition wasnt 
based on his medical need for treatment but on what the policy terms cover. My decision 
also isnt based on Mr Ps medical needs, its based on whether or not AXA fairly considered 
his IBM to be a chronic condition and reasonably applied the policy terms.
Im very sorry to disappoint Mr P but Im intending to not uphold this complaint. Ill explain 
why.
The policy covers eligible treatment of acute conditions which the policy defines as:
a disease, illness or injury that is likely to respond quickly to treatment which aims to 
return you to the state of health you were in immediately before suffering the disease, 
illness or injury, or which leads to your full recovery.
The policy doesnt generally cover chronic conditions which the policy defines as:
a disease, illness or injury that has one or more of the following characteristics:
it needs ongoing or long-term monitoring through consultations, examinations,  
check-ups and/or tests
it needs ongoing or long-term control or relief of symptoms
it requires your rehabilitation or for you to be specially trained to cope with it
it continues indefinitely
it has no known cure
it comes back or is likely to come back.
The policy also sets out what cover it provides for someone with a chronic condition:
Does my membership cover me for treatment of conditions that last a long time or 
come back (chronic conditions)?
Your membership does not cover you for conditions that:
come back; or
are likely to continue for a while; or
are long-term.
However, your membership will cover short-term in-patient treatment of flare-ups of a 
chronic condition that is, unexpected complications or worsening of a chronic 
condition.
Because we dont cover ongoing, recurring long-term treatment for chronic 
conditions, this means we will not cover:
monitoring a medical condition; or
any treatment that only offers temporary relief of your symptoms, rather than 
dealing with the underlying condition; or
routine follow-up consultations.The policy also says if Mr P has a chronic condition there will be a limit to how long AXA 
covers the treatment. And that if AXA isnt able to continue to cover the treatment it will tell 
Mr P to give him notice so he can decide if he wants to start paying for the treatment or to 
transfer to the NHS.
I dont think the policy definition of chronic condition is confusing. It sets out in detail what 
AXA considers to be a chronic condition. The definition has been agreed by the Association 
of British Insurers and is used by most medical insurers. And I think AXA has been clear that 
there will be a limit to how long it covers treatment for a chronic condition.
I think AXA fairly considers Mr Ps IBM to be a chronic condition. It provided cover for the 
condition from 2016 for tests, scans, specialist consultations and many physiotherapy 
sessions. In November 2019 it received a report from Mr Ps consultant neurologist saying 
Mr Ps IBM had been diagnosed in 2016 and that the condition causes progressive 
weakness over the years. AXA investigated and found the website of the charity for the 
condition said there is currently no proven treatment for IBM. So on the information AXA 
had I think it could fairly say IBM meets several of the characteristics under the policy 
definition of chronic condition.
Mr P has now sent us a medical report from his consultant neurologist. The report says the 
IBM affects Mr Ps swallowing, intravenous immune globulin (IVIg) improved his swallowing 
and there has been a clinical trial which suggests IVIg is helpful with that aspect of the 
disease. Ive also read the extract from the clinical trial paper Mr P sent us. I understand the 
treatment involves Mr P being injected with immunoglobulin and he doesnt need in-patent 
treatment.
Im pleased Mr P found the IVIg treatment helpful. But the new evidence doesnt change my 
mind that AXA can fairly consider IBM still meets several of the characteristics set out in the 
policy definition of a chronic condition.
Mr P is also concerned that AXA has excluded physiotherapy for his condition when it had 
written to him in 2018 saying he could have unlimited sessions when referred by a specialist. 
But AXAs internal notes show it had also told Mr P that at a certain point it would review his 
ongoing progress to see whether the physiotherapy was curing or just maintaining the 
condition. And although the policy says physiotherapy sessions are unlimited when referred 
by a specialist that would only apply if eligible treatment (as detailed under the policy terms) 
is being provided. As IBM meets the definition of chronic condition physiotherapy for the 
condition isnt an eligible treatment.
Mr P says the policy covers cancer and as that is also a chronic condition the policy should 
also cover IBM. The policy does give some cover for cancer. But that doesnt mean AXA has 
to cover IBM. An insurer can choose what cover it wants to give as long as that information 
is clear in the policy. So I cant tell AXA it must cover certain medical conditions, and as Ive 
said I think the policy information about cover for chronic conditions is clear.
I know Mr P has had a medical insurance policy with AXA for many years and hes paid a lot 
of money in premiums over the years. But for the reasons Ive given above I think AXA did 
fairly and reasonably add the specific exclusion to his policy and AXA doesnt need to keep 
paying for physiotherapy sessions. AXA gave Mr P three months notice that it was no longer 
going to cover his condition so that he could make alternative arrangements, which was a 
fair amount of notice.
Responses to my provisional decision
AXA didnt respond. Mr P didnt agree and he emphasised the points hed made above. In particular he said it was very unfair someone with cancer could get cover under the policy 
but he couldn't for IBM.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr P hasnt made any new points in response to my provisional decision that I didnt 
consider in making my provisional decision. 
I understand Mr P thinks its unfair the policy provides cover for someone with cancer but not 
his IBM now its considered a chronic condition. But Ive explained above that AXA providing 
some specific cover for cancer doesnt mean AXA has to cover IBM. It can choose what 
cover it wants to give under the policy and the policy information about cover for chronic 
conditions is clear.
Ive no new evidence that makes me change my mind. For the reasons Ive given in my 
provisional findings and these findings I think AXA fairly and reasonably added the specific 
exclusion for all treatment for IBM, muscle weakness and associated symptoms to Mr Ps 
policy. AXA doesnt need to keep paying for physiotherapy sessions for the condition.
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision before 22 September 2021.
 
Nicola Sisk
Ombudsman