DRN-3901377
The complaint
Miss K complains that she should be refunded money by Bank of Scotland plc  trading as 
Halifax (Halifax) under the direct debit indemnity scheme.
What happened
Miss K has a current account with Halifax. It received money from various sources and had 
several direct debits/regular payments out of it. In November 2022, Miss K had an overdraft 
limit of £200.
Miss K complained to Halifax that she wanted money paid out under two direct debits  
between 2006 and 2011  to be refunded. One beneficiary was an energy supplier (A) and 
the other was a communications provider (B). Miss K said that the payments had been made 
without her authority by mistake and there had been no service provided by A or B.
In October 2022, Halifax said theyd investigated Miss Ks claims fully and advised her of the 
next steps. They advised her to contact the companies direct for further assistance with the 
direct debits.
Miss K brought her complaint to us. Our investigator said Halifax had dealt with it 
reasonably. He could see that Halifax had investigated Miss Ks claims fairly. The direct 
debit indemnity exists to protect customers if there is a genuine error by the service provider. 
Halifax had made the necessary inquiries and had decided not to refund Miss K. He said 
Miss K hadnt provided any evidence to us to support her claim.
Miss K asked that an ombudsman look at her complaint  so it has come to me to make a 
final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
On her complaint form that Miss K sent to us, she complained about the direct debit 
payments to A and B. She also named another three service providers. Because our role is 
to look at how a firm dealt with a complaint as it was put to them, this decision only deals 
with Miss Ks complaints about A and B  it was the direct debits to A and B were 
investigated by Halifax. 
Miss K says that the direct debits were taken out of her account without her authority and in 
error and no service was provided by A or B.
The direct debit guarantee doesnt cover complaints where there is a contractual dispute 
between customers and the service provider  in this case A and B. So  where Miss K has 
said that theyve not provided the services she wants, then the direct debit guarantee doesnt 
cover that - and she will need to take that up with A and B. So  I set that aside in this 
decision.
I then went on to consider the other aspect of the direct debit guarantee  it covers where 
there have been errors in taking the payments on the wrong date, or where the wrong 
amount has been taken. In general, it isnt likely to cover situations where payments 
shouldnt have been taken for a long period of time - as Miss K argues was the case with A 
and B. Our services role is to ensure that Halifax investigated and considered Miss Ks claim 
reasonably and fairly. So  we asked Halifax to show us what theyd done here.
Halifax showed us the work theyd done on Miss Ks claims regarding A and B. In the case of 
A, they could see that payments had been taken out of Miss Ks account for two and a half 
years  between April 2019 and November 2021  31 payments. There had been variations 
to the amounts paid over the years, which suggested there was a service being provided;  
and also there had been correspondence between Miss K and A. They thought it was 
reasonable to have expected Miss K to have said something during the period  but she 
hadnt. They said the onus was on Miss K to have raised it earlier. And if Miss K didnt want 
to make the payments  she couldve cancelled the direct debit, but didnt.  And  I think that 
was a reasonable thing for Halifax to conclude.
I can also see that there was correspondence between A and Miss K  about her application 
to A, and the varying sums of money paid to A  so it was clear that A was providing energy 
to Miss K.
Halifax reviewed Miss Ks claim regarding B. They could see the direct debit was set up in 
2006 and monthly payments had been made up until December 2020. There had been 
variations to the amounts paid over the years, which suggested there was a service being  
provided. Also, there had been correspondence between Miss K and B. So  because the 
payments had been going on for so long, I think it was reasonable for Halifax to say that 
Miss K shouldve seen the payments and questioned them much earlier than she did. And if 
Miss K didnt want to make the payments  she couldve cancelled the direct debit - but 
didnt. And so  I think Halifax dealt with her claim reasonably.
I dont think it is reasonable for Miss K to say that there should be an automatic refund of the 
amounts paid under the direct debits if she asks for it  in the circumstances of her complaint 
and without sufficient evidence. I can see that we asked Miss K twice for more information 
and evidence to support her complaint. But she said she hadnt checked her bank 
statements and didnt see why she should approach A and B. So, in all honesty, without that 
 the overriding aspect to her complaint is that she clearly made the payments to A and B 
over a long period of time and didnt raise the issue much earlier with Halifax. And therefore, 
Im persuaded that Halifax acted reasonably in the way they dealt with her refund requests.
Therefore, while Miss K will find this disappointing, my decision is that Im not asking Halifax 
to do anything here. (continued)
My final decision
I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss K to accept 
or reject my decision before 3 April 2023.
 
Martin LordOmbudsman