DRN-2485518
The complaint
Mr N complains that his transfer of his ISA by Financial Administration Services Limited 
(FAS) was delayed.
What happened
In November 2019, Mr N asked FAS to transfer his ISA assets to a new ISA provider (who I 
shall call A). The transfer request was received by FAS on 25 November 2019. By 19 
December 2019, A had accepted the transfer of the assets. The transfer was completed on 
13 March 2020.
Mr N complained that the time taken for the transfer was far too long  almost four months. 
He had to call FAS many times  he made weekly calls - to chase up what was happening. 
And he paid management fees to FAS in the meantime. He was prevented from trading 
during the process. He said he suffered worry and stress because of the delays.
FAS said theyd made a number of mistakes during the process, and their communications 
had been poor. Mr N couldve traded if hed wished during the period. They said their 
management fee paid in December 2019 was fair. They accepted theyd made errors in 
dealing with the switch and offered to pay Mr N £350 compensation.
Mr N rejected FASs offer. He felt that in view of the number of calls hed made, and the 
stress and inconvenience caused, they should pay £500. He brought his complaint to this 
service. Our investigator said that he couldnt see that Mr N had lost out by not being able to 
trade  as the assets were transferred on 13 March 2020  and Nr N said he wanted to trade 
in February 2020 and March 2020. And in any case, Mr N couldve traded during the 
switching period  he hadnt therefore lost out. And as the shares held within the ISA werent 
changed, Mr N wasnt out of the market, so didnt lose money. On FASs fee, Mr N had paid 
a management fee of £59.02 on 17 December 2019  but nothing after that. On the issue of 
compensation, he felt the offer of £350 made by FAS was reasonable.
Mr N asked that his complaint be looked at by an ombudsman.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr Ns main issue is the level of compensation that FAS have offered. He doesnt think it 
reflects the number of calls he had to make to them, or the stress and anxiety he suffered. 
He told us he had sleepless nights worrying about the whole process. I can see that this 
must have been a worry for Mr N  as the ISA portfolio was sizeable.
I can see that the transfer episode took a lot longer than it should have. FAS provided us 
with a timeline of what happened. Ive looked at this. All was going OK until early in January 
2020, after which FAS made several errors: 
On 2 January 2020, Mr N asked for a complaint to be raised, but this wasnt done.
On 10 January 2020, FAS started the transfer again (because the assets held by 
FAS didnt match the original transfer request from A). But the new transfer request 
contained errors and was rejected.
On 14 January 2020, A asked for an update  this wasnt done.
On 30 January 2020, Mr N asked for an update  this wasnt done.
On 27 February 2020, FAS shouldve sent to A - a communication to clarify funds 
details but didnt.
On 13 March 2020, a cheque was sent to A to complete the transfer.
Mr N says he made weekly phone calls to FAS to chase what was going on. I dont doubt 
this. But we wanted to be certain, so we asked FAS. They traced nine calls from Mr Ns 
numbers they held during the period in question. If Mr N made weekly calls  they would 
have numbered about 12. So  theres broad agreement about the number of calls made. To 
be fair to FAS, theyve admitted they made errors and apologised  and agreed, after 
negotiation with Mr N, compensation of £350.
Turning to the management fee  I agree with our investigator. The last fee levied by FAS 
was in December 2019, and it seems only fair they took this  given that the transfer process 
had just begun. Mr N says he was stopped from trading because of the delays  but FAS 
have told us that he couldve traded  as his portfolio was based on an execution only 
agreement. And  any trades done wouldnt have been affected by the transfer. I can 
however understand Mr Ns nervousness that any trading may have upset the transfer  as it 
was already being delayed. I noted that as Mr N remained in the market during the transfer, 
he didnt lose out on any price increases in the existing shares in the ISA.
When deciding on the level of compensation  we look at the extent of ay harm or loss to Mr 
N. Weve established that there wasnt any pure monetary loss. So, it comes down to what is 
reasonable for the distress and inconvenience he suffered. This is a subjective matter. The 
service has broad guidelines for compensation - and these are set out on our website. Ive 
no doubt that the whole transfer episode was trying and caused Mr N a lot of frustration  
but, having reflected on this, I think that FASs offer of £350 is reasonable for what happened 
in all the circumstances. This is in line with what the service would expect to see for this type 
of complaint.
So  while Im sure Mr N will be disappointed by this  Im not going to ask FAS to do 
anymore here. Their offer of compensation of £350 still stands, and if Mr N wishes to accept 
it, he should get in touch with FAS to arrange for it to be paid to him.
My final decisionI do not uphold this complaint. I dont think Financial Administration Services Limited needs 
to do anything more to settle the complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr N to accept or 
reject my decision before 5 May 2021.
 
Martin Lord
Ombudsman