DRN-2581637
The complaint
Mr B is unhappy with the way QIC Europe Ltd (QIC) proposed to settle his claim for water 
damage to his kitchen.
What happened
Mr B had buildings and contents insurance with QIC. He suffered an escape of water which 
caused damage to the downstairs rooms in his house. QIC accepted his claim but Mr B 
wasnt happy with QICs offer of settlement regarding the damage in his kitchen. 
In places, the wood at the bottom of the fitted cupboards had blown and the covering was 
cracked. The damage only affected a few of the cupboards so QIC offered to repair them. 
The kitchen units were obsolete and couldnt be replaced, and Mr B didnt think QIC could 
repair with a matching colour. 
QIC wanted to try to replace the damaged wood and/or match the paintwork and said, if the 
work wasnt a suitable match, it would replace the damaged parts. QIC also said it would 
offer a contribution towards replacement of the undamaged parts of the kitchen. Mr B 
remained unhappy with the offer and wanted QIC to replace the damaged units straightaway 
and contribute 50% towards the undamaged kitchen units.
Our investigator upheld Mr Bs complaint. She agreed that QIC couldnt be sure of providing 
a lasting match and, as it had already said it would replace the damaged units, she thought it 
was reasonable for QIC to contribute 50% towards the undamaged units.
QIC didnt agree. It felt that its original offer was fair and didnt think it was necessary to 
replace the whole kitchen without trying to repair first.
I issued a provisional decision in January 2021 explaining that I was intending to not uphold 
Mr Bs complaint. Heres what I said in my provisional decision:
While I realise Mr B will be disappointed, Ive decided not to uphold his complaint. Ill explain 
why.
Firstly, Id like to say how sorry I am to hear about Mr Bs wife. It must be such a difficult time 
for her, and for Mr B supporting her, during ongoing treatment without the added worry of 
arranging repairs to the home. 
As I understand it, QIC is handling the rest of Mr Bs claim, so my decision will only cover the 
issue of the fitted kitchen. Having looked at the evidence, I can see that the cause and 
nature of the damage isnt disputed. So, the remaining issue is whether QICs offer to settle 
the claim for the damaged kitchen units is fair.
For context, Mr Bs kitchen has six wall cupboards and six floor cupboards. Two of each are 
fitted against one wall and the remaining eight units form an L-shape against the diagonally 
opposite walls. The oven and hob are integrated, whereas the washer and dryer are 
underneath the fitted worktop in spaces designed to accommodate such appliances. The 
fridge (freezer) is a standalone appliance.
Mr B and QICs surveyor provided photos of the damage, and Mr B included a description. 
While I cant confirm the dimensions he reported for one area of damage, I think his 
description is accurate. There are three areas of damage which Ill summarise here, using 
Mr Bs description and all photos, again for context.
1. The end panel of one floor cabinet, nearest to the internal kitchen door, has a 
cracked laminate coating around 10cm from the floor, and the wood beneath has 
blown.
2. The laminate on a single divider panel, which sits underneath the worktop between 
the washer and dryer, has separated and the wood has blown.
3. The laminate on the end panel of another floor cabinet, nearest to the external 
kitchen door, has separated upwards and along the length of the cabinet where it 
meets the floor. The wood is blown.
QIC offered to replace the two end panels (and divider panel) and use a surface repair 
company to match to the existing kitchen. Mr B declined its offer because he didnt want the 
disruption and he didnt believe it would be a lasting repair. QIC hasnt refused to replace the 
kitchen, but it would like the chance to try to repair first.
Ive looked at the policy and I think the following terms are relevant here:
6. Repair guarantee
All repairs carried out by our approved suppliers as a result of an insured claim under this 
section of your policy are guaranteed for 12 months
3. Pairs, sets and suites
We will not pay the cost of replacing or repairing any undamaged parts of the building which 
form part of acommon design.
Firstly, its clear that QIC guarantees its repairs, so that may provide some reassurance for 
Mr B if it does arrange for the end panels to be replaced and matched. 
Secondly, Mr Bs policy does not cover for the cost of replacing undamaged items, so I can 
understand why QIC hasnt offered that as the first option.
Looking back at QICs offer to replace the panels and match them, Im satisfied its in line 
with the policy terms and I also think its a fair offer. It should be a relatively quick repair, with 
relatively little disruption to Mr B and his family. 
If the repair isnt a suitable match, QIC has offered to pay for replacements for the damaged 
units and contribute 50% to the undamaged units. Despite the policy stating it wont cover 
undamaged items, I think this approach is a fair one if the damaged items are equal to or 
outweigh the undamaged items. Two end panels and one divider panel are damaged. The 
evidence suggests that the rest of the kitchen units (12 cupboards) are undamaged. I dont 
think its reasonable to ask QIC to pay half the cost of replacing an entire kitchen because 
three panels are damaged. So, I think the fact that QIC has offered that, after trying to 
replace and match the panels first, is more than reasonable.
I said earlier, my role is to decide whether QICs offer to settle Mr Bs claim is fair. For the 
reasons Ive given above, I think it is. I wont be asking QIC to do any more than it has 
already offered.I asked both parties to send me any further comments and information they might want me 
to consider before I reached a final decision.
QIC responded to say it agrees with the outcome.
Mr B responded to say that QIC gave incorrect information. He said the panels cant be 
repaired because there is too much water in them, and theyre discontinued so QIC cant 
replace them. Mr B restated much of his complaint, but he also provided a statement from a 
cosmetic repair company confirming that it couldnt repair the damage for the same reasons 
Mr B gave.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive thought carefully about the information Mr B provided and I dont doubt that the repair 
company is unable to resurface the damaged panels for the reasons it gave. However, I 
must make it clear that what QIC proposed was to replace the panels, not repair them. 
That brings me to Mr Bs concern that the panels are no longer available. Again, I must point 
out that QIC proposed to replace the panels (the wood itself) and arrange for a company to 
match the finish to the existing kitchen. This is the same sort of work Mr Bs repair company 
wouldve provided if the wood wasnt water damaged. While I understand that Mr B remains 
of the view that the whole kitchen needs to be replaced, I dont agree. 
So, to confirm, QIC wants the opportunity to replace the damaged wood panels and match 
the surface of the panels to the rest of the kitchen, as a first option. If that doesnt work, it will 
replace the damaged part of the kitchen and contribute 50% towards the undamaged parts. I 
think thats fair and Mr Bs new information hasnt persuaded me that QIC should do 
anything more than it has already offered.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained above, and in my provisional decision, I dont uphold Mr Bs 
complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 10 March 2021.
 
Debra Vaughan
Ombudsman