DRN-3355059
Complaint
Miss C has complained that AvantCredit of UK, LLC (Avant Credit) provided her with 
unaffordable loans. 
Background
Avant Credit provided Miss C with a first loan for £1,000.00 in February 2015. This loan was 
due to be repaid in 18 monthly instalments of around £83 but was settled in full the following 
month. Avant Credit then provided loan 2 in July 2015. This time the amount advanced was 
£2,500.00 and this loan was due to be repaid in 24 monthly instalments of around £158.
One of our adjudicators looked at this complaint and thought that while it hadnt done 
anything wrong when providing loan 1, Avant Credit unfairly provided loan 2 as proportionate 
checks would have shown it was unaffordable. Miss C didnt disagree with our adjudicator 
but Avant Credit did and asked for an ombudsman to review the complaint. 
As the parties are in agreement over loan 1, this decision is only considering whether Avant 
Credit acted fairly and reasonably when it provided loan 2.
My findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about unaffordable/irresponsible lending -
including the key rules, guidance and good industry practice - on our website. And Ive
referred to this when deciding Miss Cs complaint.
Having carefully thought about everything, I think that there are two overarching questions
that I need to answer in order to fairly and reasonably decide Miss Cs complaint. These two
questions are:
1. Did Avant Credit complete reasonable and proportionate checks to satisfy itself that 
Miss C would be able to repay loan 2 in a sustainable way?
o If so, did it make a fair lending decision?
o If not, would those checks have shown that Miss C wouldve been able to 
do so?
2. Did Avant Credit act unfairly or unreasonably in some other way?
Did Avant Credit complete reasonable and proportionate checks to satisfy itself that Miss C 
would be able to repay loan 2 in a sustainable way?
Avant Credit provided loan 2 while it was authorised and regulated by the Financial Conduct 
Authority (FCA). The rules and regulations in place required Avant Credit to carry out a 
reasonable and proportionate assessment of Miss Cs ability to make the repayments under 
this agreement. This assessment is sometimes referred to as an affordability assessment 
or affordability check.
The checks had to be borrower focused  so Avant Credit had to think about whether
repaying the loan would cause significant adverse consequences for Miss C. In practice this
meant that Avant Credit had to ensure that making the payments to the loan wouldnt
cause Miss C undue difficulty or adverse consequences.
In other words, it wasnt enough for Avant Credit to simply think about the likelihood of it 
getting its money back, it had to consider the impact of the loan repayments on Miss C. 
Checks also had to be proportionate to the specific circumstances of the loan application.
In general, what constitutes a proportionate affordability check will be dependent upon a
number of factors including  but not limited to  the particular circumstances of the
consumer (e.g. their financial history, current situation and outlook, and any indications of
vulnerability or financial difficulty) and the amount / type / cost of credit they are seeking.
Even for the same customer, a proportionate check could look different for different
applications.
In light of this, I think that a reasonable and proportionate check ought generally to have
been more thorough:
the lower a customers income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make
any loan repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income);
the higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income);
the longer the term of the loan (reflecting the fact that the total cost of the credit is
likely to be greater and the customer is required to make payments for an 
extended period); and
the greater the number and frequency of loans, and the longer the period of time
during which a customer has been given loans (reflecting the risk that repeated 
refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, 
unsustainable).
There may also be other factors which could influence how detailed a proportionate check
shouldve been for a given loan application  including (but not limited to) any indications of
borrower vulnerability and any foreseeable changes in future circumstances.
Ive carefully thought about all of the relevant factors in this case.
Were Avant Credits checks reasonable and proportionate?
Avant Credit says that it carried out an income and expenditure assessment with Miss C 
prior to providing her with all of her loans. It also carried out a credit check. Avant Credit 
checks suggested Miss Cs income was around £1,600.00 a month and her expenditure 
£1,100.00 based what it saw on her credit file. This left her with more than enough to cover 
the payments to this loan. 
Ive carefully considered what Avant Credit has said. But Avant Credits checks showed that 
Miss Cs debt burden had significantly increased in the short period that had passed since loan 1. This coupled with this being a second application within a short period lead me to 
think that Avant Credit needed to take steps to verify Miss Cs actual monthly expenditure. 
As I cant see that this Avant Credit did do this, I dont think that the checks it carried out 
before providing Miss C with loan 2 were reasonable and proportionate.
Would reasonable and proportionate checks have indicated to Avant Credit that Miss C 
would have been unable to repay loan 2?
As reasonable and proportionate checks werent carried out before loan 3 was provided,
I cant say for sure what they wouldve shown. So I need to decide whether it is more likely
than not that a proportionate check would have told Avant Credit that Miss C would have 
been unable to sustainably repay this loan.
Avant Credit was required to establish whether Miss C could make her loan repayments 
without experiencing significant adverse consequences  not just whether the loan payments 
were technically affordable on a strict pounds and pence calculation.
Ive carefully considered the information provided. Having done so, it is clear a significant 
proportion of Miss Cs income was being used to meet commitments to existing creditors. So 
I think she was always unlikely to be able to make the payments she was being asked to 
commit to without borrowing further or suffering significant adverse consequences.
Bearing all of this in mind, Im satisfied that reasonable and proportionate checks would
more likely than not have demonstrated that Miss C would not have been able to make the
repayments to this loan without borrowing further and/or suffering undue difficulty. And, in 
these circumstances, I find that reasonable and proportionate checks would more likely than 
not have alerted Avant Credit to the fact that Miss C was in no sort of position to make the 
payments to loan 2 without suffering significant adverse consequences.
Did Avant Credit act unfairly or unreasonably towards Miss C in some other way?
Ive carefully thought about everything provided. And having done so, I dont think Avant 
Credit acted unfairly or unreasonably towards Miss C in some other way.
Did Miss C lose out as a result of Avant Credit unfairly providing her with this loan?
As Miss C paid a high amount of interest and charges on a loan that she shouldnt have 
been provided with, Im satisfied that she lost out as a result of what Avant Credit did wrong. 
So I think that Avant Credit needs to put things right.
Fair compensation  what Avant Credit needs to do to put things right for Miss C
Having thought about everything, I think it would be fair and reasonable in all the 
circumstances of Miss Cs complaint for Avant Credit to put things right by:
refunding all interest, fees and charges Miss C paid as a result of being provided with 
loan 2;
adding interest at 8% per year simple on any refunded amounts from the date they 
were paid by Miss C to the date of settlement;
removing any adverse information recorded on Miss Cs credit file as a result of this 
loan. HM Revenue & Customs requires Avant Credit to take off tax from this interest. Avant 
Credit must give Miss C a certificate showing how much tax it has taken off if she asks for 
one.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, Im upholding Miss Cs complaint. AvantCredit of UK, LLC 
needs to put things right in the way set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss C to accept 
or reject my decision before 13 April 2022.
 
Jeshen Narayanan
Ombudsman