DRN-4297909
The complaint
Ms A is unhappy with the service shes received from British Gas Insurance Limited
(British Gas) following a claim she made.
Where Ive referred to British Gas, this also includes any actions carried out by the agent
handling the claim on British Gas behalf.
What happened
Ms A has a HomeCare policy with British Gas and this provides, amongst other things, cover
for callouts and repairs when there is a lack of hot water.
In September 2022 Ms A contacted British Gas as she had no hot water. Shortly after,
British Gas agent attended and determined a new water pump was required and they said
this would be ordered and they would reattend to fit this.
However, this ultimately didnt happen until February 2023. This was due to cancelled
appointments and the engineers not turning up, along with British Gas and their agents not
progressing things. During this period, Ms A contacted British Gas and their agent a number
of times, but despite this, repairs werent completed until February 2023.
Ms A also complained to British Gas, and they failed to action the complaint and closed it
instead, so they also didnt issue a final response within the eight weeks the
Financial Conduct Authority allows under the complaint handling rules.
As Ms A remained unhappy with the service shed received from British Gas, she
approached this service.
Whilst the complaint was with this service, British Gas made offers of compensation, which
the investigator relayed to Ms A. However, Ms A didnt think the final offer British Gas made
totalling £250 was reasonable.
Our investigator looked into things and didnt think this was enough either, she
recommended British Gas increase this to £500. British Gas agreed with the increased
compensation.
Ms A also initially agreed. However, via her representative, she later rejected this as she
didnt think it was sufficient for what had happened.
As an agreement couldnt be reached, the case was passed to me to decide.
I reached a different outcome to our investigator, so I issued a provisional decision, to give 
both parties an opportunity to comment on my initial findings before I reached my final 
decision.
What I provisionally decided  and why
In my provisional decision, I said:
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As Ive reached a different outcome to our investigator, Im issuing a provisional 
decision, to give both parties an opportunity to comment on my initial findings before I 
reach my final decision.
I should also clarify that I dont intend to comment on every event which occurred 
throughout the claim. I dont mean this as a discourtesy to either party, instead this 
reflects the informal nature of this service, and my role within it. However, Id like to 
reassure both parties that Ive considered all the information theyve provided when 
reaching my provisional decision.
Ms A reported she had no hot water in September 2022, a visit took place shortly 
after and parts were ordered. However, it wasnt until February 2023 that repairs 
were completed. During this time, an issue was also reported with the toilet, and this 
wasnt resolved until the following month.
During the five-month period it took to resolve the hot water and pump issue, 
appointments were arranged and cancelled due to a lack of engineer availability. 
Appointments were also made, and engineers didnt turn up either. And the 
cancellation, failed appointments and the delays in repairs was all whilst British Gas 
was aware Ms A had no hot water, and it was winter.
Ms A says she contacted British Gas a significant number of times over the five-
month period. She says this includes 29 calls in one month alone. Whereas 
British Gas has said they dont have any records of regular contact from Ms A 
between the claim being raised and repairs being completed. However, Ive seen 
phone records from Ms A (and British Gas were sent a copy of these by our 
investigator), and I can see that Ms A did chase British Gas and their agent several 
times over the five-month period.
However, I should also point out that a significant number of calls, 67 out of the 95 
calls which have been highlighted on the phone bills by Ms A, isnt actually a number 
associated with British Gas or their agent. Instead, it is actually a number for a 
provider which enables calls to be made internationally. So, I assume this number 
has been highlighted and referred to by Ms A as British Gas (or their agent) in error, 
and it was actually her calling abroad instead.Whilst Ms A has said that we should obtain phone records from British Gas, they 
have said they have no records of contact during this time. Regardless of this (and 
that the vast majority of calls Ms A referred to were actually nothing to do with 
British Gas), Im satisfied Ms A did call them a large number of times over the five 
months as shown by her phone bills. And even without British Gas records of those 
calls, thats sufficient evidence for me to be persuaded Ms A tried to get things 
moving regularly, and Ive taken this into account when reaching my provisional 
decision and what Im minded to direct British Gas to do to put things right.
Ms A has also explained that she needed to purchase gym passes in order for her 
and family to take hot showers, along with boiling a kettle for hot water. And often 
cold showers had to be taken too. So, its clear that the lack of hot water was very 
disruptive and inconvenient and had an impact on Ms A and family, and that was 
over a five-month period.
But it isnt disputed that the service British Gas (and their agent) provided fell short. 
This is why they offered £250 compensation initially and agreed to increase this to 
£500 when recommended to by our investigator.
However, I dont think this is sufficient for the prolonged impact the claim had on 
Ms A. 
Its clear that five months to restore hot water is far longer than it should have taken. 
It was during the winter period, and Ms A actively tried to contact British Gas (and 
their agents) to have matters resolved. She also raised a complaint, but this wasnt 
actioned and was closed incorrectly by British Gas, which also meant no action was 
taken from British Gas side to try to move things forward with their agent.
This meant Ms A had to contact this service, and it wasnt until we became involved 
that British Gas then arranged for repairs to be carried out, some five months after 
first being reported.
As I say, during this period, Ms A either had to boil a kettle for hot water, have a cold
shower, or shower at a gym. And doing this for five months is clearly very 
inconvenient.
So, whilst I think £500 does go some way towards compensating Ms A, I dont think 
its sufficient for the prolonged period the inconvenience and impact happened for. 
Unless anything changes as a result of the responses to my provisional decision, I 
intend on directing British Gas to pay £750 compensation for the inconvenience 
caused. I think this amount would be fair and reasonable in all the circumstances to 
compensate Ms A.
Additionally, as Ive mentioned, Ms A also had to use a gym during this time for a hot
shower. Shes provided receipts of the pay-as-you-go access she had to purchase 
during this period totalling £188. British Gas has also been sent copies of these. And 
whilst I think £750 compensation is a fair amount for the impact of what happened, 
this gym cost is a specific quantifiable financial loss Ms A has incurred. So, 
separately to the compensation, Im also minded to direct British Gas to reimburse 
this cost (£188) with 8% simple interest from date of each payment to date of 
settlement.Ms A also said she had to boil her kettle for hot water, and this would have had an 
impact on utility bills. However, it is going to be near impossible to demonstrate that 
the kettle was only boiled for that specific purpose alone or quantify the exact specific 
cost of this. But I think the compensation Im minded to direct British Gas to pay is 
more than sufficient to take this potential increased cost into account within that.
Ms A has also asked for a refund of premiums for the policy for this period. I dont 
intend on directing British Gas to reimburse this. This is because ultimately Ms A has 
been able to benefit under the policy for both the issues she claimed for as 
British Gas did eventually carry out repairs. I accept that the handling of these claims 
was poor, but thats why Im minded to direct British Gas to provide significant 
compensation (and the reimbursement of the gym costs), and I think thats fair and 
reasonable and sufficient in the circumstances. So, I dont intend on directing 
British Gas to reimburse the premiums paid.
Therefore, I was minded to uphold the complaint and to direct British Gas to pay Ms A £750 
compensation, reimburse the £188 incurred for pay-as-you-go gym access, with 8% simple 
interest added from date of payment of the invoices to date of settlement.
The responses to my provisional decision
British Gas responded and said they accepted the provisional decision and had nothing 
further to add.
Ms A also responded and said she had nothing further to add.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
And Ive thought carefully about the conclusions I came to in my provisional decision. Having 
done so, as neither party has provided anything which would lead me to depart from my 
provisional findings, my final decision remains the same as my provisional decision, and for 
the same reasons.My final decision
Its my final decision that I uphold this complaint and direct British Gas Insurance Limited to:
Pay Ms A a total of £750 compensation
Reimburse the £188 incurred for pay-as-you-go gym access
Add 8% simple interest* to the reimbursement from date of payment of the invoice to 
the date of settlement
* If British Gas Insurance Limited considers that its required by HM Revenue & Customs to 
deduct income tax from that interest, it should tell Ms A how much its taken off. It should 
also give Ms A a tax deduction certificate if she asks for one, so she can reclaim the tax from 
HM Revenue & Customs if appropriate.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms A to accept or 
reject my decision before 11 September 2023.
 
Callum Milne
Ombudsman