DRN-2097053
The complaint
Ms M complains about how long Barclays Bank UK PLC took to return her money from a 
dormant account.
What happened
Ms M says she went to a Barclays branch in February 2020 in order to get her money back 
from a dormant account. She says Barclays told her that would take 12 weeks and she 
complained about that time period. Ms M says she then received a letter from Barclays in 
May 2020 in which it told her the 12-week process would start from then. She says she has 
been caused stress and inconvenience and urgently needed the money. Ms M says she was 
made subject to a County Court Judgement (CCJ) and that could have been avoided if she 
received her money earlier. She also complains that Barclays didnt explain why it would 
take 12 weeks to return her money in any event.
Barclays says it has to follow a regulatory process for returning money from a dormant 
account and that takes 12 weeks. But it accepts it took longer than it should have done and 
should have returned the money about four weeks earlier than it did. Barclays has offered 
£175 compensation for this mistake.
Ms M had already brought her complaint to us and our investigator thought the 
compensation offer fair and reasonable. The investigator thought the circumstances that 
gave rise to the CCJ took place in December 2019 and so it unlikely that even if Ms M had 
received her money back earlier that CCJ couldnt have been avoided. The investigator 
thought Barclays had to follow the regulatory time limits and was about a month late in 
repaying the money.
Ms M doesnt accept that view and says the compensation offer doesnt take into account 
the stress she was caused and that she had bills that she needed to pay at the time.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done, I have come to the overall view that Barclays took too long to return Ms Ms 
money but has made a fair and reasonable compensation offer.
Im satisfied that Barclays has to follow regulatory rules about the return of money from a 
dormant account. I appreciate that Ms M says that time limit is too long, but I dont think 
Barclays is responsible for it and so I dont think it made a mistake or acted unfairly by telling 
Ms M that it would take 12 weeks for the process to be followed.
There is no question here that Barclays took longer than that to return the money and it 
accepts it made a mistake. I find it took just over a month longer than it ought to have done 
to return that money. I accept Ms M would have been caused concern and stress at the 
delay. But Im satisfied Barclays has made a fair and reasonable offer of £175 
compensation. I think that offer fairly reflects the level of its mistake and the impact it had on 
Ms M. I dont think that delay had any impact on the CCJ as I can see the circumstances that 
led to the CCJ took place some significant time before Ms M first asked Barclays for the 
return of her money.
Overall, I appreciate that Ms M will be disappointed by my decision and so I will leave it to 
her to decide if she wishes to accept that compensation offer.
My final decision
My final decision is that Barclays Bank UK PLC has made a fair and reasonable 
compensation offer of £175. Ms Ms acceptance of that offer would be in full and final 
settlement of this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms M to accept or 
reject my decision before 20 October 2020.
 
David Singh
Ombudsman