DRN-2728395
The complaint
Mr B complains Royal & Sun Alliance Insurance Plc (RSA) unfairly declined a storm 
damage claim he made under his buildings insurance policy. Mr B is represented in this 
complaint by his father-in-law. But to keep things simple, my decision will only refer to Mr B.
What happened
Mr B had a buildings insurance policy with RSA, which included accidental damage cover.
After staying with his partner during lockdown, Mr B returned home and found his kitchen flat 
roof was damaged, causing internal water damage to his kitchen. He thought this was 
caused by a storm about a month earlier, so he called RSA to make a claim. RSA sent a 
surveyor to inspect the damage. The surveyor said it was caused by wear and tear and not a 
storm event. So RSA declined Mr Bs claim. 
Mr B complained to RSA. It agreed to pay for the internal damage to Mr Bs kitchen but not 
the external roof repairs. Mr B remained unhappy. He said RSA had told him, in his claim 
call, that he could make a repair to stop things getting worse - but the repair had covered 
evidence of a single storm event damage. And the surveyor hadnt inspected thoroughly 
since they only used a camera and pole, hadnt listened when Mr B advised that only one 
roof area was damaged because the rest had been well maintained, and hadnt told Mr B 
their findings. Mr B also said RSA contradicted itself by accepting that a storm caused 
internal damage to the kitchen but not that it also damaged the kitchen roof. 
RSA didnt change its position, so Mr B referred his complaint to our service. He said the 
ferocity of the storm caused a corner of the kitchen flat roof to lift in an area up to about a 
foot wide. And he had to wait for RSA to call him back to agree that he could do a temporary 
repair, so the damage got worse. Mr B said he inspected the roof and found no sagging or 
warping of the roof boards or joists. And that a storm caused the damage and the roof was 
well maintained.
Our investigator didnt uphold Mr Bs complaint. He thought RSA had fairly relied on the 
surveyors report to decline the claim for roof damage, in line with the policys wear and tear 
exclusion.
Mr B disagreed. He reiterated some of the points hed previously made to our service, and 
clarified the purpose of a leak solution that had been applied to the roof. And he felt very 
strongly that RSA should provide recordings of the two claim calls hed had with it  he 
thought RSA should evidence these conversations, otherwise Mr B should be given the 
benefit of the doubt.
As Mr B disagreed with our investigator, his complaint came to me for a decision. I issued 
my provisional decision on 4 March 2021. In it, I said as follows:
The crux of Mr Bs complaint is that his claim hasnt been paid in full  he says its 
contradictory of RSA to pay for internal repairs due to storm damage but not external repairs. 
So I need to consider whether RSA has acted fairly here.
The terms and conditions of Mr Bs policy say it will only cover damage to Mr Bs home 
caused by specific events listed in the policy  one of these is Storm or Flood. And the 
policy terms also say loss or damage caused by wear or tear or anything that happens 
gradually wont be covered.
When Mr B made his claim, he thought the damage had been caused by a storm about a 
month before. But Ive checked the weather reports for the area where Mr B lives and they 
show there were no storm conditions around a month before he made his claim. 
Further, RSAs surveyors report says theres no evidence of any storm damage and that the 
damage is all consistent with a natural breakdown of materials over a period of time - in 
other words, wear and tear. I know Mr B has concerns about the surveyor inspecting with a 
camera and pole instead of getting onto the roof, but the surveyors report includes clear and 
detailed photographs showing that in places, the felt is pulling away from the edges and the 
roof surface is somewhat uneven. Mr B says the roof shows no signs of sagging or warping 
and that it is well-maintained. But other than his testimony, Ive not been provided with any 
supporting evidence of this. 
Given that weather reports show there werent storm conditions, and that RSAs surveyor 
concluded the roof damage was consistent with wear and tear rather than storm damage, 
Im satisfied it was reasonable for RSA to conclude wear and tear was the main cause of the 
external roof damage, and not an insured storm event. Even if I accept that poor weather 
made the roof worse, its still the case that wear and tear was the primary cause of the 
damage and not a storm. So it was reasonable for RSA to conclude the roof damage was 
due to wear and tear. Wear and tear isnt covered under Mr Bs policy, so it was fair for RSA 
to decline Mr Bs roof claim under the buildings insurance part of his policy.
Regarding the internal damage to Mr Bs kitchen, the surveyors report said it was caused by 
rainwater ingress over a period of time. It said the recent rain has come through the roof 
into your property. The surveyor believes that the internal damage is not the result of a 
single identifiable storm incident. So the surveyor thought this wasnt caused by a storm 
event, but by rainwater coming in through the roof. 
However, it seems RSA considered this internal kitchen damage under the accidental 
damage part of Mr Bs policy. And while the policy terms say loss or damage caused by 
wear or tear or anything that happens gradually wont be covered, RSA agreed to pay for the 
internal damage to Mr Bs kitchen because it says it cant be certain when he became aware 
of this damage, given hed been staying with his partner. RSA has explained that its internal 
guidance says ingress of water should be dealt with under storm damage peril. So while I 
can understand why Mr B might think RSA has been contradictory, I think RSA acted fairly in 
accepting a claim for the internal kitchen damage under the accidental damage part of 
Mr Bs policy, whilst also declining his claim for a storm damaged roof under the buildings 
insurance part of his policy.
While not the crux of his complaint, Mr B also raised other points. He thought the surveyor 
was unprofessional because they used a pole and camera to do their survey, didnt listen to 
Mr B and didnt provide their findings. As Ive already said, the surveyor took clear and 
detailed pictures upon which to base their findings, so I think their method of inspection was 
reasonable. And the surveyor has disputed not listening to Mr B and not giving him their 
findings. I wasnt present at the inspection, so I cant be certain what was said. But even if I 
were to accept Mr Bs version of events, I dont think it changes the outcome here. And Ive 
seen that the day after the inspection, the surveyor sent Mr B a letter to say his claim would 
be declined, so Im satisfied the surveyor gave Mr B their findings within a reasonable time. Mr B thinks RSA should provide recordings of both of his claim calls and seems to suggest 
RSA made an error by agreeing he could carry out a temporary repair. RSA has provided a 
recording of the first call but not the second call, which it says didnt record due to technical 
issues. But RSA has provided the contact notes its agent made at the time of both calls. 
Having listened to the call recording and reviewed the contact notes, I dont think RSA made 
an error in those calls. Its agent listened to Mr B, asked if he had home emergency cover 
and gave him the home emergency number to call, agreed to set up a buildings insurance 
claim, explained RSA would send a surveyor to assess damage, and noted Mr B would 
effect a temporary repair to prevent further damage. While Mr B did wait for RSA to call him 
back, hes told us it did so within half an hour. Thats not an unreasonably long time.  And in 
the first call, Mr B says he thinks the damage was caused by a storm about a month before 
and that water has been pouring into his kitchen. So I think waiting half an hour is unlikely to 
have made any significant difference to the damage already caused.
Even if I accepted RSA made some sort of error in those calls, as Mr B suggests, it wouldnt 
necessarily mean RSA was wrong to later decline Mr Bs roof claim. Which Ive already said 
it fairly declined.
RSA didnt respond to my provisional decision. Mr B provided further comments to say:
Hed assumed it was storm damage and his use of the word storm was misinterpreted. 
He accepts weather reports show there wasnt a storm. 
But RSA hasnt considered the geographical positioning of his house  its on a corner 
on a main road and without a parapet wall to act as a weather shield. This means light 
winds can vortex to a high wind, and so he used the word storm. 
RSA had paid the internal kitchen damage claim but did so because there was doubt. 
And there had been doubt throughout the claim.
It was concerning the second call wasnt available and call notes arent a verbatim 
record. So there is doubt about his claim. 
Mr B was surprised I would say RSA had fairly declined the claim even if RSA had made 
errors in the calls. He said RSA has made errors, so I should have recommended a 
compromise. And RSA hasnt responded to Mr Bs own offer of a compromise.
Im now in a position to make my final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, the further comments Mr B has provided dont give me reason to change 
the conclusions I reached in my provisional decision. I know this will be very disappointing to 
Mr B, but Ill explain why.
Mr B says RSA should consider that the geographical positioning of his house causes light 
winds to vortex to high winds. But RSA isnt obliged to consider that. Instead, its obliged to 
consider whether the damage to Mr Bs kitchen roof was caused by one of the insured 
events listed in his policy terms and conditions, in this case a storm. And Mr B and RSA are 
now both in agreement that there wasnt a storm.
And it remains the case that even if I accepted poor weather  whether caused by the 
specific features of Mr Bs property or not - made the roof worse, evidence suggests wear 
and tear is still the primary cause of the damage to his roof. Wear and tear isnt covered 
under Mr Bs policy, so it was fair for RSA to decline Mr Bs roof claim under the buildings insurance part of his policy. For these reasons, I cant agree with Mr B that there is any 
doubt about the roof part of his claim. 
Mr B has reiterated that RSA made errors in its calls with him, and says contact notes arent 
a verbatim record of a call. But for the reasons I explained in my provisional decision, Im 
satisfied RSA didnt make any errors in those calls. And Mr B hasnt provided me with 
enough evidence to change my mind. 
Mr B is surprised my provisional decision said that even if I accepted RSA had made an 
error in the calls, RSA had fairly declined the roof part of his claim. I hope it helps if I explain 
that if RSA had made an error, then our service would look to put Mr B back into the position 
he should have been in if RSA hadnt made that error. In this particular case, that position 
wouldnt be for Mr B to have his claim paid in full. Because, as Ive explained, Im satisfied it 
was fair of RSA to decline the roof part of Mr Bs claim. But in any case, Im satisfied RSA 
didnt make an error in the calls. 
 
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, Im not upholding this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 April 2021.
 
Ailsa Wiltshire
Ombudsman