DRN-3246375
The complaint
Mr J complains that Nationwide Building Society hasnt helped him trace a missing payment.
What happened
Mr J says he was paid a refund by a bank I will call I for 45 euros for a cancelled event. He 
says the money hasnt been credited to his Nationwide account despite I telling him it had 
been paid. Mr J says Nationwide hasnt helped him and done enough to trace the money. He 
would like the money refunded and compensation for what has taken place.
Nationwide says it has tried to trace the payment but cant find it. It says Mr J needs to ask I 
to carry out a payment trace.
Mr J brought his complaint to us and our investigator didnt uphold it. The investigator 
thought Nationwide had tried to find the money and correctly told Mr J that he needed to ask 
I to raise a payment trace.
Mr J doesnt accept that view and in summary says Nationwide is in the banking business, 
so it should raise the trace with I. He says it may not be possible for the sender to ask I to 
raise a trace and says the sender may no longer have an I account. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I have come to the overall view that I dont uphold this complaint. I 
appreciate Mr J will be disappointed by my decision and understand his frustration in not 
receiving his refund.
Im satisfied that Nationwide has tried to help Mr J by searching its records for the payment. I 
can see that it carried out a check on the payment amount and Mr Js name but without 
success. So, Im satisfied that in those circumstances all Nationwide could reasonably do is 
to recommend Mr J ask I to raise a payment trace. And Im satisfied that would be the 
correct procedure in these circumstances.
I appreciate Mr J says the sender may not have the I account any more or may not be alive. 
I am unsure if Mr J is saying that is the position or is saying that may be the position. In any 
event I think its for Mr J to ask I via the event organiser or himself to raise a trace on his 
money. I cant see what else Nationwide can do.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr J to accept or 
reject my decision before 13 June 2022.
 
David Singh
Ombudsman