DRN-3083243
The complaint
Mr F has complained that Somerset Bridge Insurance Services Limited charged him 
unfair fees when he cancelled his motor insurance policy. 
What happened
Somerset Bridge had sold Mr F a policy which renewed in December 2020. The total costs 
of the policy, including all fees and interest for paying in instalments came to around £2,660. 
15 days after his policy renewed Mr F rang Somerset Bridge. He said he'd found alternative 
cover for around £610 and wanted to cancel his policy from a few days time. He asked 
Somerset Bridge how much that would cost. Somerset Bridge told him he'd have to pay 
some fees and for his time on cover. It said it couldn't tell him exactly how much might be 
outstanding until a direct debit had cleared and the policy was cancelled. 
Somerset Bridge later wrote to Mr F. It said that after cancelling his policy and deducting its 
fees, which included a policy arrangement fee of £705, he owed it £776.
 
Mr F didn't think that was fair and brought his complaint to us. One of our investigators 
looked into it. He didn't think Somerset Bridge had dealt with Mr F fairly. Our investigator 
said that it should only charge its arrangement fee on a pro rata basis which would reduce 
the amount Mr F still owed to around £106. Somerset Bridge didn't agree with our 
investigator's assessment of the complaint; so its been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I'm going to uphold it. 
Somerset Bridge is an insurance broker, so it sells policies and might help with their 
administration. But it doesn't provide the cover itself, that is provided by an insurer which is a 
separate business to Somerset Bridge.
Where a consumer cancels their policy before its term is up, its usual for a broker like 
Somerset Bridge to make sure that the policyholder has paid it all its fees. In this case Mr Fs 
policy had been in place for less than three weeks at the point that he cancelled it. Thats 
significant as, if hed cancelled it during the first two weeks cooling off period then some of 
the sums Somerset Bridge charged Mr F wouldn't have become due. But once that cooling 
off period had ended Somerset Bridge is entitled to charge the fees it had told Mr F about if 
he cancelled the policy outside of the cooling off period. Thats the case no matter how close 
to that cooling off period Mr F cancelled the policy. So whether he cancelled it one day, one 
month or many months after the cooling off period ended, Mr F would have been liable to 
pay the fees hed agreed to when taking out the policy.
In this case I can see that when Somerset Bridge wrote to Mr F about the policy renewal it 
set out the charges he would need to pay to put the policy in place. And that included an 
arrangement fee of £705. It also sent him its terms of business, which said that if he 
cancelled his policy outside of the cooling off period then he wouldn't receive a refund of the 
arrangement fee. So Mr F did agree to pay Somerset Bridges arrangement fee when he 
took out the policy.
That said, I've heard the call when Mr F rang Somerset Bridge to ask it to cancel his policy. 
When he did so Somerset Bridge told him hed have to pay a £75 cancellation charge. It also 
told him he'd have to pay its arrangement fee. But it didn't tell him how much that fee would 
be. I don't think that was fair. Its clear that Mr F wanted to know how much it would cost him 
overall to cancel the policy. And it would have been easy for Somerset Bridge to tell Mr F 
exactly the amount of the arrangement fee hed have to pay. But it didn't do that.
I should say that Somerset Bridge have shown the arrangement fee figure, of £705, on the 
first page of the renewal letter it sent to Mr F. So he could have looked that up for himself. 
But he clearly didn't have that letter to hand when he was thinking about cancelling his 
policy. And I think its perfectly reasonable that he should be able to ring his broker, which 
applied the charge in the first place, to ask it how much it was going to charge him, so that 
he could decide what to do. And thats a question Somerset Bridge should have been able to 
answer. 
I understand that Somerset Bridge might not have been able to give Mr F a precise figure for 
the total balance outstanding at that time. Thats because it might have needed to see 
exactly what funds it received from Mr F and possibly also needed the insurer to confirm the 
time on cover charge. But it should have been able to give Mr F a very close estimation of 
the amount outstanding. It didn't do that. Instead it told Mr F it would set out the balance 
once the payment was received and the policy had cancelled. I don't think that was fair.
Further, after adding the other appropriate fees and charges, including the insurers costs for 
his time on cover, Mr F was charged a total of £1,018. That sum was for a policy which was 
only in place for 18 days. Thats an equivalent charge of over £56 a day. That would be an 
exorbitant fee to pay for the service and cover Mr F received. And I think if Somerset Bridge 
had acted fairly and told Mr F exactly what he could expect to pay on cancellation then hed 
have made a different decision about whether or not to cancel the policy. Thats because the 
amount Somerset Bridge told him to pay, for such a short amount of cover, is unlikely to 
seem anything like approaching value for money for most consumers.
It follows that I don't think Somerset Bridge gave Mr F enough information with which he 
could make an informed decision about cancellation when he phoned it. And if it had I think 
he would have changed his mind about cancelling the policy. In those circumstances I don't 
think it's fair that Somerset Bridge applies its full arrangement fee. Instead, to address this 
fairly and to ensure its remunerated for the work that its done, I think its reasonable that 
Somerset Bridge instead charges Mr F its arrangement fee on a pro rata basis. That would 
reduce the arrangement fee from £705.20 to £34.78. And, after applying that reduction, the 
full amount that Mr F owes to Somerset Bridge comes to £106.22. And thats the amount I 
think it should say he owes now. 
   
My final decision
For the reasons set out above I uphold this complaint. I require Somerset Bridge Insurance 
Services Limited to reduce the amount it says Mr F owes to it to £106.22.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr F to accept or 
reject my decision before 8 December 2021.
 
Joe Scott
Ombudsman