DRN-3068202
The complaint
Mrs W complained because Revolut Ltd refused to refund her for a transaction which she 
said she didnt make. 
 
What happened
 On 5 December 2020, Mrs W told Revolut by chat that she didnt recognise a £10.29 debit 
on her account. Revoluts auto-reply said that if she was concerned her card had been 
compromised, she should freeze it using the app and then fill up a chargeback form. After 
several interactions Mrs W couldnt get a reply about the disputed transaction and asked for 
a live agent. 
After half an hour, a live agent took over the chat. Mrs W confirmed that she hadnt made the 
transaction for £10.29, to a school, on 30 November. The adviser said she would block the 
card, and Mrs W should order a replacement. The adviser also said Mrs W should fill up and 
return a Chargeback form within three days.
Mrs W completed the form, but received a text from Revolut which said it had found no trace 
of fraudulent activity on her account, so it deemed her to be liable and wouldnt refund her.
Mrs W complained to this service.
Our investigator upheld Mrs Ws complaint. He noted that Revolut had held Mrs W liable 
because the contactless transaction had been carried out using the genuine card. But 
Revolut hadnt provided any evidence that it had tried to contact the merchant to ask what 
had been bought, nor was there any evidence of the correct level of investigation being 
undertaken. He pointed out that as Mrs W had clearly sad on the chat that she hadnt 
authorised the transaction, Revoluts agent should have opened a fraud investigation, not 
told her to fill up the form for a chargeback. 
So the investigator said Revolut should refund Mrs W with the £10.29 disputed transaction, 
and should pay her £50 compensation for the inconvenience caused by not having handled 
this correctly.
Revolut refused. It said there were no signs the account had been taken over by a fraudster. 
If the payment had been online, it said it could have seen whether a third party had been 
involved or not  but the disputed transaction hadnt taken place online. And it said chip and 
PIN, and contactless, payments couldnt be raised as chargebacks because the chip cant 
be cloned. So it had carried out sufficient investigation because the card hadnt been lost or 
stolen. Revolut asked for an ombudsman decision.
My provisional findings
I issued a provisional decision on this complaint. Before doing so, I considered all the 
available evidence and arguments to decide what would be fair and reasonable in the 
circumstances of this complaint.
In my provisional decision, I explained that its up to a bank to decide how best to raise a 
dispute from a customer, depending on the nature of the dispute and whats said. A 
chargeback would be one way of doing this, and (done properly) it involves contact with the 
merchant, which is useful. But Revolut explained that it wouldnt do that here, where the card 
itself was used. Thats its decision to make and I can see why it has decided that here, given 
what it told us.
But the key thing here, as with any dispute of this nature, was that the circumstances 
needed proper investigation. The documents provided by Revolut didnt show any evidence 
of this. I couldnt see any evidence that Revolut asked Mrs W questions such as where she 
kept her card, or whether anyone else had access to it. Nor did Revolut contact the school 
about the transaction it received  which might have sorted it out swiftly. I realised that 
Revolut said that it wouldnt have done this because it would only contact a merchant (here 
the school) under the chargeback scheme. But theres nothing to stop Revolut from 
contacting a merchant itself, if it feels thats appropriate. Theres no guarantee a merchant 
will cooperate of course, but that is an avenue thats open to Revolut  even if its not one it 
may commonly use.
In any event, it was difficult for me to say with any certainty who carried out the transaction 
here, given the lack of evidence. But looking at what I thought more likely than not, I thought 
a proper investigation wouldnt have upheld Mrs Ws complaint in all the circumstances of 
this case. I said that because Id seen the computer evidence that the genuine card was 
used, contactless, for the transaction. Mrs W hadnt reported the card lost or stolen, and she 
told our investigator that she hadnt given her card to anyone else, and it was kept in her 
purse in her handbag. So I couldnt see how a fraudster could have obtained the card and 
returned it to her after carrying out the disputed transaction. So I thought it was unlikely that 
a full investigation would have upheld Mrs Ws complaint for the £10.29 transaction.
But I thought that Revolut didnt provide good customer service to Mrs W. Its chat adviser 
told Mrs W to complete a chargeback claim, which she did. But Revolut didnt then carry out 
the normal chargeback processes  including contacting the merchant. And in its final 
response letter, it told Mrs W that the team has no rights to raise a chargeback.. This 
conflicted with what its chat adviser had told her, and wasnt good service. So I considered 
Revolut should pay Mrs W £50 compensation for its poor service and the confusion and 
inconvenience that caused Mrs W.
Responses to my provisional decision
Mrs W accepted my provisional decision.
Revolut didnt reply within the timescales requested for replies.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having reconsidered the evidence, I see no reason to depart from my original conclusions. 
My final decisionMy final decision is that I uphold this complaint in part and I order Revolut Ltd to pay Mrs W 
£50 compensation for distress and inconvenience caused by its poor handling of her 
complaint.
  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs W to accept or 
reject my decision before 22 October 2021.
 
Belinda Knight
Ombudsman