DRN-2952545
The complaint
Mrs H complains that Red Sands Insurance Company (Europe) Limited declined a claim on 
her pet insurance policy.
What happened
The background of this complaint is well known to both parties and has been detailed by 
our investigator previously. So, Ill summarise the key points Ive focused on within my 
decision.
Mrs H purchased a pet insurance policy from Red Sands for her dog P in March 
2010. The policy was renewed every year.
In October 2020, Mrs Hs vet made a claim on her behalf for severe Osteoarthritis 
(OA) and Euthanasia of P.
Red Sands declined the claim because it said Mrs H shouldve notified it, that her 
dog had severe OA within 365 days of it being first noted by yourself or your vet. It 
says the illness was first noted in July 2018. It also rejected the death of pet benefit 
cover because the policy excludes Death due to illness of your pet aged 8 years or 
older 
Mrs H says no diagnosis was given prior to July 2020 and the claim should be paid.
Our investigator upheld the complaint. He didnt think Red Sands had fairly declined 
the claim for OA but thought it was fair for it to decline part of the claim that came 
under the death of a pet benefit.
Red Sands disagreed so the complaint has been passed to me, an ombudsman, to make a 
decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive looked at the cover provided by Mrs Hs policy with Red Sands. And I can see that it sets 
out how the policy works, as follows: 
A Time Limited policy offers cover from accidents, illness and conditions. Time Limited 
policies mean that your pet will be covered for 365 days after the condition is first noted by 
yourself or your vet. This could mean when symptoms first arose or when an accident 
happened. 
The issue in dispute is when the cover period for the OA which resulted in Mrs Hs dog 
needing to be euthanised began.
I can see that Ps veterinary care was overseen by two different surgeries. The first surgery 
which Ill refer to as vet A covered P from August 2006 to August 2019. The second surgery 
vet P has notes from July 2020 onwards. 
Red Sands has said the information supplied by vet P with the claim form confirmed the 
clinical signs of the condition first appeared in July 2018 which is over 365 days prior to 
treatment dates claimed. 
Red Sands has said it appreciates P was not officially diagnosed with OA until July 2020, but 
he displayed clinical signs of slowing down since August 2016, muscle wastage since July 
2018 and was confirmed to have been given joint supplements and nonsteroidal anti-
inflammatory drugs (NSAIDs) previously. He was also put on a free trial of Onsior by vet A, 
on 25 July 2019, it says these tablets are used to treat chronic OA.
Ive also seen an email sent from vet A (November 2020) to the insurer that clearly says OA 
hasnt been diagnosed. It said;
According to our records Osteoarthritis has not been mentioned at all and there have been 
no tests done to prove that he has Osteoarthritis. ie x-rays
Red Sands has said slowing down is related to OA. But from what I can see it can also be 
related to other conditions and I dont think its uncommon for an owner to say their dog is 
slowing down especially as it gets older. So, although slowing down can be a sign of OA Im 
not persuaded this is enough to say that OA was noted by the vet or owner.
Red Sands explain that they start the 12-month time limit to make a claim when the condition 
is first noted by the pet owner or their vet. However, our approach is slightly different. We 
think its fair for an insurer to start the 12 months from when a consumer can first reasonably 
make a claim on their policy. This is usually when a vet recommends some sort of 
investigation or treatment for clinical signs displayed by the pet.
Ive carefully considered the evidence provided, NSAIDs have been mentioned in the 
medical notes but I can see no record of these ever being prescribed by vet A. So, I checked 
this, and it confirmed it hadnt prescribed NSAIDs. I also asked why the drug Onsior was 
prescribed. It confirmed the drug can be used for OA, but also other medical conditions and 
they gave it to P as a free trial just to see if it helped with his general mobility. 
So, from what Ive seen Mrs H was only ever able to make a claim on her policy once OA 
was diagnosed in July 2020 and medication was prescribed. This was within the 365 days 
So, Im not persuaded that it was fair for Red Sands to decline the treatment for OA.
With regards to death of pet benefit the policy excludes death due to illness of your pet 
aged 8 years or older
P was over 14 years old when he was sadly put down. So, Ive looked at the policy definition 
of illness and it says;
Illness means sickness, disease, infection or any change in your pets normal healthy state 
which is not caused by injury.
P had been diagnosed with OA so there was a change to Ps normal healthy state and I 
havent seen evidence that OA was caused by injury. So, I think it was fair for Red Sands to 
decline this part of the claim as it was more likely than not that illness was the reason for 
euthanasia.
Putting things rightRed Sands Insurance Company (Europe) Limited should pay for the treatment in relation to 
the OA in line with the remaining terms and conditions of the policy. This should include 8% 
simple interest payable from the original declined date, up until the payment is made.
My final decision
For the reasons given above I uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs H to accept or 
reject my decision before 17 September 2021.
 
Angela Casey
Ombudsman