DRN-3468561
The complaint
Ms B complains that J D Williams & Company Limited trading as Fashion World lent to her 
irresponsibly. She says the lending was unaffordable for her and she is unhappy that her 
application to open an account was approved and that credit limits were increased over 
time.
What happened
Ms B opened a catalogue shopping account with JD Williams in June 2017. She was given 
an initial credit limit of £150.
A month or so later, Ms Bs credit limit was increased by £100. After that, the account limit 
was put up again from time to time until in August 2019 her spending limit was £1,000.
When Ms B first complained to JD Williams it didnt think it had been wrong to open the 
account or increase her credit limit. So Ms B brought her complaint to this Service.
Ms B mainly said that J D Williams shouldnt have provided her with the credit because 
she was already in persistent debt when it lent to her. She said that this account added to 
her overall debt problems which have impacted severely on her well-being and mental 
health. 
Our investigator didnt uphold Ms Bs complaint. He didnt think that J D Williams had done 
anything wrong when it opened the account and that the increase in the account limit up to 
£250 hadnt been unreasonable. He said he didnt need to consider the later credit limit 
increases because Ms B hadnt ever gone over the £250 limit. 
Ms B requested an ombudsmans decision. So, the case has been passed to me to 
decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about unaffordable and irresponsible 
lending - including the key relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice - on our 
website and Ive taken that into account when considering Ms Bs complaint.
Id like to reassure Ms B that Ive looked at the complaint afresh  and Ive independently 
reached the same conclusions as our investigator. Ill explain why. 
J D Williams needed to take reasonable steps to ensure it didnt lend irresponsibly. In 
practice, this means that it should have carried out proportionate checks to make sure 
Ms B could sustainably afford to repay what she was being lent. There isnt any set list of 
checks a lender has to do  it depends on the particular circumstances. Our website sets 
out what we typically think about when deciding whether a lenders checks were 
proportionate.
J D Williams said it completed checks when opening Ms Bs account which included 
obtaining some information about Ms Bs credit history from a credit reference agency. It 
said that it looked at how Ms B was managing her account and made further credit checks 
each time it reviewed her lending limits. J D Williams said that when Ms B applied to open 
the account it didnt see anything that should have stopped it lending to her  and when it 
increased her credit limits it didnt give her the maximum she qualified for in order to 
ensure that repayments would be affordable and manageable. 
J D Williams hasnt given us much detail about the results it received from the credit 
reference agency but the information provided doesnt show anything adverse in Ms Bs 
credit history that should have put off a responsible lender from providing this credit to 
her. 
I think the steps J D Williams took to ensure it made a fair lending decision, when it 
opened the account and when increasing Ms Bs credit limit the first time, were reasonable 
and proportionate. The credit limit J D Williams agreed when the account was opened, and 
the increase up to £250, gave Ms B access to a relatively small amount of credit. It didnt 
see anything to make it think this would likely be a problem for her. I dont think it wouldve 
been proportionate for J D Williams to ask Ms B for the amount of information that would 
be needed to show this lending was unsustainable. 
Like our investigator, I dont think I need to say more about the later credit limit increases. 
Its possible that J D Williams failed to make adequate checks before increasing the 
account limit above £250. But even so, this would make no difference to the outcome of 
Ms Bs complaint. Thats because Ms B never used the available credit. So, I cant fairly 
say she lost out financially which means Ms B wouldnt be entitled to any compensation. 
And there wouldnt be anything else J D Williams would need to do in those circumstances 
to put things right.  
In coming to my decision, I've taken into account what Ms B has said about her financial 
situation at the time. I think its worth remembering that when a lender carries out a credit 
search, the information it sees doesnt usually provide the same level of detail that a 
persons own credit search will. And it isnt necessarily up to date  that can depend on 
when other creditors have reported information and when its been recorded by the credit 
reference agency. A lender might only see a small portion of a borrowers credit file, or some 
information might be missing or anonymised. Im also aware that not all credit providers 
report to the same credit reference agencies. So, this may explain differences between what 
Ms B told us about her financial situation and information thats shown on credit checks done 
by J D Williams. 
I accept that in reality Ms Bs financial situation possibly wasnt fully reflected either in the 
information she provided, or the other information J D Williams obtained. But in order to 
uphold this complaint I have to be able to say a lender did something wrong. I think its fair to 
say that the checks J D Williams did were sufficient for it to be able to make fair lending 
decisions. So it was reasonably entitled to decide Ms Bs application to open the account 
and increase her credit limit the following month based on the information it had available at 
the time. And its lending decisions dont seem unreasonable to me looking at the information 
the lender relied on.  
For these reasons, I am not able to uphold Ms Bs complaint.
I appreciate that this isnt the outcome that Ms B has been hoping for but I hope that setting out the reasons as Ive done will help explain how Ive reached my decision. If Ms B would 
like help to manage her finances or to speak to someone about her situation generally, 
theres more information about how to get free debt advice and other help on our website  
or we can provide contact details if she gives us a call. 
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms B to accept or 
reject my decision before 4 August 2022.
 
Susan Webb
Ombudsman