DRN-4034659
The complaint
Mrs M complains the advice she received from Whitechurch Securities Ltd trading as 
Whitechurch Financial Consultants (Whitechurch), to switch three of her existing pensions 
along with a pension credit to a SIPP was not suitable. Shes also unhappy about the 
discretionary fund management (DFM) arrangement that Whitechurch recommended and 
the adviser fees she was charged. Shes also unhappy with some of Whitechurchs 
communications.
What happened
As part of her divorce settlement, Mrs M was awarded a share of her ex-husbands pension 
scheme. The Trustees of that scheme wouldnt allow the credit to remain with them and 
required her to transfer the funds elsewhere. So, Mrs M sought financial advice on where to 
transfer the proceeds to.
In January 2012, Mrs M met with an adviser from Whitechurch. Whilst the meeting was 
initially arranged to discuss the transfer credit, it evolved to cover her wider retirement 
planning needs.
Whitechurch sent Mrs M a suitability report (SR) in March 2012. It recommended she switch 
her four existing pensions along with the pension credit into a James Hay SIPP. At the same 
time, the adviser recommended she invest her funds into a Whitechurch Securities prestige 
portfolio. The adviser had determined Mrs M had an attitude to risk (ATR) level of 6/10.
After considering the advisers recommendation, Mrs M explained to Whitechurch she only 
wished to consider transferring three of the four pensions in addition to the divorce pension 
credit. She also asked the adviser to reduce the level of risk from 6/10 to 4/10. 
On 4 April 2012, Whitechurch met with Mrs M to complete the James Hay SIPP application. 
The next day, Mrs M signed the application form to invest £78,000 into their prestige portfolio 
DFM investment. The £78,000 was the total of the three pensions and the divorce pension 
credit that Mrs M had been awarded. The amount that was ultimately invested was closer to 
£100,000 because the divorce pension credit ended up being higher.
As Mrs M was making regular payments into two of the existing pensions, the adviser also 
recommended she switch that payment, along with the employer contribution into the new 
James Hay SIPP. Mrs M moved to a new adviser in May 2016, ending her relationship with 
Whitechurch.
In June 2021, Mrs M complained to Whitechurch. She explained she was unhappy because:
One of the letters and an investment report about the property funds her monies 
were invested in, was misleading.
She didnt get the service she paid for.
She wasnt provided with a new adviser when her existing adviser moved to another 
firm.
Whitechurch issued their resolution letter to Mrs M in July 2021. They upheld her complaint. 
They said in summary:
They agreed that despite a review meeting being undertaken in 2013, the ongoing 
service they provided in 2014 and 2015 fell short of the required standards. At the 
same time, they reconfirmed their fees.
They agreed their letter to her about the property fund investment couldve been 
clearer. They provided clarification on their investment report about the commercial 
property fund.
A new adviser wasnt appointed because when he left, thats the point at which Mrs 
M moved her pensions away from their agency.
Whitechurch offered Mrs M £1,320 in redress to make up for the two review meetings she 
didnt have in 2014 and 2015 and £200 to say sorry for any confusion their property fund 
communications had caused.
Unhappy with Whitechurchs response, Mrs M raised her concerns to this service. Whilst 
repeating the same issues, she also raised additional points. Those were, in summary:
The fact she felt the original James Hay pension was mis-sold to her.
She felt the portfolio was unsuitable and not fully explained.
The James Hay SIPP was only recommended as it allowed her adviser to invest in 
the portfolios only provided by his employer.
As these issues werent part of her original complaint to Whitechurch, the case was passed 
back to them to provide a response. In April 2022, they rejected Mrs Ms supplementary 
concerns. They said they felt the SIPP was appropriate for her needs at the time. They also 
said, in summary:
A discretionary portfolio was suitable for Mrs M as it held more benefits over an 
advisory solution or managed portfolio, namely, the fund managers ability to act 
quickly to external events without having to contact her.
They felt an advisory portfolio wouldve been a false economy as there wouldve 
been an additional cost of ensuring the monies were continuously reviewed.
They felt that as Mrs Ms ATR was a 4/10, it wouldve been difficult to provide her 
with a single, managed fund that matched her profile that was cheap but also 
independent.
They felt as she was investing over £100,000 and investing regularly each month, a 
DFM was a far better proposition for her.
They stated that cost alone shouldnt be a factor in determining whether a DFM was 
suitable or not. They compared their DFM to a number of basic personal pension 
(PP) managed funds that showed their prestige and growth portfolio had performed 
better despite being more expensive.Whitechurch felt that as the performance comparison showed their fund had performed 
better than the benchmark and three other PPs with managed funds, they didnt believe any 
redress was necessary.
The complaint was considered by one of our investigators. After carefully considering the 
complaint, she felt that Whitechurch hadnt treated Mrs M fairly. She also said in summary:
There wasnt any evidence Mrs M needed the complexity or the additional costs of a 
SIPP and DFM arrangement when her existing pensions appeared to already meet 
her needs.
She didnt feel that Whitechurch had properly explored the option of moving the 
pension credit into one of Mrs Ms existing pensions to help keep costs down.
Whitechurch didnt agree. In response, they said they felt a DFM arrangement would be 
better for Mrs M because it would negate the need for her to get involved in investment 
decisions, particularly given her limited understanding of investments. They also said, in 
summary: 
They didnt feel a fund of £100,000 was modest and was more than suitable for a 
customer needing a DFM arrangement. 
Even though Mrs M never mentioned performance as an objective for wishing to look 
at her existing pension plans, given Whitechurch were doing a full review, that was 
an area theyd typically focus on to ensure the customers plans were on track.
However, our investigator wasnt minded to change her view as Whitechurch, in her opinion, 
hadnt raised any new points that shed not already considered.
Whitechurch then asked for the case to be referred to an Ombudsman for a decision.
After carefully considering the complaint, I issued a provisional decision explaining that I 
planned to uphold Mrs Ms complaint. For completeness, Ive set out the findings I made in 
full below.
My provisional decision
I have considered all the evidence provided and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Whats at the heart of this complaint is whether it was right for Whitechurch to move Mrs M 
from her existing PPs into a new SIPP along with her pension credit to a DFM. I dont think it 
was, and Ill explain why below.
In 2012, Mrs M was 47 years old and recently divorced when she initially discussed her 
retirement planning needs with Whitechurch. Unfortunately, Whitechurch havent been able 
to source the fact-find (FF) from their meeting with Mrs M. Whilst I have no reason to doubt a 
FF was completed, the absence of it does leave information gaps on Mrs Ms wider financial 
situation. From the SR, we know she was working as a secretary and the four pensions and 
the pension credit represented all of her retirement plans. She owned her home, had no 
debts and had savings of around £15,000. Her level of investment knowledge appears to be 
confined to that built up through holding the pensions which suggests she wouldve had 
some, albeit limited, experience of risk-based assets.Whitechurch provided Mrs M with a SR that set out the main themes of their discussions 
along with their recommendation. Her main objectives were noted in the SR as: 
You have requested that I review fully the 4 plans to ascertain if they are still the most 
appropriate for your needs and where the pension share should be invested. You have 
confirmed your employers will continue to pay to a pension plan of your choice and you 
are not concerned if this means you have to change providers.
You prefer the discretionary management route where the money is managed for you as 
you are aware that you do not have the necessary expertise or time to make investment 
decisions.
A SIPP is generally suitable for consumers who need access to a range of investments and 
funds not normally available via a basic pension wrapper. Its also typically suitable for 
individuals who need to have their monies managed in a bespoke, or discretionary style. 
Usually, a straight-forward stakeholder or personal pension may be more suitable for 
consumers who have only modest funds and non-complex needs. Thats ordinarily because 
often, although not always, its cheaper for the consumer.
It seems to me the SIPP and DFM recommendation was a fait accompli from the first 
appointment. I say that not only because the SR positioned Mrs Ms desire for a DFM as an 
objective, when from what I can see, she was a relatively inexperienced consumer who more 
than likely hadnt come across a DFM before, but because the SR is silent on whether the 
adviser explored alternatives to the SIPP. And, specifically it doesnt address whether the 
adviser even considered making use of either fund switches to better align the existing 
investments to the customers ATR, and / or consolidating the funds into a one of the existing 
plans. 
From what Ive seen of Mrs Ms four pensions, the existing Aviva and Friends Life policies 
were both stakeholder plans. Both wouldve been capable of accepting transfers in of the 
other policies along with the pension credit. The adviser doesnt appear to have explored this 
alternative. Allied to this, whilst the adviser has noted the existing funds Mrs Ms monies 
were invested in, he doesnt appear to have provided any view on why those pensions 
werent suitable for her ongoing and future needs. 
Charges play a very important part when considering whether its in the consumers best 
interest to switch their pension or not. Whilst they cant be viewed in isolation, higher costs 
would generally point towards being a good reason not to move. So, that means thered 
need to be other, more compelling reasons to justify a switch. Mrs Ms three existing plans 
were costing her approximately 0.78% per annum. She wasnt paying for an ongoing 
service. Whitechurchs recommendation totalled 1.37%, increasing her costs by around 
75%, thats excluding the ongoing annual advice service they quoted. The new costs were 
significantly higher than her existing arrangements and not, slightly more expensive as 
Whitechurchs SR had suggested. Taking the annual increased costs into account, would 
take many years of consistent outperformance over her existing funds to make the increased 
costs worthwhile.
The adviser provided an example within the SR of what Mrs M may receive back if her funds 
remained in their existing wrappers. He then provided an indicative illustration of what her 
funds could be worth if she moved them. In both instances, he used the mid-point for his 
growth assumptions. The existing wrappers were projected to provide £240,330 and the new 
solution £207,000. Despite the significant difference, he continued to recommend the 
transfer, stating the proposed plan was slightly more expensive than your current plans. He 
continued, that he was still recommending the transfer go ahead as I believe the new 
recommendation will benefit from day-to-day monitoring by a discretionary manager. By the advisers calculations, this would result in the consumer having a fund worth nearly 14% less 
than their existing arrangement at 65 years old. I think its at this point the adviser missed an 
opportunity to change direction. Thats because I believe it shouldve been very clear at that 
point that the new increased charges would have a significant impact on the final value of 
Mrs Ms funds. Whilst better investment performance with the DFM could make up for the 
increased cost of the arrangement, this couldnt reasonably be relied upon by Whitechurch 
(especially given the extent of the cost increase) and shouldnt have been central to any 
recommendation. 
The SR goes onto state the new SIPP would offer Mrs M maximum flexibility when she 
withdrew her benefits but, given she was in the accumulation phase and around 20 years 
from retirement, I think that was of very limited value to her at that point in time. 
Ive seen nothing to persuade me that Mrs M was seeking a sophisticated investment 
proposition that would give her the chance to invest outside conventional funds that the SIPP 
would provide. Instead, I think greater investment fund choice was of limited benefit when 
Mrs M had little experience of investing in stocks and shares. There wasnt any explanation 
as to why she wanted a greater fund choice, or what investments she wanted to make that 
were not already available within her existing plans, which the SR fails to acknowledge if this 
was a route the adviser had explored. And I dont think the adviser could reasonably 
conclude that Mrs M wanted or needed access to non-standard investments, which the new 
SIPP could provide.
The SR explained in detail the benefits of a discretionary portfolio over an advisory solution. 
However, I dont believe Whitechurch properly explored and discounted why they didnt 
recommend a basic, cost-effective managed fund to Mrs M, similar to what she was already 
invested in. Their letter suggests a single managed fund would struggle to match her risk 
profile and be fully independent. I dont agree with Whitechurchs perspective. Theres many 
low-cost managed funds on the market covering a range of risk profiles that offer a broad 
spectrum of differing underlying investments which are professionally managed that 
wouldve met Mrs Ms needs that wouldnt need her continual input. 
Ive also reflected on whether the DFM solution may have been suitable because the adviser 
was aware of other factors about the customer that may, for example, have justified 
investing in a bespoke portfolio. Whilst I have to acknowledge the fact-find was missing from 
the record so it may have shed further light on to the case, the SR and notes are silent on 
whether Mrs M was potentially coming into further monies in the near future such as a large 
inheritance that may have warranted a DFM over a packaged product. I accept Mrs M was 
adding monthly contributions to the SIPP of £187 but, even taking that into account, I dont 
believe the DFM was either suitable for her current or future needs.
The regulators guidance notice (Financial Standards Authority  Assessing Suitability) 
from March 2011 highlighted a key theme that I think is very relevant in this case. Within the 
examples of poor industry practice, they identified clients with small pension funds being 
recommended DFM arrangements. The regulator explained a DFM investment approach 
was unlikely to be appropriate for such customers because of the additional costs incurred. I 
think it shouldve been clear to Whitechurch that such an arrangement was unlikely to be in 
Mrs Ms best interests given the guidance the regulator provided at the time.
I acknowledge Mrs M needed to find a suitable wrapper for her pension credit, which as Ive 
already said, I believe couldve been met by one of the existing two stakeholder pensions. 
But, I also need to consider whether Mrs M would have proceeded with the transfer of her 
three pensions, even if the advice had been to remain in their existing schemes. I think given 
it was Whitechurch who introduced the idea of moving them and she was only seeking 
advice on the pension credit, I think it more likely than not she wouldve stayed where she was or opted for a cheaper alternative had they advised her to do so. I say that because 
looking at Mrs Ms circumstances at the time, she had limited investment experience and a 
modest fund.
Finally, as part of her original complaint to Whitechurch, Mrs M told them she was unhappy 
with the wording of the communication they issued to her about the property income fund 
investment thatd been made. She felt it was misleading. Whitechurch upheld that part of 
Mrs Ms complaint and offered her £200 to apologise for any confusion theyd caused. Ive 
looked at the letter and Q&A document Whitechurch sent Mrs M at the time. I can 
understand why she felt their correspondence couldve been positioned better. Their letter 
explained the property fund was being wound down. Within the FAQ section, it stated How 
much of my original investment will I get back?, it went on to say 100% of each investors 
stake in the fund will be returned to them. However, what investors were actually receiving 
back was whatever market value could be achieved from the units within the fund. Whilst the 
FAQ did go on to explain that customers may get back less than their original investment, I 
dont think Whitechurchs letter was particularly well worded.
Ive considered the impact of the misleading communication on Mrs M. Im content that aside 
from some initial disappointment of hearing she wouldnt get all her funds back, the impact of 
that incorrect information on her was limited. I therefore think the £200 Whitechurch have 
already offered to Mrs M appears fair and reasonable.
Summary
I dont believe either of the customers stated objectives or wider insight provided within the 
SR provide a compelling enough catalyst when considering Mrs Ms wider financial position 
to switch her existing pensions to a new SIPP with a DFM arrangement. Whilst Mrs M, when 
educated about the differences between DFM and a passive or managed fund, may have 
been attracted to the potential benefits of having her money managed in a bespoke style, 
that doesnt necessarily mean it was the right thing for her. Just because a client is keen and 
wishes to act or has been told about the costs, doesnt necessarily mean its in their best 
interest to do so and in such circumstances, its incumbent on the adviser to help guide the 
consumer down the route thats right for them. 
To summarise, for the reasons set out above, my view is that Whitechurch hasnt acted in 
the best interests of Mrs M and I believe it needs to take action to put things right.
Responses to my provisional decision
After reviewing my provisional decision Mrs M contacted this service and explained she had 
further comments she wished me to consider. She didnt think the decision took account of 
what happened after May 2016 when she moved from Whitechurch. She said the service 
she received at the new firm she moved to wasnt as she had expected and therefore asked 
me to look into that for her. She also raised a number of questions about the redress I had 
set.
However, Whitechurch did not respond to the provisional decision. A prompt was provided to 
them, but a reply was not received.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.I explained to Mrs M this complaint was focused purely on the advice and service she 
received from Whitechurch. I also advised Mrs M that in the first instance, she should liaise 
in with the firm who advised her to switch from Whitechurchs agency in May 2016 to give 
them the opportunity to look into things for her. After providing further context to the redress, 
Mrs M had no further comment.
As neither Whitechurch or Mrs M presented any new arguments, it therefore follows that I 
uphold Mrs Ms complaint for the reasons set out above.
Putting things right
My aim is that Mrs M should be put as closely as possible into the position she would 
probably now be in if she had been given suitable advice. In doing so, it will also take 
account of Mrs Ms complaint point linked to the charges shes paid.
I think Mrs M would have invested differently. Its not possible to say precisely what she 
would have done, but Im satisfied that what Ive set out below is fair and reasonable given 
Mrs Ms circumstances and objectives when she invested. I think she wouldve stayed with 
her existing providers and added the pension credit to one of the existing plans.
What must Whitechurch do?
To compensate Mrs M fairly, Whitechurch must:
Compare the performance of Mrs Ms investment with the notional value is she had 
remained with her previous providers. If the actual value is greater than the notional 
value, no compensation is payable. If the notional value is greater than the actual value, 
there is a loss and compensation is payable.
If there is a loss, Whitechurch should pay into Mrs Ms pension plan to increase its 
value by the amount of the compensation and any interest. The amount paid should 
allow for the effect of charges and any available tax relief. Compensation should not be 
paid into the pension plan if it would conflict with any existing protection or allowance.
If Whitechurch is unable to pay the compensation into Mrs Ms pension plan, it 
should pay that amount direct to her. But had it been possible to pay into the plan, it 
would have provided a taxable income. Therefore, the compensation should be reduced 
to notionally allow for any income tax that would otherwise have been paid. This is an 
adjustment to ensure the compensation is a fair amount  it isnt a payment of tax to 
HMRC, so Mrs M wont be able to reclaim any of the reduction after compensation is 
paid.
The notional allowance should be calculated using Mrs Ms actual or expected 
marginal rate of tax at her selected retirement age.
Its reasonable to assume that Mrs M is likely to be a basic rate taxpayer at the 
selected retirement age, so the reduction would equal 20%. However, if Mrs M would 
have been able to take a tax-free lump sum, the reduction should be applied to 75% of 
the compensation, resulting in an overall reduction of 15%.
Pay Mrs M £200 for distress caused to Mrs M for the concern that she paid 
unnecessary extra charges for a solution that wasnt suitable for her needs.If it hasnt already done so, pay Mrs M £200 for the misleading property fund 
correspondence.
Income tax may be payable on any interest paid. If Whitechurch deducts income tax from 
the interest, it should tell Mrs M how much has been taken off. Whitechurch should give 
Mrs M a tax deduction certificate in respect of interest if Mrs M asks for one, so she can 
reclaim the tax on interest from HM Revenue & Customs if appropriate.
Portfolio 
nameStatus Benchmark From ("start 
date")To ("end 
date")Additional 
interest
James Hay 
SIPP
- three 
transferred 
PPsStill exists 
and liquidNotional value 
from previous 
providersDate of 
three PP 
transfers 
(23 April 
2012)Date of 
transfer to 
new adviser 
(May 2016)8% simple per 
year on any 
loss from the 
end date to the 
date of 
settlement 
James Hay 
SIPP
- Pension 
CreditStill exists 
and liquidFor half the 
investment: 
FTSE UK 
Private 
Investors 
Income Total 
Return Index; 
for the other 
half: average 
rate from fixed 
rate bondsDate of 
Pension 
Credit 
transfer 
(26 July 
2012)Date of 
transfer to 
new adviser 
(May 2016)8% simple per 
year on any 
loss from the 
end date to the 
date of 
settlement
Actual value
This means the actual amount payable from the investment at the end date.
Notional value
For the switched pensions this is the value of Mrs Ms investment had it remained with the 
previous providers until the end date. Whitechurch should request that information from the 
previous providers.
For the pension credit, this is using the benchmark 50:50 FTSE UK Private Investors 
Income Total Return Index; for the other half: average rate from fixed rate bonds
Any additional sums paid into the pension plan and invested via the James Hay DFM 
should be added to the notional value calculation from the point in time when it was actually 
paid in.
If the previous provider is unable to calculate a notional value, you will need to determine a 
fair value for Mrs Ms investment instead using these benchmarks; for half the investment: 
50:50 FTSE UK Private Investors Income Total Return Index; for the other half: average 
rate from fixed rate bonds. The adjustments above also apply to the calculation of a fair value using the benchmark, which is then used instead of the notional value in the 
calculation of compensation.
Any withdrawal from the portfolio should be deducted from the fair value calculation at the 
point it was actually paid so it ceases to accrue any return in the calculation from that point 
on. If there is a large number of regular payments, to keep calculations simpler, Ill accept if 
Whitechurch totals all those payments and deducts that figure at the end to determine the 
fair value instead of deducting periodically.
Why is this remedy suitable?
Ive chosen this method of compensation because:
Mrs M wanted capital growth with a small risk to her capital.
If the previous providers are unable to calculate a notional value, then I consider the 
measure below is appropriate.
The average rate for the fixed rate bonds would be a fair measure for someone who 
wanted to achieve a reasonable return without risk to her capital.
The FTSE UK Private Investors Income total return index (prior to 1 March 2017, 
the FTSE WMA Stock Market Income total return index) is made up of a range of indices 
with different asset classes, mainly UK equities and government bonds. Its a fair 
measure for someone who was prepared to take some risk to get a higher return.
I consider that Mrs Ms risk profile was in between, in the sense that she was 
prepared to take a small level of risk to attain her investment objectives. So, the 50/50 
combination would reasonably put Mrs M into that position. It does not mean that Mrs M 
would have invested 50% of her money in a fixed rate bond and 50% in some kind of 
index tracker investment. Rather, I consider this a reasonable compromise that broadly 
reflects the sort of return Mrs M could have obtained from investments suited to her 
objective and risk attitude.
My final decision
Im upholding the complaint. My final decision is that Whitechurch Securities Ltd trading as 
Whitechurch Financial Consultants should pay the amount calculated as set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs M to accept or 
reject my decision before 17 April 2023.
 
Simon Fox
Ombudsman