DRN-3566166
The complaint
Mr and Mrs J complain they are paying more for their Whole of Life (WOL) plan than they 
should be because Lifesearch Partners Limited didnt complete the application for the plan 
properly, which led to a higher premium being payable.
What happened
Mr and Mrs J wanted to take a WOL plan for Inheritance Tax (IHT) mitigation purposes and 
through Lifesearch they applied for an initial amount of cover of £1.5 million. They wanted 
premium protection - referred to as Waiver of Premium (WOP) benefit - included in the plan 
they were going to take out, but this wasnt included in the application that was made on 
their behalf.
The provider of their plan had a re-price of rates in March 2017 and this meant that on 
proceeding with their application the premium Mr and Mrs J had to pay was the post re-price 
rate, which was higher than the premium they would have paid if the application had 
included the WOP in the first place. The plan started in July 2017 and included automatic 
inflation increases.
I issued a provisional decision on the complaint, my first provisional decision, in which I 
made the following key findings:
It isnt in dispute that Lifesearch didnt include WOP benefit in the application made to 
the provider in December 2016.
The difference in the base premium Mr and Mrs J are currently paying and what they 
would have paid is £202.49.
It is more likely than not they will continue the WOL plan until death not just for 
between 20 and 34 years as Lifesearch argue.
In calculating future loss it is appropriate to use the PXA08 mortality tables 
suggested by Mr and Mrs Js expert.
I am not satisfied that it is possible to say Mr and Mrs J have suffered a loss by 
exercising the inflation option under the policy or will do so by exercising the option in 
future years.
I would need to see some persuasive evidence their estate would increase such that 
they would need to increase the sum assured each year and even then it would 
seem likely that other IHT mitigation steps would be taken.
The discount that should be applied to any award for the WOP benefit being payable 
before Mrs J reaches 65 should be based on the CMI IP 06 Income Protection claim 
inception tables  Occupational Category 1.
Mr and Mrs J didnt fail to mitigate their loss because they didnt take out Income 
Protection policies instead of the WOP benefit and it is difficult for Lifesearch to argue 
they should, given the quote it obtained for this was never presented to Mr and Mrs J. 
A discount of 1% should be applied for accelerated receipt.
Neither party agreed with my first provisional decision and their respective solicitors raised a 
number of issues in response to my findings. Lifesearchs solicitors provided further expert 
evidence from an actuary (the report of BW) and a financial adviser (the report of ML) and 
Mr J then provided a response to this further expert evidence. I thereafter issued a second 
provisional decision the key findings from which are as follows:
The report of ML raises some issues about the possible suitability of the WOL policy 
but this wasnt an issue raised in Mr and Mrs Js complaint and the report doesnt go 
as far as saying it was unsuitable.
In any event I wouldnt expect Lifesearch as a life insurance broker to come up with 
alternative IHT solutions.
The figure to be used for calculating the additional base premium is £202.49 as 
previously agreed by the parties.
I am not satisfied that they wouldnt continue with the WOL policy even if they used 
other IHT mitigation strategies.
In calculating mortality the more up to date tables referred to in the report of BW  
the PA.16 tables  should be used.
It is possible Mr and Mrs J are paying more when increasing the sum assured under 
the inflation option, but it is not possible to say it is more likely than not they are doing 
so based on the evidence.
It is more likely than not Mr and Mrs Js estate will increase in value and as such their 
potential IHT liability will also increase but that doesnt mean they will continue to use 
the inflation option year on year.
I dont accept that Mr and Mrs J would simply continue to increase the sum assured 
whatever the cost and would only want their children to benefit from their estate on 
their deaths.
It is more likely than not that Mr and Mrs J would want their children to benefit from 
their estate before they died, and this would also make sense in terms of IHT 
mitigation.
The discount for the WOP benefit should be based on CMI IP 06 Income Protection 
Claim Inception Tables  Occupational Category 1.
Mr and Mrs J didnt fail to mitigate their loss because they didnt take out income 
protection policies.
The discount for accelerated receipt should be 1%.
Mr and Mrs J, as with my first provisional decision, agreed with some of the findings in my 
second provisional decision but not with others. They provided some further evidence and, in 
summary made the following points in relation to those findings they didnt agree with:
The quote from the provider dated 9 June 2017 provided a total premium with 0% 
commission with the total amount of premium payable over the term of the policy, 
assuming no change to the cover, being £347,371.10. This figure is repeated in the 
providers letter dated 27 June 2017.
The above total premium figure doesnt include the automatic inflation option.
The evidence he has now obtained from the provider shows 44 years of prices 
confirming the monthly and yearly premiums and the additional amount payable post 
reprice.
Th data provided by ReAssure shows the pre-reprice premium (with 50% 
commission) and the post reprice premium (with 0% commission).
The data shows that the pre-reprice rates at 50% commission over 44 years amounts 
to £2,820,034.80 while the post reprice rates at 0% commission payable for the 
current policy amounts to a total of £4,047,558.53, a loss of £1,227,633.73.
The information from the provider shows that whilst the difference in premium starts 
at £202.49 it rises substantially over time.
The evidence shows they have sustained a loss because of the increase in the 
premiums, contrary to what the ombudsman has said.
The information from ReAssure shows that it is possible to show what the outcome from reprice will be and this is also confirmed in the letter from the provider dated 15 
January 2022 which states that it is likely that the illustration provided will increase in 
value when repricing occurs and unlikely that it will reduce given policy holders age 
as previously advised.
The ombudsman gave a list of factors that the provider used when deciding on the 
premium under the automatic inflation option but only age and the providers 
experience are taken into account.
The policy schedule refers to increasing the premium without the need for further 
medical evidence and the providers letter of 15 January 2022 also clarified this. 
Lifesearch had no option but to reduce its commission to reduce the losses payable 
and they would like the ombudsman to acknowledge there is no benefit to them from 
this, as they are still paying in excess of what they should be paying.
It is more than fair and reasonable to say that no one else can represent what he and 
Mrs J intend, and it is disappointing that they are being constantly questioned on their 
intention given the option for redress they have offered  namely for Lifesearch to 
pay monthly on an ongoing basis. 
He and his wife have no intention to take the proactive steps required to stop taking 
the inflation option each year. It does not seem fair or reasonable to discount this 
option which they have used each year and will continue to use.
They invite the ombudsman to consider the fact they are willing to accept Lifesearch 
paying monthly, directly to the provider if necessary, if there is any question about the 
intention to keep paying this. This seems the fairest option in the circumstances.
They have been saving for their children since birth and to date each have savings 
which will fall outside of their estate if they satisfy the IHT seven-year rule. The 
savings will only increase over the years.
They also utilize the full junior savings allowance every year and will do so going 
forwards which would provide over £133,000 for their daughter and just short of 
£150,000 for their son, ignoring any investment growth.
Any further gifting of assets doesnt immediately remove any IHT liability and more 
importantly doesnt meet his or his wifes wishes given how much they are already 
putting in savings and also, given their childrens ages, other options cannot be taken 
up any time soon.
He and his wife calculated and were fully aware of the cost of the WOL plan including 
the inflation option and ensured that payment could be made for the whole of their 
lives from income/investments.
If they pass further assets down before death, they would be in a position where they 
couldnt service the WOL plan from income and this could cause further IHT issues 
as noted in the report from ML.
Their Wills and expression of wishes dated October 2018 shows they dont intend 
gifting assets until the children reach 25 and then only at a nominal percentage of the 
value of the estate.
In short, they want their children to stand on their own two feet before they are 
provided with significant amounts from the estate. It is something of a family tradition 
even if others dont agree with it and it is unfair of anyone to question this given the 
option provided to Lifesearch  to pay the additional premium amount on an ongoing 
basis. 
The children dont require any part of their assets anytime soon given they are 
already well provided for and this doesnt include future savings.
They have considered other IHT options such as gifting further assets - which they 
dont wat to do because they lose control of the assets and the income from those 
assets - and Business Property Relief (BPR)  which would require significant 
investment to impact IHT and is riskier than they would want. They are also aware of 
the different types of trust arrangements available. However, as already mentioned 
they dont want to lose control of their assets and wouldnt want their children to have a large part of their estate before a certain age.
The ombudsmans view that their estate will continue to grow is welcomed and the 
figures that have been provided are conservative.
The ombudsman is invited to disregard the expert evidence Lifesearch relies upon 
regarding the automatic inflation option given the information he has now provided 
which shows that they will continue to suffer a loss under that option.
If Lifesearch and/or the ombudsman is unwilling to award redress on Lifesearch 
paying a monthly delta then at the very least on a balance of probabilities the 
ombudsman should find that he and his wife will continue to exercise the option given 
their wishes to stay in control of their estate and service the WOL plan through 
income.
I issued a third provisional decision, the findings from which are set out below
Using the same headings as in my second provisional decision my findings are as set out 
below and are made on a balance of probabilities  what is more likely, than not  based 
on the available evidence.
What is the difference between the base premium Mr and Mrs J would have paid if there 
had been no mistake and what they are paying?
In my first provisional decision I said the monthly difference on which redress should be 
calculated is £202.49 being the difference between the base premium they are paying of
£804.10 and the figure of £601.61 being the premium they would have paid before the re- 
price if Lifesearch had taken 50% commission. I maintained that figure in my second 
provisional decision and have been provided with no further information or evidence that 
would lead me to change that figure.
Over what period should Lifesearch be responsible for the additional base premium 
amount?
In my first provisional decision I thought that it was more likely than not Mr and Mrs J would 
keep the plan until death. I explained in my second provisional decision why I wasnt 
minded to change this finding and have been provided with no information or evidence that 
would lead me to change this now. 
I did however find that it would be reasonable to use more up to date mortality tables and 
think that in calculating mortality the PA.16 Tables should be used with CMI 2017 
Improvements and 1.25% long term rate.
Should Lifesearch pay anything for the increase to premium under the inflation option?
This is the most contentious issue and has been the subject of various reports and 
evidence in the course of this complaint.
I didnt allow anything for this in either my first or second provisional decisions. I wasnt 
satisfied on the evidence that it was more likely than not that the increase in premium 
under the inflation option would be more under the plan Mr and Mrs J have than it would 
be under the plan they would have had just because the plan they have was incepted post 
reprice at a higher initial premium.
In my second provisional I pointed to the fact that Mr and Mrs J are not paying 
commission under the plan they have whereas they would have been paying commission 
if nothing had gone wrong, and that commission was one of the factors that the provider 
said could impact the premium payable. I note that Mr J has said that the only factors that 
impact the increase in premium under the inflation option are age and the experience of the provider. But what I set out were factors the provider had said would impact the 
premium in answer to one of the questions put to it by the parties.
I also made reference to the provider repricing policies around every five years and said 
that I didnt think it was possible to say what the outcome of any re-price will be on the 
premium payable for increasing the sum assured under the automatic inflation option.
Mr J has now given me figures from the provider for the premiums payable if the 
automatic inflation option is used year on year for 44 years, from the plans inception in 
2017. The provider has given figures for both the plan Mr and Mrs J should have had, 
with a starting monthly base premium of £601.61, and the plan they have, with a starting 
monthly base premium of £804.10.
The figures show the increase in premium under the automatic inflation option are 
more under the plan Mr and Mrs J have than they would have been under the plan 
they should have had. The provider has calculated the figures on current rates, and 
these take no account of what might happen on repricing.
Mr and Mrs J have applied the automatic increase under the inflation option every year 
to date. This is obviously a loss that is capable of being calculated based on the figures 
provided.
The difference in the premiums that Mr and Mrs J have paid and what they would have 
paid amounts to a total of around £1,542. If they stopped using the automatic inflation 
increase as from now and the sum assured remained at the current amount they would, 
going forwards, still continue to pay an additional ongoing amount each year - over and 
above the additional amount they are paying for the base premium - of £653.40. This 
amount is an ongoing loss that they are entitled to recover.
However, it is Mr and Mrs Js case that they are entitled to much more than this on the 
basis they will continue to increase the sum assured under the automatic inflation option 
over their lifetimes.
Regarding future increases in the premium under the automatic inflation option the 
providers figures show the difference between what Mr and Mrs J will pay for increasing 
the sum assured each year and what they would have paid widens year on year. The total 
difference over 44 years amounts to £1,219,628.73 based on the providers figures.
However, these figures are based on current increment rates. They dont take account of 
future repricing, as the letter from the provider to Mr and Mrs J dated 12 January 2022 
makes clear. In a further letter to Mr and Mrs J dated 15 January 2022 the provider did 
state:
We can confirm that it is likely that the illustration provided will increase in value 
when repricing occurs and unlikely that it will reduce in value given policy holders 
age as previously advised.
The illustration is a reference to the 44 years of pricing information and as such the letter 
suggests that the figures provided in the illustration will, on repricing, be higher than what 
are shown. I take this to mean that the figures currently shown for the monthly premium 
payable if the automatic inflation increase is applied each year will be higher on repricing - 
for both the plan Mr and Mrs J have and the plan they should have had.
I acknowledge that this doesnt mean the difference between the two premiums will be the 
same as the provider has calculated after it has carried out any future repricing exercise 
and it could be less than the figures shown. But equally the figures could be higher. In the absence of any better evidence, and given Mr and Mrs J are willing to accept monthly 
payments to the provider which would deal with any uncertainty, I think in the 
circumstances of this case it is fair and reasonable to base any redress I award for Mr and 
Mrs J continuing to use the automatic inflation option into the future on the figures 
provided.
In my previous provisional decisions I said I wasnt satisfied that Mr and Mrs J would 
simply continue to increase the sum assured under the WOL plan year on year whatever 
the cost or that they would only want their children to benefit after their deaths. I said I 
thought it was more likely than not they would want their children to have the benefit of 
their estate before their deaths and that this also would make sense in terms of IHT 
mitigation.
Mr J has made various points in response to my findings on this issue. He challenges 
what I have said about he and Mrs J giving away part of their estate to the children before 
death. He says they want the children to stand on their own two feet and that this is a 
family tradition and only he and his wife can say what their intentions are.
I acknowledge what Mr J has said about their intentions, but I still need to weigh up the 
evidence and make findings on a balance of probabilities. On one hand they say they 
want their children, who are both currently very young, to stand on their own two feet. On 
the other they have told me that they already have savings in place for the children that 
amount to nearly £500,000 each.
This doesnt really suggest that the children are expected to stand on their own two feet 
such that Mr and Mrs J would choose to retain their entire estate until death rather than 
take other IHT mitigation steps in due course.
Mr and Mrs J have provided copies of their Wills and expression of wishes letters 
completed in 2018 as further support to their argument that they wouldnt gift large parts of 
the estate to the children. The Wills dont provide the children with the entirety of Mr Js 
and Mrs Js estate on their deaths but do provide them with substantial assets on reaching 
25 years of age.
I am not persuaded that the Wills provide persuasive evidence that Mr and Mrs J 
wouldnt take other IHT steps in the future. I accept that they wouldnt necessarily do so 
whilst the children remained minors. I can therefore see them relying on the WOL plan 
until the children reach adulthood.
Given the Wills allow for the children to receive substantial benefits at 25 it seems 
reasonable to me to find that Mr and Mrs J would be willing to start using other IHT 
mitigation strategies in line with that such as gifting money or assets to the children 
either fully or by way of trust. I am not satisfied that it is more likely than not that they 
would rely just on the plan for IHT mitigation beyond that point given this would require 
them to pay an ever-increasing amount into the plan over their lifetimes.
I accepted in my second provisional decision that it was more likely than not Mr and Mrs 
Js estate would grow in value and that as such their potential IHT liability would increase 
over their lifetimes. Given what I have said about it being reasonable to rely on the WOL 
plan for IHT mitigation whilst the children are minors it follows that there may be a need 
to increase the sum assured to cover the increase in the value of estate.
There is no agreement as to what the estate might increase in value by. The parties 
have each provided evidence that show very different values arrived at by using different assumptions as to growth. I dont think the assumptions of either partys 
expert are unreasonable.
The evidence of ML on behalf of Lifsearch calculates that the estate could be worth around
£8.3 million when the youngest child reaches 25, with a potential IHT liability at that time 
of around £2,443,000. If Mr and Mrs J continued to use the automatic inflation option they 
would have a sum assured that would cover this after increasing the sum assured for a 
further six years. The additional amount they will have paid in premiums above what they 
would have paid would amount to £25,010 at that point and if they made no further 
increase to the sum assured they would pay an ongoing additional amount each year of 
£5,176.68 to keep the sum assured at the same level going forwards from then.
Mr and Mrs Js wealth manager provides very different figures for what their estate would 
be worth at the point the youngest child reaches 25. On its calculations the estate would 
be worth over £15.7 million with a potential IHT liability at that point of £4,754,900.
The figures from the provider show that they would need to continue using the automatic 
increase option every year until the youngest child was 25 at which point the plan would 
provide a sum assured that was just short of the projected IHT liability at that point. The 
additional amount they would have paid in premiums at that point would amount to 
£138,393 by my calculations. If Mr and Mrs J then kept the sum assured at the same level 
going forwards they would have to pay an additional amount of £14,783.76 every year 
from then.
As I have said, I dont think either set of assumptions used by the partys experts are 
unreasonable. In the circumstances I think it is fair and reasonable to use a midway point 
between the two calculations. I have therefore used a figure of £12 million as the value of 
the estate at the point the youngest child reaches 25. That would lead to a potential IHT 
liability of around £3.4 million. 
The figures from the provider show that Mr and Mrs J would need to use the inflation 
option each year for the next 13 years to get to that sum assured. This would cost them an 
additional amount of £44,702.96. To keep the sum assured at that level going forwards it 
would cost them an ongoing additional yearly amount after 13 years of £6,933.96.
Should Lifesearch pay anything under the options to increase the sum assured for 
other specified reasons?
The plan allows for the sum assured to be increased for specific reasons such as when 
a mortgage or salary increase takes place. Mr and Mrs J have provided a letter from the 
provider dated 9 February 2022 which provides a quote for increasing the sum assured 
by £150,000 under those options. The additional premium for this is calculated at 
£100.79 each month for the plan they have as compared to £65.51 each for the plan 
they should have had.
From the information available Mr and Mrs J did contact the provider previously with a 
view to increasing the sum assured under the mortgage option. However, the provider 
asked for evidence that the mortgage had increased, this being one of the criteria for 
exercising the option. From what I have seen this was then not pursued. I have seen no 
persuasive evidence that this is something they still intend. Given their financial position 
there seems no good reason they would need to increase the mortgage on the family 
home.
The other option that the provider referred to was increasing the sum assured due to a 
salary increase. The amount by which the sum assured could be increased by is the lower of five times the increase in annual basic earned income or £150,000. In other words, the 
sum assured could be increased by less than £150,000. I have seen no evidence by which 
I could make a finding that it is more likely than not Mr and Mrs J would increase the sum 
assured under this provision.
What discount should be applied because Mr and Mrs J have WOP benefit?
I said that I accepted Mr and Mrs Js experts basis for calculating this  namely CMI IP 06 
Income Protection Claim Inception Tables  Occupational Category 1. I have seen no 
persuasive evidence that would lead me to change my finding on this.
Have Mr and Mrs J failed to mitigate their loss?
I have been provided with no argument or evidence that would lead me to change my 
finding that Mr and Mrs J didnt fail to mitigate their loss because they didnt take out 
income protection policies instead of the WOP benefit they wanted.
What discount should be used for accelerated receipt?
I am still of the view that a discount of 1% is reasonable. Although the lump sum payment 
is to compensate them for the additional amount they are having to pay for the plan they 
dont need to use the lump sum for that purpose. They have the financial ability to pay the 
additional amount from other money they have available. I dont see why they should have 
to put the lump sum at risk by investing in the circumstances.In response to my third provisional decision Mr and Mrs J made the following points:
They are pleased that I have not changed my finding as to the amount of the 
increased base premium of £202.49 each month.
They are pleased that I have agreed the payment for the additional base premium 
should be until second death.
It makes a significant difference to the redress if the ombudsman doesnt allow the 
automatic inflation option for the whole of life as part of the losses.
It is disappointing that their offer from day one, to accept redress based on a monthly 
redress which would be the fairest outcome as it would remove all assumptions, has 
not been adopted.
Lifesearchs expert (ML) stated that the use of a lifetime trust and some cheaper term 
assurance could have been a better solution and they want the ombudsman to note 
that this demonstrates Lifesearch failed to advise him properly.
In the alternative it demonstrates it didnt understand the policy it sold to him and 
didnt consider the suitability of the policy and whether an alternative plan could have 
offered a better solution.
They want to make clear that their intention was at the outset and remains that they 
want a policy to provide an inheritance to their beneficiaries.
In the Barnett Waddingham report of 10 August 2021 it states that one of the reasons 
for taking out a guaranteed whole of life policy is to provide an inheritance to the 
beneficiaries.
In the circumstances it seems unjustifiable to question their intent given this is 
something they have stated was an objective form the start. In the circumstances 
they would like the ombudsman to reconsider the use of the WOL policy as a savings 
plan.
The ombudsman has referred to substantial savings being intended for the children 
but these are to assist up to university and allow them to enter the workplace without 
being in debt, but this is where gifting parts of their estate stops.
They have enclosed a letter from the provider which confirms that although 
commission is a factor in this case, it has no benefit.
So, whilst it may be beneficial to be on 0% commission ordinarily, it makes no 
difference in their case.
They would like the ombudsman to acknowledge that the 44 years of data from the 
provider represents the minimum loss when the automatic inflation option gets 
applied each year. 
They would like the ombudsman to review the letter from the provider dated 30 May 
2022 which confirms that it is likely that on repricing they will pay more in premiums 
than they would have done pre-reprice.
They are disappointed that the ombudsman does not find the Wills and legal 
documents persuasive, especially as they were finalised before the referral to our 
service.
If they do not die, then the children will only benefit upon second death and the 
current mortality tables dont have them passing when the children are 25.
They are having a third child, so if the ombudsmans view remains the same as in his 
third provisional decision then they hope he will take the third child age as the age at 
which they would stop using the inflation option.
The ombudsman should disregard the projections from ML as to the future value of 
the estate as the expert report acknowledges that full details werent available and 
assumed asset returns have been made without knowing their attitude to risk.
ML have reduced the property values based on figures from Savilles, but the figures 
are higher in every part of the country and even more so for London where they have 
property.
The same issues apply to the projections for investments made by ML and the ombudsman is again invited to disregard the figures provided.
The report of ML said the projections were generous because inflation was low, but 
the model is now incorrect because of changes in the global economic environment.
They have provided a letter from the provider dated 22 June 2022, which 
summarises the impact of them applying to increase the sum assured under the 
salary option and the effect of the inflation option. It can be seen that this years 
inflation option increased the sum assured by 7.84%.
They have sufficient income and investment income to meet current and ongoing 
demands of the WOL policy to death.
They think the conservative growth figures for property is 10% and for investments 
9% and cash 1.5%.
There is a higher probability of taxation charges given they started the policy on a 
higher rate and this element of the complaint has not been considered to date.
They would like the ombudsman to award redress for the increase to the sum 
assured under the salary option which they requested in February 2022 before the 
third provisional decision.
They didnt pursue an increase under the mortgage option because the property they 
were considering had subsidence, but they will be relocating and obtaining further 
lending given current rates and what can be achieved with investments.
They would like the ombudsman to make an award for legal costs and expenses 
given these would not have been incurred but for the actions of Lifesearch.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I have considered everything that Mr and Mrs J have said in response to my third provisional 
decision.
I have kept to the headings previously used in my provisional decisions as far as possible 
but I will address a couple of issues Mr and Mrs J have referred to first. 
Firstly, they have referred to the report from ML indicating a lifetime trust and some cheaper 
term assurance being possibly a better option (to the WOL policy). They say this 
demonstrates that Lifesearch failed to advise them properly. This raises the prospect of the 
policy being unsuitable. 
I referred to the potential suitability issue raised by ML in its report in my second provisional 
decision. I made the point that Mr and Mrs J had not complained about suitability and that 
the report didnt go as far as saying the WOL policy was unsuitable  although I did 
comment that as a life insurance broker I wouldnt have expected Lifesearch to discuss other 
IHT mitigation strategies.
So it is clear to the parties, I have not investigated the issue pf suitability in any depth in this 
complaint given the advice was not obviously wrong  in that a guaranteed WOL policy is a 
recognised way of mitigating against a potential IHT liability - and it wasnt raised as an issue 
in the original complaint. So, any comments I have made about suitability should not be 
taken as definitive findings on that issue.
Secondly, Mr and Mrs J have referred to a higher probability of taxation charges which has 
not been addressed previously. I think its is beyond the scope of my decision to make 
findings on tax charges that may or may not become payable based on the evidence I have 
been provided with in this complaint.Turning to the other issues in the complaint my findings are as set out below.
What is the difference between the base premium Mr and Mrs J would have paid if there 
had been no mistake and what they are paying?
I have seen no information that would lead me to change my finding that this should be 
£202.49 as I have previously found.
Over what period should Lifesearch be responsible for the additional base premium amount?
I have been provided with no information or evidence that would lead me to change my 
previous finding that this should be over Mr and Mrs Js lifetimes and using PA.16 tables with 
CMI 2017 improvements and 1.25% long term rate.
Should Lifesearch pay anything for the increase to premium under the inflation option?
Having previously not allowed anything in my first two provisional decisions I was persuaded 
in my third provisional decision that I should award something for this based on further 
evidence from the provider which showed Mr and Mrs J would pay more under the inflation 
option for the post-reprice policy they have than they would have done for the pre-reprice 
policy they should have had.
I pointed out that Mr and Mrs J have used the inflation option year on year since the start of 
the policy and this was therefore capable of calculation. I calculated the amount paid at the 
time of my third provisional decision was £1,542 and that Mr and Mrs J would pay an 
additional £653.40 each year - over and above the additional base premium amount. I said 
that this was an ongoing loss they were entitled to recover even if they didnt exercise the 
inflation option again. I have seen no information that would lead to me changing that finding 
save that there has been another increase to the premium under the inflation option since 
my third provisional decision so the amount payable to date will need to take account of that.
I am still of the view that it is reasonable to find that Mr and Mrs J would continue to increase 
the sum assured under the inflation option going forward but was not persuaded this would 
be over their lifetimes as they argued. 
The providers figures for the premium increase both for the pre-reprice policy and the post-
reprice policy they do have are based on current rates, as I have previously noted. The 
evidence indicates that the difference shown would probably be greater after future re-
pricing. However, there is no way for me to know at this time what the difference would be 
on any future re-pricing. So, there is no way for this to be accounted for in the redress 
awarded. In short, the figures provided by the provider based on current rates are the best 
available evidence as to what the difference will be.
I also acknowledge that the figures from the provider are based on an increase to the sum 
assured of 5% whilst the increase this year was above that due to inflation being higher this 
year. But again, there is no way of calculating what the increase to the sum assured will be 
by incorporating figures for inflation in the future as there is no way of knowing what inflation 
will be. The only known figure is the 5% which applies unless inflation is higher. In the 
circumstances it is fair and reasonable to use that as the basis of any calculation going 
forward. 
This leaves the issue of the period over which Mr and Mrs J would use the inflation option. 
They still argue this should be based on them using this option for life. However, I am not persuaded this would be fair or reasonable.  There is no way to know with any degree of 
certainty what Mr and Mrs J may do in the future and I am mindful they argue strongly they 
would not divest themselves of part of their estate to their children for IHT purposes during 
their lifetimes.
However, I find it difficult to accept that, they would allow their estate to keep accruing in 
value over their lifetimes without taking additional IHT mitigation steps, such as gifting part of 
the estate or putting it in trust for the children. I am not persuaded that simply applying the 
inflation option and paying what will be an increasing amount by way of premium each year 
into the WOL policy until they die is likely. 
I acknowledge what Mr and Mrs J have said about the WOL policy being intended as 
savings for the children as well. They have pointed out that the report of BW identifies that 
providing an inheritance to beneficiaries is one of the reasons people decide to take out a 
guaranteed WOL policy. But just because it is possible such a policy can be used for that 
purpose doesnt mean this is the reason Mr and Mrs J took out the WOL policy. Also, taking 
out a WOL policy at a guaranteed premium is not the same as taking out such a policy and 
then increasing the premium year on year every year.
I have seen no persuasive evidence the policy was taken out to provide an inheritance to the 
children and I think it is more likely than not that the policy was taken out to mitigate against 
potential IHT. I think the argument that the WOL policy is intended as an inheritance isnt 
really consistent with it being used as the main IHT mitigation strategy given the policy 
proceeds would be needed to pay the IHT liability rather than be paid to the children as an 
inheritance.
This leaves the issue over what period Mr and Mrs J would use the inflation option. They 
argue they would not give significant parts of the estate to the children in their lifetimes. They 
have said that the current savings they have put aside for the children are to assist with the 
costs of university and ensure the children enter the workplace without debt. But, putting on 
one side that the amounts involved seem far in excess of what would be required for this, I 
am still not persuaded that Mr and Mrs J would elect to keep control of the entirety of their 
estate until death rather than take further IHT mitigation steps in due course.
Mr and Mrs J have pointed out that their two current children can only benefit under the Wills 
at 25 if Mr and Mrs J are both dead and that the life expectancy evidence doesnt show they 
will have died at that time. I acknowledge what they have said and I didnt intend to suggest 
that I thought the children would inherit under the Wills at 25. My reference to the ages in the 
Wills was simply to make the point that whilst Mr and Mrs J said they expect the children to 
stand on their own two feet the Wills indicated a point at which they would be happy for the 
children to have the benefit of part of the estate.
I accepted in my third provisional decision that Mr and Mrs J might choose not to take other 
IHT mitigation steps whilst the children are minors but was not persuaded that they wouldnt 
take such steps when the children became adults. The 25 years referred to in the Wills gave 
a point at which they might reasonably start doing so given Mr and Mrs Js ages at that time, 
the extent of their estate and the age of their children and I think it is still reasonable to use 
this.
I think it gives a reasonable cut off point for when Mr and Mrs J might start taking other IHT 
mitigation steps such as putting money in trust. I acknowledge Mr and Mrs J are now 
expecting a third child but that doesnt change my view as to when they might reasonably be 
expected to take other IHT mitigation steps. In short, I dont think they would push back the 
time for taking such steps just because they are having another child. In this regard I would point to the evidence that Mr and Mrs J have provided and on which 
they rely, as they have put forward their arguments as to what they would do in reliance on 
this evidence.  
Based on their evidence, in 2041 when their second child is 25 Mr and Mrs Js estate would 
be such that there would already be a shortfall of around £100,000 between their potential 
IHT liability and the amount payable under the policy. In other words the policy would not 
provide the cover needed to cater for the full potential IHT liability as at 2041. 
In short, Mr and Mrs J would need to start to take further IHT mitigation steps before or 
around 2041 in any event based on the evidence they rely upon. I dont accept that Mr and 
Mrs J can reasonably argue that they would in any event increase the sum assured under 
the policy and pay more by way of premium year on year until death when the policy wont 
cover the potential IHT liability and the gap between the sum assured and potential IHT 
liability would widen year on year. 
Put another way, the argument they intend to keep on using the inflation option until death 
isnt consistent with the evidence they have put forward as to what their estate will be worth 
in future. So, I dont accept that their intention is simply to keep on using the inflation option 
and paying more and more into the policy rather than looking at other IHT mitigation options 
including the possibility of gifting to the children or putting part of their estate in trust.
I acknowledge that in my findings I have not used the figures provided by their wealth 
manager but instead have used a mid-point between the value shown by their evidence and 
the value shown in the report of ML. The issue I have identified above as to the policy not 
covering the IHT liability as of 2041 doesnt arise in that case. However, that doesnt change 
my view that Mr and Mrs J more likely than not would take other IHT mitigation steps in due 
course rather than keep on using the inflation option under the policy and increasing the sum 
assured and premium every year. 
Mr and Mrs J have  said I should  disregard  the evidence  of ML when  it comes  to the 
future  valuation  of their estate  and have  provided  some  further  information  in support  of 
what  they have  said.  However,  whilst  I have  considered  what  they have  said and the 
information  provided  I am not persuaded  I should  change  my finding  on this. Both  sides  
experts  are attempting  to project  the potential  value  of the estate  many  years  into the 
future  and I think  there  is a degree  of speculation  involved  in this on both sides.
In short,  I think  it is very difficult  to say with any degree  of certainty  what  the estate  
might  be worth  years  from now.  In the circumstances  I think  a midway  point  between  the 
figures  provided  by the parties  experts  is fair and reasonable.  
So, I am still of the view that an estate  value  of £12 million  as at 2041  is a reasonable  
assumption.  In my third provisional  decision  I found  that the WOL  policy  will provide  the 
sum assured  to cover  the IHT liability  for this amount  some  years  before  2041,  
assuming  the inflation  option  continues  to be used  year on year.
I acknowledge  that linking  the value  of the estate  and sum assured  as I have  done  when  
they are not linked  in time might  be questioned  given  it allows  that Mr and Mrs J will 
increase  the sum assured  year on year - above  what  they need  to cover  the IHT liability  
in those  years  - before  then stopping  use of the inflation  option  when  the sum assured  
reaches  around  £3,400  some  years  before  the potential  IHT liability  would  reach  that 
amount.  
But I am not satisfied  they would  keep  using  the inflation  option  to 2041  given  the 
increasing  costs  they would  be paying  for this each  year.  To give some  idea of those  costs,  using  the figures  the provider  has supplied  in January  2022,  the amount  they 
would  have  paid at the outset  for the pre-reprice  policy  is £7,219.32  in the first year.  At 
the point  the sum assured  amounts  to £3.4 million,  in around  2035,  the yearly  figure  
they will be paying  would  have  increased  to over £21,000.  If they continued  using  the 
inflation  option  until 2041  in that year they would  pay £35,493.  
I am not satisfied  that they would  keep  on paying  increasing  amounts  into the policy  
given  I think  its main  purpose  was IHT mitigation.  I acknowledge  that it is possible  they 
will do so. It is also possible  they will decide  not to keep  on increasing  the sum assured  
sooner.  Using  the point  at which  the sum assured  amounts  to £3.4 million  is a 
reasonable  compromise  in my view.
I cannot  see any reasonable  basis  for thinking  that Mr and Mrs J would  simply  keep  
throwing  money  into the WOL  policy  no matter  what  the cost.  The money  they pay into 
the WOL  policy  is money  lost to the estate.  It makes  no sense  for Mr and Mrs J to pay 
ever increasing  amounts  into a WOL  policy  and reducing  the amount  in the estate  by 
doing  so when  there  are other  alternatives  that could  provide  the IHT mitigation  the 
policy  is intended  to provide  without  such  cost to the estate.
What  discount  should  be applied  because  Mr and Mrs J have  WOP  benefit?
I have previously said the discount should be 1% and I have been provided with no further 
argument or information in relation to this that would lead me to change that finding.
Should Lifesearch pay anything under the options to increase the sum assured for 
other specified reasons?
I note the explanation Mr and Mrs J have provided as to why they didnt go ahead with the 
increase under the mortgage increase option. Whatever the reason, they didnt pursue this 
at the time and I have seen no persuasive evidence they would do so in the future. As I 
noted in my third provisional decision this option required there to have been an increase in 
the mortgage and there is no persuasive evidence they would increase the mortgage.
I acknowledge that Mr and Mrs J have referred to an intention to purchase a new home and 
that they would do this by way of mortgage. I accept that might be what they are thinking of 
doing but whether they will purchase a new home by way of an increased mortgage I think is 
far from clear. There seems no good reason they would need to increase the mortgage 
given their financial position even if they buy a larger home at greater cost. I am therefore 
not satisfied any allowance should be made for them exercising this option. 
The other option referred to is the salary increase option. I allowed nothing for this 
previously, as again I had seen no evidence at the time that it was more likely than not they 
would exercise the option. However the position has now changed, as Mr and Mrs J have 
now exercised the salary increase option. It is therefore now unarguable that Lifesearch will 
have to pay the amount of the premium over and above what would have been paid for this 
option under the pre-reprice policy. 
Legal and expert costs
Mr and Mrs J now claim for legal costs, counsels fees, and expert fees totalling £94,716. 
Generally we do not allow anything for costs incurred by a party in bring a complaint to our 
service but there are occasions where it is appropriate to award something because the 
costs were necessarily incurred.So far as legal costs and counsels fees are concerned, I am not persuaded it was 
necessary for these to be incurred for this complaint to be referred to us or for us to deal with 
it.
The position with regard to the expert fees and wealth manager fees is different in my view 
as I dont think I could have reached a fair and reasonable decisions without the benefit of 
the information they have provided and I dont think it is information that Mr and Mrs J would 
otherwise have been able to provide to me themselves.
As such I think it is fair and reasonable to allow the costs of the experts and wealth manager 
which in total have been put froward as amounting to £21,000 subject to Mr and Mrs J 
providing evidence to Lifesearch they have been charged those fees.
Putting things right
Mr and Mrs J have pointed out that throughout they have been willing to accept Lifesearch 
paying redress on an ongoing basis rather than as a lump sum and that this would avoid any 
uncertainty as to the redress. 
I acknowledge the point they make but this would potentially tie the parties together, based 
on their arguments, for around 44 years in circumstances where there would not ordinarily 
be an ongoing relationship. Furthermore it would involve a third party, the provider, who 
would have to provide calculations to the parties on an ongoing basis over that period.
In all the circumstances I think it is fair and reasonable that this matter be finalised now by 
way of a lump sum payment.
Past Loss
The base premium Mr and Mrs J have paid since the start of the plan is £202.49 more each 
month than they wouldve paid but for Lifesearchs mistake. In addition, Mr and Mrs J have 
increased the sum assured each year at an additional cost over and above what would have 
been payable. Mr and Mrs J have also now exercised the increase to the sum assured under 
the salary increase option.
Lifesearch should therefore calculate and pay Mr and Mrs J.
The amount of additional base premium to date.
The amount of the increase to the base premium under the inflation option over and 
above what they would have paid for exercising this option under the pre-reprice 
policy based on the information from the provider. 
Simple interest at 8% simple per year on each additional amount payable from the 
date of each payment to the date of settlement.
Expert fees and wealth manager fees of £21,000 subject to proof.
Future Loss 
Lifesearch should calculate and pay Mr and Mrs J:
The amount they will pay over their lifetimes for the base premium using the annual 
figure of £2,429.88 (£202.49 a month) from the date of settlement
The amount over and above what they would have paid under the pre-reprice policy 
over their lifetimes for the salary option they have now exercised.
The amount over and above what they would have paid under the pre-reprice policy for exercising the inflation option until 2035.
The ongoing additional amount payable for the premium for the policy until death 
based on the ongoing additional premium amount being fixed at the point the sum 
assured is £3.4 million. 
In calculating future loss Lifesearch should use the mortality tables I have identified and 
apply the appropriate discount for the WOP benefit being claimed and for accelerated receipt 
as I have set out above.
Distress and Inconvenience
I have noted what Mr and Mrs J have said about the award for distress and inconvenience. I 
still think an award of £500 is reasonable in the circumstances.
My final decision
Where I uphold a complaint, I can make a money award requiring a financial business to pay 
compensation of up to £150,000, plus any interest and/or costs that I consider appropriate. If 
I consider that fair compensation exceeds £150,000, I may recommend that Lifesearch 
Partners Limited pays the balance.
Determination and award: I uphold the complaint. I consider that fair compensation should 
be calculated as set out above. My decision is that Lifesearch Partners Limited should pay 
the amount produced by that calculation up to the maximum of £150,000 (including distress 
and/or inconvenience but excluding costs) plus any interest set out above.
Recommendation: If the amount produced by the calculation of fair compensation exceeds 
£150,000, I recommend that Lifesearch Partners Limited pays Mr and Mrs J the balance plus 
any interest on the balance as set out above. This is a recommendation only and isnt 
binding so the complainant should consider taking legal advice before accepting my final 
decision in respect of the amount of redress above £150,000.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr J and Mrs S to 
accept or reject my decision before 9 September 2022.
 
Philip Gibbons
Ombudsman