DRN-3620964
The complaint
J complains that Allianz Insurance Plc has unfairly maintained its position to decline its claim 
on its property insurance policy.
Mr P has brought this complaint on behalf of J.
What happened
Mr P is a director of J. J owns a property that is covered by an insurance policy with Allianz.
In December 2015 Mr P made a claim on Js behalf after discovering cracks at the property. 
Allianz accepted the claim and two trees very close to the wall of the structure were 
identified as causing the issue. These were felled and the property was monitored to ensure 
it had stabilised.
However in the years since this, Mr P has continued to report problems with cracking at the 
property. Allianz has sent experts to investigate the damage but theyve concluded that only 
a small part is caused by subsidence and the rest is caused by issues not covered by the 
policy such as settlement and maintenance issues. Allianz has therefore offered a cash 
settlement for the damage it considers is related to subsidence. 
In July 2020 Allianz appointed an independent surveyor to do a report to try and conclude 
matters. The surveyor said that most of the damage was caused due to settlement over a 
long period of time. And he thought only a small proportion had been caused by subsidence.
Mr P didnt agree and instructed his own surveyor to carry out a report which disagreed with 
Allianzs findings. It said the damage was largely due to subsidence caused by the trees that 
were felled. It also said that settlement usually happens within ten years of the construction 
of a building and this one had been in place for at least 50 years so they didnt think it likely 
this was the cause of the damage. It concluded large parts of the structure would need to be 
rebuilt and that it should be covered under the subsidence peril in the policy. 
Allianz gave the report to its surveyor for comment and they didnt agree with the findings. 
Allianzs expert said that due to the type of ground the structure was built on and the fact it 
wasnt a heavy building then settlement would occur over a much longer period. So it didnt 
agree that subsidence was the main cause. 
Mr P disagreed and made a complaint, but Allianz maintained its position. So Mr P brought 
his complaint to this service. 
Our investigator recommended the complaint be upheld. He said he was more persuaded by 
Mr Ps report, as the structure was build between 50 and 80 years ago, so ongoing 
settlement seemed unlikely. He recommended Allianz reconsider the claim under the 
subsidence cover, accepting the findings of Mr Ps report that the downward movement is 
caused by subsidence. He also recommended Allianz reimburse Mr P for the cost of his 
report.
Mr P accepted our investigators outcome. However Allianz didnt. It said  it didnt agree 
there was enough evidence to show that the damage had been largely caused by 
subsidence and maintained that due to the size of the building and ground type that 
settlement would take place over a much longer period. It asked for the complaint to be 
reviewed by an ombudsman. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
This complaint comes down to the difference of opinion of two experts  Mr Ps surveyor and 
Allianzs. At this service, we arent experts in structural repairs to buildings. So we rely on the 
opinions of those who are. Ive therefore considered the information provided from both 
reports, and the subsequent comments, to decide which I am most persuaded by.
The difference of opinion is about the proximate cause of the downward movement of the 
building. While Allianzs expert accepts there has been some movement caused by 
subsidence, they think it was largely due to settlement. Whereas Mr Ps expert thinks the 
main cause is subsidence caused by the two trees that were felled.
Ive considered Allianzs point that the damage has been caused by settlement. While 
subsidence is downward movement of the ground a building sits on, settlement is the 
movement of the structure itself due to compression of the ground below caused by its 
weight. The structure in question has been standing for a long time. And while it is unclear of 
the exact build date, both sides are in agreement that it is at least 50 years old, possibly up 
to 80. And while I can see it is built on made ground which would make it more susceptible 
to settlement, it seems improbable that this would still be ongoing after so many years. 
This service would usually expect to see settlement in around the first ten years after a 
building is constructed. Allianz has pointed out that the structure in question is particularly 
light, so it would take longer for the consolidation of the ground underneath to take place. 
But even taking this into account, I wouldnt expect this type of movement to still be taking 
place after 50 years. 
Mr Ps report concludes that due to the age, subsoil type and proximity of the original trees 
to the structure that subsidence is most likely the proximate cause of the damage. And from 
looking at the photos and considering the pattern and location of the damage, I am more 
persuaded by this finding. The trees that caused the original problem are very close to the 
wall of the structure, so Id expect the damage they caused to be substantial. And most of 
the damage is around the areas of where the trees stood. So it seems most likely that this is 
the main cause and the damage is largely caused by subsidence. I am therefore more 
persuaded by Mr Ps report.
I therefore agree with our investigator that Allianz should consider the claim again, based on 
the findings in Mr Ps report. And, as the report has changed the outcome of the claim, it 
should reimburse Mr P for the report. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given, I uphold Js complaint. I direct Allianz Insurance Plc to:
Settle Js claim based on the findings in the report provided by Mr P, in line with the 
remaining policy terms and conditions. Reimburse J for the cost of the report. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask J to accept or 
reject my decision before 10 November 2022.
 
Sophie Goodyear
Ombudsman