DRN-2365511
The complaint
Miss M and Miss M (who Ill refer to as Miss M1 and Miss M2) complain that Aviva Insurance 
Limited declined their travel insurance claim and about its service.
What happened
Miss M1 and Miss M2 booked a holiday abroad in 2019 and were due to depart at the end of 
April 2020. They took out single trip travel insurance with Aviva in March 2020.
The tour operator cancelled the trip due to Covid-19 and offered credit vouchers to Miss M1 
and Miss M2. On 18 March Miss M1 called Aviva to claim on the travel policy as she said 
they didnt want the vouchers and the tour operator wouldnt refund the holiday cost. Aviva 
said they could only claim if the Foreign & Commonwealth Offices advice not to travel to the 
relevant country was still in place within 7 days of their planned departure and it told Miss M1  
to wait until that time. Miss M1 says in that call Aviva told her it would cover the claim.
Miss M1 and Miss M2 sent the claim supporting information to Aviva on 6 April 2020. On 
22 April 2020 Miss M1 called Aviva to see what was happening. It told Miss M1 it wouldnt 
cover the claim as the tour operator had offered vouchers. 
Miss M1 and Miss M2 complained to us about the claim decline. They also said Aviva misled 
them that the claim would be paid and it had known about the vouchers from the start. 
Initially they wanted Aviva to pay the claim or refund the policy premium. They also said 
theyd wasted a lot of time claiming with Aviva and wanted compensation for their distress 
and inconvenience.
While the complaint was us the tour operator gave Miss M1 and Miss M2 a full cash refund 
of holiday costs. They still wanted us to look at their concerns about how Aviva handled the 
claim.
Our investigator said Aviva fairly declined the claim and hadnt given misleading information. 
He explained that Miss M1 and Miss M2 needed to complain to Aviva about the return of the 
premium refund before we could look at that issue. 
Miss M1 and Miss M2 disagree and want an ombudsmans decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Our investigator correctly explained why we cant look at Miss M1 and Miss M2s complaint 
about the premium refund as part of this complaint.
My decision is about whether Aviva fairly declined the claim and gave reasonable service, 
and I think it did. I dont uphold this complaint. Ill explain why.
The policy excluded cover for costs where these are recoverable from your travel and/or 
accommodation provider.
The tour operator paid a full refund to Miss M1 and Miss M2 so their claim isnt covered by 
Avivas policy as they recovered their full costs in the form of a voucher. The terms of the 
voucher werent overly restrictive. They were offered a voucher redeemable until July 2021 
which could be used for the tour operator and the sister company. At the time the voucher 
was valid for over a year which I think was reasonable. Miss M1 told Aviva that Miss M2 had 
been furloughed, but Ive seen no evidence of that and theres nothing about their 
circumstances which suggested they were unlikely to travel during that period.
So I think it was reasonable for Aviva to conclude that Miss M1 and Miss M2 had recovered 
their costs from their travel provider. 
Miss M1 and Miss M2 wanted a cash refund and didnt have that from the tour operator at 
the time Miss M1 first called Aviva. Ive listened to the call. Miss M1 told Aviva she didnt 
want to accept the tour operators offer of vouchers. Aviva told her how to proceed with her 
claim and didnt say the vouchers offer meant there was no cover under the policy. Aviva 
has apologised that it wasnt clearer about the issue but I dont think that means Aviva gave 
misleading information. It didnt guarantee the claim would be covered and it reasonably 
wanted to consider the detail and documents for the claim before it made a claim decision as 
part of its usual claims process.
Miss M1 spoke to Aviva twice on 22 April and Ive listened to both calls. Aviva considered 
the information Miss M1 sent and it then told her the tour operators vouchers offer meant 
that under the policy terms the costs had been recovered and the tour operator was legally 
required to compensate Miss M1. 
Aviva also said the tour operators letter indicated it was still considering its legal position 
and Miss M1 and Aviva discussed that the tour operator was ABTA/ATOL protected. 
ABTA/ATOL protection gave Miss M1 and Miss M2 certain legal rights. 
As Miss M1 and Miss M2 had booked a package holiday under the relevant regulations, The 
Package Travel and Linked Travel Arrangements Regulations 2018 (PTR), the package 
holiday provider which cancelled the holiday was responsible for refunding the holiday cost. 
If Miss M1and Miss M2 didnt want to accept the vouchers it was open to them to pursue the 
tour operator for a full cash refund under those regulations. The tour operator ultimately did 
provide a cash refund in line with the PTR 2018.
Miss M1 didnt tell Aviva she had a package holiday in the initial claim call but did in the first 
call of 22 April and Aviva had the claim documents by then which showed there was a 
package holiday. So I dont think Aviva could have told Miss M1 about the tour operators 
legal responsibility any sooner than it did. Although Aviva didnt give Miss M1 detailed advice 
about her position under the regulations I dont think it reasonably needed to particularly as 
at that time the Covid-19 circumstances were new, unprecedented, rapidly changing and 
many businesses were still considering their approach.
I can hear from the call recordings that Miss M1 was stressed and worried about getting 
back the holiday costs. There were aspects of Avivas service in the calls that could have 
been better, for example it referred to changing its approach to policy cover which was 
irrelevant to whether this claim would be covered as it was the package providers 
responsibility. 
But Im satisfied that Aviva fairly declined the claim and did so in a reasonable timescale of it 
having all the relevant information. And taking all the circumstances into account I think it 
gave a reasonable level of service.Miss M1 is unhappy Aviva didnt call her to respond to her complaint. But insurers generally 
dont telephone a consumer to provide a final response to a complaint and Aviva acted 
reasonably in responding to the complaint by email. 
My final decision
I dont uphold the complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss M1 and 
Miss M2 to accept or reject my decision before 5 February 2021.
 
Nicola Sisk
Ombudsman