DRN-3355937
The complaint
Mr and Mrs M complain that AXA Insurance UK Plc has turned down a travel disruption 
claim they made on a travel insurance policy.
What happened
Mr and Mrs M have travel insurance as a benefit of a packaged bank account.
In March 2020, Mr and Mrs M were abroad on a cruise, which had been booked as a 
package holiday. They were due to return to the UK on 27 March 2020. However, whilst they 
were away, the ship was diverted and quarantined in port on 22 March 2020, due to the 
Covid-19 pandemic. 
On this basis, Mr and Mrs M independently booked a return flight to the UK, which was due 
to depart on 24 March 2020. But they werent allowed to disembark the ship because of 
government restrictions and so they missed their flight. 
The cruise company arranged a repatriation flight, at no cost to Mr and Mrs M, which flew 
back to the UK on 24 March 2020. Following their return, the package provider refunded Mr 
and Mrs Ms original return flight costs and I understand it offered a voucher for a future 
replacement cruise and any unused packages. 
Mr and Mrs M made a claim on their travel insurance policy for the cost of the flight theyd 
booked while they were away which they hadnt been able to use. As the flight had departed 
as planned, the airline said they werent entitled to a refund of their ticket cost.
AXA turned down the claim. It said Mr and Mrs Ms trip had been booked as a package 
holiday and therefore, itd been the package providers responsibility to return them to the 
UK.
Mr and Mrs M were unhappy with AXAs decision, so they asked us to look into their 
complaint.
Our investigator didnt think this complaint should be upheld. He said the travel disruption 
section of the policy specifically excluded claims which related to package holidays. He 
explained that as the trip had been booked as a package, the Package Travel and Linked 
Travel Arrangements Regulations 2018 (PTR) applied to the terms of the booking. This 
means the package provider had been liable for performance of the booking contract. He  
felt that by booking their own flights home rather than waiting for the package provider to 
arrange return flights, Mr and Mrs M had prejudiced AXAs position. And he noted that Mr 
and Mrs M hadnt had to pay for their actual repatriation flight and had been refunded for 
their original return flight booking. So he didnt think there was a financial loss for AXA to 
consider. He concluded itd been fair for AXA to turn down the claim.
Mr and Mrs M disagreed. They said that the reason AXA had declined the claim was 
because the money was recoverable from another source. Theyd demonstrated this wasnt 
the case. The investigators conclusions hadnt taken into account the situation theyd been 
in and the fact that no information had been available. They said theyd been in a precarious 
position and that sadly, friends had passed away due to Covid-19. They considered the 
investigator had assessed the complaint with the benefit of hindsight.
The complaints been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, whilst Im sorry to disappoint Mr and Mrs M, I think it was fair for AXA to 
turn down their claim and Ill explain why.
First, Id like to offer my sincere condolences to Mr and Mrs M for the loss of their friends. I 
dont doubt what an upsetting and worrying time this has been for them and I sympathise 
with their position.
The relevant regulators rules say that insurers must handle claims promptly and fairly. And 
they mustnt turn down claims unreasonably. So Ive considered, amongst other things, the 
terms and conditions of the policy and the circumstances of Mr and Mrs Ms claim, to decide 
whether AXA treated them fairly.
Ive first considered the terms and conditions of Mr and Mrs Ms policy, as these form the 
basis of the contract between Mr and Mrs M and AXA. I appreciate that when Mr and Mrs M 
booked their cruise, the circumstances which unfolded surrounding Covid-19 couldnt have 
been foreseen by either policyholders or insurers. 
But no insurance policy covers every eventuality and insurers are entitled to decide what 
level of risk they wish to accept in return for the premium paid for a policy. Therefore, AXAs 
obligations under its contract with Mr and Mrs M are limited by the terms, conditions and 
exclusions which are set out in the policy. Mr and Mrs M didnt take out an all-risks policy. 
This means that AXA has set out the specific, listed insured events its chosen to cover if a 
policyholders holiday is disrupted.
In this case, AXA has considered the claim under Section Q  Travel Disruption. This 
provides the following cover:
We will pay You up to £5,000 for Your unused travel, accommodation (including excursions 
up to £250) and other Pre-paid Charges that You cannot claim back from any other source 
together with any reasonable additional travel (including up to £200 for taxis and hire cars) 
and accommodation costs which are of a similar standard to that of Your pre booked travel 
and accommodation (for example full or half board, all inclusive, bed and breakfast, self 
catering or room only) if You have to;
Curtail Your Trip with prior authorisation of AXA Assistance as a result of the Travel Advice 
Unit of the Foreign & Commonwealth Office (FCO) or other regulatory authority in the 
country You are in recommending evacuation from the country or specific area You have 
travelled to providing the advice came into force after You left Your Home Area to 
commence the Trip.
Mr and Mrs M independently booked flights which wouldve returned them to the UK on the 
same day that the Foreign, Commonwealth & Development Office advised all UK nationals 
abroad to return to the UK. I can understand then why they consider their claim should be 
met under this section of the policy. However, section Q also includes a list of things AXA has chosen to exclude from cover. 
One of these is:
Any costs if Your Trip was booked as part of a Package holiday.
Its common ground that Mr and Mrs Ms cruise holiday was booked as part of a package. In 
my view then, the exclusion Ive quoted above would likely apply to the circumstances of this 
claim. Generally, a package holiday would be considered to be a holiday contract that 
includes two or more travel services, which are combined for the purposes of the same trip. 
The travel provider is liable for the performance of these services. Here, AXA concluded that 
the travel provider had been responsible for returning Mr and Mrs M to the UK. And indeed, 
the cruise company did organise a return flight, at no cost to Mr and Mrs M, on 24 March 
2020.
So whilst I can understand that Mr and Mrs M were worried about the developing situation 
and why they chose to independently book flights outside of the package arrangement, I 
agree with the investigator that they prejudiced AXAs position by doing so. Thats because 
they incurred costs which they didnt need to pay out, as the cruise company arranged a 
return flight for them at no charge. 
It seems that the package provider refunded the cost of Mr and Mrs Ms original, pre-booked 
return flights too, despite the cruise company covering the cost of the repatriation flight. Mr 
and Mrs M would always have needed to pay to return to the UK, even if their plans hadnt 
been disrupted. So if AXA had also covered the cost of the flight Mr and Mrs M booked 
independently, this wouldve meant theyd travelled home free of charge. And as a result, Mr 
and Mrs M wouldve been placed in a better financial position than they wouldve been but 
for the claim. This simply isnt the purpose of an insurance policy.
Overall, having considered the policy terms and conditions, I dont think there are any 
reasonable grounds upon which I could fairly direct AXA to pay this claim. So Im not telling 
AXA to do anything more.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs M and Mr M to 
accept or reject my decision before 10 June 2022.
 
Lisa Barham
Ombudsman