DRN-3588652
The complaint
Ms R says that James Hay Administration Company Ltd (James Hay) was responsible for 
substantial delays in effecting the transfer of her money purchase (defined contribution) 
occupational pension to a Self-invested Personal Pension (SIPP). She says this caused her 
significant financial detriment. 
What happened
In December 2019 Ms R says she initiated the transfer of two of her pensions. She 
wanted to consolidate her funds into a James Hay SIPP. One of the switches happened 
within two weeks. But the move of her Accenture Retirement Savings Plan (ARP), which 
was administered by Willis Towers Watson (WTW), suffered delays.
Its helpful in cases like Ms Rs to review the chronology of events, which has been 
constructed from evidence provided by James Hay, WTW and Ms R.
19 December 2019  Ms R signed paperwork expressing her wish to transfer her defined 
contribution (DC) pension away from ARP. This was a WTW form, which she sent to James 
Hay, presumably for it to complete the relevant section as the receiving scheme. Ms R also 
completed a James Hay form requesting the switch of her Additional Voluntary Contributions 
(AVC) plan as cash into a James Hay SIPP. The paperwork she submitted wasnt complete.
20 December 2019  WTW issued Ms R with a transfer quotation pack. This included 
paperwork for her and James Hay to complete. It says it received her completed Identity 
Verification form and copy of her passport four days later.
30 December 2019  James Hay acknowledged receipt of the paperwork Ms R had 
signed on 19 December 2019. It said shed also need to complete a cash transfer in form 
for her ARP. It enclosed the form.
7 January 2020  the funds from Ms Rs AVC plan were received by James Hay.
14 January 2020  Ms R signed the cash transfer in form for her ARP. She provided various 
information about her pension, including that it didnt contain any safeguarded benefits. She 
also confirmed that she hadnt received any financial advice. The form included the following 
guidance which was pertinent to her situation:
For all transfers from any occupational money purchase (defined contribution) 
schemes that contain safeguarded benefits, we will require evidence from your financial 
adviser that they have advised you in respect of this transfer and recommended that you 
proceed with the transfer.
If you have not received financial advice and wish to transfer from an occupational 
money purchasescheme, we may accept the transfer provided we receive written 
confirmation from the ceding scheme that there are no safeguarded benefits.
15 January 2020  James Hay sent Ms R another set of transfer forms, presumably 
because it wasnt yet aware shed signed the forms the previous day.
17 January 2020  James Hay received a request to transfer in form for Ms Rs ARP 
from WTW. The transaction was shown as a non-advised transfer.
21 January 2020 - James Hay sent a letter to WTW requesting information about whether 
her ARP had any safeguarded benefits. Along with the request, James Hay included a 
letter of authority (LOA) to permit information to be released.
27 January 2020  WTW received the correspondence from James Hay. But the LOA it 
had provided was invalid. Specifically, it didnt include her last notified address.
3 February 2020  WTW received a call from Ms R about progress with the transfer. It said 
it was yet to receive the completed discharge pack. She asked it to respond to James Hay 
concerning its LOA requirements.
7 February 2020  James Hay sent a new LOA to WTW. It also attached documents such 
as the cash transfer in form Ms R had completed.
13 February 2020 - WTW said it had received some paperwork from James Hay, but not 
its completed discharge forms. The same day it resent the discharge forms, and also 
provided information about Ms Rs ARP. It noted this had a non-guaranteed value of about 
£281,000. The realised value would be dependent on when the transaction was given 
effect.
WTW confirmed Ms R had a protected tax-free cash entitlement in 2006 of about 
£49,000 which was larger than 25% of her pension benefits of about £134,000 at that 
time. It noted that if she transferred her pension she would lose this protection. It went on 
to say:
If Ms R has enhanced or fixed protection on any of her benefits she may lose her 
protection if she transfers her benefits to another plan. She will have applied and received 
a certificate from HM Revenue & Customs showing her enhanced or fixed protection.
If Miss R thinks she has protected benefits she should speak to a registered financial 
adviser before going ahead.
In the pack WTW sent to James Hay, it also set out its requirements for the switch to go 
ahead. And it said that once it got all the documents it needed, it estimated it could take 
up to 20 working days to complete the transfer.
19 February 2020  James Hay received the information from WTW.
23 February 2020  Ms R called WTW requesting an update. She said shed been 
informed by James Hay that the ball was in its court. But it informed her it was still unable 
to proceed without the completed discharge forms.
26 February 2020  An internal James Hay file note suggests that it was preparing to 
decline Ms Rs request for transfer because her ARP contained safeguarded benefits. The 
letter was placed on pending for a week  but no explanation has been provided as to why 
that was.
20 February-15 March 2020  James Hay accepts it failed to act on the information it 
was provided by WTW on 19 February. It says this caused a delay of 18 working days.
16 March 2020  Ms R asked James Hay for an update. It seems to have decided at this 
point the transfer could go ahead and it issued the transfer discharge forms to WTW by recorded delivery. But at the same time internal notes indicated that it still hadnt obtained 
the assurance it required about safeguarded benefits. It says moving ahead with the 
pension transfer without this was another error on its part.
18 March 2020  James Hay has provided evidence showing WTW signed for receipt of 
the papers it sent on 16 March 2020.
23 March 2020  The Government announces the first COVID lockdown in the UK.
29 March 2020  Ms R complained to James Hay and WTW about how long it was taking 
to effect the transfer of her ARP.
1 April 2020  WTW set out a timeline for Ms R showing its involvement to date and 
suggesting issues with James Hays service. It told her it had still not received the 
pension discharge forms.
2 April 2020  Ms R contacted James Hay to inform it that WTW still hadnt received 
the discharge paperwork.
3 April 2020  James Hay reissued the discharge forms by email. But WTW said it 
didnt receive all the required forms.
8 April 2020  James Hay apologised and emailed all the forms to WTW.
9 April 2020 - WTW told Ms R, the value of her pension had dropped by more than 10% 
since the last valuation provided. It was now worth around £243,000. So it asked her if 
she still wanted to proceed.
13 April 2020  Ms R confirms she wanted to go ahead with the transfer of her ARP funds. 
WTW said it started the sale of her pension fund on 14 April 2020. It said this could take 
five to ten working days, after which it would send her money to James Hay.
24 April 2020  James Hay received Ms Rs funds.
Ms R complained to James Hay about what had happened. She raised several 
concerns, which she summarised in the following terms:
I want to know why it took 6 months for the process to be carried out? Why it took 
James Hay six months to complete and pass over the standard required forms? Why 
despite my constant phone calls nobody in James Hay did anything to expedite a 
process that was clearly stalled? And finally what James Hay will do to compensate me.
In responding to Ms R in October 2020 (after shed already approached this Service), 
James Hay accepted that it had got some things wrong in the transaction. In particular it 
said it had failed to respond to WTWs communication of 13 February 2020 in good time. It 
said it had caused a delay of 18 working days and action was only prompted by Ms Rs 
intervention.
But it went on to set out why it believed the delay it had caused wouldnt have resulted in 
a financial loss to Ms R. It noted the information WTW had provided about her ARP plan 
should have led to it conducting further work. It said:
the letter from Wilis Towers Watson mentioned you may have been entitled to enhanced 
tax-free cash but excluded assurance as to whether any other enhanced benefits applied to 
the scheme they administered. Upon receiving this letter, James Hay were obligated to carry out additional due diligence checks to establish if there was a possibility of you losing 
any valuable benefits on transfer.
I would have expected this to involve further correspondence with Wilis Towers Watson to 
once again establish the specifics of the scheme and Wilis Towers Watson would have 
been asked to calculate your current tax-free cash entitlement. If this calculation confirmed 
you were entitled to more than 25% tax-free cash, this benefit is likely to have been lost 
upon transfer to James Hay. In this event, James Hay should have sought confirmation 
from you as to whether you were still happy to continue with these facts in mind. This 
hypothetical enhanced tax-free cash entitlement could be considered a valuable benefit, 
and James Hay were required to seek your agreement before this benefit is abandoned.
I am in no doubt that the correct due diligence checks I have proposed would have 
extended to, and likely exceeded the delay of 18 working days caused by James Hays 
dormancy upon receiving the letter of 19 February 2020.
James Hay said it would investigate whether Ms R had lost any valuable benefits as a 
result of the transfer. It said:
We will now need to gather more information as to those benefits. To this end, we will 
contact Wilis Towers Watson to establish all the benefits you held, and also to request 
your entitlement to tax-free cash to be calculated. In the event you were indeed entitled to 
more than the standard 25%, and this benefit has been lost due to transfer, James Hay 
will seek to cover any additional tax liability caused. I will write to you further once this 
review has been completed.
Although I know WTW provided further information to James Hay about the features of 
her ARP, its not clear from the paperwork Ive seen whether it has ever notified Ms R of 
the outcome of its further review. If it hasnt, it should do so now.
The Investigator upheld Ms Rs complaint. He agreed that James Hay had caused delays, 
and he found these went beyond the lack of action in relation to WTWs letter of 13 
February 2020. He didnt accept what it said about how long it wouldve taken to conduct 
the necessary due diligence in relation to protections and guarantees related to her ARP. 
James Hay disagreed.
As both parties couldnt agree with the Investigators findings and conclusions, Ms Rs case 
was passed to me to review afresh as the final stage of our involvement. I issued my 
provisional decision in June. Neither party has provided any new evidence or arguments for 
me to consider. As such I see no reason to depart from my initial findings and conclusions.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Where theres conflicting information about the events complained about and gaps in what 
we know, my role is to weigh the evidence we do have and to decide, on the balance of 
probabilities, whats most likely to have happened.
Ive not provided a detailed response to all the points raised in this case. Thats deliberate; 
ours is an informal service for resolving disputes between financial businesses and their 
customers. While Ive taken into account all submissions, Ive concentrated my findings on 
what I think is relevant and at the heart of this complaint.Im upholding Ms Rs complaint. Ill explain why.
How does the regulatory framework inform the consideration of Ms Rs case?
The first thing Ive considered is the extensive regulation around transactions like those 
performed by James Hay for Ms R. The FCA Handbook contains eleven Principles for 
businesses, which it says are fundamental obligations firms must adhere to (PRIN 1.1.2 G in 
the FCA Handbook). These include:
- Principle 2, which requires a firm to conduct its business with due skill, care and 
diligence.
- Principle 6, which requires a firm to pay due regard to the interests of its customers.
- Principle 7, which requires a firm to pay due regard to the information needs of its 
clients, and communicate information to them in a way which is clear, fair and not 
misleading.
So, the Principles are relevant and form part of the regulatory framework that existed at the 
relevant time. They must always be complied with by regulated firms like James Hay. As 
such, I need to have regard to them in deciding Ms Rs complaint.
I note that when Ms R brought her case to this Service she identified thered been a delay of 
six months in effecting the transfer of her ARP plan. From the available evidence, I cant 
conclude her assertion is correct.
That said, I dont think either James Hay or WTW can mount a strong argument that it was 
fair and reasonable to Ms R that the transfer of her ARP funds into her SIPP which was 
effectively initiated in January 2020, took until towards the end of April 2020 to conclude.
I note both firms allude to failures with each others organisations as the cause of some of 
the delays Ms R experienced. These problems are reasonably clear from the timeline Ive 
reconstructed.
Im mindful Ms R has brought her complaint against James Hay. Im not considering a 
complaint against WTW. So, while its not appropriate to make findings or conclusions in 
relation to any acts and omissions by WTW, its clear it does have a case to answer in 
respect of its handling of the transaction, including in respect of the following matters:
- The letter it sent to James Hay on 13 February 2020 in respect of her ARP 
guarantees and protected benefits, which was arguably incomplete and ambiguous. 
This required further investigation by the receiving provider to establish the actual 
position (albeit James Hay failed to take this action).
- Evidence provided by James Hay which shows WTW signed for receipt of the 
discharge documentation on 18 March 2020. The apparent loss of those papers is 
not something I hold James Hay responsible for. Based on the evidence, it seems 
more likely than not WTW did receive them.
Turning to James Hay. I think it was responsible for:
- Sending an invalid LOA to WTW, which meant it couldnt provide James Hay with 
information about Ms Rs pension as soon as that request was received.
- A failure to act on the information WTW provided on 13 February 2020. James Hay 
has accepted it was responsible for the resulting 18 days of delay.- Sending incomplete discharge forms to WTW on 3 April 2020 and needing to resend 
the pack on 8 April 2020.
James Hay only accepted responsibility for the failure to act on the information provided by 
WTW on 13 February 2020. But it said because the information it had been sent was 
incomplete, had it done things properly it wouldve done further due diligence to establish 
what guarantees and protections Ms Rs ARP provided.
I think theres merit in James Hays basic argument. We cant have a situation where this 
Service requires firms to conduct proper checks in important transactions like those it was 
carrying out for Ms R, but then penalises it for doing so. However, Im not persuaded by 
James Hays argument when it said the further work required wouldve taken up at least as 
much time as the delay it caused.
I think the issues to be investigated by James Hay were bounded and relatively 
straightforward to bottom with WTW. And so I dont think that allowing a standard 5 days for 
each element of its process and that of WTW is appropriate. Im mindful how far matters 
were advanced by this time. And also how quickly both parties could act when focussed on 
what needed to be done  as we saw towards the end of the process.
Further, even if I thought the Investigator hadnt allowed enough for the due diligence checks 
to be undertaken in his assessment, its also the case he didnt take into account other areas 
of James Hays acts and omissions that led to delay.
I think the transfer of Ms Rs ARP funds to her SIPP was delayed as a result of the acts and 
omissions of the firms involved. I find that the way WTW and James Hay worked together to 
give effect to the transfer of her pension was disjointed and inefficient. There were examples 
of poor communication and handling. This, together with the issues Ive set out, led to a 
significant delay in the transfer of her funds.
The Investigator concluded that James Hay had been responsible for around 17 days of 
delay. The assessment of how many days Ms Rs switch was delayed isnt a matter of 
science. Its not possible to say with certainty what the effect of any failing by one firm was 
on the other, and vice versa. And the issues arising happened at various stages as each firm 
passed the baton back and forth.
Its a matter of considering whats fair and reasonable in the circumstances. As such, I find 
that the Investigators estimate of the impact of James Hays failings to have been about 
right, and I see no strong argument to propose an alternative.
Putting things right
Im upholding Ms Rs case. So, she needs to be returned to the position she wouldve been 
in now - or as close to that as reasonably possible  had it not been for the failures which I 
hold James Hay Administration Company Ltd responsible for.
I understand that Ms R moved her pension funds away from her James Hay SIPP to a new 
provider in October 2020.
As such I require James Hay Administration Company Ltd to:
1. Determine the transfer value of Ms Rs ARP pension fund investments had they been sold 
17 working days earlier.
2. Work out the fair value of Ms Rs James Hay SIPP at the date she transferred it to another 
provider had (1) been transferred into it.3. Compare the value of Ms Rs James Hay SIPP at the date it was transferred to another 
provider with (2). If there is a loss, James Hay should pay into Ms R's pension plan, to 
increase its value by the amount of the compensation.
4. Any additional contributions paid into Ms Rs James Hay SIPP should be added to the 
calculation from the point in time when they were actually paid in.
5. Any withdrawals, income or other distribution out of Ms Rs James Hay SIPP should be 
deducted from the calculation at the point they were actually paid so they cease to accrue 
any return in the calculation from that point on. If there is a large number of regular 
payments, to keep calculations simpler, Ill accept if James Hay totals all those payments 
and deducts that figure at the end instead of deducting periodically.
6. If there is a loss, add interest at 8% simple per annum to that sum, from the date that Ms 
Rs James Hay SIPP funds were transferred until it settles.
7. Payment should allow for the effect of charges and any available tax relief. James Hay 
shouldnt pay the compensation into the pension plan if it would conflict with any existing 
protection or allowance.
8. If James Hay is unable to pay the compensation into Ms R's pension plan, it should pay 
that amount direct to her. But had it been possible to pay into the plan, it would have 
provided a taxable income. Therefore the compensation should be reduced to notionally 
allow for any income tax that would otherwise have been paid.
9. The notional allowance should be calculated using Ms R's actual or expected marginal 
rate of tax at her selected retirement age. For example, if she is likely to be a basic rate 
taxpayer at the selected retirement age, the reduction would equal the current basic rate of 
tax. However, if Ms R wouldve been able to take a tax free lump sum, the reduction should 
be applied to 75% of the compensation.
10. Provide the details of the calculations to Ms R in a clear, simple format.
James Hay Administration Company Ltd should also pay Ms R £100 for the distress and 
inconvenience caused by its failings in the transaction to transfer her ARP funds.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive already set out, Im upholding Ms Rs complaint, and I require James 
Hay Administration Company Ltd to put things right in the way Ive directed.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms R to accept or 
reject my decision before 9 August 2022. 
Kevin Williamson
Ombudsman