DRN-4435593
The complaint
Mr H complains Liverpool Victoria Insurance Company Limited (LV) sent emails informing
him that his motor insurance policy was going to be cancelled to the wrong email address.
He says this resulted in him receiving a fine and points on his driving licence for driving
without insurance  and he considers LV to be responsible for this.
What happened
The circumstances of this complaint are well known to both parties, so Ive summarised 
events.
Mr H had a motor insurance policy with LV. 
He was stopped by the police for driving without insurance. Mr H says he told the 
police he was insured and so, was shocked to find his policy had been cancelled.
Mr H contacted LV who said it had emailed him several times in March 2023 to tell
him his payment details needed to be updated  so it could collect payment - and
that his policy would be cancelled if he didnt do so.
Mr H complained to LV saying the emails had been sent to the incorrect email
address. He explained hed updated his contact details on 8 December 2022, and so
the emails should have been sent to the updated email address.
In response LV said its data showed Mr H had updated his email address again on
22 December 2022. And so, it was satisfied it had sent correspondence to the correct
address.
Unhappy, Mr H brought a complaint to this Service. An Investigator considered it and
didnt uphold the complaint. Because Mr H disagreed with the outcome, the
complaint has been passed to me for an Ombudsmans decision.
After reviewing the evidence, I contacted LV and asked it to explain why it couldnt 
provide portal login data which corresponded with the date and time Mr H was said to 
have updated his email address for a second time on.
LV replied saying a computer bug was responsible for reverting Mr Hs email address
to his original one  the address he no longer uses. Based on this new material
information, I set my thoughts out in a provisional decision for the parties to
comment on - Ive included an exert of it below.
What Ive provisionally decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Based on LVs admission that a computer glitch caused Mr Hs email address to be
changed, Im satisfied Mr H didnt amend his email address on 22 December 2022
and that it instead happened because of a technical fault on LVs part.
Had the emails been sent to the correct email address, Im satisfied Mr H would have
taken action to ensure the premiums were paid, and that he wouldnt have left
himself uninsured. Hed been prudent in updating his email address to ensure LV had
his correct contact information and so, Im persuaded he would have acted in the
same manner in respect of his bank details.
So, having established that LV was at fault for the emails being sent to the incorrect
email address, I must consider what the impact of this was on Mr H.
First, he had the distressing experience of being stopped by the police and informed
he was driving without insurance. Understandably, to find out hed been unknowingly
driving without insurance was a shock for Mr H and an upsetting experience for him.
Second, Mr Hs testimony has been consistent  hes explained on numerous
occasions to LV that he didnt login to his account on 22 December to amend his
details, but LV has been dismissive of this. Even when Mr H asked LV the same
questions about the data that I put to it LV told him it was satisfied hed logged into
his account and updated his email information. Its not clear whats changed which
means LV is now able to say a computer glitch was responsible for the email address
reverting to the incorrect one, but in any event, Im not satisfied it sufficiently
investigated Mr Hs concerns about the reliability of the data. Had it done so, it would
have realised a computer glitch had caused the problem and much of the frustration
and worry Mr H has experienced could have been avoided.
Third, Mr H has explained that the points on his licence are particularly concerning
because he needs his driving licence to work. Whilst I cant comment on what a
Court may decide or have any jurisdiction over the points on his licence, I am
directing LV to write a letter of admission explaining how Mr Hs policy came to be
cancelled. Importantly, it must make it clear that it was because of a mistake on LVs
side. I will also be directing LV to reimburse Mr H the cost of the fine he incurred.
Its possible Mr Hs premiums may increase because of the points on his licence. I
understand these will last for four years. I believe Mr H has since approached
another insurer for cover going forward. If he can evidence his premiums have
increased since the last year on cover with LV  I would direct LV to cover this
difference  then multiply this by four  to reflect the likely increase in his premiums 
across this time until the points are no longer on his licence.
When I consider the above  particularly the stress this situation has caused Mr H
and how the difficulties hes faced with LV have compounded this situation, Im
satisfied £750 compensation reasonably reflects the distress and inconvenience hes
experienced.
Mr H hasnt said whether hes had problems obtaining insurance products because of
whats happened. If there any relevant databases, both internal and external, LV
should also record why Mr Hs policy was cancelled so its clear this was due to a
failing on LVs part.
Mr H says he had to pay for a temporary motor insurance policy so the police would
allow him to continue his onward journey. Im satisfied that were it not for LVs
mistake, Mr H wouldnt have found himself in this situation, and so, I consider itreasonable to direct LV to reimburse Mr H the cost of this temporary policy.
My provisional decision
My provisional decision is that I uphold this complaint and direct Liverpool Victoria Insurance
Company Limited to:
Reimburse Mr H the cost of the fine (subject to proof of payment). LV should pay
simple interest at 8% a year from the date Mr H paid the fine to the date LV makes
payment.
Reimburse Mr H the cost of taking out the temporary motor insurance policy (subject
to proof of payment). LV should pay simple interest at 8% a year from the date Mr H
purchased the policy to the date LV makes payment.
Pay Mr H £750 compensation.
Write a letter of admission which explains that LV was entirely responsible for Mr H
having driven without insurance.
Upon receipt of evidence of Mr Hs premiums increasing since the last year on cover
with LV  LV must cover the difference between the two prices - then multiply this by
four  to reflect the likely increase in his premiums across this time until the points
are cleared.
Update any relevant databases, both internal and external, to record why Mr Hs
policy was cancelled so its clear this was due to a failing on LVs part.
Mr H responded to my provisional decision to say he accepted the findings and provided 
proof of payments. LV didnt respond.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As Ive nothing further to consider, my final decision is the same as that set out in my 
provisional decision.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint and direct Liverpool Victoria Insurance
Company Limited to:
Reimburse Mr H the cost of the fine (subject to proof of payment). LV should pay
simple interest at 8% a year from the date Mr H paid the fine to the date LV makes
payment.
Reimburse Mr H the cost of taking out the temporary motor insurance policy (subject
to proof of payment). LV should pay simple interest at 8% a year from the date Mr H
purchased the policy to the date LV makes payment.
Pay Mr H £750 compensation. LV must pay the compensation within 28 days of the 
date on which we tell it Mr H accepts my final decision. If it pays later than this, it must also pay interest on the compensation from the deadline date for settlement to 
the date of payment at 8% a year simple.
Write a letter of admission which explains that LV was entirely responsible for Mr H
having driven without insurance.
Upon receipt of evidence of Mr Hs premiums increasing since the last year on cover
with LV  LV must cover the difference between the two prices - then multiply this by
four  to reflect the likely increase in his premiums across this time until the points
are cleared.
Update any relevant databases, both internal and external, to record why Mr Hs
policy was cancelled, so its clear this was due to a failing on LVs part.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 1 December 2023.
 
Nicola Beakhust
Ombudsman