DRN-3438033
The complaint
Mrs J, with help from Mr J, complains that Dynamo Cover Limited (Dynamo) changed her 
home emergency insurance cover to a policy with a £50 excess, which wasnt what she 
wanted.
What happened
Mrs J took out home emergency cover through Dynamo, a broker. She had insurance which 
renewed automatically every year unless she cancelled it. In 2021, about three years after 
Mrs J first took out the policy, she needed to make a claim. She discovered there was a £50 
excess payable on any claim. Mrs J says when she originally took out the insurance there 
was no excess payable, and this is what she had always wanted.
Mrs J wasnt happy about this and complained to Dynamo. 
Dynamo said for the 2021 renewal there had been a change of insurer as it was no longer 
working with the previous insurer. The new policy did have a £50 excess.
Dynamo said that about three weeks before the renewal date it sent Mrs J an email about 
the upcoming renewal, with links to follow to access her customer portal so that the full cover 
documents could be reviewed. These documents included information about the excess that 
was now applicable. 
Dynamo said this renewal reminder told Mrs J to take the time to review her documents, and 
advised her there may have been changes within the last 12 months.
Dynamo said that once the policy renewed, all of the policy documents in Mrs Js online 
portal were also automatically sent to her by email. There was then a standard 14 day 
cooling off period whereby Mrs J could have reviewed the cover and returned it for a refund 
if it didnt meet her needs. Dynamo said it couldnt see that Mrs J had returned it. 
Dynamo said it understood that Mrs J wished to receive a refund of the policy, however this 
wasnt possible as she was outside the cooling off period.
Mrs J wasnt happy with Dynamos response and complained to this service. Our 
investigator didnt uphold her complaint. He said the £50 excess was clearly stated in the 
new policy documents and it was reasonable for Dynamo to have expected Mrs J to have 
looked over the documents and got in touch if anything was amiss.
Mrs J wasnt happy with this and so her complaint has been passed to me. Mrs J wants to 
be reimbursed for the cost of her insurance cover so she can arrange other more suitable 
cover elsewhere.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I dont uphold Mrs Js complaint. Ill explain why. 
The renewal reminder email sent to Mrs J included the following paragraph:
Your Demands and Needs are those of an Individual who has need for home emergency 
Insurance. We do not give you advice as to whether this product is suitable for meeting your 
specific Demands and Needs; you must therefore carefully read the Policy Summary, and 
particularly the section on exclusions and limitations, to determine whether this product is 
right for you. It is possible your product or terms may have changed within the last 12 
months including changes to either your insurer, the terms & conditions, or both.
I think the email was clear that there might have been changes to the insurer and/or the 
terms of the policy, and Mrs J should carefully review the documents to ensure the policy 
met her needs. The documents were available to Mrs J via the online customer portal and 
were also emailed to her within the cooling off period. 
The Schedule of Insurance clearly explained there was a £50 excess payable on any claims:
Please Note: this policy has a £50.00 Excess payable upon the redemption of benefit.
Mrs Js insurance policy booklet said:
Excess:  Means the amount of money You must pay as the first part of each and every 
claim.
Under the section How we settle a claim it said
When You call us, You will need to pay any Excess shown on Your Property Emergency 
Schedule by debit or credit card.
So I think it was clear that there was a £50 excess on the new policy.
Dynamo said Mrs J told it that she hadnt reviewed the documents because her husband 
deals with matters relating to the use of a computer. However it appears that when Mrs J 
first took out the insurance she had asked for correspondence to be sent to her by email. 
The email address Dynamo used to send the renewal details to Mrs J is the same email 
used to complain to Dynamo and to this service.
Mr J on behalf of Mrs J told our investigator he wasnt sure the email about the renewal was 
even received. However I have seen a copy of that email which has been forwarded to this 
service by a member of Mrs Js family, so I think its fair to say it was received.
Mrs Js insurance policy booklet said:
Your rights to cancel You have the right to cancel any policy of insurance within 14 days of 
the date of issue or receipt of the terms and conditions, whichever is later. We will refund to 
You any Premium You have paid to Us.  In the case of renewals We will refund to You any 
Premium You have paid to Us less any payments We have made. 
Cancellation by You If You subsequently give notice in writing or by telephone to Us to 
cancel this policy, such cancellation shall take effect on the date the notice is received or on 
the date specified in the notice, whichever is the later. No return of premium will be made.
So I think it was clear that no refund would be payable if the policy was cancelled outside the 
14 day cooling off period.Mrs J wants Dynamo to refund the cost of the policy as she says the policy wasnt what she 
wanted. However on balance I think Dynamo has acted fairly and reasonably and in 
accordance with the terms of her policy.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I dont uphold Mrs Js complaint. So I wont be asking Dynamo 
Cover Limited to do anything.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs J to accept or 
reject my decision before 13 June 2022.
 
Sarah Baalham
Ombudsman