DRN-1776984
 
The complaint
This is a complaint that AXA France IARD (formerly trading as Financial Insurance Company 
Limited) mis-sold payment protection insurance (PPI) to Mrs W. AXA didnt actually sell the 
policy, but it has taken responsibility for the sale. So Ill refer to it as the seller.  
What happened
This complaint is about a PPI policy taken out in 2002 alongside a store credit 
account. Mrs W was sold the policy in a BHS store, at the same time she applied for the 
account.
Our adjudicator didnt think the complaint should be upheld. Mrs W disagreed with the 
adjudicators view, so the complaint has been passed to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding this case. Although I know this will be disappointing 
for Mrs W, having done so, Im not upholding it for reasons that Ill now explain.
The card application form which was completed in the store and signed by Mrs W has an 
option to select PPI. And I can see that she selected this option by signing in the place 
provided. I can also see that there was another option on the form for card protection. This 
option wasnt selected.
Mrs W says that she can see that the form was filled out by the sales assistant and she 
thinks she would have just been told to sign in the place required to choose the PPI, without 
being given time to read and understand what she was signing for. So she doesnt think it 
was made clear to her that the PPI was optional or that the cover had been added to her 
account.
I accept that what Mrs W says might have been what occurred. But this sale took place a 
long time ago and memories of such discussions do tend to fade over time. And Mrs W has 
acknowledged, herself, that she now has very little recall of what took place and what was 
said to her at the time. So I dont think it would be fair for me to conclude that this is what 
happened based solely on what Mrs W thinks must have taken place now. 
On balance, I think its more likely than not that Mrs W actively decided she wanted the PPI 
and signed this section of the application form, knowing she could choose not to if she hadnt 
wanted it. I also think she would have been likely to have queried why a charge for PPI was 
included on her monthly account statement if she hadnt known at the time of the sale that 
shed been sold this cover. But I can understand why she cant recall all this now.From what Ive seen, I dont think that AXA recommended the PPI to Mrs W. This means it 
didnt have to ensure that it was suitable for her. But it did still need to give her enough 
information so that she could decide if it met her needs. I think its likely that AXA could have 
given Mrs W better information about the policy than it did. But I dont think better information 
would have changed her mind about buying it. I say this because:
 
Mrs W appears to have been eligible for the policy and not affected by any of its main 
exclusions and limitations.
 
The policy would have paid out in addition to any sick pay Mrs W and, potentially, for 
longer than this would have lasted. And the policy provided more certainty for her 
than relying for financial support from her husband. So I think she would still have 
valued the extra security the policy gave her.
 
I cant see any reason why the policy wouldnt have been affordable for Mrs S. And 
as she paid the policys premiums monthly, she could have cancelled it if it no longer 
met her needs.
 
So I dont think that Mrs W has lost out by anything that AXA may have done wrong when it 
sold her this policy.
Ive thought carefully about what Mrs H has said about why she still thinks the policy was 
mis-sold, but Im afraid this hasnt changed my opinion that her complaint shouldnt be 
upheld.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given, Im not upholding Mrs Hs complaint against AXA France IARD .
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs W to accept or 
reject my decision before 24 June 2020.
Simon Furse
Ombudsman