DRN-3168720
The complaint
 Mr C has complained that HSBC UK Bank Plc didnt notify him of charges that were due to 
be applied to his account. Hes said that these charges contributed to his financial difficulties.
What happened
 Mr C complained to HSBC about the overdraft charges and interest that were being applied 
to his account. He said he wasnt being consistently notified of when the charges were due 
to be applied, and that they were contributing to his financial difficulties. HSBC didnt uphold 
the complaint. And as Mr C was dissatisfied, he referred the complaint to our service.
Mr Cs complaint was considered by one of our adjudicators. She thought that HSBC ought 
to have realised that Mr C was experiencing financial difficulty by December 2018 and so 
shouldnt have added any more interest, fees and charges from this point onwards. HSBC 
didnt respond, so the case was passed to an ombudsman.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
 HSBC will be familiar with all the rules, regulations and good industry practice we consider 
when looking at whether a bank treated a customer fairly and reasonably when applying 
overdraft charges. So I dont consider it necessary to set all of this out in this decision.
Having carefully considered everything provided, I dont think I can fairly say that HSBC 
didnt properly notify Mr C of the charges. HSBC has confirmed that it holds all the correct 
contact details for Mr C and that alerts were sent to him regarding charges. I know Mr C 
says he didnt always receive alerts, but I dont think I can safely say that was HSBCs fault 
with the information I have. In any case, even if no notifications were sent, it would still be 
Mr Cs responsibility to monitor his account. I appreciate that Mr C says that HSBCs online 
systems made it hard for him to know how his account was operating, but the way it designs 
its online services is a commercial decision for HSBC to make, not something that we can 
get involved in. 
However, even if I dont think that HSBC did anything wrong regarding notifying Mr C of 
charges, HSBC still has a responsibility to ensure that the interest and charges it applies are 
appropriate in light of any particular customers financial circumstances. And having looked 
closely at Mr Cs accounts, I agree with our adjudicator that HSBC acted unfairly when it 
continued charging overdraft interest and associated fees after December 2018. By this 
point, it ought to have been clear that Mr C was in no position to sustainably repay what he 
owed within a reasonable period of time. 
I say this because, by this point, Mr C was hardcore borrowing. In other, words he hadnt 
seen or maintained a credit balance for an extended period of time. As our adjudicator 
explained, HSBCs own literature suggests that overdrafts are for unforeseen emergency 
borrowing not prolonged day-to-day expenditure. Mr Cs account had been permanently 
overdrawn for several months by this stage, and sustained and prolonged overdraft usage is 
a clear indication of potential financial difficulty.
With this in mind, I think that Mr Cs overdraft usage should have prompted HSBC to have 
realised that he wasnt using his overdraft as intended and so it shouldnt have continued 
offering it on the same terms. As HSBC didnt react to Mr Cs overdraft usage and instead 
continued charging in the same way, I think it failed to act fairly and reasonably. 
Mr C ended up paying additional interest, fees and charges on his overdraft and this ended 
up exacerbating difficulties he already had in trying to clear it. So I think that HSBC didnt 
treat Mr C fairly and he lost out because of what HSBC did wrong. And this means that it 
should put things right.
Putting things right
 Having thought about everything, I think that it would be fair and reasonable in all the 
circumstances of Mr Cs complaint for HSBC to put things right by:
Reworking Mr Cs current overdraft balance so that all interest, fees and charges 
applied to it from December 2018 are removed.
AND
If an outstanding balance remains on the overdraft once these adjustments have 
been made HSBC should contact Mr C to arrange a suitable repayment plan for 
this. If it considers it appropriate to record negative information on Mr Cs credit 
file, it should reflect what would have been recorded had it started the process of 
taking corrective action on the overdraft in December 2018.
OR
If the effect of removing all interest, fees and charges results in there no longer 
being an outstanding balance, then any extra should be treated as overpayments 
and returned to Mr C along with 8% simple interest on the overpayments from 
the date they were made (if they were) until the date of settlement. If no 
outstanding balance remains after all adjustments have been made, then HSBC 
should remove any adverse information from Mr Cs credit file. 
 HM Revenue & Customs requires HSBC to take off tax from this interest. HSBC must give 
Mr C a certificate showing how much tax it has taken off if he asks for one.
My final decision
 For the reasons Ive explained, Im upholding Mr Cs complaint. HSBC UK Bank Plc should 
put things right in the way Ive set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 5 January 2022.
 
Sophie Mitchell
Ombudsman