DRN-2882509
The complaint
Miss J says Ferratum UK Ltd lent to her irresponsibly. She says she had a significant 
amount of other debt when she took her loans from Ferratum. She thinks that if Ferratum 
had made better checks it wouldve found out about this and not lent to her. 
What happened
This complaint is about two payday loans and one instalment loan Ferratum provided to Miss 
J between September and December 2017.
loandate 
startedamountmonthly 
instalmentsdate ended
1 10/09/2017 £100.00 1 20/09/2017
2 29/09/2017 £400.00 3 20/12/2017
3 22/12/2017 £600.00 4 outstanding
Ferratum looked at Ms Js complaint. It said that it had approved the loans correctly but 
acknowledged that as Ms H told it she had entered into a debt management plan after loan 3 
that this loan was likely to be unsustainable for her. It offered to waive all the outstanding 
interest from loan 3. Ms H didnt accept this offer and it has now been withdrawn. 
Our adjudicator didnt uphold the complaint. He thought that the checks that Ferratum had 
made were proportionate and these showed the loans were affordable. 
Ms J disagreed with the adjudicators opinion. She said that the bank statements she had 
provided indicated she had a large amount of other short-term lending and some guarantor 
loans. Ferratum shouldve seen this and not lent to her. 
As no agreement has been reached the complaint has been passed to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about irresponsible lending - including all 
of the relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice - on our website. 
Ferratum needed to take reasonable steps to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In 
practice this means that it should have carried out proportionate checks to make sure Miss J 
could repay the loans in a sustainable manner. 
These checks could take into account a number of different things, such as how much was 
being lent, the repayment amounts and the consumers income and expenditure. With this in 
mind, in the early stages of a lending relationship, I think less thorough checks might be 
reasonable and proportionate.  
But certain factors might point to the fact that Ferratum should fairly and reasonably have 
done more to establish that any lending was sustainable for the consumer. These factors 
include:
the lower a customers income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make any 
loan repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income);
the higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income); 
the greater the number and frequency of loans, and the longer the period of time 
during which a customer has been given loans (reflecting the risk that repeated 
refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, 
unsustainable).
There may even come a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly 
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable.
Ive decided not to uphold Miss Js complaint and Ive explained why below.
For loan 1 Miss J needed to repay just over £100 in the following month. For loan 2 there 
were 2 monthly repayments of £200 and one of around £160. And for loan 3 there were 
three monthly repayments of £250 and one final repayment of about £225. 
Ive seen a record of the information that Ferratum based its lending decisions on. It 
recorded that Miss J had a monthly income of £2,150. It didnt get a full breakdown of 
Miss Js expenditure, but it did take some information from a credit reference agency which 
showed, amongst other things, that she didnt have a significant amount of other short term 
or high cost credit at the time. And that she wasnt behind on the repayments to her existing 
creditors. The credit reference agency also confirmed that her salary was reasonable. So, I 
think its reasonable to say that Ferratum wouldve thought that it wasnt irresponsible to lend 
to her. 
The crux of Ms Js objection to the lending is that she feels Ferratum should have made 
more in-depth checks. Had it done this, it wouldve seen she was in financial difficulty. I 
accept that this was the case at the time, and I hope things have improved for her. 
But given the amounts borrowed compared to her declared income, and that that this was a 
relatively short lending period, I dont think its fair to say Ferratum should have looked into 
her finances in more detail than it did. 
I havent seen any further information that shows its likely Ferratum was made aware of any 
financial problems Miss J mightve been having. Or anything that wouldve prompted it to 
investigate her circumstances further. So, I think it was reasonable for Ferratum to rely on 
the information it obtained.
So overall, in these circumstances, I think the assessments Ferratum did for these loans 
were proportionate. And I think its decisions to approve loans 1 to 3 were reasonable. Im not 
upholding Miss Js complaint about them. 
I would remind Ferratum that is should treat Ms H fairly in respect of any outstanding 
balances that are owed.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold Miss Js complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss J to accept or reject my decision before 23 November 2021.
 
Andy Burlinson
Ombudsman