DRN-2778084
The complaint
Mr M complains about Lloyds Bank PLC and the charges he feels have been purposefully 
hidden when hes made international payments from his current account.
What happened
Mr M holds two current accounts with Lloyds. Hes used these accounts for several years to 
make international payments through his online banking.
In late 2020, when a payment went missing, Mr M became aware that additional charges 
were applied to these payments when an agent bank was used to transfer the funds from his 
current account to the recipient bank. This meant his recipient didnt always receive the sum 
he intended to send. Mr M was unhappy he hadnt been made aware of this, so he raised a 
complaint.
Mr M was unhappy that these charges didnt show on his statements. He feels they should, 
as he would then have been able to apply for tax relief on these charges. He didnt think 
Lloyds made it reasonably clear that other charges may be applied that meant the recipient 
didnt receive the full sum he was sending. So, he wanted to be compensated for this and for 
the charges to be shown on his statements moving forwards.
Lloyds didnt agree. They thought the terms and conditions of Mr Ms account, as well as the 
information provided during the online payment process, made it reasonably clear that the 
recipient would be charged the agent banks fees if a payment was made online. They also 
thought it was made clear that this could be avoided if Mr M made the payments in branch or 
through telephone banking instead. As it was the recipient paying for the agent banks 
charges, they didnt think theyd done anything wrong by not showing the charges on Mr Ms 
statements, as it wasnt Mr M who was paying them. So, they didnt think they needed to do 
anything more. Mr M remained unhappy with this response, so he referred his complaint to 
us.
Our investigator looked into the complaint and didnt uphold it. She thought Lloyds made it 
reasonably clear that the recipient could be charged additional fees if the payment was 
made online, and an agent bank was required. And she thought they made it clear these 
fees could be shared if the payment was made in branch or over the phone. She recognised 
Mr Ms comments about the majority of customers now using online banking, but she 
thought Lloyds decision to not offer this option to share fees online was a business process. 
And she explained we dont investigate business processes as this is something for the 
regulator to consider. She also explained as Mr M wasnt being charged the fees, she 
wouldnt expect them to show on his statements. So, she didnt think Lloyds had done 
anything wrong and because of this, didnt think they needed to do anything more.
Mr M didnt agree. He didnt think the information provided when making online payments 
provided any information about charges that may be applied to the sender. And he didnt 
agree that the charges paid for by the recipient shouldnt be shown on his statements, as the 
fees were taken from the amount he sent. So, he maintained his view that Lloyds had 
unfairly hidden these charges and wanted to be compensated for this. As Mr M didnt agree, 
the complaint has been passed to me for a decision.
 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im not upholding the complaint for broadly the same reasons as the 
investigator. Ive focused my comments on what I think is relevant. If I havent commented 
on any specific point, its because I dont believe its affected what I think is the right 
outcome.
First, I want to recognise the impact this complaint has had on Mr M. I recognise Mr M used 
his current accounts to make international payments for several years, without realising the 
recipient may not receive the entire amount he sent. So, when he became aware this was 
the case, I can understand why hed feel confused and frustrated. And I can understand why 
he would think these charges shouldve been shown on his statements. But for me to say 
Lloyds have done something wrong, Id need to be satisfied they failed to make it reasonably 
clear to Mr M that charges may be applied to recipient. Or, that they purposefully misled Mr 
M by not including these charges on his statements for him to see. And in this situation, I 
dont think thats the case.
Ive seen the terms and condition of Mr Ms accounts. They explain when a customer makes 
an international payment, they have two options. These are outlined as:
a) to share charges; or
b) to pay both our charge and the Correspondent Bank Fee (that replaces all agent bank
charges). The recipient bank may charge its customer a fee, but we cannot provide
information about this. This payment type can only be made through one of our branches or 
Telephone Banking.
The terms and conditions also explain For the full amount to be received by the recipients 
bank, you may be able to choose to pay both our charge and all agent bank charges. As we 
explain below you can only request do this for some types of payments made through our 
branches and telephone banking.
Mr M has confirmed he made his international payments through online banking. And I think 
the terms and conditions make it reasonably clear to Mr M that to ensure the recipient 
receives the full amount he sent, hed need to make the transfers in a branch or using 
telephone banking. As he didnt do this, Lloyds processed the payments as both Mr M and 
his recipient sharing the charges. And I cant say they acted unfairly when doing this, as they 
were working in line with the terms of the account. I understand Mr M feels most customers 
now use online banking, so the terms set by Lloyds are unfair. But this is a business process 
set by Lloyds and it is one they are entitled to put in place. Its not my role to comment on the 
processes they set, only that they make it reasonably clear to the customer. And I think they 
have in this situation.
And Ive also seen screenshots of the process Mr M wouldve followed when he made his 
payments online. These have been provided by both Mr M and Lloyds. I think they provided 
links for Mr M to follow, if he wanted to understand more about the charges the recipient may 
face. In particular, they explain the recipient will always pay their bank charges, and any 
agent bank fees. So again, I think Lloyds made it reasonably clear to Mr M how the charging 
would work. Because of this, I cant say Lloyds have done anything wrong.I understand Mr M feels hes been charged the agent banks fees, as the fee was taken from 
the amount he sent. But I dont think this is the case. When Mr M made payments, the 
amount he wanted to send, and Lloyds own charges were debited from his account. He 
didnt incur any further costs. It was the recipient who effectively paid the agent bank fees, 
as it was taken out of the amount they were due to receive. I appreciate the way this 
charging process may have caused some confusion to Mr M, but effectively the recipient 
was left in the same position as they wouldve been had they received the full amount Mr M 
sent, then had the agents fees debited from their account after. So, I dont think Mr M has 
been charged fees that he wasnt made aware of.
And as Mr M wasnt actually charged a fee by the agent bank, I wouldnt expect this to show 
on his statements supplied by Lloyds. The statements Mr M received are designed to show 
the money credited to his account, and the money debited from it. When making 
international payments, Ive seen the payment he made, and Lloyds fees for making this 
payment, were shown. As they were the only fees Mr M himself was responsible to pay, they 
are the charges Id expect to see. I understand Mr M feels the agent fees should be shown 
so he could claim tax relief. But as he wasnt the party paying these fees, he wouldnt have 
been able to claim tax relief on this amount. So, I dont think Mr M has lost any opportunity, 
and I think the statements Lloyds produced were accurate and reflective of the position of Mr 
Ms accounts. Because of this, I dont think theyve done anything wrong and I dont think 
they need to do anything more.
I understand this isnt the outcome Mr M was hoping for. But I hope it goes some way to 
clearing up the confusion surrounding the agent bank fees, and who is responsible to pay for 
them when a payment is made online. I hope it also sets out clearly the options available to 
Mr M, if he wishes to pay for the agent bank fees himself in the future.
My final decision
For the reasons outlined above, I dont uphold Mr Ms complaint about Lloyds Bank PLC.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 16 June 2021.
 
Josh Haskey
Ombudsman