DRN-2981174
The complaint
Mrs S complains that Great Lakes Insurance SE hasnt refunded the premiums she paid for 
a travel insurance policy.
Mrs S is represented by Mrs H.
What happened
In February 2020, Mrs S took out an annual multi-trip travel insurance policy through a 
broker. The policy was underwritten by Great Lakes. Mrs S policy covered her between 5 
March 2020 and 4 March 2021. The policy cost Mrs S £208.93, which included a discount of 
£41.93. The premium included cover for Mrs S medical conditions.
As a result of the Covid-19 pandemic, on 5 May 2020, Mrs S got in touch with Great Lakes 
to cancel the policy. She asked for a refund of her premiums.
Great Lakes didnt offer Mrs S a cash refund. Ultimately, it offered her the following options:
A pro-rata credit towards buying a new 15-month annual policy for the price of 12 
months, at current market rates;
A pro-rata credit towards buying a deferred annual policy; or
A pro-rata credit towards a UK-only annual multi-trip policy, with the potential to 
upgrade the destination at a later date.
Mrs S wasnt happy with Great Lakes offer and so Mrs H asked us to look into this 
complaint. 
Our investigator thought Great Lakes offer was fair. He set out the details of the relevant 
cancellation rights and how they applied in the circumstances of this case. He also explained 
that it is a fundamental principle of insurance law that if the insurer had started to bear risk  
for however short a time  the premium paid is not returnable. That means its not 
unreasonable for an insurer to keep any premiums relating to the risk it covered during that 
time. And he explained that Covid-19 didnt make it impossible for the contract of insurance 
to be performed because cover under the policy started on 5 March 2020 and the policy 
covered various risks during that time. 
The investigator acknowledged the unique and unprecedented circumstances of Covid-19. 
He thought that the fair and reasonable outcome in all the circumstances of this complaint 
was for Great Lakes to offer Mrs S a credit voucher, which took into account the unused 
cover remaining on the policy. He didnt think the terms of the voucher were overly 
restrictive. So he didnt think Great Lakes needed to pay Mrs S a cash refund of her 
premium.
Mrs H disagreed on Mrs S behalf. She said it was unlikely that Mrs S would be able to travel 
during 2021 and she was concerned that shed run out of time to use the voucher. She also 
said that Mrs S travelling companion had received a cash refund from the same insurer and 
so she felt that Mrs S should be entitled to the same refund method.
We subsequently asked Great Lakes to recalculate Mrs S offer by using the actual price 
shed paid for the policy, divided by the total length of the policy and multiplied by the days 
that werent used. Great Lakes has recalculated its offer in line with this formula and so the 
current refund voucher offer is for £174.01. Its also told us that in this case, the voucher will 
be valid for 36 months and can be put towards either an annual policy or a single trip policy 
in the future. Its stated that the voucher can be gifted to family or a friend.
The complaints been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, while Im sorry to disappoint Mrs S, I think Great Lakes current offer is fair. 
Ill explain why.
Our investigator identified, and set out, the rules, regulations and law. I agree those are the 
relevant considerations which apply to the specific circumstances of this case. 
The policy terms and conditions say: 
You have the right to cancel your policy within 14 days of the date of issue or receipt of your 
documents, whichever is later. We will only refund to you any premium you have paid, less 
any fees and charges if you have not travelled, or have made, or intend to make a claim.
If the notice of cancellation is received outside the 14 day cooling off period no premium
will be refunded, however discretion may be exercised in exceptional circumstances such as
bereavement or a change to the policy resulting in us declining to cover your medical 
conditions. 
I think Great Lakes offer is fair because: 
The policy was cancelled outside the cooling off period and so there is no 
requirement under the relevant industry rules and guidelines for Great Lakes to offer 
a refund
As Ive outlined above, the contract of insurance says that Great Lakes doesnt have 
to pay any refund of a policyholders premium after the cooling-off period has ended. 
In this case, Mrs S cooling-off period ended on 27 February 2020. But the policy 
wasnt cancelled until 5 May 2020. So the cancellation was clearly outside of the 14-
day cooling-off period. I dont think it would be fair to ask Great Lakes to use its 
discretion and treat the Covid-19 pandemic as exceptional circumstances. I think this 
policy term most likely relates to circumstances which are individual to the 
policyholder  such as bereavement or a change in their own health. This means I 
dont think the terms and conditions of Mrs S contract with Great Lakes entitle her to 
any refund of premiums.  
But Ive taken into account what is fair and reasonable in the circumstances of the 
complaint, including the unique and unprecedented circumstances surrounding 
Covid-19. In the circumstances of this case I think Great Lakes offer of a credit 
voucher for the unused portion of Mrs S policy is fair and reasonable. And given the policy wasnt cancelled until 5 May 2020, I think its fair that the date of the 
cancellation of the policy is used to calculate the refund on the facts of this case 
Great Lakes wouldve been on-risk for a 365-day period if the policy hadnt been 
cancelled. The voucher represents the remaining, unused 304 days of cover, after 
the policy was cancelled, as Great Lakes was no longer carrying any risk of Mrs S 
making a claim after that point.
Great Lakes has now recalculated the refund by dividing the actual price paid for the 
policy by the total cover length (in days) multiplied by days not on risk. Im satisfied 
that this now leads to a fair outcome. And having checked Great Lakes calculation, I 
think it appears correct.
In my view, a voucher is fair alternative to a monetary refund in the circumstances of 
this case. I say that because while I accept that travel plans are currently uncertain, 
in this case, the voucher will be valid for 36 months. Mrs H hasnt suggested that Mrs 
S wont be in a position to travel during that timeframe  instead, shes referenced 
Mrs S potentially being able to use a timeshare week during 2022. So I think its likely 
she will be able to put the voucher towards another policy in the future. And its open 
to her to gift the voucher to a family member or a friend if shed prefer to do so. This 
means I dont think that the terms of the voucher are overly restrictive.
Having considered everything, while I know Mrs S will be disappointed in my decision, Im 
not telling Great Lakes to pay her a cash refund of her premiums. I appreciate Mrs S friend 
was paid a pro-rata refund in cash, but we look at each case on its own specific facts. And in 
the circumstances of this particular complaint, Im satisfied Great Lakes offer is fair.
  
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above, my final decision is that Great Lakes offer of settlement is 
fair and reasonable.
I direct Great Lakes Insurance SE to calculate the credit voucher refund due to Mrs S by 
dividing the actual price she paid for the policy by the total cover length (in days) multiplied 
by days not on risk.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs S to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 September 2021.
 
Lisa Barham
Ombudsman