DRN-2118760
The complaint
Mrs M, with help of her representatives, complains about investment advice given by The 
Royal Bank of Scotland Plc. 
What happened
In April 1997, Mrs M took investment advice from RBS. The recommendation was for her to 
open a personal equity plan (PEP) and to invest a lump sum of £2,000 along with £100 each 
month thereafter. 
Mrs M accepted the recommendation and made her investment. She continued to pay the 
monthly contribution of £100 between 1999 and 2008. It appears that until 2003, the 
invested money went into the balanced income UT fund and that this thereafter became the 
balanced accumulation fund. Mrs M surrendered her investment in 2008 for just over 
£19,000 having invested just over £15,000.  
In 2018, the representatives made a complaint about the advice given. They thought Mrs M 
was advised to take too much risk with her money given the equity and overseas exposure 
within the fund. And that Mrs M had been advised to invest too much money. 
RBS didnt agree the advice was unsuitable  they noted Mrs M has previously been saving 
the same amount each month and that she did have some capacity for risk.   
So the representatives brought the complaint to our service. Initially, RBS didnt agree to us 
looking into the matter on the grounds that the complaint had been made too late. But our 
investigator didnt agree, so RBS consented to us looking into what had happened. 
Despite this, our investigator didnt think the advice given to Mrs M was necessarily 
unsuitable. There wasnt much for her to consider when it came to assessing Mrs Ms risk 
appetite and she said she could see Mrs M had been saving the same amount regularly, so 
there wasnt an affordability concern either. 
The representatives didnt agree. They said it was clear Mrs Ms attitude to risk had been 
recorded as balanced or higher and such a rating was inaccurate given Mrs M had no 
investment experience. But our investigator said that not every novice investor has to start 
off with a cautious investment. So as things remained unresolved, the case was passed to 
me to consider. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As noted, theres a limited amount of documentation available from the time of the sale. 
What I have seen is a brief fact find and some statements to show the investment was 
made. But I dont have any sort of illustration for the recommended PEP or anything to show 
how Mrs Ms attitude to risk was assessed. 
Focussing instead on what we do have, the financial needs analysis shows:
- At the time, Mrs M was 47 years old
- She was working and earned around £5,000 a year
- She was married and lived with her husband  the house was in his name
- She had just under £5,000 in cash, £3,000 in premium bonds and £2,500 in shares 
- Of her monthly earnings, £300 went towards household expenses with the remaining 
£100 being saved
Within the summary details section, it said Attitude to risk  3  medium. And her needs 
were identified as investment and savings. The application form gave Mrs M four options 
about where to invest her money. It said Please indicate the unit trust you require. You must 
select only one. Mrs M ticked The Royal Bank of Scotland Balanced Fund. 
But we dont know much more about the risk selected than that  Mrs M was considered to 
have a medium attitude to risk, but how this was assessed and established is unknown. We 
dont have the benefit of reviewing answers to a risk profiling questionnaire, or something 
similar. So its hard for us now to judge RBS categorisation of Mrs M as level 3. All we do 
know, is that the paperwork said a PEP was recommended as she was said to be unhappy 
with returns from her deposit based arrangements. 
The representatives say medium risk wasnt right for Mrs M  she didnt have any 
experience of investing before as the shares in her name were gifted from her husband 
whod bought them to support his local football club. I take this point, but as our investigator 
said, not everyone who makes their first investment has to only do so on a cautious basis. It 
isnt automatically the case that the recommendation is unsuitable if its medium risk. 
The recommendation paperwork said the fund  aims to achieve long-term capital growth 
and rising income with the capital being invested worldwide in a mixed portfolio of equities 
and bonds and I would confirm that we discussed the fact that the PEP is stock market 
related and the unit linked nature of the fund and you are aware that the value of the units 
held within the fund can fluctuate. 
An investment heavily reliant upon equity performance could seem more suited to someone 
with some investment experience  and by its very nature, a PEP had to have equity 
exposure. But Mrs M was told about the fluctuation risk  importantly this was something that 
differed from the certainty of her previous savings account but nevertheless she still went 
ahead with the recommendation. So I dont agree with the representatives that it was 
inherently wrong for Mrs M to put her money into a medium risk investment  and 
importantly, I dont think we have enough to evidence that RBS risk assessment at the time 
was unsuitable. 
I take the representatives point that it isnt risk alone that concerned them, but also 
affordability as Mrs M was left without any other money and was on a low income. But 
theres more to the story than this alone. 
Its clear from the paperwork that Mrs M was married and it was her husband who appeared 
to bear the greater financial responsibility in their relationship. Their home was in his name 
and he paid the mortgage. Mrs Ms money contributed towards household expenses. But 
each month she did have £100 to spare and had been putting it into a savings account  on 
this point, the paperwork said [a]lthough your disposable income shows an amount of £0, 
you have stopped your standing order to your [deposit account] which is now going to be 
made to your PEP and you are happy with your level of disposable income. So I can see 
this was something flagged by the adviser but something that Mrs M was ultimately content 
with.If we were considering this advice with Mrs M on her own, then I might think differently as 
she was left with no other money and didnt have much of an emergency fund  this 
combined with an investment that could fluctuate might have been too much for Mrs M to 
take on. But instead, she was someone who could afford the £100 a month as proven by 
having invested for ten years. And I think it was entirely understandable that she wanted to 
explore something different to the deposit account shed been using. 
Mrs M was also making monthly contributions  so its not that she put her £15,000 in as one 
lump sum. She was adding her money gradually, over ten or so years, and that inherently 
protected her from a greater impact of fluctuation in those earlier years. I see that the stock 
market performance between 2001 and 2003 did see Mrs M lose some money, around 
£500-£700 at times, but this was something she could tolerate given she remained invested 
until 2008 when she had a need for her savings. 
So from all that I have seen, I dont think it was unreasonable for Mrs M to invest her lump 
sum and subsequent contributions. I also dont have enough to say it was unreasonable for 
her to have taken a balanced approach to investing either. So while this will be a 
disappointment to her, I wont be asking RBS to compensate her for mis-selling. 
My final decision
For the reasons explained, I dont uphold this complaint. Under the rules of the Financial 
Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs M to accept or reject my decision before 
13 October 2020.
 
Aimee Stanton
Ombudsman