DRN-3146554
The complaint
Ms B makes a number of complaints about The Royal Bank of Scotland Plc (RBS) following 
a fraudulent attempt to access her account.
 What happened
Ms B says an attempt was made to fraudulently access her accounts. She then received e-
mail contact from RBS which she thought was linked to that fraud and also had issues about 
receiving paper copies of her account statements. Ms B says she lives about 42 miles from 
her nearest branch and spent some considerable time making telephone calls to RBS about 
these problems. And was caused distress and concern.
RBS accepts sending marketing e-mails when it ought not to and has apologised. It also 
accepts there was an issue with the account statement and has again apologised. RBS says 
Ms B didnt request a paper copy of her account statement during a telephone call. It has 
paid £20 compensation and sent Ms B a luxury bouquet of flowers.
Ms B brought her complaint to us and explained that she has an allergy and so was unable 
to keep the flowers. Our investigator thought that RBS should pay a further £100 
compensation and thought the issues had taken some months to sort out and that Ms B 
made a number of calls to RBS.
Ms B agrees with that view and RBS whilst not disagreeing with it, questions if Ms B has 
evidence of the calls made.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I have come to a similar overall view to that of the investigator and for 
similar reasons. 
There is no real dispute here that RBS made mistakes in respect of the marketing e-mails 
and the statements. I appreciate that RBS has fairly apologised for what took place and has 
paid compensation as well as sending Ms B a luxury bouquet of flowers. But I think the key 
issue here is that Ms B was a victim of an attempted fraud and the e-mails she received 
added to her anxiety and distress as she believed the e-mails may have been fraudulent and 
linked to what had taken place. So, Im satisfied Ms B was caused distress and 
inconvenience in trying to sort matters out and I accept that it took some time.
If there hadnt been such a significant background to this complaint with the attempted fraud 
then I would have concluded that RBS had acted fairly in paying compensation, sorting the 
problem out and by sending the flowers. But I think the previous incident, which may not 
have been RBSs fault, increased the level of concern and distress Ms B suffered. I also 
have to consider that whilst RBS would not have known about Ms Bs allergy, she didnt 
receive the benefit of what I accept is likely to have been a relatively expensive gift.
For those reasons I think RBS should pay the compensation of £100 recommended by the 
investigator.
I appreciate what RBS says about the telephone call evidence, but I dont think its needed 
here as I have made clear why I intend to order the compensation. In those circumstances I 
dont need to decide how long Ms B was on the telephone calls to RBS or how many she 
made. Its clear some calls were made and that some time would have spent on them which 
would cause some inconvenience.  
Putting things right
RBS should pay a further £100 compensation.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint and order The Royal Bank of Scotland Plc to 
pay Ms B £100 compensation.
 Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms B to accept or 
reject my decision before 16 December 2021.
 
David Singh
Ombudsman