DRN-4119714
The complaint
Mrs C complains that Clydesdale Financial Services Limited, trading as Barclays Partner 
Finance (BPF), unfairly turned down her claim under the Consumer Credit Act 1974 
(CCA). Mrs C is represented by a professional representative (PR).
What happened
In October 2014 Mrs C along with Mr and Mrs A purchased a timeshare product from a 
company I will call D. Mrs C made a payment using her Santander credit card and the 
balance was paid by a loan from another provider. This complaint is made by Mrs C and for 
simplicity I will refer to her as the sole purchaser in this decision.
Mrs C was on a cruise and at a stop off she was told she had won a raffle prize, but had to 
attend a sales presentation to claim it. She says that during the lengthy presentation she 
was pressurised to and offered incentives to buy the product. This included four bonus 
weeks accommodation, but it turned out that fees had to be paid to access these weeks. 
In March 2018 PR made a claim to Santander on Mrs Cs behalf. It said D had 
misrepresented the product and Mrs C had difficulty in accessing the accommodation. PR 
said the product had been sold as an investment.
PR also said that the sale fell foul of the Timeshare Regulations 2010 and it suggested that 
Santander had breached the lending code. It referenced amongst other things the failure to 
disclose commission as an example of there being an unfair relationship. 
Santander rejected the claim on the basis there was insufficient evidence in support of it. PR 
brought a complaint to this service where it was considered by one of our investigators who 
didnt recommend it be upheld. He said that the documentation did not support the claim of 
misrepresentation. He said that the verbal part of the sale may have presented a favourable 
picture, but that did not amount to misrepresentation. Nor did he think there was an unfair 
debtor creditor relationship as set out in s.140A CCA.
A new PR took over and asked that the matter be referred to an ombudsman. It said that 
there as irresponsible lending and Mrs C wasnt given time to review the documentation. D 
had used undue influence and sold the product as an investment. It also claimed that D was 
selling more products than were available.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
When doing that, Im required by DISP 3.6.4 R of the Financial Conduct Authoritys (FCA) 
Handbook to take into account the:
(1) relevant:
(a) law and regulations;
(b) regulators rules, guidance and standards;
(c) codes of practice; and
(2) ([when] appropriate) what [I consider] to have been good industry practice at the relevant 
time.
When evidence is incomplete, inconclusive, incongruent or contradictory, Ive made my 
decision on the balance of probabilities  which, in other words, means Ive based it on what 
I think is most likely to have happened given the available evidence and the wider 
circumstances.
And having done all of that, I dont currently think this complaint should be upheld. I realise 
that this will be disappointing for Mrs C. But I hope she will understand why Ive come to the 
conclusion I have.
Before I explain why, I want to set out my role as an ombudsman. It isnt to address every 
single point thats been made to date. Instead, its to decide whats fair and reasonable given 
the circumstances of this complaint. And for that reason, Im only going to refer to what I 
think are the most salient points when I set out my conclusions and my reasons for reaching 
them. But, having read all of the submissions from both sides in full, I will continue to keep in 
mind all of the points that have been made, insofar as they relate to this complaint, when 
doing that.
When a customer uses certain types of regulated credit to finance the purchase of goods or 
services (for example, a regulated credit card or point of sale loan), the transaction has the 
potential to be covered by s. 75 of the CCA.
S. 75(1) provides that, if the debtor has a valid claim against the supplier of the goods or 
services in respect of misrepresentation or breach of contract, the debtor has a like claim 
against the creditor  who is jointly and severally liable with the supplier. The debtor may, 
therefore, choose to pursue a claim against either the supplier or the creditor or both.
Santander doesnt dispute that Mrs C entered into a contract with D for services financed by 
a relevant debtor-creditor-supplier agreement. And based on the information Ive seen so far, 
I havent seen anything to persuade me that s. 75 doesnt apply to the purchase in question.
Misrepresentation
A misrepresentation is, in very broad terms, a statement of law or of fact, made by one party 
to a contract to the other, which is untrue and which induces the other party into the contract. 
Mrs C has made general claims about misrepresentation, but has stated that she was misled 
about the four bonus weeks and the availability of accommodation. PR also says she was 
told it was an investment.
Having not been present at the time of sale, I cant determine with certainty what Mrs C was 
or wasnt told by Ds representatives. Its possible that the timeshare was misrepresented for 
the reasons alleged. But the allegation doesnt carry with it a detailed enough description of 
the conversation and circumstances surrounding it to conclude that its probable. And in the 
end, I have to consider the documentary evidence in addition to the claims made by PR on 
behalf of Mrs C. 
Breach of Contract
It would appear that the claim of breach of contract is based on the lack of availability of accommodation. However, I do not have evidence in support of that claim. I note that she 
booked a week, but then wished to change the date and was told this would involve a fee. 
That simply shows she was able to make a booking and to alter it albeit for the charge of a 
fee. Much of the other issues raised by PR are generic.
Unfair Relationship
PR asserts there was an unfair relationship, but tackles this on the basis that Santander 
made a loan to Mrs C. This was a credit card payment and much of the argument put 
forward is not relevant. The lending rules do not apply as has been suggested and the 
lengthy arguments regarding fiduciary duty are misplaced.
I also gather the transaction was not made in Europe and D is not located there either. As 
such I do not see the relevance of the European Timeshare Regulations.
In summary, while I have every sympathy with Mrs C I cannot say Santander was wrong to 
reject her claim.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs C to accept or 
reject my decision before 24 June 2023.
 
Ivor Graham
Ombudsman