DRN-4431224
The complaint
Miss H complains about the way U K Insurance Limited trading as Churchill Insurance 
handled and settled a claim under a Landlord insurance policy. 
What happened
Miss H owns a property she rents to tenants. In 2022, the property was rented to a tenant 
after a tenancy agreement was put in place by Miss H and a person purporting to be an 
estate agent. Miss H hadnt received rent and visited the property where police had gained 
entry. The property was being used by tenants to cultivate cannabis. Miss H changed the 
locks and raised a claim with UKI for the resultant damage. 
UKI offered to settle the claim under the malicious damage by tenants section of the policy. 
They offered to pay Miss H £25,162 following a lengthy validation process UKI say was due 
to the nature of the circumstances which gave rise to the loss. This final settlement offer 
followed a previous settlement of roughly £17,000. The increase included the cost of 
replacement locks, debris removal, and a further months loss of rent while the property was 
being repaired. 
UKI say their liability was limited to £10,000 under the buildings and contents section of the 
policy for malicious damage by tenants. 
Miss H told UKI she wasnt happy with this and had been unfairly left out of pocket. Her 
outlay for the claim was roughly £37,000. She also says UKI made an unfair settlement offer 
given the loss adjuster had placed a £52,000 reserve on the claim. 
UKI didnt agree to increase the settlement, but paid Miss H £200 compensation for service 
issues they were responsible for. Miss H remained unhappy and approached our Service for 
an impartial review. 
I sent my provisional decision to both parties on 20 October 2023. That decision set out the 
following: 
What Ive decided  and why 
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. 
Malicious damage to the buildings by tenants 
The policy terms set out a list of contingencies otherwise known as insured events. And, if a 
policyholder can demonstrate theyve suffered loss or damage as the result of a listed 
insured event, Id expect a claim to succeed  subject to the policy conditions. 
In this case, Miss H made a malicious damage claim after tenants used her property to 
cultivate a cannabis farm. Tenants were in situ under a tenancy agreement arranged by a 
person purporting to be an estate agent. Miss H was the unfortunate victim of a scam here, 
and I dont doubt this has been a very upsetting and difficult time for her. Her property 
suffered damage as a result, and she never received rent from the tenants. 
A theft and malicious damage by tenants cover extension responded to the claim which Im 
satisfied was reasonable. This extension responds to malicious damage by tenants which 
cannot be recovered from any security deposit lodged by a tenant, up to a maximum of 
£10,000 per claim. Therefore, UKIs liability for a claim for malicious damage by tenants is 
limited to £10,000 for buildings, and contents. 
I acknowledge UKIs December 2022 settlement offer leaves Miss H out of pocket. Shes 
evidenced her outlay for the claim was approximately £37,000 to put her property back into 
its pre-loss position  having carried out refurbishment works prior to the bogus tenancy 
agreement being put in place. 
I feel its important I say I really do empathise with Miss Hs situation  a sophisticated scam 
has resulted in damage to her property and her out of pocket. Much of what happened isnt 
what insurance is in place for. My role here is to consider UKIs role in this. And while I 
acknowledge Miss Hs difficult circumstances, I find UKI took reasonable steps to settle the 
claim fairly and in line with the policy terms. 
Interest on the claim settlement 
UKI finalised their settlement decision on the claim and communicated this to Miss H in 
December 2022  after it was increased to include other elements such as replacement 
locks, removal of debris, and a further months rent, amongst other things. I find this 
settlement amount was reasonable considering UKIs liability for a claim for malicious 
damage by tenants. I acknowledge Miss H didnt accept the settlement due to the difference 
between the amount, and her outlay. 
Id expect UKI to include interest on the claim settlement if they, for example, failed to offer 
Miss H an interim payment, or a cash settlement amount that was too low and unfair based 
on their liability. But the claim notes do not support that was the case here. 
UKI responded to our investigators view to say Miss H was offered an interim payment in 
October 2022 which was refused. Miss H then contacted UKI in November 2022 to say she 
was in financial hardship having to borrow money to fund repairs. A further interim payment 
was offered but this was rejected. Then, following UKIs final settlement offer, payment 
details were requested from Miss H, but Miss H responded to say she would be taking legal 
action. 
Therefore, Im not persuaded UKI failed to take reasonable steps to offer Miss H interim 
payments while claim discussions were ongoing, or investigations into her complaint. So, I 
currently dont intend to require UKI to include interest on the claim settlement. 
Loss of rent 
As mentioned above, the tenancy agreement was arranged by a person purporting to be an 
estate agent. This was a scam, the agreement was bogus, and Miss H didnt receive rent as 
the result. 
The policy covers a policyholders loss of rent as a result of an insured event. It says UKI will 
indemnify a policyholder for the amount by which the loss of rent falls short of the amount 
that would have otherwise been received had no damage occurred. 
To my earlier point, the tenants had no intention of paying rent. Therefore, I cannot fairly 
conclude the resultant damage was the sole reason Miss H received no rent. There wasnt a shortfall in rent as the result of the damage because no rent was being paid as the result of 
the scam. 
The damage caused by the insured event (malicious damage by tenants) needed to be put 
right which prevented Miss H from renting the property out over that three-month period of 
repairs. This was between May  July 2022, and the property was rented out to a new tenant 
in September 2022. The property was unoccupied while repairs were undertaken, and the 
policy in respect of these circumstances sets out the following: 
5. Unoccupied Buildings 
Where the Buildings or any part of them are unoccupied and sustain damage during the 
Period of Insurance Our maximum liability will be the loss of Loss of Rent during the period 
of reinstatement or repair and will be calculated based solely on any tenancy agreement in 
respect of such Building in existence at the time of Damage occurring. 
I think UKI applied the policy terms cited above fairly here. They covered the three-month 
period of repairs while the property was unoccupied. That was their liability here for the loss 
of rent under the policy. 
I also think UKI were fair and pragmatic when accepting Miss Hs loss of rent amounted to 
£3,100 per month. I say this because the tenancy agreement this amount was based on was 
a bogus agreement  likely created to entice Miss H into accepting it with tenants who had 
no intention of paying the rent. Miss H had already engaged in discussion with a reputable 
estate agent at this point, and initially declined the bogus tenancy agreement. The legitimate 
tenancy agreement was said to have been agreed at £2,800 per month, with a 10% 
management fee reduction. 
Therefore, Im satisfied UKI applied the policy terms fairly here, and took pragmatic steps to 
settle this aspect of the claim. 
Council tax and utility bills 
Miss H requested UKI reimbursed the council tax and utility costs she paid while the property 
was unoccupied and being repaired. I understand why. But I cannot see the policy has a 
provision for these costs in the event of malicious damage by tenants. So, I currently dont 
intend to require UKI to reimburse these costs to Miss H. 
Summary 
I acknowledge this has been a very difficult and upsetting time for Miss H. First and 
foremost, she was the unfortunate victim of a sophisticated scam which resulted in property 
damage and her being out of pocket. I really do empathise with her situation. Its equally 
important, however, I considered UKIs role in this. And Im unable to direct them to 
compensate Miss H for her losses shes suffered as the result of a scam. 
For the reasons Ive set out above, I currently find UKI took reasonable steps and a 
pragmatic approach when settling Miss Hs claim for malicious damage under the policy. 
Therefore, I dont intend to require UKI to take further action in respect of the claim. 
The investigator set out the service failings such as avoidable delays UKI were responsible 
for towards the end of 2022. She recommended UKI pays Miss H a further £150 
compensation. UKI accept this. Based on what Ive seen, I see no reason to deviate from our 
investigators recommendation that UKI should compensate Miss H further for the distress and inconvenience these failings caused. So, I intend on directing UKI to pay this.
My provisional decision 
My provisional decision is I uphold the complaint. I intend to direct U K Insurance Limited 
trading as Churchill Insurance to pay Miss H £350 compensation in total for the distress and 
inconvenience caused. 
Responses to my provisional decision
Miss H didnt agree. She responded with, broadly, the following points: 
UKI considered the claim as malicious damage by tenants  Miss H didnt categorise 
the claim. 
Loss of rent covered the period between May and July 2022. But, in April 2022, Miss 
H was arranging repair quotes, preparing evidence, and dealing with the property 
damage. Therefore, the loss of rent in April 2022 should be covered by the policy. 
The tenancy agreement was a legal document, agreed and signed in good faith, and 
should be treated as such. And Miss H wasnt expecting rental payments in the first 
three months of the tenancy agreement, and this was to be paid to the estate agent. 
UKI should include interest on the claim settlement as she hasnt received it, and UKI 
didnt offer her payments while discussions were ongoing. Therefore, this part of my 
provisional decision should be reconsidered. 
Miss H disagrees UKI were fair and pragmatic in their approach to settling the claim 
given its been running for over a year since reporting it to UKI. 
Ive broadly summarised Miss Hs response to my provisional decision. But Ive carefully 
considered the response including reviewing the attachments. Having done so, Ill now go on 
to set out my final decision on the matter. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
For ease of reading, Ive used sub-headings to set out what I consider to be the pertinent 
points here. 
UKI categorised the claim as malicious damage by tenants 
The policy sets out a list of contingencies otherwise known as insured events. A theft and 
malicious damage by tenants cover extension responded to the damage Miss H claimed for. 
Thats because the other listed contingencies set out in the policy didnt apply here. So, I find 
it was fair and reasonable for UKI to categorise the claim in the way they did. 
The cover extension sets out UKIs liability under this section is £10,000. Therefore, this was 
UKIs liability for the claim under the buildings and contents section of the policy. 
Loss of rent 
Loss of rent is paid if the buildings is damaged by a listed contingency within the policy. And UKIs liability is the amount the rent falls short of the rent that would have been received had 
no damage occurred. 
Miss H wasnt receiving rent. I acknowledge she says she had no reason to suspect a 
problem in the first three months of the tenancy agreement. Thats because the rent was due 
to be paid directly to the estate agent to cover their fees. But no rent was paid to Miss H 
during the period the bogus tenancy agreement was in place. Its more likely than not the 
tenants had no intention to pay Miss H rent  or for Miss H to receive any rent  given the 
tenancy agreement was part of a sophisticated, and very unfortunate, scam. 
Therefore, its my view the loss of rent here was the result of the scam and not the direct 
result of the damage which gave rise to the claim. 
The policy says it will pay for loss of rent in the event the property is unoccupied. And UKIs 
maximum liability is the loss of rent during the period of reinstatement or repair works and 
will be calculated based on any tenancy agreement in existence at the time damage 
occurred. 
In my provisional decision, I said I thought UKI were fair and pragmatic in paying Miss H 
£9,300 for the three-month period while works were underway. I said that because the 
amount they paid Miss H was based on a tenancy agreement that was put in place by a 
person purporting to be an estate agent, as part of a scam. I remain of that same view. 
The property became unoccupied following the discovery of tenants cultivating cannabis. 
This ended the tenancy agreement. I think its therefore fair to say the tenancy agreement 
ended because of the scam, rather than because of the damage. This meant there was 
always going to be a period of unoccupancy as even if the property hadnt been damaged, it 
would have taken some time  say a month, in the absence of any compelling evidence to 
the contrary  while a new tenant was arranged. 
So, by UKI paying Miss H loss of rent from one month after the property became 
unoccupied, to the point the reinstatement works were complete, Im satisfied theyve fairly 
and reasonably indemnified Miss H for her reasonable loss. 
Interest on the claim settlement 
Miss H says UKI never offered payments to her. But in her response to my provisional 
decision, she provided two attachments of correspondence from UKI. 
The first is an email dated 15 September 2022. It says, Your claim has been quantified in 
the amount of £17,200, and, Please advise the payment details in order that I may arrange 
settlement. It goes on to say, If there are any costs which you consider have been omitted 
within the above which would be covered by the policy then please advise and I will review 
accordingly. 
Im satisfied this demonstrates a payment was offered to Miss H while discussions regarding 
the claim were ongoing at that point. 
The second attachment is an email from UKI to Miss H from December 2022. UKI provided 
their final settlement offer to Miss H in this email. And Ive said previously I consider this offer 
to be fair and reasonable based on their liability for the claim. This email also invited Miss H 
to provide payment details for the settlement to be arranged. 
Further, the claim notes show an email was sent to Miss H in January 2023 requesting her 
payment details for the settlement to be paid. Miss H responded to it to say she wasnt prepared to accept the offer and would seek legal action. 
As such, Im not satisfied the evidence supports UKI failed to offer payments to Miss H. 
Therefore, it follows, I dont think UKI should include interest when completing the claim 
settlement. 
Compensation 
UKI sent Miss H a cheque for £200 in April 2023 following their final response letter. This 
compensation payment was in relation to service issues they considered they were 
responsible for, such as delays to reaching a settlement caused by a lack of proactive 
communication with the loss adjuster. They also apologised to Miss H in this respect. 
Our investigator thought UKI should pay Miss H a further £150 compensation for what she 
considered to be avoidable delays caused by UKI when progressing the claim to settlement 
between August and October 2022. 
Ive considered the level of service provided to Miss H by UKI, and the overall impact on her. 
I acknowledge the claim has and will continue to impact Miss H. She was the victim of a 
sophisticated scam, her property was damaged as the result, and shes out of pocket. And 
while I do think UKI could have handled matters better at times, and with a higher level of 
customer service, its my view the claim remains outstanding largely because Miss H is 
unhappy with UKIs claim settlement offer. 
Because Im satisfied UKI offered Miss H a fair and reasonable claim settlement amount in 
December 2022, I dont find I could fairly apportion the responsibility solely to UKI for the 
claim remaining outstanding for over a year. But I accept the avoidable delays they were 
responsible for when failing to proactively contact the loss adjuster, and the lack of claim 
progress between August to October 2022, would have caused Miss H distress and 
inconvenience  over and above whats naturally expected following a claim of this nature 
and circumstance. So, I think Miss H is due compensation, and overall, I find £350 
compensation in total to be fair, reasonable, and proportionate here. 
Therefore, Ill be directing UKI to pay Miss H £350 compensation in total for the distress and 
inconvenience caused. 
I accept my decision will come as a disappointment to Miss H. I hope she understands I 
genuinely do empathise with her situation, and the very unfortunate circumstances she 
experienced as the result of a scam. My decision ends, however, what we  in attempting to 
informally resolve her dispute with UKI  can do for her. 
Putting things right
UKI must pay Miss H £350 compensation in total for the distress and inconvenience caused. 
Miss H received a cheque from UKI for £200 in April 2023. Its not entirely clear if she 
cashed this cheque. So, UKI will need to arrange for Miss H to receive £350 compensation 
in total to resolve the complaint if the £200 April 2023 cheque wasnt cashed. 
My final decision
For the reasons given above, my final decision is I uphold the complaint. I now require U K 
Insurance Limited trading as Churchill Insurance to put matters right as set out above. Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss H to accept 
or reject my decision before 30 November 2023.
 
Liam Hickey
Ombudsman