DRN-3689227
The complaint
Mr E complains that Revolut Ltd blocked and closed his account. Hed like his account 
reopened and compensation for the impact.  
What happened
In February 2021 Revolut reviewed Mr Es account
Revolut asked Mr E for information about his account activity and proof of entitlement for 
payments into his account. Mr E provided documents to Revolut  including bank statements 
and evidence of rental agreements. However they werent satisfied with the documents 
provided and decided to restrict his access on 26 March 2021. 
Mr E complained to Revolut about the account restriction. Revolut considered Mr Es 
complaint but they thought theyd acted reasonably in restricting and reviewing his activity. 
And on 30 April 2021 they decided to issue Mr E with a 60 day notice to close his account. 
They also advised Mr E to withdraw the funds in his account  which Mr E has now received.
After Mr Es complaint was brought to our service Revolut offered £50 compensation  but 
Mr E didnt accept. He explained hed accept £500. 
One of our investigators looked into Mr Es complaint. They thought Revolut had acted fairly 
in restricting Mr Es account and then choosing to close the account. 
Mr E didnt agree. He explained to our investigator that hed like Revolut to offer him a new 
account.
As Mr E didnt agree its been passed to me for a decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Account restriction
Ive looked at the terms and conditions of Mr Es account and the wider regulatory 
obligations Revolut need to comply with. Im satisfied that Revolut gave Mr E the opportunity 
to provide documentation theyd requested on more than one occasion before restricting his 
account. I can see that Mr E did provide a large number of documents  however Im 
satisfied Revolut acted reasonably in determining they werent sufficient. 
Revoluts terms are clear in detailing their ability to review accounts and suspend them when 
necessary  and I think they initially followed these terms and conditions fairly. It follows, I 
cant say they acted unfairly in blocking access to Mr Es account. However, I do need to 
think about whether the review was completed as quickly as Id expect. In total Mr Es 
account was restricted for just over 30 days  I dont find this period of restriction 
unreasonable when considering the documents Revolut requested and reviewed during that 
time. 
Account closure
Mr Es was notified that his account would be closed in 60 days from 30 April 2021. Although 
Mr E was allowed to withdraw his funds he couldnt operate the account as usual during this 
period. Ive considered their actions here and Ive looked at the terms and conditions of 
Mr Es account, and the criteria allowing them to close Mr Es account without notice. And 
having done so Im satisfied Revolut acted fairly.
I realise this will disappoint Mr E, but Im afraid Ive concluded that Revolut acted fairly in 
closing his account. I say this because, much as Mr E is, Revolut are entitled to choose who 
theyd like to contract with as long as they follow the terms and conditions of an account and 
dont discriminate against a customer. It follows Im not in a position to ask them to open a 
new account for him.
Revolut previously made an offer to Mr E of £50. Im unsure if this offer remains, but if Mr E 
wishes to accept hell need to speak to Revolut directly.  
My final decision
My final decision is I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr E to accept or 
reject my decision before 23 October 2022.
 
Jeff Burch
Ombudsman