DRN-4226537
The complaint
Mr and Mrs H complain that Zurich Insurance PLC declined their claim after their garden wall 
collapsed during heavy rain.
Mr and Mrs H had buildings insurance underwritten by Zurich for their holiday-let house. The 
policy was in joint names but, for ease of reading, Ill refer mainly to Mrs H throughout my 
decision. Reference to Zurich includes actions taken by its agents.
What happened
In summary, Mrs Hs dry stone retaining wall partially collapsed following several days of 
heavy rain. She claimed under her holiday-let buildings insurance for storm damage.
Zurich instructed surveyors and a loss adjuster. After some initial disagreement about the 
weather conditions, Zurich accepted that the rainfall met the definition of a storm in the days 
before the wall collapse. However, based on the expert report, Zurich declined the claim 
under the policy exclusion of gradually operating causes. Zurich said the wall collapsed 
during the heavy rainfall, but the rain wasnt the primary cause. 
Mrs H complained to Zurich, but it issued its final response letter confirming its decision to 
decline the claim.
To begin with, our investigator didnt think Zurich had done enough. She recommended a 
further review of the claim. Zurich carried out another review, and the expert report 
supported the first assessment. Zurich remained of the view that the damage was due 
mainly to gradually operating causes.
Our investigator was persuaded by the second assessment, so she didnt uphold Mrs Hs 
complaint.
Mrs H was unhappy with the outcome, and her complaint was passed to me to decide.    
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided not to uphold Mrs Hs complaint. I understand this will come as 
a disappointment to her but the evidence, as it stands, suggests that Zurich fairly declined 
the claim for the reasons it gave.
Firstly, Ill explain that my summary, above, is exactly that. Theres a lot of information in 
respect of Mrs Hs complaint but, as both parties are aware of the circumstances, theres 
little benefit in repeating it here. Ill focus on the key issues and explain why Ive reached my 
decision not to uphold the complaint.
Weather conditions
Although it disagreed at first, Zurich accepted that rainfall at the time of the wall collapse was 
heavier than usual and was at the lower end of the policy definition of a storm. Im satisfied 
this point of dispute was settled and Zurich considered Mrs Hs claim under the policy. 
Cause of damage
Mrs H claimed under her policy because she believed the heavy rainfall caused her wall to 
collapse. Zurich said the damage was caused by hydrostatic pressure and gradual 
deterioration.
Ive thought carefully about Mrs Hs comments regarding the causes of damage indicated in 
the expert reports. I can understand the points shes making  in particular about dry stone 
walls being built to allow for drainage. However, Zurich has provided two expert reports, and 
comments from its loss adjuster, all of which conclude that the wall collapsed during the 
period of heavy rainfall, but it wasnt caused by the rainfall. The two experts said hydrostatic 
pressure, which wouldve built up over a long time, caused the wall to collapse. They 
reported that the rainfall at that time was simply the tipping point.
Im not an expert regarding dry stone walls, and nor am I expected to be. My role is to 
consider the evidence available to Zurich when it assessed Mrs Hs claim, and decide 
whether it did so fairly based on that evidence and in line with the policy terms and 
conditions. Mrs H has provided her opinion on the cause of damage, but I havent seen any 
other expert reports to persuade me that the two Zurich provided may be inaccurate. 
So, based on the evidence available to me, Im satisfied that Zurich fairly relied on the expert 
reports to determine the likely cause of damage.
Claim 
Zurich declined Mrs Hs claim because gradually occurring causes arent covered by the 
policy. As Ive already said, the evidence indicates, on balance, that the wall collapsed 
because of a gradually occurring cause. Looking at the policy, it states:
What is not covered:
1. Any loss or damage: 
caused by wear and tear or any other gradually operating cause, 
mechanical or electrical breakdown, fault or failure.
Therefore, based on the evidence, Im satisfied that Zurich declined Mrs Hs claim in line with 
the policy terms and conditions.
As Ive said, I realise this will be disappointing, but its Mr and Mrs Hs responsibility to show 
that the damage was caused by an event covered under the policy. In the absence of any 
such evidence, Im not persuaded that Zurich has done anything wrong in its assessment of 
the claim and its decision to decline it under the policy exclusion it relied upon. That said, 
should any further information or expert opinion become available as Mr and Mrs H arrange 
for/have the repairs done, Id expect Zurich to consider the new evidence.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above, my final decision is that I dont uphold Mr and Mrs Hs 
complaint.  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs H to accept or reject my decision before 19 October 2023.
 
Debra Vaughan
Ombudsman